Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

457

Statement of the case in Knox v. Lee.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
KNox v. LEE.
PARKER v. DAvIs.

1. A purchase of the property of a loyal citizen of the United States under
a confiscation and sale made pursuant to statutes of the late rebel confederacy, passed in aid of their rebellion, is void. Texas v. White (7
Wallace, 700), affirmed on this point.
2. The acts of Congress known as the Legal Tender are constitutional, when
applied to contracts made before their passage. Hepburn v. Griswold (8

Wallace, 603), on this point overruled.
8. They are also valid as applicable to contracts made since.

THESE were two suits; the first a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas, the second an
appeal from a decree in equity in the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts.
The case in the FIRST one, Knox v. Lee, was thus:
Before the rebellion, Mrs. Lee, a loyal citizen of the
United States, resident in Pennsylvania, owned a flock of
sheep in Texas, which, on the ontbreak of the rebellion, she
left there in charge of their shepherd. In March, 1863, the
Confederate authorities, under certain statutes which they
had passed in aid of the rebellion, confiscated and sold the
sheep as the property of an "alien enemy," one Knox purchasing them at $10.87 apiece, "Confederate money;" then
worth but the third part of a like sum in coin. The rebellion being suppressed, Mrs. Lee brought trespass below
against Knox for damages (laid at $15,000) for taking and
converting the sheep. Knox pleaded in bar the confiscation
and sale by the Confederate government; a plea which the
court overruled. The case then coming on to be tried, it
was proved that the flock consisted of 608 sheep, of which
30, 40, or perhaps 50, were bucks, about 140 or 150 wethers,
and about 800 ewes; the witnesses varying both as to the
number of sheep and the proportion of bucks, wethers, and
ewes. It was also proved that in 1860 and 1861 the flock
was worth $8 per head for ewes, and about $4 per head for

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. CLt

Statement of the case in Knox v. Lee.

wethers, and about from $20 to $25 per head for breeding
bucks, in specie. The witnesses all testified that the sheep
would not bring in March, 1863, the price that they would
have brought in 1860 or 1861, though one witness testified
that at the sale one party remarked, that if he could gel a good
title to the sheep he would give $10 or $12 a head for them.
Whether he meant specie or Confederate paper was not testified to.
The ordinary money in use in the United States at the
time of the sale and purchase being notes of the United
States, commonly known as "greenbacks "-notes whose
issue was authorized by acts of Congress, and dated February
25th, 1862, July 11th, 1862, and March 3d, 1863,* and which
the said acts declared should be a legal tender in the payment of all debts-the plaintiffs offered to prove what was
the difference in value between gold and silver and this
United States currency known as greenbacks, for the purpose of showing that gold and silver had a greater value
than greenbacks, and for the purpose of allowing the jury to
estimate the difference between the two, to which evidence
the defendant, at the time it was offered, objected, on the
ground that the United States currency was made a legal
tender by law, and that there was no difference in value in
law between the two. The court sustained the objection,
and excluded all evidence as to the difference in value between specie and legal tender notes of the United States,
and no evidence was allowed to go to the jury on this point.
After having ruled as above, the court, on its own motion,
at the conclusion of its charge, said as follows:
"In assessing damages, the jury will recollect that whatever
amount they may give by their verdict can be discharged by
the payment of such amount in legal tender notes of the United
States."
The jury found, June, 1867, for the plaintiff, $7368, and
* 12 Stat. at Large, 345, 532, 709.

For the form of the notes mentioned

in the text, see Bank v. Supervisors (7 Wallace, 26) ; and for the exact language of the acts, see Lane County v. Oregon (lb. 74), and Hepburn v. Griswold (8 Id.), 605.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Argument for the plaintiff in error in Knox v. Lee.

the defendant brought the case here, complaining, first, of
the overruling of his plea, and second, of the above-quoted
sentence in the charge; which he alleged had led the jury
improperly to increase the damages.
There had been a previous trial, when, so far as the record
showed, without any instruction of the sort complained of
as increasing the damages, the jury found a verdict for
$7376, an amount slightly greater than that given by the
second verdict.
Messrs. Paschall, Sr. and Jr.,for the plain tiff in, error:
1. The plea was wrongly overruled. The Confederate government was a government de facto. It is easy now to say
that it was not a government, but those who were within
the scope of its action know that in point of fact it was a
fearful reality. It had courts. It declared war; and long
waged it. A title under its confiscations must therefore
stand. Mauran v. The Insuranee Cbmpany,* covers our case.
2. If this point is well taken, the court need not consider
our objection to the last sentence of the charge. But if it
is not well taken, our objection to it remains. Our objection is this: that in view of the facts that were proved before the jury, what the judge said to the jury at the conclusion of his charge, was equivalent to saying"The proof, as to the value of the sheep at tfie time of conversion, has been of their specie value. You will assess that
value and add to it the known premium which it requires to
buy that much gold with paper."
Thus, in fact, while he recognized the principle that greenbacks might discharge the claim, he yet left the jury to infer
that they can only be forced upon the creditor at the rate
which they would bring in gold. This instruction was
wrong, because, practically, it made a distinction between
coin and paper tenders, in regard to a debt accruing after
the passage of all the legal tender acts. Hepburnv. Griswold,t
*6 Wallace, 13.

t 8 Id. 604.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the plaintiff in error in Knox v. Lee.

does not require this. There the cause of action accrued prior
to the passage of any of the legal tender acts; here it accrued
subsequently to them all. Indeed, in Hepburn v. Griswvold
the court say that the decision is not meant to control cases
where the cause of action arises subsequently to the passage
of the legal tender acts. Parties under that condition of
things contract in reference to them.
Mrt. Wills, contra:
1. Though the rebel government must, in some cases, be
regarded as a government de facto, it is going too far to say
that a purchase, by a rebel resident, of the property of banished loyal citizens, under its laws "in aid of the rebellion,"
can stand. Such a purchaser takes with full notice of his
questionable title; Texas v. White* is in point.
2. The argument of the opposing counsel proceeds upon a
misappreliension of what the court meant in its charge. Ie
would make it directly in the face of its ruling a few moments before. That it was so is not to be easily inferred.
The charge must be interpreted reasonably. In the ruling,
the court refused to receive evidence to show that greenbacks and coin had different values. The plaintiff had
offered evidence of the difference between the two. Objection was made by the defendant, and the point was ruled
against the plaintiff. Nothing was more natural, therefore,
than that the court in charging the jury should advert to its
rulings on the point-a very important one to be considered
by the jury in making up its verdict-made at the defendant's instance, and to tell the jury to recollect it. That is
what the court did do. The charge therefore means just
the opposite of what counsel on the other side suppose. It
means that greenbacks would discharge the debt, and that
in considering the evidence given of the worth in gold of
the sheep, the jury was not to add a premium for paper.
This direction involves the question whether an obligation
arising after the passage of the legal tender laws can be dis* 7 Wallace, 700.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Statement of the case in Parker v. Davis.

charged in greenbacks; and the court charged that it could
be. This may or may not have been within the ideas entertained by the court in -Hepburn v. Griswold, but it certainly was favorable to the defendant. He cannot complain,
and we do not.
That in point of fact there is no ground for the allegation
that the jury were misled, or the damages exaggerated, appears by a short calculation. It was proved that the flock
consisted of 608 sheep, of which number 30, 40, or perhaps
50, were bucks; about 140 or 150 wethers, and about 800
ewes. Add all these numbers, taking the highest estimates,
50, 150, and 300, and we have only 500 sheep accounted
for; leaving 108 to he accounted for and valued, according
to the different valtes of the different kinds of sheep. Now
there was direct evidence fixing the average value of all the
sheep per head in specie, in 1860 and 1861. Besides, it is
well known that in Texas, as in California, coin is the
standard of value in business, except when the contrary is
stated. The depreciation of value at the sale, arising from
the apprehended defect of title, which the event has shown to
have been well grounded, must not be disregarded in arriving at the value of the sheep at that time. Accepting, therefore, this estimate of their average value, with a good title,
the 608 sheep, at $10 per head, would be worth $6080 in
specie. Adding four and one-third years' interest-that is,
from March, 1863, till June, 1867-at 8 per cent. (the rate
in Texas), say 33J per cent.= $2026.66f, and we have the
aggregate amount of $8106.66%, an amount larger than the
verdict complained of, saying nothing, according to the
ruling of the judge, about the difference between the value
of the sheep, when estimated in gold and silver and when
estimated in legal tender notes of the United States.
Moreover, on the first trial, where no such instruction
as is here complained of was given, the verdict was for a
greater amount than on the second.
The case in the SECOND suit, Parker v. Davis, arose on a
bill in equity by Davis, to compel the specific performance

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error in Parker v. Davis.

of a contract by Parker to convey a lot of land to Davis
upon the payment of a given sum of money. This contract
was dated and the suit brought upon it before the passage
of any of the acts of Congress already referred to, as authorizing the issue of government notes, and making them
The Supreme
a legal tender in payment of all "debts."
Court of Iassachusetts in February, 1867 (after the passage of the acts), decreed that Davis should pay into court
a certain sum of money, and that Parker should thereupon
execute a deed to him of the land in question.
In pursuance of that decree Davis paid into court the sum
named, in notes of the United States, known as "greenbacks." Parker refused to execute the deed required by
the decree, upon the ground that he was entitled to have
the sum paid into court in coin, and that the payment
into court of greenbacks was not a compliance with the
order of the court. Whereupon the court, upon hearing of
the parties, changed the decree, and ordered that Parker
should execute the deed required by his contract upon payment into court by Davis of a specific sum in notes of the
United States. From that decree the case was brought here
under the well-known 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Mr. B. F. Thomas, for the plaintfif ii error, contended:
1. That the consideration or sum of money to be paid for
the conveyance of the land, did not constitute a debt within
the meaning of the acts of Congress, known as the legal
tender laws.
2. That if a debt, it was contracted before the passage of
the legal tender laws, and not affected by them; a point
determined in Hepburn v. Griswold.
Mr. Beijamin F. Buller, contra, contended:
1. That Parker having refused to perform his contract,
there was no debt due him from Davis until he performed
the judgment of the court by the execution of the deed
mentioned in the decree; that then, and not till then, he

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

had a claim upon or a debt due from Davis. Thus the case
was not within Hepburn v. Griswold.
2. That the court below has decided that it was equitable
that Parker should execute his deed in performance of his
contract, upon receiving a given sum in United States
Treasury notes; that it would not be doubted that it was
competent for that court to do this, that is to say, to create
an obligation upon Davis only sub modo, or, according to its
terms, which were, to pay into court a certain amount in a
specific currency (notes); that the order, therefore, created
only that specific liability. If this was so, then the determination of the court below (the counsel contended) was
not within the jurisdiction of this court to review, no law or
statute of the United States being involved.
The cases being thus before the court, Mr. Clarkson Nott
Potter, by whom the case of -Hepburn v. Griswold,* and the
gold question,t had been argued, stated to the court that he
had been informed that it was asserted that these or some
other cases before the court, involved the question of the
power of Congress to make Treasury notes a legal tender
between private individuals in discharge of pre-existing
debts; and he asked the court, in case they should find that
this question was involved in the decision of any of the
cases, and should determine to reconsider it, to allow him
to be heard upon it.
Subsequently, a majority of the court (four judges dissenting) made an order:
"That Mr. Potter and the Attorney-General be heard in these
cases upon the following questions:
"1. Is the act of Congress known as the legal tender act constitutional as to contracts made before its passage ?
"2. Is it valid as applicable to transactions since its passage?"
And the argument was had on the 18th of April, 1871.
Mr. Potter, in support of the negatice:
That no power has been expressly conferred upon Con*8 Wallace, 606.

f7 Id.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

gress by the Constitution to make the Treasury notes of the
government a legal tender between private individuals in
discharge of pre-existing debts, must be admitted.
Can such a power, then, be implied from the authority
given Congress "to coin money and regulate the value
thereof?" Or can it be regarded as one of the measures
"necessary and proper" to carry into effect either the power
to "borrow money," to" regulate commerce," to "raise and
support armies," to "provide and maintain a navy," to
"suppress insurrection," to " repel invasion," or any other
of the powers delegated to Congress?
I. This power is not ermbraced in the authority givoen Congress
to "coin moley."
Money is used in the Constitution in two senses. In the
second subdivision of "the section relating to the powers of
Congress, the Constitution speaks of the power "to borrow
money;" and there the word must be used in the larger
sense of strict money, or of anything received instead. But
in the fifth subdivision of that section, which gives Congress power "to coin money and regulate the value thereof,
and of foreign coins," it must be evident that Congress referred only to metallic money.
From time immemorial, in all countries, in all ages of the
world, the precious metals have been the medium of exchanges, and the strict moneys. The value of these metals
has been designated by a stamp upon them indicating their
fineness and weight; that is, indicating the value at which
the coins were rated. When the coins have possessed the
value indicated, they have passed from hand to hand as of
that value. When they have been found not to possess that
value, they have, except within very narrow limits, failed to so
pass.
It is true that, at certain periods in the history of some
of the States, the skins of the beaver passing by tale; strings
of shells, known as wampum, passing by measure; and
packages of tobacco of defined weights were, in the absence
of the precious metals, used as money, and were made the
medium of exchanges. But none of these was a "legal

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

465

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

tender" as money,* or ever had anything but a local and
limited circulation, or ever was used as a substitute for money,
after money was introduced. While in all ages of the world,
in all countries, the precious metals, when stamped with a
designated value, have been known as moneys; and (with
representatives of such moneys) have always been the great
and universal medium of exchanges.
Not only has " money" meant metallic money, but, upon
looking at the public history of the times (which this court
has established as a proper guide to the construction of the
Constitution),t we find that in the history of the country
there was no period in which " money" was more distinctly
understood and meant to be hard money than at the period
when the Constitution was fr'amed and adopted. "Its framers
bad just passed through all the horrors of an unredeemed
paper currency." "The history of that currency had been,
within the view of those who staked their property on the
public faith, always freely given and grossly violated."t
"The mischiefs of the various experiments that had been
made were fresh in the public mind, and had excited general
disgust."§ With the bills of the government unredeemedindeed, become at last so hopelessly beyond redemption as
to be entirely given up as worthless,1j-the country had returned for circulation to a specie currency, to absolute
money having an intrinsic value; and neither had nor wished
any other currency.
But the context as well as the word itself shows that the
power is confined to metals. This grant is not a grant to,
create money, but simply "to coin money"-a power that
can be exercised only on money that admits of being coined;:
that is, a bare power to "strike coin," which was the phrase.
used in the Articles of Confederation as the equivalent of" to,
coin money." It was fr-om those Articles that the power to
coin money and regulate the value thereof was transferred
to the existing Constitution. And that this provision only
* 2 Duvall, 63.
t Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 332..
IIb. 348.
3 Madison Papers, p. 1345.
Story's Commentaries on the Constitution, 1360.
VOL. xIr.

s0

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

gave Congress power to strike coin and regulate its alloy
and value, was declared at the time, and undisputed. The
Federalist, No. 43, tells us:
"The right of coining money, which is here taken from the
States, was left in their hands by the Confederation, as a concurrent right with that of Congress, under an exception in favor
of the exclusive right of Congress to regulate the alloy and value.
In this instance, also, the new provision is an improvement on
the old. Whilst the alloy and value depended on the general
authority, a right of coinage in the particular States could have
no other effect than to multiply expensive mints, and diversify
the forms and weights of the circulating pieces."
Indeed, the very next clause
vision 6) which gives Congress
terfeiting of the securities and
States," expressly distinguishes
obligations of the government.

of the Constitution (subdi.
power to punish the "councurrent coin of the United
between the coins and the

If, however, Congress could take the power of stamping
leather, or paper, under this clause, and the leather or the
paper so stamped could be considered as "coined money,"
the value whereof could be regulated by Congress, even that
would not support the legal tender provision of the Treasury
notes. With such a power, Congress might, indeed, stamp
.a lump of leather, or a ream of paper, so that they should
•circulate as current money; that, however, would not make
these notes such stamped paper, nor current money.
Treasury notes have, as substance, no appreciable value.
They are not declared to be, and do not purport to be, of
any value as substance. They are not stamped with any
intrinsic value. They are not, so far as they possess value,
things at all, but only things in action. The material holds
the evidence of the promise; but it is the promise, and the
promise alone, which is, and which purports to be, of value.
One dash of the pen across the signature of the Treasurer
of the United States at their foot, and the note is not a
'Treasury note; not a thing in action ; not a matter which
bears the government stamp of value; not ten dollars at all,
but a worthless rag of paper, once used to hold a promise,

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

now cancelled. If, therefore, "money," in the phrase "to
coin money," could be considered as embracing other substances beside those precious metals, alone in use throughout all the world as coin, none the less would it remain that
to utter promises to pay money would not be "coining," or
"to coin money."
I cannot find that before the passage of this legal-tender
act it had ever been supposed by any court, or by any judge
of any court, or by any commentator or statesman, that this
power "to coin money" had reference to anything but a
metallic currency. Indeed, of all the judges who have
given opinions, as well in the support of as against the
legality of this law, I find hardly any who do not concede
that to "coin money" was a grant of power relating to the
coining of the precious metals. Nevertheless, although the
power to coin money has not sufficed to support the right to
make these Treasury notes a legal tender, the power to
"regulate the value thereof," that is, of coined money, has
been taken as one of the most effective arguments to support this law.
If, under this power to regulate the value of coined moneys,
Congress may debase the coinage; if it may put upon the
coined moneys any other than their true intrinsic value; if
it may declare that one-half or three-fourths of a dollar,
when stamped by it as a dollar, shall be taken to be equal
to a whole dollar, and may thus impair the obligation of
contracts and transfer one man's property to another; why,
it is asked, under the constitutional power to borrow money,
and other delegated powers, and the powers necessary and
proper to enable it to exercise the delegated powers, may
Congress not do a like thing to produce a better result with
these Treasury notes? To this I answer:
II. This power cannot be implied from the power to regulate the
value of money.
For, 1st. Congress has no power given it to regulate the
value of the money it borrows, but only of the money it
coins, and of foreign coins. The analogy claimed would
exist if the Constitution gave Congress power to borrow

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

:Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

money and regulate the value thereof. But that it does not
give.
And, 2d. Congress has no power to even materially debase
the coin. A power to regulate is not a power to destroy.
I quite agree that "a uniform course of action involving
the right to the exercise of an important power for half a
century, and this almost without question, is no utisatisfactory evidence that the power is rightfully exercised."* But
a careful review of the legislation of Congress on this subject, will show not only that Congress has not (as the Court
of Appeals in New York,t and the other tribunals which
have affirmed the validity of this law have assumed) exercised plenary power over the subject of currency and the
legal tender laws, but that, on the contrary, the legislation
of Congress from first to last has been strictly confined to
designating the value of coined money, and to discriminating with reference to its real value.
Let us review the legislation on coinage. From the establishment of the government to the passage of the act authorizing Treasury notes, the legal tender coin has been three
times debased, and three times only. Once, in June, 1834,
when the gold coinage was reduced about 6 per cent. in
value; once, in 1851, when the three-cent pieces were first
coined; and once, in 1853, when the fractional silver coinage was reduced some 6 per cent. in value. But the pieces
of these latter coinages were restricted as legal tender within
such very narrow limits, and for such fractional and special
uses, that, practically, these laws did not operate as debasements of the coin at all.
From the first issue of coin by this government to this
time, the unit of calculation and of coinage, the silver dollar,
has remained the same. It remains still of the same intrinsic
value as when first coined; whatever changes have been
made, have been made to bring the other coin into more
actual and just relation to it.
When the subject of coinage was first considered by the
*Briscoe

v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 318.

t Metropolitan Bank v. Van Dyke, 27 New York, 425, 426.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

Confederation, it was proposed to have a unit of account and
of coinage much smaller than the dollar, and to employ the
decimal system. Jefferson, while recommending the adoption of the decimal system, suggested a coin equal to the
then existing Spanish milled dollar as the unit of value.
His recommendation was adopted, and the dollar has ever
since remained the same.*
The first coinage was under the act of April 2, 1792,t and
that act provided (§ 11) that the coinage should be of both
gold and silver, and that the relative value of the two metals
should be asfifteen to one, that is, that 1 ounce of gold should
be taken as the equal in value of 15 ounces of silver. By
that act (§ 9) "dollars or units," as they were styled, were
each to contain 371-4, grains of pure silver, and to weigh 416
grains according to the then standard, which was, for silver,
(§ 13), 1485 parts pure or "fine" to 179 parts alloy; and
eagles (§ 9), "each to be of the value of 10 dollars or units,"
and to contain 2474 grains of pure gold, and to weigh 270
grains, according to the then standard for gold, which was
(§ 12) 11 parts pure to 1 part alloy.
Both of these precious metals were, after that, coined as
money; both became lawful money, and therefore, ex necessitate, a tender in payment of debts due in money, even if
not so declared by law; just as coals of the specified kind
are a lawful tender in discharge of a contract for coal, and
cotton, of a contract calling for cotton. But in the lapse of
years, the relation in value existing and established by Congress in this act of 1792, between the two precious metals,
was lost. Owing to the increased produce of silver, and
perhaps to the increased demand by the commerce of the
world for gold, their relative value had so materially altered
that, by 1823, the Secretary of the Treasury called the attention of Congress to the fact that gold had relatively appreciated in value, so that their true relation was then as 16 to 1,
and to the evils resulting from the erroneous standard main*Randolph's Jefferson, vol. 1, 395-6; Jefferson's paper on coinage, in the
Appendix to his works.
t Chap. 16, vol. 1, Stat. at Large, 246-9.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

MIr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

tained.* For as soon as gold had advanced or silver declined
in relative value so that they really bore to each other the
relation of 16 to 1 in value, instead of 15 to 1, as they were
valued by the law, every person who could secure an ounce
of our gold coinage for 15 ounces of silver secured what was
intrinsically worth 16 silver ounces; that is, made a profit of
about 6 per cent. It followed, of course, that all the gold was
taken up as fast as coined and sent out of the country to be
recoined, and that the country retained, instead, only silver,
and the gold coins 6f those countries whose gold coinage
bore a true relation to the existing value of gold and silver.
In fact, our gold coin went regularly directly from the mint
as fast as coined to the foreign packet; and, out of sone
$12,000,000 of gold which had been coined, it was computed
there was hardly a gold piece to be fbnnd in the whole United
States. As was said in Congress :t "iHitherto, like the tracks
to the lion's den, the coins have gone all one way-to Europe;
and not one solitary eagle has ever made good its cisatlantic
flight." This evil led at last to the introduction into Congress
of a bill to regulate the value of the gold coinage of the country, by adjusting the rate for gold coin to its true relation to
the existing and continuing silver coin.1 The debate upon
the bill,§ shows how anxious Congress was to get at the true
relative value of the two precious metals, and to fix the coinage accordingly. Opinions as to the relative values of gold
and silver ranged from 15.60 to 1, to 16 to 1. The majority
of those best qualified from their pursuits to understand
the subject, including the New York banks, regarded the
true ratio to be as 15.62 to 1, allhough *for the previous few
years it had averaged 15.80 to 1. But Congress, at the instance of the friends of metallic money, determined to adopt
16 to I as the relative value; partly because that seemed.to
be the ratio which had proved practically the most correct
in the nations which had adopted it; partly because the
* Congressional Debates, 6th Feb., 1823, p. 859.

f lb., June, 1834, p. 4654.
: Chap. 95, Laws 1834, 4 Stat. at Large, p. 699.
Congressional Debates, June 21, 1834.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

variation from the true relation was, if any, so small it might
safely be disregarded; and partly because it was believed
that the relative appreciation of gold which had been so long
going on would continue, and that the slight over-valuation
of it, if any there was, would be thus in time corrected.*
By that act (§ 1) the eagle was reduced from 2474 grains of
pure gold, as required by § 9 of the said act of 1792, to 232
grains of pure gold, or about six per cent. in intrinsic value.
But, so far from Congress assuming any power to materially
depreciate the coinage or impair the rights of 'creditors, the
power of Congress to make depreciated coin a legal tender
was expressly disclaimed in the debate.t And the statesman at whose instance, and by whose will, this bill was
mainly carried through was, of all men who ever had part
in the government of this country, the last to be quoted on
the side of the power of Congress to make promissory notes
a legal tender in payment of private debts,-Thomas Hart
Benton.
The court will thus see that while Congress did indeed reduce the standard and value of gold coinage, so that $100
of the new gold coins were hardly equal in intrinsic value
to $94 of the former gold coinage, yet that in fact Congress
did absolutely nothing to impair the obligation of contracts or to
destroy the rights of the creditor. For, from the beginning, the
debtor had the right to pay in the coinage of either of the
precious metals. At first these were of equal value, and
payment in either was indifferent. Gradually the gold appreciated or the silver depreciated, and then, of course, the
debtor, as hie had the option, paid in silver; so that, in 1834,
the debtor who owed $1000, and had $940 of the then gold
coinage, could exchange his gold for $1000 in silver coin,
and discharge with these his debt of $1000.
Therefore, although Congress did reduce the value of the
gold coinage in 1834, the debtor, after 1834, could no more
pay his $1000 with money of less intrinsic value than lie
* 1 Benton's Thirty Years, p. 469.
f- Congressional Debates, June 21, 1834, pp. 4650, 4652-3.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

3r. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

could before. True, he could take $940 in gold of the old
coinage, and get with it $1000 in gold of the new, with
which to pay his debt. But so, before the law, he could
take this same $940 of gold coinage, and purchase $1000 of
the then, and still, equivalent silver coinage, with which to
pay the debt. Indeed, that law, so far from taking - of the
debt from the creditor and giving it to the debtor, as at first
appears, actually gave the debtor no new privilege, and deprived the creditor of no property. It remained optional
with the debtor, after the law as before, to pay in the gold
pieces of the old coinage. True, it became possible, after
the law, for the debtor to pay in the new gold coinage; but
it had been optional with him befbre the law to pay in the
constant silver coinage equivalenl in value to the new gold
coinage. The law was, in fact, but an adjustment and recognition of the true relation between the values of the two
metals, the selection of which had always remained optional
to debtors, and, so far from being an attempt by Congress
to regulate money without reference to or differing from its
intrinsic value, it was, on the contrary, a most careful and
earnest effort to bring the recognizable value of its money
more closely to its intrinsic value.*
Following this act of June 28, 1834, Congress passed an
act on the same day, conforming the value at which foreign
coins were to be rated to their true intrinsic value.t
In 1837,T Congress fixed the standard of both gold and
silver coin at -lths fine; that is 9 parts of pure metal to I of
alloy. By this change the gross weight of the dollar was reduced to 412 , grains (§ 9), but the fineness was correspondingly increased, and the dollar therefore continued to contain
371g grains of pure silver, as provided for
T9ths of 4121 =
the dollar when first coined, and to remain therefore of the
same intrinsic value as before. And the gross weight of the
eagle was, by the same act, somewhat increased, but it conCongressional Debates, June, 1834, pp. 4643-4671.
• Chap. 96, 4 Stat. at Large, 700.
Chap. 3, 5 Stat. at Large, p. 136-7,

8.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

tinned to contain, however (§ 10), 2.32 grains of pure gold,
as provided by the act of 1884.
This change in the gross weight of the silver coinage has
led to the idea it was then debased, the corresponding increase in its fineness having been overlooked.
Let us refer to later changes in the silver coinage? For
nearly twenty years after the passage of these laws of 1834,
the relations between the precious metals remained undisturbed, so that no action by Congress was required. But
the unlooked.for discoveries of gold in California disturbed
again, and in a reverse direction, the relation between the
two metals, and thereafter silver advanced and gold declined in relative values; so that, by 1853, silver attained a
marked premium over the gold coined since the act of 1834,
and a. scarcity in silver coin had been felt. Congress, however, did not thereupon generally depreciate the silver coinage. It was, indeed, urged upon Congress to appreciate
the gold coinage.* Instead, however, of doing this, thinking, probably, that this gold harvest was to be of short duration, and its disturbance of the relation, then so long subsisting between the two metals, not likely to continue; and
striving to meet the evil of small notes issued by every kind
of corporation and of paper tokens for change, then pressing
-Congress did depreciate the silver coin, for parts of dollars
only, about 6 per cent. (so that two half-dollars or four
quarter-dollars are no longer equal to one dollar piece).
But these depreciated coins were restricted from being legal
tender for any sum greater than $5 in all, although the
smaller silver coin of the earlier coinage remained a tender
for any amount.
Prior to this, in 1851, Congress had directed the coinage
of three-cent pieces of a fineness and weight which gave
them a value of only 80 cents on the nominal dollar of these
pieces (i.e., 33 pieces of three-cent coinage were worth intrinsically only 80 of one silver dollar); but these pieces
were only made tender to the extent of 30 cents in the ag* Vide New York Tribune, and other journals.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

gregate, and their issue was very limited and was shortly
stopped, and by the act of 1853 their intrinsic value was
raised to the standard of that of the other fractions of the
dollar.*
Then as to change in the copper coinage. Congress, also,
in 1793 and 1796, reduced the weight and the intrinsic value
of the cent to accord with the increased value of copper, the
planchets for which government had to import.t These cents,
however, were not made a legal lender.
The interference by government with the rights of creditors by regulations of the coin have, therefore, been:
1. By the acts of 1834, a possible, but disputed and doubtful depreciation, if of anything, of less than 1 per cent
2. By the act of 1851, a depreciation of fractional silver
coin (the three-cent piece) to an extent which could not, in
the largest tender, exceed 6 cents; shortly, however, altered,
so that it could not exceed in the aggregate 2 cents.
3. By the act of 1853, a depreciation of fractional silver
coinage to an extent which could not exceed in the largest
tender 30 cents.
Now, if these debasements of fractional coin be deemed
merely such ; nevertheless, from their minute and fractional
nature, they would form no precedent for future material
debasements of the coinage, or indicate any acquiescence by
the people and the courts in an assumption by Congress of
the right to put a false or arbitrary value upon its coined
money. De minirnis non curat lex.
But, indeed, these acts of 1851 and 1853 were practically
not at all infringements upon the rights of creditors or debasements of the coinage below its value. As already remarked (page 464), when coins were struck with a value
which they did not possess, they have, "except within very
narrow limit;," failed to pass at more than their true intrinsic worth. But there are limits within vhieh coins, somewhat depreciated below their true value, will circulate as
Edelman's Bullion Dealers' Guide, pp. 14, 15; 9 Stat. at Large, p. 591;
10 Id. p. 160.
- Report as to the Mint, Congressional Debates, February, 1823, p. 804

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

well as if they had not been depreciated. Those limits are
when the payment is so small that the difference between
the nominal and intrinsic values, does not leave it worth
while to regard the difference, or when some particular convenience about the coin, such as its portability or denomination, overbalances the intrinsic depreciation; that is, the
peculiar fitness -for the fractional purpose required, will, in
such cases, actually make good the depreciation, and carry
the small coin, for all purposes of use, up to the stamped
value.
All will recollect how often, in the days of the Spanish
piece for 123- cents, we accepted 12 cents instead, and took
Spanish quarters with holes drilled through them equally
with perfect coin. Those who have been in England know
that the sovereign has so depreciated by wear that a large
majority of the coins in circulation in Great Britain are intrinsically worth less than the standard value-2d. per sovereign it is said-and yet, for all minor payments, they pass
from hand to hand by tale equally as of full weight; while
in large transactions they are always paid out by weight and
not by tale. So with the depreciated three-cent pieces of
1851 ; within the very nar'ow limit at which they were legal
tender, theiy portability and convenience made up what they
wanted in intrinsic silver value.
And so, too, with the depreciated coinage of 1853. It
was confined to fractions of a dollar, which were so slightly
depreciated, and the convenience of which was such, that
the trifling intrinsic loss was not to be regarded. But the
depreciated coins were made a legal fender only to twice the
amounit of the lowest tenderable gold coin, Congress still
keeping to its idea of a double money standard, and still
holding to its unchanged unit of value, the silver dollar.
Now it is submitted that all these exercises of the powers
of Congress to "coin money and regulate the value thereof"
were within the letter and spirit of the Constitution. Congress has, indeed, established the value of ceitain foreign
coins at one time and changed it at another; made them a
tender, and deprived them of that quality; and changed

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

from time to time the standard of value of coin struck at its
mint. But how has it done this? Without regard to the
intrinsic value of the coin struck? By fixing upon it any
arbitrary value, and making it a tender at anything but its
true value, as all the courts which have supported the constitutionality of the provision we are considering have assumed? Not at all; but, on the contrary, by uniformly
seeking to conform the stamp upon its coin to its true value,
and by scrupulously limiting the departures from intrinsic
value for special purposes within limits so narrow that the
special usefulness of the coin within those limits has actually
made good the trifling deficiency in weight.
In the same spirit, Congress has provided that its coin
shall be a legal tender at its stamped valuation only when
of full weight; if of light weight, only proportionately, according to its weight.
In fine, Congress, under a power to coin money and regulate the value thereof, has done only and exactly what those
words in their plain signification imply; has struck metallic
coins, and has regulated the value thereof and of foreign
coins; and has done this on every occasion with careful regard to their true intrinsic value; manifesting as well by
the particular purposes and narrow limits within which they
have departed from intrinsic value, as by their general strict
regard for such values, not their belief that they could strike
any metal and stamp it with an arbitrary value, but that
they could rightfully regulate the value of money only by
truly declaring the value thereof. Not that they " possess
a magic power to give, by their omnipotent fiat, a precious
value to inanimate and valuelezs things,".but that they possessed only power to regulate the coin stamped, by declaring
its value according to the fact-according to the value
stamped upon it when of full weight, and of only proportionate value when of light weight.
In the opinions which have been given in various legal
tender cases, nothing has seemed to go so far toward supporting the authority of Congress to make treasury notes a
legal tender as the assumption that Congress had been left

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

477

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

by the Constitution at liberty to impair private rights and
the obligation of contracts by debasing the specie coinage,
and that it had actually debased that coinage and impaired
those rights to the extent of -, without question or challenge. Had this been the action of Congress, it would not
indeed have established its power or right t6 do this. One
permitted invasion of an established right does not do away
with the right. That Congress had debased the coinage
.th would not establish the right to further debase it;
would, at most, indicate that the power to regulate it extended up to that limit, and would, of itself, furnish no justification for a more general or further invasion. Nevertheless, the assertion, in all the opinions, that government had
assumed to debase the coinage to the extent of T'cth, impairing to that degree the recovery of all creditors, and that this
action had been submitted to without question, has seemed
to me the strongest argument for the power of government
to exercise plenary control over coined money. Indeed, it
was through inquiry as to how it was possible that creditors
could have submitted to so serious an infringement of their
rights without contest in the courts that I learned that in
fact nothing of the kind really took place.*
On the contrary, we see that, so far from "Congress having
claimed and exercised unlimited power over legal tender,"
so far from having assumed the power to make even coin a
legal tender, without regard to its real intrinsic value, as
all the decisions supporting this law assume, its legislation
* Notwithstanding the true facts of the case, so little have they been
rightly understood, that we find an article in that excellent journal, the
American Law Register, as late as February, 1871 (vol. 19, p. 91), still
asserting in the course of a review of Hepburn v. Griswold, and other decisions of this court, in legal tender cases reported in 7th and 8th Wallace,
that the power of Congress to make dollars of a greater or of a less value
had been exercised in various instances; and that "in 1884, 6 per cent. was
taken from the weight and value of the gold dollar, and the holders of all
debts subjected to a corresponding loss ;" that "in 1887 and 1858, the halfdollar and smaller similar coin underwent a similar reduction." Yet this
is all a mistake, except as to the fractions of a dollar coined under the act
of 1853.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

shows that for seventy-five years, from the beginning of the
government down to the act authorizing these legal tender
notes, through all the most pressing exigencies of peace and
war, Congress-not only by its direct efforts to regulate the
coinage from time to time, according to its intrinsic value,
but also by the'narrow limitation it imposed on the right of
legal tender when diverging slightly from intrinsic value for
special and temporary purposes-has shown a determination, as uniform as just, to keep the stamp upon the government coins a true index to their value, and to so regulate
these coins as that they should have and express their actual
values. Nay, by reference to the debates in Congress, it
will be seen that the right of Congress to debase the coin
and make the debased coin legal tender, in such wise as to
materially affect the rights of the creditor or debtor, was
not only never professed or asserted, but that, so far as the
question has arisen, the right has been directly repudiated.
So, therefore, the difficulty, judges and other persons
have had in perceiving why, if Congress, under this power
to coin money, could coin any metallic substance and stamp
it with an arbitrary value, it would not have equally the
power to declare its treasury notes a legal tender without
reference to their intrinsic value-is a, difficulty that this
court is freed from, and that should never have existed.
Indeed, I look in vain to-day for the production of the declaration, prior to these legal tender days, of one judge, one
statesman, one commentator, that Congress, by the power
"to coin money and regulate the value thereof," possessed
the right of striking even metals with false and arbitrary
values. The right, therefore, to make a promise to pay-a
promise not expected to be kept at the time for which it was
made, nor at any other certain or definite time-the substitute for the thing promised, and to oblige every creditor to
accept this of his debtor instead of the thing promised, is
not only not within the provisions of this grant to Congress
"to coin money and regulate the value thereof," but we
have seen that no kindred power in fixing the value of even

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

coined moneys has ever been claimed or attempted under
that grant.
We are driven, therefore, to seek in other parts of the
Constitution this power to make treasury notes a legal tender between private parties at their nominal value for preexisting debts.
But it has been asserted that the power of thus making
the bills of the government legal tender is a power " necessary and proper"-in the sense in which those words are
settled to have been used-to carry into effect some one or
more of the powers delegated to Congress by the Constitution. I say "necessary and proper" in the sense in which
those words have been settled to have been used, because I
admit that this court has decided that they are not to be
construed according to their literal and precise meaning.
Those judges of this court who stated in the dissentient
opinion in Hepburn v. Griswold,* that it was claimed that
when, an act of Congress is brought to the test of this clause of the
Constitution, its necessity must be absolute and its adaptation to
the conceded purpose unquestionable, were stating no claim of
mine; and the discussion of that question, so fully pursued
in that opinion, will not be necessary, since I shall adopt
for these words the most liberal construction ever asserted
by this court.
Indeed, whatever differences might exist as to the true
construction of this clause of the Constitution, as a lawyer,
addressing this supreme tribunal, I am bouid to remember
that its meaning was long since defined and settled here.
In the very first Congress the meaning of this clause was
greatly discussed. There were those who held, with Mr.
Jefferson, that it authorized only those means without which
the grant would be nugatory. Others took a more liberal
view of its meaning. The latter prevailed in Congress.
The discussion was then renewed in the Cabinet. Washington finally followed the opinion of Hamilton, who main* 8 Wallace, 631.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

3:r. Potter's argument against the constitutionality

tained the more liberal view. Subsequently the discussion
was from time to time renewed in Congress, until finally
tl e meaning of this clause came, in 1819, to be decided by
this court, in M'eCalloch v. Maryland,* when Marshall, C. J.,
speaking for the whole court, gave as the result of their
most careful consideration, that precise definition which opposing counsel admit was, by his intrinsic and perfect reasoning, wrought into the texture of our constitutional law.
Nevertheless, the utmost that great chief justice, who extended the Federal authority to its farthest limits, then said,
was:
"Let the end be legitimate; lot it be within the scope of the
Constitution, and all the means-which are appropriate, which
are plainly adapted to that end, and which are not prohibited,
but consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are
constitutional."
We must inquire, therefore, to the exercise of which one
of the powers delegated to government "it is necessary and
proper," it is even "appropriate and plainly adapted," that
treasury notes should be made a legal tender for antecedent
debts. Is it appropriate and plainly adapted to the power
to borrow money, to regulate commerce, to raise and support armies, to provide and maintain a navy, to suppress insurrections or repel invasions, or even to any of these powers
united? For it is true that Congress had occasion to exercise every one of these powers at the time when these notes
were issued.
III. The exercise of this legal tender power was not necessary,
nor appropriateand plainly adapted to carrying into execution any
of the powers expressly delegated.
No one can read the opinions of any of the courts which
have held this law to be constitutional without finding their
decisions distinctly put upon the importance of this provision
to enable government to borrow money and carry on the
war, and to maintain its very existence. But it is sub* 4 Wheaton, 421.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

mitted, especially after the experience of the past nine years,
that no such necessity existed, and that no such advantage
was gained by the provision. On the contrary, at no time
before since the establishment of the government was the
national wealth so great; at no time were private debts,
in proportion to the means of the country, so reduced. The
panic and suspension of 1857 had led to very general liquidation. The agitations of the succeeding years had tended
to check men in forming new engagements, or entering
upon speculative undertakings. At no time had so few new
schemes for capitalists been proposed; had so few bubble
corporations been projected; had so little general speculation prevailed. At no time were our traders so little extended, or had our people so few debts (excluding debts
maturing at the end of long terms of years). The banks
and the government had already suspended specie payments
for months before the issue of these notes. The entire business of the country was being done in unredeemed bank
paper and treasury notes, which were not a legal tender in
payment of debts, but which, nevertheless, circulated everywhere, and never fell at the great centres of trade to any
considerable depreciation. Finally, the government determined upon an issue of legal tender notes.
The security of the notes was not increased by the legal
tender clause. Had they been issued without the clause they
would have been equally secur'e. Without it, they still had,
as fully as with it, whatever security the credit and faith of the.
government could give them. So, too, without that clause%.
they would have been equally as available and valuable as
now, in all payments for taxes, public lands, or other duesto the government. The only value, that clause did give the
,notes was the power it gave debtors to discharge pre-existing
debts with them, equally as with real dollars. I say preexisting debts, because, as to subsequently contracted debts,.
the dealings of the country would have been in these notes,
owhether or not they had been made a legal tender. The
country was, at the time of their issue, carrying on its dealings in the unredeemed paper money of the banks, styledI
VOL. Xu.

81

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

M!r. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

"currency," in which all ordinary transactions were measured, and payments made. This currency had not at that
time depreciated more than 3 per cent. below the specie
standard; and yet treasury notes, as soon as issued, at once
fell to the same depreciated value. Their legal tender character never seems at any time to have made them better
than the bills of any other solvent but suspended debtors
not containing that clause.
It has indeed been urged that general insolvency and
ruin would have followed, had not debtors been authorized
to meet their demands with these notes.* But what really
would have been the effect had these notes not been made a
legal tender for pre-existing debts? Necessarily they would
have been as well secured and as useful for payments of
taxes and public dues as now. They would have been as
valuable as now, for the purchasing of goods, and service,
and labor. True, the debtor could not have discharged his
debts of long standing in them; but what of that? In
great part, the debts of the country consisted of commercial
paper, even then payable in what was styled "currency."
As to the debts of the country not already specially payable
in "currency," the great bulk of the residue matured within
a short time, so that, had the debtors not been able to have
benefited by the slight depreciation in treasury notes which
took place during such times, it would have caused no widespread disaster. For they would in no event have had to
pay more than they received, nor was there, after these notes
were issued, any such depreciation of property, even reckoned at its specie value, as would have made such payments
generally disastrous. Specie payments have been suspended
by the banks and the treasury in 1837, and 1857, and 1861,
without producing any great ruin. Irredeemable paper circulated after the suspension of the banks in 1857 and 1861,
as well as before. Indeed, the crisis was before the suspension of the banks, not afterwards.
Neither the bills of the old Confederation nor those issued
* See dissenting opinion in Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wallace, 632, 3.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

by the government in 1812 were ever made a legal tender at
all, and yet circulated generally. So in England during all
the great Napoleonic wars, the notes of the bank were never
made a legal tender. They are by law a tender, everywhere
except at the counter of the bank so long as the bank pays
specie. In 1797, however, the government authorized the
bank to suspend specie payments. The law provided* that
the bank might suspend specie payments; that if sued on
its notes (§ 1) it might apply to the courts and have proceedings against it stayed on such terms as might be just; and
(§ 7) that payments voluniarily received in the notes should
be regarded as payments of cash. But the notes were not
made a legal tender except for government dues and taxes.
Nevertheless, they answered every purpose of our notes.t
So those United States notes that were not a tender always
rated equally high with those which were; and as matter of
fact, capable of being proved by price currents of the day
after the decision in Hepburn v. Griswold, tha t treasury
notes were not constitutional as a discharge for pre-existing
debts, they at once advanced in market value as compared
with gold.
But, were it conceded that the quality of legal tender
gave to these notes a material advantage which they would
not have possessed without it, how can it be said that this
provision was "necessary and proper" or "appropriate and
plainly adapted" to the exercise of any of the powers expressly delegated to Congress?
It should be borne in mind that (except in the single
aspect of a regulation of commerce, to which I shall presently refer) this legal tender provision has been maintained
Chap. 88, Laws George III, 41 Pickering's Statutes at Large, 523.

t Encyclopoedia Britannica, title, Money. In 1811, it was made penal in
England to buy coin at a premium, or to sell notes of the bank at a discount; and tender of notes of the bank stopped distress for rent, and payment in them satisfied executions (like the bills of the Bank of Kentucky,
Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 315). But this law continued in
force only till March, 1814, and was, in effect, a "stay-law," as the notes of
the bank were at no time made a legal tender so as to discharge debts or to,
release securities.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

M r. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

as necessary or proper to the exercise of the delegated
powers, and has been asserted to be appropriate and plainly
adapted to their exercise, in no other way than that by this
measure the government was made stronger. The effect of
this provision is to take the property of the creditor and
transfer it to the debtor to the extent to which these notes
may be depreciated below their nominal value. To which
one of the delegated powers is such a wrong "appropriate
and plainly adapted?" To all, as much as to one. For
clearly this power has no relation whatever to the power to
raise armies and maintain navies ; to suppress insurrections;
to borrow money; unless it is the relation which results
from the mere fact that government was made stronger and
more efficient by it. In no other sense is it appropriate, or
adapted, or auxilia'ry at all to the exercise of any or of all
the delegated powers.
I concede that if this provision of legal tender be a "proper
ancillary means," to use the words of Strong, J., in the Pennsylvania cases,* for executing the delegated powers singly or
together, it is enough. Any means which is appropriate, and
plainly adapted to carrying into effect two or more or all of
the delegated powers, is not on that account less to be implied
than if it has such relation to one 6nly of the delegated
powers. But the question remains, is the power sought to
be implied appropriate, and plainly adapted to the exercise
of delegated powers? To be appropriate, to be at all adapted
to the exercise of powers, it must have some direct relation
to such powers; some particular fitness for the exercise of
those powers. As Mr. Clay felicitously said:
"The principal and incidental ought to be congenial with
each other, and partake of a common nature. The incidental
power ought to be strictly subordinate, and limited to the end
proposed to be attained by the specific power."
Referring to the first great debate on the powers of Congress under this clause, and remembering that one portion
* 52 Pennsylvania State (2 P. F. Smith), 9.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Mr. 'otter's argument against the constitutionality.

of the men contemporaneous with the Constitution agreed,
with Mr. Jefferson, that the means to be authorized under
this clause must be means without which the grant would
be nugatoi-y, it is instructive to note how even those who
favored a more liberal construction of this clause regarded
it.*
That eminent Federalist, Mr. Sedgwick, declared the
means, authorized by this clause, "must be a known and
usual means in the exercise of the delegated powers to effect
their end, as expressed in the Constitution."
Or, as Mr. Ames said, "must be fairly relative and necessarily incident to the delegated powers."
Or, as Mr. Giles said, "a subaltern authority necessarily
connected with the exercise of the delegated powers."
According to others, it was to be "embraced in as a detail of the enumerated power, and to be inseparable from it."
And in their opinions on the constitutionality of the United
States Bank, both Hamilton, Madison, and Randolph united
in defining a constitutional means as a natural means of executing the delegated power.
As Hamilton himself said, "The criterion of what is constitutional, and what is riot so, is the end to which the measure
relates as a means. If the end be clearly comprehended
within any of the specified powers, and if the means have an
obvious relation to that end, it may be deemed within the provisions of the national authority."
As Mr. Madison elsewhere said, the constitutional means
must be "a direct and incidental auxiliary;" must be "incidental to the nature of the specified power."
As Marshall, C.J., said, in Gibbon v. Ogden, the auxiliary
power must be clearly incidental to the powers expressly given,
to be implied.
As Story, J., said, in Martin. v. Hunter, "The powers actually granted to the Federal government must be expressly
given, or given by necessary implication."
But this provision of legal tender has no relation, no fitness,
1 Congressional Debates, 1940, et seg., Feb. 8-8, 1791.

LEGAL TENDER

OASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

no adaptation to the exercise of any one or more of the express powers conferred by the Constitution; none whatever.
It is as much auxiliary to one as to the other; nay, as much
auxiliary to every conceivable power of government granted
or forbidden, requiring revenue, as to either or to all the
delegated powers. Its aid is derived from the fact, and the
single fact, that thereby government was made stronger.
But it is an abuse of language to so construe a grant of
particular powers as to treat anything by which the grantee
is made stronger in the exercise of the particular power as
an incident of such power, and therefore to be implied.
Surely, a grant to a man to run a ferry or to sail a privateer,
or to establish and maintain a fort and trading post, Would
not give him the right to rob on the highway; to cheat his
creditors; or to sell to other persons the right to cheat their
creditors as an incident to such a grant. And yet such
powers would make him stronger; would make him better
able to run his ferry; to sail his privateer; to defend his
fort. They would be auxiliary in the sense that they made
him stronger to do the authorized work. They would, indeed, if he was not able otherwise to execute his grant, be
a necessity for its execution. But not a granted necessity;
not a granted auxiliary; not to be implied as a rneans to the
authorized powers.
Just so, this power of legal tender, if it was of any practical importance to government, which I deny, was in no
otherwise an aid to the delegated power of raising armies,
maintaining navies, and regulating commerce, than that it
made the government stronger; not that war could not be
made, armies raised, or commerce regulated without it, for
these and all other powers of government had been exercised
without it; not that it had any relation to the exercise of
any of those powers as a means, but solely because it made
government generally stronger.
Test this idea, that because by this sale of indulgences to
one man to wrong another, government was made better
able to execute its delegated powers; and that, therefore,
this power was ancillary or auxiliary to those powers. The

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

Constitution gave Congress power to establish post-offices
and post-roads; and this grant has been taken as authorizing the establishment of new offices and new routes, the
conveyance of the mails, the punishment of offences against
them, and even as authorizing government to assert a monopoly of that business; and all these powers have an appropriateness and a plain adaptation to the power expressly
granted. But let us suppose government should sell licenses
to rifle every tenth letter, or licenses to take half, or a fourth,
or a tenth of all the valuables inclosed in the letters directed
to particular offices. Will any one pretend that such a power
would be authorized? And yet government would be
stronger for it, richer for it, better able to carry the mails
for it; that is, better able because of this authority to execute the powers delegated to it. Nay, it might even be that
without such extraordinary resource it might not be able
to carry the mails at all. But who will pretend that such a
necessity would any the less make such an assumption of
power unauthorized and outrageous?
I understand one member of this bench to have maintained in another tribunal* that even a substantive power
might be implied as an incident to the execution of a delegated power. I do not so understand the law. I had understood the direct reverse of this to have been asserted by those
who framed the Constitution, both before and after its adop..
tion, in all the great discussions upon the power of Congress;
and by the men who favored liberal as well as those who
favored strict construction; and to have been established
in McCulloch v. State of Marylland, where the Chief Justice
gave it as the unanimous opinion of the court that "a great
substantive and independent power cannot be implied as
incidental to other powers, or used as a means of executing
them."
.But, however this may be, whether another substantive
power can, or cannot, be properly implied as an incident to
.the execution of an enumerated power, the substantive
* See Legal Tender Cases, 52 Pennsylvania State (2 P. F. Smith), 9.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

power, in order to be implied, must at least have the same
fitness and adaptability to the power to which it is implied
as incidental as is required of other means.
It has, however, been asserted that Congress is to judge
of what means are appropriate and adapted to the end, and
that whether a particular measure be or be not such a means
is for Congress alone to determine. But it was to decide
whether the action of Congress was within the authority of
the Constitution that this supreme tribunal was established.
The Constitution delegated to Congress certain specified
powers. It delegated also the necessary and proper means
to carry those powers into effect. Whether a particular authority be delegated either expressly or as a means to carry
into effect the delegated powers, may, and should indeed,
in the first place, be inquired into by the legislature. But
the power of this court to revise these determinations of the
legislature was unifbrmly asserted, as well during the Convention which framed the Constitution, as throughout the
discussion by which it was commended to the people, and
by the wisest men of every political view after the Constitution was adopted, and has been established by the repeated
decisions of this court.
"If," said I-amilton,* "it be claimed that the legislative
body are themselves the constitutional judges of their own
powers, and that the construction they put upon them is conchsive
upon the other departmens, it may be answered that it is not
to be supposed that the Constitution could intend to enable
the representatives of the people to substitute their will to that
of their constituents. It is far more rational to suppose that
the courts were designed to be an intermediate body between
the people and the legislature, in order, among other things,
to keep the latter within the limits assigned to their authority.
The interpretation of the laws is the proper and the peculiar
province of the courts. A constitution is, in fact, and must
be regarded by judges, as a fundamental law. It must,
therefore, belong to them to ascertain its meaning, as well
* Federalist, 88.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

as the meaning of any particular act proceeding from the
legislative body. The intention of the people ought to be
preferred to the intention of their agents."
" Whatever meaning," said Mr. Madison,* "the clause
of the Constitution conferring on Congress the power of
using all necessary and proper means to carry into effect the
enumerated powers may have, none could be admitted that
would give an unlimited discretion to Congress."
"To what purpose," said Marshall, C. J., speaking for this
court in M"1adison v. Marbury, "are limitations committed to
writing, if these limits may at any time be passed by those
intended to be restrained. The distinction between a government with limited and unlimited powers is abolished, if
those limits do not confine the persons on whom they are
imposed;" but all powers under the discretion of a choice
of means are leftopen to them. And in that case the court
held the law of Congress unconstitutional.
So in McCalloch v. iM1aryland, he said:
"Should Congress in the execution of its powers adopt measures which are prohibited by the Constitution, or should Congress, under the pretext of executing its powers, pass laws for
the accomplishment of objects not intrusted to the government,
jit would become the painful duty of this tribunal, should a case
requiring such a decision come before it, to say that such an act
was not the law of the land."
The utility of a measure can never be any proper test of
its constitutionality. As Hamilton declared in that great
argument upon chartering the first United States Bank,
.which successfully maintained the Federal power, and upon
which all subsequent arguments on that side of the question
have been based-because, as Marshall, C. J., said, it exhausted the arguments upon that side-" the degree in which
a measure is necessary can never be a test of the legal right
to adopt it. That must be a matter of opinion, and can only
be a test of expediency. The relation between the means
and the end, between the nature of a means employed toward
* 1 Annals of Congress, p. 1898.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

:Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

the execution of the power and the object of that power, must
be the criterion of unconstitutionality; not the more or less
of necessity or utility."
I concede that if a means be appropriate, and plainly
adapted to the exercise of an enumerated power, and not
prohibited, then, whether it may be useful or not, is for Congress alone to judge. I agree, too, that engagements by
Congress to purchase arms, which may prove to be worse
than useless, to buy ships which may not be needed, and
the like, are engagements within the constitutional powers
of Congress; and that this court may not inquire into the
propriety of their judgment in such regards. But what
brings these measures within the constitutional powers of
Congress, except that they are appropriate, plainly adapted
means, to the end of enabling Congress to make war, to
miaintain navies, or to executing other powers expressly
delegated to Congress-and are therefore authorized ? And,
being authorized, whether useful or useless, whether Congress
judged wisely or unwisely in selecting them, is not open to
review.
As Marshall, C. J., said in McCulloch v. llaryland,in discussing the constitutionality of the United States Bank,
"Were its necessity less apparent, none can deny its being an
appropriatemeasure; and if it is, the degree of its necessity
is to be discussed in another place."*
But where a means has no fitness, no adaptation, except
that it makes government stronger-except that it is in that way
useful-then, if it can be considered as therefore an authorized means-one that may be implied, which I dispute-the
constitutional power of Congress to exercise that means
must, in that event, depend upon that utility alone; and of
that utility this court is, in such event, the ultimate judge.
It may be here stated that the appropriateness of the bank as a fiscal
agent to enable the government to borrow money, collect taxes, and the
like, although not now so apparent, seems at the time of the decision in
McCulloch v. Maryland to have been generally conceded. But whether,
notwithstanding that appropriateness, it was an authorized means, was most

severely contested, since government could borrow money and collect taxes
without it.

Dec.1870.]

LEGAL
10
TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument againsu the constitutionality.

If it be insisted that this court was never meant to judge
of such utilities-that this is the province of the legislative,
and not of the judicial branch of the government-my answer is, that the absurdity grows out of selecting as an appropriate means, or incident, or auxiliary to the delegated
powers, that which has no fitness, no adaptation to such
powers, except merely that it makes government stronger.
For if any means that increases the strength of government
may be taken as therefore to be implied as a constitutional
means, to be, for that mere quality, fit-which I deny-then
it remains that since this court is the ultimate judge of fitness, it must be, according to that assumption, the ultimate
judge of whether the measures in question did, indeed,
make government stronger.
IV. This power cannot be assumed as a necessary inherent
sovereign right.
It is claimed that the right to declare what shall be a legal
tender for private debts is a necessary right inherent in every
sovereignty. That, within the scope of thei'r respective authorities, the Federal and State governments are sovereign;
and that, consequently, this power must be lodged with one
or the other authority, and that, since it is prohibited to
the States, and not prohibited to Congress, it must therefore
be taken to dwell with Congress.
But upon what principle is it a necessary sovereign right?
True, it is a right which has been exercised by absolute
sovereigns. So has every other form of power and plunder.
But that does not make it a necessary right in a limited
constitutional government established to maintain justice.
It is by no means clear that this right exists in England.
Blackstone says that
"The coining of money is the act of the sovereign power, that
its value may be known on inspectton. Every nation fixes on it its
own impression, that the weight and starrdard, wherein consist
the intrinsicvalue, may be known by inspection only. . . . Of this
sterling metal all the coin of the kingdom must be made; but the

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

492

[Sup. Ct.

:Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

.King's prerogative seemeth not to extend to the debasing or enhancing the value of the coin below or above the sterling value."*
To the same effect speaks my Lord Coke:t
"The law doth give the King mines of gold and silver thereof
to make money, and not any other metal, because thereof money
cannot be made, and hereof there is great reason ; for the value
of money being in effect the value of all contracts, is in effect
the value of every man."
It was, indeed, one of the glories of Queen Elizabeth, that
she restored her moneys to their true value. "_Religio reformaa. Pax fundala. Mone/a ad suitnt valorem reducta,"
is the inscription on. her monument.
In truth, there seems to have been a general misapprehension as to the action of England. Although base moneys
were formerly issued, I find none authorized in England for
nearly three hundred years past.
It is a mistake to suppose that the framers of this government, or the people who ratified their work, intended that
all powers of government should be vested either in the
Federal or the' State governments. On the contrary, this
was an artificial government; not the result of gradual
growth, but formed by the union of independent States; not
formed for the benefit of any family, or ruler, or person, but
formed to secure certain ends for those who thus united.
What those ends were, the fi'amers of the government took
care to declare. Far from requiring that the new government should possess all the powers usual to sovereigns, they
expressly forbade some most sovereign powers, and refused
to grant others. From that (lay it was the boast of the
people that their Federal government was the freest and
most limited government that had ever existed. That while
it possessed powers necessary for protection against foreign
and domestic attack, it contained none by which individual
rights could be destroyed without process of law or just
compensation.
It is true the powers to make ex postfacto laws, pass bills,
*

Commentaries, 278.

t" 2 Institutes, 534.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

of attainder, confer titles of nobility, are expressly forbidden
to both State and Federal governments. But they were for
bidden to both, because otherwise-States by virtue of their
original authority, the Federal government by virtue of its
expressly enumerated powers-each within its province
might lawfully exercise these powers; and this at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution was fully discussed and
understood. Indeed, the friends of the Constitution were
very generally called upon to show that the restrictions upon
the Federal power were not to be taken as implying the
grant of powers not expressed. Accordingly it was everywhere shown that the restrictions upon the Federal government contained in the Constitution were necessary as exceptions to powers particldarly granted in the Constitution. A
very precise statement was made in the Virginia convention
by Mr. Edmund Randolph of the particular grant upon which
each restriction on the Federal power was a limitation.*
It is true, also, the power of legal tender, though restricted
by the States to gold and silver, was not forbidden to the
Federal govern ment; but either was it granted.
As Hamilton said in the Federalist :t
"Why declare that things shall not be done which there is
no power to do? Why, for instance, should it be said that the
liberty of the press shall not be restrained when no power is
given by which restrictions may be imposed?"
And Mr. Marshallt asked, in the Virginia convention,
"if gentlemen were serious when they asserted that if the
State governments had power to interfere with the militia
it was by implication? The State governments," he said,
"did not derive their powers from the General government,
but each government derived its powers from the people,
and each was to act according to the powers given it.
Would any gentleman deny this? Could any man say so?
Could any man say that this power was not retained by the
States, as they had not given it away P For," says he, "does
not a power remain till it is given away ?"
*3

:Elliott, 464.

t No. 84.

$ 3 Elliott, 419.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Cr.

Mlr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

Indeed, where a particular power is neither expressly
granted nor fairly to be considered as a means of executing
the granted powers, it cannot, because of its necessity or of
its importance, be implied, since those sovereign powers
which the framers of the government thought necessary
were expressly enumerated.
"A distinction," as Mlr. Madison said,* "is to be kept in
view between a power necessary and proper for the government or Union and a power necessary for executing the
enumerated powers." In the latter case, the powers included
in the express powers were not expressed, but to be drawn
from the nature of each. In the former, the powers composing the government were expressly enumerated. This
constituted the peculiar nature of the government; no power, therefore, not enumerated could be iferredfrom the general nature of
the gorernment. Had the power of making treaties, for example, been omitted, however necessary it might have been,
the defect could only have been lamented, or supplied by an
amendment of the Constitution.
So Judge Story, in his Commentaries,t lays it down:
"On the other hand, a rule of equal importance is, not to enlarge the construction of a given power beyond the fair scope
of its terms, merely because the restriction is inconvenient, impolitic, and even mischievous. If it be mischievous, the power
of redressing the evil lies with the people by an exercise of the
power of amendment. If they do not choose to apply the
remedy, it may fairly be presumed that the mischief is less than
what would arise from a further extension of the power, or that
it is the least of two evils.

Nor should it be ever lost sight of

that the government of the United States is one of limited and
enumerated powers; and that a departure from the true import
and sense of its powers is, pro tanto, the establishment of a new
Constitution. It is doing for the people what they have not chosen to
do for themselves. It is usurping the functions of a legislator
and deserting those of an expounder of the law. Arguments
drawn from impolicy or inconvenience ought here to be of no
* 1 Annals of Congress, p. 1900.

t

426.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.
weight. The only sound principle is to declare, ' ita lex scripta
est,' to follow and obey."
So Mr. Webster said, in reply to Hayne:
"The people, sir, erected this government. They gave it a
Constitution, and in that Constitution they have enumerated
the powers which they have bestowed on it. They have made
it a limited government. They have defined its authority."
And so distinctly was this recognized as to draw from
Chief Justice Marshall, in McCulloch v. M9aryland, the sharp
reproof:
"This government is acknowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers. The principle that it can exercise only the
powers granted to it would seem too apparent to have required
to be enforced by all those arguments which its enlightened
friends, while it was depending before the people, fbund it
necessary to urge. That principle is now universally admitted."
And so this court, in other cases,* declared that
"The people had a'right to prohibit to the States the exercise
of any powers which were, in theirjudgment, incompatible with
the objects of the general compact; to make the powers of the
State government, in given cases, subordinate to those of the
nation, or to reserve to themselves those sovereign authorities which
they might not choose to delegate to either.
"The sovereignty of the States is surrendered, in many instances, where the surrender can only operate to the benefit of
the people, and where, perhaps, no other power is conferred on
Congress than a conservative power to maintain the principles
established in the Constitution. The maintenance of these
principles, in their purity, is certainly among the great duties
of the government. One of the instruments by which this duty
may be peaceably performed is the judicial department."
So far, however, from the power of making the promises
of the government a legal substitute for the thing promised
having been regarded as a necessity of government when
this government was established, it seems to me impossible
* Cohens v. Virginia, per

Marsball, C. J.; Martin v. Hunter, per Story, J.

LEGAL TENDER

[Slip. Ct.

CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

to review the history of'the times without being convinced
that this power was not only not regarded as a necessity,
but rather as an evil to be fbrbidden.
V. The history of the Constitution and of the country indicates
thal this power wnas not intended to be exercised(at all, but was reserred to the people.
Looking to the history of the Constitution, how natural
and probable it is that the power, in respect to legal tender,
now claimed by the Federal government, was not intended
to be granted to it. The union of the Confederation was
established for the same purpose as the present Union. It
was equally to be "perpetual."
By the Articles of Confederation, the Confederation had the identical powers given it
in respect of money which the Constitution gives to our
Federal government. And yet when, during the sore needs
of the Revolution, it did issue treasury notes, and wished to
make them legal tender, it found itself powerless to do so.*
The States, however, generally made their bills a tender;
and with the result, Judge Story says, of prostrating all
private credit and all private morals, " entailing the most
enormous evils on the country, and introducing a system of
fraud, chicanery, and profligacy which destroyed all private
confidence, and all industry and enterprise."t
Indeed, the framers of the Constitution had themselves
experienced the mischief of these experiments, which were
in the Convention declared "to have excited the disgust of
all the respectable part of America." [The learned counsel
here referred to the action of the Convention which framed
the Constitution in striking out the clause authorizing the
emission of bills on the credit of the United States, and in
adopting the clause restricting the States from issuing bills
of credit; and especially Mr. Madison's remark as to the
first matter, that it would "cut off the pretext for making
them a tender;" to the declaration of the Federalist (No.
44), and to the debates of the State conventions held to
* Story's Commentaries on the Constitution, j 1360.

t

b.

1371.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

ratify the Constitution.* He also quoted the opinion of this
court in United States v. Marigold,t Oraig v. Missouri,. Ogden
v. Saunders,§ Fox v. Ohio,I Briscoe v. Bank of Xentueky, and
also to the strongly-expressed declaration of Mr. Webster.
As these authorities are quoted in the opinion of the dissenting justices,** they are here omitted.]
To recapitulate:
The Articles of Confederation gave the same power to the
Confederation that the Constitution gives to Congress, to
coin money and regulate the value thereof. Nevertheless,
the Confederation never assumed to make treasury notes a
legal tender.
The States did make their own notes a legal tender, and
with results which disgusted the people.
Accordingly, when the Convention met that framed the
existing Constitution, they struck out of the draft the power
to emit bills on the credit of the United States, in order, as
Mr. Madison says, that it might not be a pretext for declaring such bills a tender.
They took from the States the power of making anything
but gold and silver a tender, and even refused to permit its
exercise with the permission of Congress.
It was declared in every State whose debates on adopting
the Constitution are reported, that paper money was to be
put an end to.
For several years, in the direst needs of the country, Congress not only never asserted any right to make treasury
notes a legal tender, but, by the nature of its legislation,,
has indicated that it had no power to even materially debase
the coin of the republic, or stamp it with false and arbitrary
values.
During these years this court has spoken of the legal tender
as pernicious, and has pronounced the money power a trust
delegated to Congress to maintain a pure metallic standard.
* 1 Elliott, Id. 492; 5 Id. 435, 485; 8 Id. 486; 4 Id. 184, 185, 436; 2 Id.

290, 291, 471, 478; Yates's Minute, 39-40.
1 4 Peters, 434.
t 9 Howard, 567.
5 Howard, 433.
VOL. XIL

11 Peters, 317.
82

12 Wheaton, 288.
See infra.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

Not only M{r. Madison thought Congress had no power to
make paper a tender, but Mr. Webster thought so; and the
power has been frequently denied in Congress, and prior to
the law in question never contended for.
No framer of the Constitution, no judge, no commentator,
is found prior to this law who claimed any such power for
Congress.
With the clause giving it power to coin money and regulate the value thereof, Congress received also power tofix
the standardof weights and measures; and, as the Federalist*
declared, on like considerations with the previous power
of regulating coin, which considerations, it added, were to
provide for the harmony and proper intercourse among
the States. But can Congress fix a standard, and then
reduce its pound to eight ounces, its foot to six inches, its
acre to two roods, and thus provide that no man shall collect
upon his contracts, and that no one need pay more than onehalf of what was bargained for? And if Congress cannot
do this arbitrarily and by itself, can it regulate the standard
of weights and measures, by making sales of licenses which
would give to the holder, for every dollar paid, a right to
abate or increase an ounce, or an inch, or a rod, in every
contract of sale he had made? And yet the right to fix
weights and measures is a sovereign right and prerogative,
as well as the right to coin money and regulate the value
thereof.
VI. This legal tender power was not proper,vor consistent with
the letter or spirit of the Constitution, and was prohibited.
In seeking to show that an auxiliary power, to be implied,
must have in itself some particular relation to and fitness
for the exercise of the delegated power or powers to which
it is claimed to be incident, I have been treating the question as if these were the only considerations required. But,
indeed, that is not all; not only must the auxiliary power
be appropriate, and plainly adapted to the exercise of the
* No. 42.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

delegated power, but the end must be legitimate, and within
the scope of the Constitution as well; and the means must
not merely be appropriate and plainly adapted to such an
end, but must also be not prohibited.
But the dissenting judges in Hepburn v. Gr'iswold* have
said that "the argument is too vague for their perception,
by which the indirect effect of a great -public measure in
depreciating the value of lands, stocks, bonds, and other
contracts, renders such a law invalid as taking private property for public use, or as depriving the owner of it without
due process of law." But in its effects upon the creditor,
this provision does not operate indirectly, but directly. If
the issue of treasury notes, without this provision, by inflating or depressing prices and values, by making money
easy or hard to realize, affected creditors, that would be a
case in which the evil resulting from the indirect action of
a public measure could not be considered as impairing its
authority. But in this case, the power which enabled debtors to discharge pre-existing debts by treasury note promises,
instead of real dollars-discharge their debts by paying onehalf or three-fourths of the amount due, according to the
rate at which treasury notes could be procured-operated
not indirectly, but directly on the creditors' rights; was the
sale of a license to let men pay in short measures.
We are told that the government has power when prosecuting a war to seize any man's property, burn any man's
barns, raze any man's house. And so it has when these
operations are necessarily exercised in the course of the
actual prosecution of the war. But an officer carrying on
war in Carolina has, therefore, no authority to raze a house
in Illinois; still less to raze every house throughout the
country. His authority to destroy is limited to property
immediately necessay to be destroyed in the prosecution of
the war; and for the property so taken or destroyed, government becomes liable.t Government has indeed power
to take the property of citizens to carry on war, but it is a
*8 Wallace, 637.

-t Mitchell v. Harmony, IS Howard, 134.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

constitutional power, to be exercised by government, by
taxation, or other method prescribed by the Constitution;
not by the sale of licenses to let one man wrong another.
Nor is a wrong the less a wrong because enacted as a part
of a great public measure, instead of by private act. Is my
property any the less unjustly taken, any the less taken
without process of law, because taken by a general law instead of by a special one? Surely the injustice of the act
does not depend on the number of persons affected by it.
The Constitution did not declare it should not be lawful to
take private property for public use, nor deprive persons of
property without compensation, except generally, and by
great public acts. On the contrary, it declares it shall not
be done at all, nor to any person.
Those judges of this court who concurred in that opinion
have presented,* as analogous cases, the discharge of the
creditors' claim by a bankrupt court, depreciating the value
of his vessels by a declaration of war, reducing the worth
of his furnaces or of his mills by a change in the tariff; and
have declared that these measures would be subject, equally
with this legal tender provision, to the objection that they
are unconstitutional, as taking private property without compensation. And they would indeed be unconstitutional as
coming within this very provision, but for the vital distinction, among others, that they happen, each one of them, to
be expressly authorized by the Constitution. Can it need
argument to show the distinction between the effect of a
general prohibition in an instrument upon a power expressly
authorized, and upon one only implied? The people expressly delegated to this government certain powers; among
them was the express power to "declare var," although it
would depreciate the value of ships; to "establish a system
of bankruptcy," although it would discharge the debtor
from his liability to his creditor; to "lay and collect, and
remit duties and imports," although they should enhance or
diminish the value of furnaces and mills. They delegated,
8 Wallace, 637.

Dee. 1870.]

LEGAL TFNDER OASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

also, to the government the power to "make all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution" the granted powers.
A.nd then to make sure that powers should not be implied
beyond those granted which might impair private rights,
they added the provision that "no person should be deprived
of life or property without due process of law, nor should
private property be taken without just compensation." Had
the Constitution conferred upon Congress the express power
to make treasury notes a legal tender in discharge of preexisting debts, then, I grant that the analogy between the
cases suggested and the case of legal tender would have
been competent, and I should then no more be here coutending that this prohibition against the taking of private
property prevented the issue of such notes than I am contending that it prevents a declaration of war, the establishment of a system of bankruptcy, or the change of tariff.
But it is exactly because the express power given in every
one of these instances is wanting in this instance, and is
sought to be implied, and because it is the settled rule that
a power to be implied as an auxiliary to a delegated power
must be " not prohibited," that I assert against the implication of the legal tender provision the prohibition which the
Constitution imposes.
VII. This law impairs the obligation of contracts.
The court, on the late argument of this question in Repburn v. Griswold, were all agreed that the legal tender provision did impair the obligation of pre-existing contracts.
But a portion of the court declared that this was not forbidden to Congress, and that, in some cases, it was expressly
authorized. I am not unmindful of the impression that has
prevailed among the profession in this respect; and I beg to
point out the misappreheision I think has existed as to this.*
* It has been said that this lAw does not impair the obligation of contracts,

because, in all agreements to pay mere dollars, the creditor takes the risk of
what the law may declare to be dollars. But this is to beg the question of
power to work such injustice. Indeed, until such law is established or expected, the risk of it cannot be said to enter into the contract.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

In the course of a cause tried in 1816,* in the Circuit
Court in Philadelphia, Mr. Justice Washington is reported
to have made the interlocutory remark that Congress was
not restricted from impairing the obligation of contracts.
This remark has been since frequently quoted without either
approval or disapproval. It is a singular instance of a casual
observation, passing for years unaffirmed and unchallenged
by all the great commentators upon the Constitution. This
was said in reference to a grant by the Federal government
of a patent for an invention. If it meant tha t Congress was
at liberty to recall its voluntary grant, I shall not dispute it.
If it even meant that the government was not compelled to
keep its own contracts, I need Dot dispute it, for government
can never be coerced. It can only be sued according to its
own provisions; and whether it be or be not constitutional
fir government to extinguish its contracts without fully performing them, it nevertheless remains that the creditor can
in no event recover anything more than the governmenDt
chooses he shall have. The remark does not indeed imply
that Congress had any such general power; but only that it
was not r'estricted by any such limitation in the exercise of
its particularly granted powers.
That the power to impair the obligation of contracts is
not generally forbidden to Congress in express terms, I admit. It was unnecessary, upon the theory of the Constitution, to have so forbidden it. That such power ini the case
of bankrupts is expressly authorized, and not therefbre to
be taken as forbidden by the general prohibitions in fatvor of
private rights, I also admit. But that it is not.withheld or
otherwise forbidden, I deny. It is, except in the authorized
cases, indeed forbidden, by the very nature of the i,,strument, from the fact that it is vot authorized. It is forbidden
by those amendments which fbrbid the infringement of private rights and property. It is forbidden by the scheme and
object of the instrument, which it itself declares was "to
establish justice and secure the blessings of liberty."
* Evans v Eaton, 1 Peters's Circuit Court, 323.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

Thirteen States met to form a. common government. Before such meeting, and except as then formed, this government had no existence. Certain powers were invested for'
the general advantage in the hands of what Marshall, C. J.,
in lcCulloch v. M1laryland, called the common agent; what
Daniels, J., in Fox v. Ohio, called the common arbiter. Suchof these powers as were important to be exercised for the
general good, like the power to make war, maintain a navy,
enter into treaties, and the like, were conferred on the agent,
and were forbidden to the States; others were left concurrently to both; still others were forbidden to both. Among
the powers of the States when they thus met was the power
to impair the obligation of contracts; but only within their
respective limits. New York had no power to impair contracts in Delaware, but only in New York; nor had Delaware power to impair contracts in Nvew York, but only in
Delaware. Now, the whole history of the time shows this
was regarded as a dafigerous power; as a power to be lim-ited even between the States and their own citizens-not to
be extended throughout all. It was, therefore, forbidden to the
States. In particular cases of general concern, the power
was expressly granted to the Federal government. But to
assume it was otherwise granted, and to imply it, because
expressly forbidden to the States and not to the Federal government, is to reverse the whole spirit and purpose of the.
times; to turn a restraint upon a limited evil into permission
to make it general. Since then, except in these specific instances, when, before this legal tender law, has Congress.
claimed to exercise such a power? Has it ever been suggested that Congress can direct divorces-can authorize a.
man to discharge a contract for one hundred bushels of
wheat by delivering fifty, or fulfil a contract to convey onethousand acres of land by conveying nine hundred? Weall know it cannot.
Indeed, that Congress has power to impair the obligations.
of private contract is absolutely without authority. I find.
no court that has so decided. On the- contrary, the very;

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

reverse has been declared by this very court, and other high
constitutional authorities.*
If Congress possesses, by implication, this power to impair
the obligation of contracts, why was authority to establish a
uniform system of bankruptcy expressly granted to it? If
Congress took this sovereign power in any case without
express grant, surely it would be in connection with bankruptcies, where it might be regarded in some aspects as a
regulation of commerce, and as, indeed, in the interest of
creditors generally. As Marshall, C. J., remarked, "the
bankrupt law had been said to grow out of the exigencies
of commerce, and to be applicable solely to traders." The
Federalist" refers to the -'rant of power to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy " as so intimately connected with
the regulation of commerce, and so preventive of frauds, that
its expediency was not likely to be drawn into question."
That such a power was regarded as necessaryl to be specifically granted, establishes, I maintain, that the Federal
government took by the Constitution, even as it was before
the restrictive amendments were added, no general power
of impairing the obligation of contracts.
And when the dissenting judges of this bench declared, in
.Tepbturn v. Griswold, " that it is difficult to perceive how it
can be in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution to
destroy directly the creditors' contract for the sake of the
individual debtor, but contrary to its spirit to affect remotely
its value for the safety of the nation," I answer that in the
one case it is in accordance with this spirit, because it is so
expressly declared and provided; and in the other it is not
in accordance with it, because it is not provided for at all,
but is in violation of its general restrictions,-a discrimination which, recalling those provisions of the Constitution, I
submit it is not difficult to perceive; difficult, indeed, not
to perceive.
* Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 646, 657 ; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386;
Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 206; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Id. 269,
270, 312, 8-03, 304, 327, 331, 336, 3.54; Federalist, No. 44.
j- No. 42.
1 12 Wheaton, 274.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

This whole question, however, of the power of Congress
to impair the obligation of contracts depends upon the other
question of what power Congress can. take by implication;
returns, indeed, to the pivotal question of whether Congress
is a body of absolute or limited powers. And here let me
remark, that it seems to rue very immaterial whether it be
considered that it is for Congress to determine what means
are necessary and proper to carry into effect the delegated
powers, and that its decision is not subject to revision here,
or whether it be that this court is the ultimate judge, if it
be decided that any means are appropriate to the exercise
of any of the delegated powers which make the government
stronger. The one conclusion would relieve Congress from
all restraint but that of its own judgment; the other conclusion would relieve it from all but the express limitations of
the Constitution. If by the assertion of the discretion of
Congress it be meant that when the end is legitimate, and
within the scope of the Constitution, and a choice of appropriate means exists, Congress is the sole judge of which to
select among those means, and that its judgment in such
selection is not open to review, I shall not deny it. But to
hold that Congress, in selecting the means to carry into
effect any of the delegated powers, may select means not
authorized, not necessary nor proper, not appropriate nor
plainly adapted, and can make them appropriate simply by
its selection of them, is to make the power of Congress generally absolute.
On the other hand, a decision by this court that Congress,
in order to raise armies or execute any of its enumerated
powers, may exercise any other powers that make the government stronger, without regard to the fitness of its measures to such delegated powers; that it may take any power
by which strength is gained to execute the delegated power
as therefore incidental to those powers-whether really fit or
not, and whether coming within the general prohibition of
the Constitution or not-is a doctrine which equally makes
Congress absolute, and leaves it-except as to the provisions
especially forbidden in the Constitution itself-without check

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[sup. ct,

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

or limitation ; and makes much of the great bill of rights
contained in the amendments of no effect.
It was indeed because, as Strong, J., maintained in the
Pennsylvania cases,* there might be powers not enumerated, not even means to execute the delegated powers which
might be claimed as resulting from the Constitution, and
which would transcend the limits intended to be fixed by
the Constitution, that the people insisted upon the amendinent and inserted their general declaration, which properly,
as I maintain, prevents Congress from taking, by inmplication, any power to deprive persons of property without process of law.

What do the amendments to the Constitution provide?
Not particularly that Congress shall not impair the obligations of contracts; not particularly that it shall not intervene
to declare what shall be a legal tender in discharge of preexisting debts between citizens of any State; but they provide that private property shall not be taken for public use
without just compensation, nor any person be deprived of
property without due process of law. But this legal tender
clause takes the creditor's property to the extent of one portion of his right of action; takes it, to be sure, not directly
to the public use, but, as asserted, takes it because of the
public necessities, and gives it to the debtor; equally takes
it from the creditor, and takes it from him without any compensation. So, too, this legal tender clause deprives the
creditor of his property to the extent of one portion of his
debt, of his chose in action, without due, or any, process of
law. By what authority is this done? Not by the express
authority of the Constitution; for that is not pretended.
Not surely by its implied authority; for authority to be implied must be " not prohibited, within the scope of the Constitution, consistent with its letter and spirit." But this act
which thus strips the creditor of his property without process of law is absolutely prohibited. It establishes injustice,
and cannot therefore be consistent with the letter of the
* 52 Pennsylvania State, 2 P. F. Smith, 114.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

Constitution; establishes injustice, and therefore is flatly
opposed to its whole scope and purpose-cannot therefore
possibly be implied.
NOW AS TO THE SECOND PROPOSITION, as to which the court
has directed argument-that is, the effect of this legal tender
provision of the law upon subsequent transactions.
It is to be observed that the Constitution contains nothing
whatever in respect to tender except that it limits the States
against making anything but gold and silver coin a tender
in payment of debts. But whether the tender for debts
should be of gold or silver, and of which of the coins of
either or both, it is left with the States to declare. No liaitation as to the class of coins which might be adopted for
that purpose was imposed. Indeed, at that time our decimal
system was not established. No such coins as those we use
existed, and various descriptions of coin and methods of account prevailed in all the States. Congress early established
a decimal system, and, under its power of coining money
and regulating the value thereof, coined moneys according
to that system, with the dollar as the unit of account and
coinage, and regulated the relative value of different foreign
coins with the dollar by weight. The dollar thus coined
thereupon became, ex necessitate, even without any express
law, a lawful tender for contracts calling for such dollars,
just as wheat, and wheat only, is a lawful tender for a contract for wheat, and wine for a contract for wine, since it
alone complies with and satisfies the contract. The States
having made no other coins a tender in payment or debts,
and having all adopted the Federal system of account and
reckoning, the dollar has thus remained not only the universal tender in payment of such debts, but has become also
the universal unit of calculation, upon which all damages
are estimated and all recoveries of money are made. Subsequently the government issued its notes, also called dollars,
and they went into universal circulation. or course, contracts calling either expressly or by implication for these
treasury-note dollars are satisfied and discharged by the pay-

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

ment of the requisite number of them; and this because they
meet and satisfy the contract-are what the contract requires. Sovereigns would not satisfy such a contract; neither
would they satisfy a contract for specie dollars; nor would
any description of dollars satisfy a contract for sovereigls.
When, therefore, a man has a contract upon which dollars
are due, the first question must be, what description of dollars is meant by it? If these treasury-note dollars, then the
stipulated number of them vill satisfy the contract, and will
satisfy it equally whether such notes be or be not a lawful
"tender in payment of debts," unless, indeed, these treasury
notes are wholly unauthorized and invalid.
If it were an open question, I should be disposed to think
that Congress had no power to issue bills of credit. Looking at the history of the times; at the action of the Convention which framed the Constitution ; at the declarations of
the men who participated in that Convention; at the general
opinion throughout the States when the Constitution was
first considered, it does certainly seem to have been intended
that no power of issuing paper money should be given to
Congress at all. None the less, the power to borrow money
does embrace the power to issue obligations for the money
borrowed, and can, perh'ps, be taken of itself to sustain the
issue by the government of its bills of credit. The power
was regarded as existing by many very early in the history
of the government, and in 1812 the government did put out
its treasury notes, which circulated as money, although not
declared a legal tender. This course of action was repeated
in 1837, 1842, 1861, and has been continued and sustained
by this court. So that whatever might have been originally
the proper determination of that question, it is now too late
to assume that the Federal government does not possess the
power to issue bills of credit, and that they are not valid.
Being valid, they will of course lawfully discharge any contract made expressly payable in them; and any contract
which, although not so particularly expressed, now implies
that it is made payable in them. That is, any contract simply expressed in " dollars," which is the term which now

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

distinguishes these notes from coined, or, as they are generally styled, specie dollars. So, too, when the courts come
to allow recoveries upon contracts calling for treasury-note
dollars, they can give judgment for their payment, and this,
whether they be or not the tender in payment of debts authorized by the Constitution, just as the court can enter a
decree for hay on a contract for hay. Whether, therefore,
these treasury notes are a lawful tender in payment of debts
in the sense of the Constitution, or not, it is nevertheless
true that they are, and may properly continue, a medium of
exchange; and that contracts can be met by and recoveries
had in them.
Nevertheless, when the courts come to turn contracts and
claims into judgment debts; when they come to assess damages, and allow recoveries for wrongs, the question remains,
can they do so in this treasury-note dollar; or, is it no lawful money for such purposes, and must the court make their
calculations, all~w their damages, and state their judgments
in the coin of the country as the only authorized constitutional standard of value?
My ox has been converted. Its value is $100 specie or
$110 treasury-note dollars. A recovery by me of the given
amount of either of those dollars would be just, and make
me whole. And it may not, therefore, seem of much public
importance whether recoveries in law should be had and
reckonings made in specie dollars, as customary on the Pacific coast (where they quoted "greenbacks" at a discount),
or in treasury-note dollars, as on the Atlantic side (where
specie is quoted at a premium). And yet, can anything be
of greater public importance than to have the value of every
transaction measured by a certain, instead of a fluctuating
standard ?
Nevertheless, whatever its importance, the question of
power in Congress to make these notes a tender in payment
of debts remains.
If Congress has such power, where is it granted? To
what delegated power can it properly be regarded as auxiliary ? I can find none. It is true that making these notes

LEGAL TENDEn CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.
.-

a legal tender for subsequent transactions does not impair
private rights, as it must if they be regarded a tender for preexisting debts. The presumption against the power is not,
therefore, so strong in the former as in the latter case, and
yet the question of power remains. Where was it conferred
upon Congress? I repeat, I cannot find that it has been
conferred at all. The power given Congress by the Constitution to coin money and regulate the value thereof, and of
foreign coins, and to provide for punishing the counterfeiting of the securities and current coin of the United States;
the analogous power given it to fix the standard of weights
and measures; and the restriction upon the power of the
States against making anything but gold and silver coin a
tender in payment of debts, all combine to establish that the
government has no power to make any legal tender whatever except the coin that it strikes. The action of the Convention which framed the Constitution, the discussion by
which it was recommended to the people, the debates in the
State conventions by which it was adopted, and the whole
record of the times combine also to establish that the power
to make bills of credit a tender was not intended to be given
to the Federal government at all; but that, on the contrary,
it was intended and believed to be wholly beyond the power
of either States or Union. Story says in his Commentaries :*
"The prohibition to 'emit bills of credit' cannot, perhaps, be
more forcibly vindicated than by quoting the glowing language
of the Federalist-a language justified by that of almost every
contemporary writer, and attested in its truth by facts from
which the mind involuntarily turns away at once with disgust
and indignation."
This prohibition, as we have seen, met the warmest approbation of the Federalist,t and was evidently considered
by the author to prevent all legal tender paper and all substitutes for coin. The Federalist further declaredt that:
"The sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating
policy which has directed the public councils. They have seen
* See. 3358.

t Nfo. 44.

$ 1b.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

with regret and indignation that sudden changes and legislative interferences in cases affecting personal rights became jobs
in the hands of enterprising and influential speculators, and
snares to the more industrious and less-informed part of the
community. They have seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the first link in a long chain of repetitions, every
subsequent interference being naturally provoked by the effects
of the preceding. They very rightly infer, therefore, that some
thorough reform is wanting, which will banish speculations on
public measures, inspire-a general prudence and industry, and
give a regular course to the business of society."
In Craig v. The State of Missouri,* Marshall, 0. J., said,
speaking of paper money:
"Such a medium has been always liable to considerable fluctuation. Its value is continually changing; and these changes,
often great and sudden, expose individuals to immense loss; are
the sources of ruinous speculations, and destroy all confidence
between man aud man. To cut up this mischief by the roots-a
mischief which was felt through the United States, and which deeply
affected the interest and prosperity of all-the people declared in
their Constitution that no State should emit bills of credit."
And so Judge Washington in Ogden v. Saunders:t
"This policy was, to provide a fixed and uniform standard of
value throughout the United States, by which the commercial
and other dealings between the citizens thereof, or between them
and foreigners, as well as the moneyed transactions of the government, shall be regulated. And why establish a standard at
all for the government of the various contracts which might be
entered into, if those contracts might afterward be discharged
by a different standard, or by that which is not money?"
Why was the power of fixing the standard of weights and
measures given to Congress but to enable it to fix a general
and uniform standardof weights and measures ? Why was the
power of coining money and regulating the value thereof,
and of foreigun coin, given to Congress, except to enable it
to provide a fixed and uniform standardof value? And yet
you cannot have a measure of weights that have no weight,
* 4 :Peters, 432.

t12 Wheaton, 265.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

nor a standard of measure without length. How, then, can
you have a unifbrm standard of value without value? A
substance that constantly fluctuated in weight, or that would
not weigh-like gas-could not be made a standard of
weight. An elastic and variable measure could not properly be made the standard of measures. How, therefore,
can Congress, under this power to establish a uniform system of coinage and values, select as the standard of value,
not a coin at all, but a fluctuating and changeable unit; not
even a thing at all, but only the promise of a thing? This
power of coining money was intrusted to Congress, and
restrictions were put upon the States, in order to secure
cuniformity of value, and to preclude a fluctuating and
variable currency." The people, when called upon to sacrifice their right to issue bills of credit, and make anything
but gold and silver a tender, did so for the same end. This
court has never spoken of the power of Congress except as
a trust to maintain the uniformity and purity of the standard
of value. Under that trust, and that alone, Congress seeks
to establish a standard of value, neither pure nor uniform.
On the contrary, a standard withont any intrinsic value
whatever; forever fluctuating and uncertain, and affecting
with those qualities all transactions in it in arithmetical proportion to their magnitude-a standard which, instead of
affording certainty and uniformity of value, invites forever
to uncertainty, to speculation, and extravagance. This is
not what the Constitution granted to Congress. It is exactly
what it forbade to the States-exactly what the wise men
who framed this government never intended either State or
Federal government should possess, and what no statesman
from the foundation of the government to the introduction
of this law had ever claimed for it.
The question before the court is no mere question for today, when the two currencies are nearly equivalent in value,*
* Gold was at the time of this argument worth about 10 per cent. more
than the notes of the UnitedStates, called , legal tenders." There had been
a time, during the rebellion, when it was worth 185 per cent. more.-REP.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

513.

Mr. Potter's argument against the con-titutionality.

but it is a question whether this supreme tribunal will estab-.
lish, as the permanent standard for the dealings, values,
and engagements of this great nation, something without
intrinsic value at all-a forever fluctuating and uncertain
unit.
The importance of the question is that its decision depends upon, and must determine, the powers of Congress in
respect of private rights. For if Congress may impair the
obligation of contracts in this respect, it may in other respects; and the obligation of contracts is among the most
important subject as to which Congress can legislate. It is,
as Chief Justice Marshall well said, a power which comes
home to every man; touches the interest and controls the
credit of all. What was true in that regard at the foundation of the government, when the fathers saw the importance
of limiting such power, is vastly more true now, when our
property is so extensively represented in notes, bills, bonds,
coupons, mortgages, and other money obligations.
The decision by this court that Congress can use the legal
tender provision as a means to any delegated power, leaves
Congress as much at liberty to use it as an auxiliary to borrowing money, or to regulating commerce, as to levying
war. It will thus be, that whenever the great corporate and
moneyed interests of the country wish to wrong their creditors, they will create a necessity which shall compel the issue
of these notes; while, whenever the creditors would wrong
the debtors, they will struggle to repeal the law making
these notes a tender. It was the feeling created by the decision that such notes would not be legal tender for preexisting debts which, more than anything, I think, tended
to deter the lower House of the last Congress from passing
a bill to increase their issue.
Who can deny that a whole community is being demoralized, as under such a system of paper money communities everywhere and at all times have been demoralized ?.
Who can deny that men will do now what they would have
shrunk from ten years ago, before this system existed?When the wicked prosper, othe: men make haste to do like,.
VOL. XIL

38

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

wise. And now, not from the cities only, but from every
part, men seek the great marts to try their fortune in the
ventures of the hour, hoping to gather where they have not
strewn. Gambling in stocks, with the dangerous combinations it invites, and the corruption which it encourages, has
become general; so that it is deemed venial to artificially
inflate or depress prices, to create fictitious values by forced
scarceness, or undue depression by combined attacks. And
whatever danger may come to the public debt of this great
country, will come, not from the unwillingness of the people
to pay; not from their want of ability to pay; but will come,
if it shall come at all, from the recklessness of a people
carrying out their schemes upon the waves of an inflated
currency, and from the demoralization which such speculations produces. How can it be expected that this people
will make the sacrifices necessary to enable their government to keep its pledged faith, when it has not only failed
to keep its own faith with its creditors, but has filled its
coffers from the sale of licenses to men to wrong each other
by short payments, and has made haste to ratify, by the decision of its supreme tribunal, the constitutionality and
righteousness of such a course?
It is said that the course of action and decisions, since
this law was passed, has been favorable to its validity. To
the action of Congress, in this respect, I do not attach weight.
There were various opinions in Congress as to its power, and
the time was one of doubt and danger, illy suited to the
consideration of that question. As Mr.Gouverneur Morris
said, in his famous letter to Mr. Pickering, "The legislative
lion will never be confined in the meshes of a logical net."
And legislators will always find it in their consciences to
consider that measure constitutional which they wish to
adopt.
As to the decisions of the State courts, though the majority
were in favor of the law-only Rentucky and Indiana being
adverse-they were almost all by divided courts, and in all
there were indications that these decisions were given doubtfully and in view of the existing crisis, and with the feeling

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

that the ultimate determination of the question of power
should, under the circumstances, be left to this tribunal.
There was, however, a decision on this subject in Rhode
Island, in 1786, in the case of cThevitt v. Weldon. That State
had issued bills of credit and made them a tender, and fixed
a penalty for refusing to receive them at their nominal value.
Mr. Weldon refused, and was prosecuted for the penalty,
and the Rhode Island court held the legal tender provision
unauthorized on the same general principles which were
declared by this court in Wilkinson v. Leland, also from that
State. And for that decision the judges lost their office.
This court rather avoided the consideration of the question
until forced upon it after the determination of the Kentucky
Court of Appeals in Griswold v. Hepburn. When, however,
that case had been argued and submitted here, the court, at
the suggestion of the government, ordered it to stand over
to be reheard, when counsel, than whom there were none
more eminent in the country, were heard in favor of the
validityof the provision. After which the court, being then
a full courl, held the case under advisement, until, in February, 1870, when it decided that the law was invalid in
respect of pre-existing debts.
Here let me remark that I think Judge Grier was right,
in the view he took of the act, as not applying to precedent
contracts. I see no principle of construction by which this
statute-if it be considered that Congress has the constitutional power to issue notes which shall be a legal tender in
discharge of pre-existing debts-should be held to embrace
such debts. The law contains no necessary expression of
the kind. True, it provides that the notes shall be a tender
for all debts except customs and bonded interest. This was,
however, a distinction necessary for subsequent debts. Indeed, since there were relatively few debts due for customs or
bonded interest at the time of the passage of this act, this distinction would rather indicate that it was meant to apply only
to subsequent debts. But surely, if the power to impair private rights is not to be taken to exist without very strong

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Potter's argument against the constitutionality.

and direct expression, where it does exist, it should not be
presumed that the legislature intended to exercise it without
like clear and positive expression.
I shall say nothing to this high tribunal as to the general
importance to courts of justice of the maxim of stare decisis.
Those judges who have been longest here know best how
carefully and wisely it has adhered to that maxim.
It has been urged upon the court to review the legal tndec question in these cases, in order to settle the law as to
the abstract power of Congress to make treasury notes a
legal tender in discharge of pre-existing debts. But how
can the court thus settle the question ? Should you affirm
the former decision, you would indeed settle it; but should
you overrule that decision without change in the opinions
of the justices who have heretofore passed upon the question, how then will you have settled it? What can then
result but to leave this question open for the future, and destroy the consistency and influence of the court?
It is the high and peculiar function of this supreme tribunal that it has not merely to determine questions of right
between private parties, but even to pronounce upon the
validity of the laws themselves. Aiid why was this momentous and delicate duty committed to this great court by the
people but for the belief that by its wise and independent
judgments those disputes as to the powers of government,
which, under a limited government, based upon a written
compact, must unavoidably arise, would be likely to be most
wisely and certainly settled? Now, whatever importance
there may be in the doctrine of stare decisis in the determination of questions of private rights, it is to a tribunal charged
with the determination of the limits of the power of government that certainty and consistency are absolutely essential.
For more than seventy years this supreme tribunal, by the
high character and learning of its members, by its rare and
practical wisdom, and, above all, by its uniform, cautious,
and consistent course, has so secured the respect and confidence of this people as to be able, in the stormiest times, to
successfully establish the limits upon the rights and powers

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

The Attorney-Generl's argument in support of. the constitutionality.

of the States and of the General government. To now, for
the first time in its history, so gratuitously and needlessl3
review an abstract constitutional question so solemnly decided; to review it, not because of changes or doubts on the
part of those who shared in the decision, but through a
change in the composition of the court, is to divert the
regard of the people from the court itself to the personnel of
those who compose it; and would, as it seems to me, be in
effect to abdicate the highest function with which your
honors are intrusted. For men cannot be expected to submit their views of the powers of government to the construction of this tribunal when they once learn that, after a
construction has been most solemnly established, they cau
change that construction by changing the persons who com
pose the tribunal.
Those of us who, in the words of the late Thaddeus Stevens, "believe, as all should believe, that the judiciary is
the most important department of the government, and that
great, wise, and pure judges are the chief bulwark of the
lives, liberty, and rights of the people," will then, indeed,
have reason to fear that the court, in reviewing this question, will, so far from having actually and finally settled the
principle of constitutional law involved, the rather have unfsettled it; and, in so unsettling it, have unsettled also the
grounds for the confidence and submission of this people
under the determination by this tribunal of constitutional
questions.
Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General, contra :*
Two questions are submitted. The first, as the chief one,
will be chiefly considered. If that is decided affirmatively
the second must be so answered also.
According to the uniform custom, when the powers of
* A brief which had been filed in the case of Latham v. The United States,
a real or supposed legal tender case, which having been withdrawn by the
appellant (9 Wallace, 145), never came to hearing:-that brief being the
same that had been filed in Hepburn v. Griswold,-was also submitted and
relied on by Mr. Akerman, here.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

Congress are questioned, the court is told that ours is a
limited government, and that Congress has no powers but
what are derived from the Constitution. In the words of
the vexed patriarch, "Who knoweth not such things as
these ?" Of course the court will not sustain the legislation
in question, unless it finds authority for it in the Constitution, either expressly given or ihirly implied.
It would be wonderful that a government formed in modern times and for a commercial people, and in large measure
the offspring of commercial wants, should not be provided
with all the powers on the subject of money-that indispensable instrument of commerce-which have been possessed
by the governments of other commercial nations. The
world's experience did not fall into barren soil when it was
east by history into the minds of the men who framed the
Constitution of the United States. Many of them were well
versed in financial history. All of them had seen their
country undergo a memorable financial experience. Thus
instructed, they went to their work. They gave to Congress
express powers on the subject of money. They laid Congress under no express restrictions on the subject of money.
The only restrictions which they imposed in this matter
were upon the States. They are in these words:
"No State shall make anything but gold and silver coin a
tender in payment of debts."
From this clause-the only place in the Constitution
where tender is named-a mind guided by the rules of strict
construction, and jealous of national power, might derive
the doctrine that the right to prescribe a legal tender is in
the States only. This doctrine would have a stronger fbundation in the letter of the Constitution than most of the
propositions which are seriously put forth against the validity of the legal tender act. But it has no advocates; at
least none whose views deserve consideration in this court.
It would encounter invincible reasoning, fortified by thie
practice of the government from a very early date. Congress has never hesitated to enact what should be a legal

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

tender in payment of debts. The right thus to enact has
been assumed in twenty-four statutes, passed in the presidencies of Washington, Jeflerson, Madison, Monroe, Jackson, Tyler, Polk, Fillmore, Pierce, Lincoln, and Johnson.
Before the act now in question the authorized tenders
were all in metallic coin ; but under modifications in purity
and value according to the pleasure of Congress. Debts
contracted when money was of a certain degree of purity,
have been made dischargeable in money of the same noninal value, but of less purity, and therefore of less intrinsic
Value. Counsel on the other side has attempted to show
that this statement, which has often been made in discussions of this subject, is not corrct. Ie goes into an
analysis of the statutes, and while lie admits that coins of
certain denominations have been debased, be affirms that
the quantity of pure silver in the dollar coin has remained
unchanged. This fact, if demonstrated, does not answer
his end. It does not disprove that a man who lent ten eagles
at one time might afterwards, by the force of an intervening
act of Congress, be compelled to take in satisfaction of the
principal of that loan ten eagles of 6 per cent. less intrinsic
value. This legislation assumes thI, in contemplation of
law, money of every species has the value which the law
fixes oi it; that Congress has the constitutional power to
say that 10 pennyweights of silver slijill henceforth be the
dollar, and do the office hitherto done by 17 pennyweights
and 4 grains.
We have been told that the practice thus established is
not pertinent to the present argument: First, because the
extent of debasement has been small. Secondly. Because
the currency with which these liberties were taken remained
metallic through all the changes.
The right to debase cannot depend on the extent of the
debasement. If the right exists, it is bounded only by the
pleasure of Congress. In this matter questions of constitutional right are'not questions of more or less. Congress at
one time has said that a gold coin of a certain weight and fineness shall be worth ten silver dollars, and a legal tender for

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

that sum. Congress has afterwards said that a coin containing less of gold shall be worth ten silver dollars, and a legal
tender for that sum. The power to make this debasement
to the extent of 6 per cent., and to give to the debased coin
the quality of a legal tender for precontracted debts, involves
the power to carry the debasement to the extent of 60 per
cent., and to give the same quality to the coin thus debased.
And it is difficult to see the difference in constitutional principle when the article on which a legal value is fixed, and
which is made a legal tender, is the nation's paper promise
to pay, now worth in the market over nine-tenths of its legal
value in coin, and certain, if the nation keeps its fliith, to be
ultimately worth its par in coin.
Sonic men appear to consider that there is a peculiar constitutional virtue in metal, whether gold, silver, nickel, or
copper. According to them, what is a crime against the
Constitution, if done in paper, may be innocently done in
metal. The obligation of contracts may be impaired, in
metal. The dictates of justice may be disobeyed, in metal.
A man may be lawfully compelled to take, in metal, a fraction in value of what he contracted for. The scope for the
discretion of Congress is unlimited within the metallic field.
That sensitive being, always invoked in such discussions,
whom they denominate " the spirit of the Constitution,"
though enraged by the rustle of paper, is lulled to repose
by the clink of metal, however base.
The Constitution nowhere declares that nothing shall be
money unless made or metal. Congress has enacted that
these treasury notes shall be lawful money. Nobody questions here the power to issue them and to give them some
of the qualities of money. This power has been expressly
admitted by this court. With certain exceptions, they are
receivable for all dues to the government, and payable for
all dues from the government, old and new. The largest
creditor in the land, the government, is bound to take them.
The largest debtor in the land, the government, pays in
them. The creditors of the United States (except holders
of bonds and of.interest-bearing notes) must take them or

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

nothing. Nobody maintains that they are not "money" in
the sense in which that word is used in some places in the
Constitution. "No appropriation of money" [to the use of
raising and supporting armies] "shall be for a longer term
than two years."* This provision would certainly be violated by an appropriation of treasury notes to the support
of the army for three years. "No money shall be drawn
from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations
made by law."t Treasury notes could not be drawn from
the treasury without such appropriation. The regular statement "of the receipts and expenditures of all public money,"
which the same section requires to be published from time
to time, would be incomplete if treasury notes were left out.
These notes, then, are money, for most purposes, between
the government and the citizen. It is argued, however,
that they are not money between citizen and citizen for all
the purposes for which Congress has made them such; that
though Mfr. Davis (a party now before the court) might be
allowed by Congress to discharge a debt to the government
contracted in 1857 with treasury notes, he cannot be allowed
by Congress to discharge a debt of the same date to Mr.
Parker with the same currency; that a debt which he owes
to the collective American people is less sacred than a debt
which he owes to one of them. Hence, it follows, from the
reasoning of opposing counsel, that what can be made
money, in the constitutional sense of the word, for some
purposes, cannot be made money for other purposes. The
singularity of the conclusion suggests that there must be a
fallacy in the logic.
The supporters of the legal tender provision are called on
to show the authority for it in the Constitution. To this
call different responses have been made.
Some have found the authority in the power to coin
money and regulate its value. They think that the word
"coin" is here used in the large sense-to make, to fabricate; and the meaning of the word "money" is not limited
* Art. 1,

8.

t- lb.

9.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

to metallic coinage, but extends to everything which had
been in general use as money, or which may answer the
purposes of money-a definition which will embrace a government's promises to pay, of a form and denomination designed for circulation as currency. They maintain that an
article may be money for some uses or for all, at the will of
the power that creates it; that one sort of money may be
good to pay duties on imports and another to pay fbr public
lands; that one sort may be a legal tender for all debts and
another for debts of a certain kind or amount, as Congress
may determine. Probably this view was in the mind of
Congress when the act of 1862 was framed, and suggested
the words, " shall be ]awful money." Perhaps it was in the
mind of the statesman who then had charge of the national
finances, who issued the legal tender notes, and who afterwards, in vindicating this policy before the people, said:
"Under these circumstances I coined the credit of the
nation."*
But this derivation of the required power, though supported by strong reason and respectable authority, has received less of professional and judicial favor than the derivation from the power "to make all laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into execution all powers
vested by the Constitution in the government of the United
States, or in any department or officer thereof."t
Among the admitted powers which the act in question is
believed to aid in executing, are the powers of borrowing
money on the credit of the United States, of declaring w'ar,
of suppressing insurrection, of raising and supporting armies, and of providing and maintaining a navy. The power
to borrow money carries with it the power to give to the
lender an evidence of the debt thus created, and to strengthen
the loan with incidents and adjuncts making it the more attractive in the market. And it is one of these incidents that
the evidences of the debt shall perform the offices of money
between government and citizen, and between man and man.
* Lion. S. P. Chase, at Louisville, Ky., in 1864.

t Art. 1, . 8.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

Counsel on the other side has insisted that the value of
treasury notes is not increased by the circumstance that
they are legal tender., One might as well say that a commodity is not increased in value by the opening of a new
market for it. The more uses there are for an article, the
greater is its value. A bank whose notes are in demand fbr
many purposes is (other things being equal) in better credit
than one whose notes will (to fewer services to the holder.
The credit of the United States is better when its promises
will pay debts than when they will not. At least such was
the judgment of Congress, from whose judgment on questions of expediency there is no appeal to the judiciary.
Whenever the extent of " the auxiliary powers" of Congress is in controversy, those who take the most restricted
view are in the habit of quoting the following paragraph
from Marshall, C. J., in McCulloch v. The State of Maryland:
"Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the
Constitution, and all the means which are appropriate, which
are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but
are consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are
constitutional."
It is assumed, rather inconsiderately, that Marshall, C. J.,
held all means not coming within this description to be unconstitutional. Such is not the fact. In United Slates v.
Fisher,* his language was, " any means which are, in fact,
conducive to the exercise of a power granted by the Constitution." In another part of the opinion in the case of Mc.
Calloch v. The State of Maryland, his language was, "a ny
means calculated to produce the end." These words are
less restrictive than the first quotation.
Returning to that quotation, let us apply the rule there
laid down to the matter in hand. It has not been denied
here that the ends fi which this currency was issued, and
tor which it was made a legal tender, were legitimate and
within the scope of the Constitution. Insurrection could
not be suppressed, armies could not be raised and supported,
* 2 Cranch, 358.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ort

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

and a navy could not be provided and maintained, without
a currency. This court has pronounced it within the undisputed power of Congress to provide a currency fir the
country consisting largely of treasury notes.* There is no
pretence that the means in question are prohibited.
But it is affirmed with confidence that the means are not
consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution.
The means consist in the issue of the notes as a currency
and in the imparting to them the faculties of paying dues
to and from the government, and of legal tender. If it is
consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution to
issue these notes as a currency, to protect them against a
rival currency (which is held to be authorized in the case of
the Veazie Bank), and to give them many of the ordinary
faculties of money, it is difficult to see how the letter and
spirit of the Constitution are violated when another of those
faculties is given to them.
The opponents of the power which we maintain lay most
stress upon that part of 0. J. Marshall's definition of the
allowable means which describes them as "appropriate and
plainly adapted to the end." That the issuing of a paper
currency on the credit of the United States was an appropriate and plainly adapted means of maintaining the government during the insurrection is not questioned. That
this currency should, by law, be made to do most or the
offices of money, even as the term 1"money" is used in the
Constitution, seems to be of admitted constitutionality. But
to go a step further, and to complete the investiture of this
currency with the attributes of money, our friends on the
other side think carries us beyond the region of " appropriate and plainly adapted means." Soliciting a judicial
opinion adverse to that of the legislature on a question of
appropriateness and adaptation of means, they go into financial discussion, and argue that the usefulness of the treasury
notes was not increased by making them a legal tender.
So the question of constitutionality, in their view, is to be
* Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wallace, 549.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER

CASES.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

determined by the agreement or disagreement of the court
with the legislature in opinion upon finance, a subject on
which men differ as much'as on theology. This view has
been pressed in the thorough argument to which we have
listened, with an earnestness that permits no doubt that it
is seriously taken.
But unless the court is prepared to say that the means
cannot, in good faith, be supposed by Congress to have any
adaptation to the proposed end, it cannot pronounce them
unconstitutional. The individual judgment of judges in regard to their expediency should not be substituted for that
of Congress. This court cannot say that the means now in
question lay without the field of examination when the instrumentalities to the desired end were to be chosen. This
admitted, the privilege of selection is with Congreszs. Within
that field Congress is supreme. This court may consider the
question of congressional power, but not the question of
congressional wisdom. If Congress may issue a currency
as an appropriate means to lawful ends, it may, in its discretion, give to that currency few, many, or all of the faculties
of money.
The main objection to this mode of reasoning is that it
goes very far. So it does. It leads to the conclusion that
Congress has a great deal of power. A government without
power is contemptible. The men who made this government intended that it should have strength enough to maintain its own existence, and to accomplish the ends for which
it was made. The mainspring of a government is in the
department that makes the laws, and there the Constitution
has wisely reposed power sufficient for national exigencies.
In relation to money and contracts, the Constitution is jealous
of the States, but shows no jealousy of Congress. Power in
Congress is as little liable to abuse as power elsewhere. Of
course, there is a possibility of abuse in the imperfection of
man; and an argument against a claimed power, on the
ground of this possibility, is an argument against all government. Every legislature, state or national, can do infinite
harm by abusing its trust, and yet keep within its constitu-

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

tional limits. Congress, at any session, if disposed to mischief, could reduce the country to misery by the exercise of
express and undoubted powers. It could declare pernicious
wars. It could impose oppressive taxes. But these great
powers have never been exercised to the country's ruin. We
have had, and I hope we shall continue to have, sufficient
safeguards in the character and accountability of the memhers
and their identity in interest with the people on whom their
lawsbear. The same safeguards stand against the abuse of
the auxiliary powers.
The counsel on the other side says that now, after nine
years' experience in war and peace, it is manifest that there
was no necessity for giving to the treasury notes the faculty
of legal tender. Without admitting that such is the lesson
of this experience, I must deny that the constitutionality of
an act of Congress can be determined by events subsequent
to its passage. A statute which is constitutional if it shall
work well, and unconstitutional if it shall work ill, would be
a novelty in legislation. The counsel probably meant to lay
down no such rule. Yet this part of his argument is baseless without such arule. This question ought to be decided
now as it would have been decided in 1862. The Constitution is not variable. Where Congress has a choice of means,
the validity of its action cannot be affected by the correctness
or incorrectness of its judgment in choosing.
Opposing counsel quotes the felicitous expression of Mr.
Clay, that " the principal and the incidental power ought to
be congenial to each other." This doctrine contravenes no
part of our argument. There is a kinship between the coining of money and the making of that money a legal tender.
There is a kinship between the borrowing of money and the
issuing of a currency made valuable by being invested with
all the faculties of money, in evidence of that borrowing.
There is a kinship between supporting armies and payilg
the soldiers in a valuable currency. And so on, through
the long list of good services which this currency has performed, the congeniality required by Mr. Clay is abundantly
manifest.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

The Attorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

Mr. Webster is also quoted by the counsel on the other
side, and it is true that he expressed himself very emphatically against the power of Congress to make paper a legal
tender. Admitting that great respect is due to the opinion
of that eminent but not infallible man, I am at liberty to
suggest that the authors of the act in question had an experience in public necessities which was wanting to him, and
that his inexorable proposition that there can be no legal
tender in this country but gold and silver is clearly wrong.
This proposition would forbid the use in coinage of a metal
better adapted than gold or silver to the purposes of coinage,
should such a metal be discovered. We may not know all
that is in the bowels of the earth. The discovery of such a
metal would not be stranger than the discovery of the gold
fields of California.
The counsel quotes from the debates in the Federal Convention of 1787 to show that members of that body were
opposed to making paper a legal tender. The very quotations prove that the members considered that the power to
emit bills of credit involved the power to make them a legal
tender, and hence they struck out of the draft of the Constitution the power to emit bills. But it is no uncommon
experience that the words of a constitution or statute are
found, in their fairest interpretation, to import more than
their authors distinctly designed. It is not given to man,
when framing a constitution, to foresee all the cases to which
the conferred powers will properly extend. And in this very
matter, notwithstanding that the power to emit bills of credit
was struck out, this court has held that the power exists;
and why, then, does it not exist with all that in 1787 was
supposed to belong to it?*
The counsel says that not much inconvenience will be
caused to debtors by holding the legal tender act invalid,
because most of the debts existing in 1862 have been already
paid in treasury notes. This is, in effect, to say to those
creditors who trusted the government in dark hours, that
* 5 Elliott, 482.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Atlorney-General's argument in support of the constitutionality.

they were the victims of a foolish confidence; to declare
that, in future national embarrassments, the most selfish
men will come out best. The decision which he desires will
favor the churls and disfavor the patriots.
It has been urged also that the decision in Hepburn v.
Griswold should be held final under the doctrine of res adjudicala, independently of the merits of that decision. But circumstances, the absence of a court as large as now,* lessened
the force of that decision, and induced a great portion of
the legal profession to desire a reconsideration of the question. Moreover in that case the question of the validity of
the legal tender act, as to debts contracted after its passage,
was not decided, and a discussion of this question involves
the whole subject. Indeed this doctrine of res ad"udicala is
against the position of opposing counsel, inasmuch as the
court, by ordering the present argument, has adjudged that
the question is still open.
On the first of May, 1871, judgment in both the cases, as
already mentioned in 11th Wallace, p. 682, was AFFIRMED;
* By act of March 3d, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 794), the court was ordered
to consist of ten members; a now member being then added. By act of July
23d, 1866 (14 Id. 209), "1to fix the number of judges of the Supreme Court
of the United States," &c., it was enacted "1that no vacancy in the office of
associate justice shall be filled by appointment until the number of associates
shall be reduced to six, and thereafter the Supreme Court shall consist of a
chief justice and six associate justices." By an act of 10th April, 1869 (16
Id. 44), to take effect from the first Monday of December, 1869, it was enacted that the court should consist of a chief justice and eight associates, and
that for the purposes of this act there should be appointed an additional
judge. Hepburn v. Griswold, it is stated in the opinion of the court in the
case, was decided in conference November 27th, 1869 (8 Wallace, 626), there
being.then eight judges (the chief justice and seven associates) on the bench,
the lowest number to which the court had been reduced. One of them,
Justice Grier, resigned February 1st, 1870. The judgment in Hepburn v.
Griswold was announced from the bench and entered February 7th, 1870.
Mr. Justice Strong was appointed February 18th, 1870, and Mr. Justice
Bradley March 21st, 1870; and the order for the present argument was
made by, and the argument itself heard before, the court of nine, as constituted by the act of 10th April, 1869.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Opinion of the court.

the CHIEF JUSTICE, with NELSON, CLIFFORD, and
FIELD, JJ., dissenting.
On the 15th January, 1872,-till which time, in order to
promote the convenience of some of the dissentient members
of the court,the matter had been deferred,-the opinion of
the court, with concurring or dissenting opinions from the
Chief Justice and different Associate Justices, was delivered.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The controlling questions in these cases are the following:
Are the acts of Congress, known as the legal tender acts,
constitutional when applied to contracts made before their
passage; and, secondly, are they valid as applicable to debts
contracted since their enactment? These questions have
been elaborately argued, and they have received from the
court that consideration which their great importance demands. It would be difficult to overestimate the consequences which must follow our decision. They will affect
the entire business of the country, and take hold of the possible continued existence of the government. If it be held
by this court that Congress has no constitutional power,
under any circumstances, or in any emergency, to make
treasury notes a legal tender fbr the payment of all debts (a
power confessedly possessed by every independent sovereignty other than the United States), the government is
without those means of self-preservation which, all must
admit, may, in certain contingencies, become indispensable,
even if they were not when the acts of Congress now called
in question were enacted. It is also clear that if we hold
the acts invalid as applicable to debts incurred, or transactions which have taken place since their enactment, our decision nmust cause, throughout the country, great business
derangement, widespread distress, and the rankest injustice.
The debts which have been contracted since February 25th,
1862, constitute, doubtless, by far the greatest portion of the
existing indebtedness of the country. They have been contracted in view of the acts of Congress declaring treasury
VOL. X11.

84

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

notes a legal tender, and in reliance upon that declaration.
Men have bought and sold, borrowed and lent, and assumed
every variety of obligations contemplating that payment
might be made with such notes. Indeed, legal tender treasury notes have become the universal measure of values. If
now, by our decision, it be established that these debts and
obligations can be discharged only by gold coin; if, contrary to the expectation of all parties to these contracts,
legal tender notes are rendered unavailable, the government
has become an instrument of the grossest injustice; all
debtors are loaded with an obligation it was never contemplated they should assume; a large percentage is added to
every debt, and such must become the demand for gold to
satisfy contracts, that ruinous sacrifices, general distress, and
bankruptcy may be expected. These consequences are too
obvious to admit of question. And there is no well-founded
distinction to be made between the constitutional validity
of an act of Congress declaring treasury notes a legal tender
for the payment of debts contracted after its passage and
that of an act making them a legal tender for the discharge
of all debts, as well those incurred before as those made
after its enactment. There may be a difference in the effiects
produced by the acts, and in the hardship of their operation,
but in both cases the fundamental question, that which tests
the validity of the legislation, is, can Congress constitution-i
ally give to treasury notes the character and qualities of/
money ? Can such notes be constituted a legitimate circulating medium, having a defined legal value? If they can,
then such notes must be available to fulfil all contracts (not
expressly excepted) solvable in money, without reference to
the time when the contracts were made. Hence it is not
strange that those who hold the legal tender acts unconstitutional when applied to contracts made before February,
1862, find themselves compelled also to hold that the acts
are invalid as to debts created after that time, and to hold
that both classes of debts alike can be discharged only by
gold and silver coin.
The consequences of which we have spoken, serious as

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

they are, must be accepted, if there is a clear incomphtibility between the Constitution and the legal tender acts.
But we are unwilling to precipitate them upon the country
unless such an incompatibility plainly appears. A decent
respect for a co-ordinate branch of' the government demands
that the judiciary should presume, until the contrary is
clearly shown, that there has been no transgression of power
by Congress-all the members of which act under the obligation of an oath of fidelity to the Constitution.. Such has
always been the rule. In Commonwealth v. Smith,* the language of the court was, "It must be remembered that, for
weighty reasons, it has been assumed as a principle, in construing constitutions, by the Supreme Court of the United
States, by this court, and by every other court of reputation
in the United States, that an act of the legislature is not to
be declared void unless the violation of the Constitution is
so manifest as to leave no room for reasonable doubt;" and,
in Fletcher v. Peck,t Chief Justice Marshall said, "It is not
on slight implication a.fd vague conjecture that the legislature is to be pronounced to have transcended its powers and
its acts to be considered void. The opposition between the
Constitution and the law should be such that the judge feels
a clear and strong conviction of their incompatibility with
each other." It is incumbent, therefore, upon those who
affirm the unconstitutionality of an act of Congress to show
clearly that it is in violation of the provisions of the Constitution. It is not sufficient for them that they succeed in
raising a doubt.
Nor can it be questioned that, when investigating the nature and extent of the powers conferred by the Constitution
upon Congress, it is indispensable to keep in view the objects
for which those powers were granted. This is a universal
rule of construction applied alike to statutes, wills, contracts,
and constitutions. If the general purpose of the instrument
is ascertained, the language of its provisions must be construed with reference to that purpose and so as to subserve
* 4 Binney, 123.

f- 6 Cranch, 87.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In no other way can the intent of the framers of the instrument be discovered. And there are more urgent reasons
for looking to the ultimate purpose in examining the powers
conferred by a constitution than there are in construing a
statute, a will, or a contract. We do not expect to find in a
constitution minute details. It is necessarily brief and comprehensive. It prescribes outlines, leaving the filling up to
be deduced from the outlines. In Marlin v. Hunter,* it was
said, "The Constitution unavoidably deals in general language. It did not suit the purpose of the people in framing
this great charter of our liberties to provide for minute
specifications of its powers, or to declare the means by which
those powers should be carried into execution." And with
singular clearness was it said by Chief Justice Marshall, in
McCulloch v. The Slate of ]ilaryland,t "A constitution, to
contain an accurate detail of all the subdivisions of which
its great powers will admit, and of all the means by which
it may be carried into execution, would partake of the prolixity of a political code, and would scarcely be embraced by
the human mind. It would probably never be understood
by the public. Its nature, therefore, requires that only its
great outlines should be marked, its important objects designated, and the minor ingredients which compose those
objects be deduced from the nature of the objects themselves." If these are correct principles, if they are proper
views of the manner in which the Constitution is to be
understood, the powers conferred upon Congress must be
regarded as related to each other, and all means for a
common end. Each is but part of a system, a constituent
of one whole. No single power is the ultimate end for
which the Constitution was adopted. It may, in a very
proper sense, be treated as a means for the accomplishment
of a subordinate object, but that object is itself a means designed for an ulterior purpose. Thus the power to levy
and collect taxes, to coin money and regulate its value, to
raise and support armies, or to provide for and maintain
it.

* 1 W'heaton, 326.

f 4 Id. 405.

Dec.1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Opinion of the court.

a navy, are instruments for the paramount object, which
was to establish a government, sovereign within its sphere,
with capability of self-preservation, thereby forming a union
more perfect than that which existed under the old Cono
m
federacy.
The same may be asserted also of all the non-enumerate
powers included in the authority expressly given "to make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the specified powers vested in Congress, and
all other powers vested by the Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof." It is impossible to know what those non-enumerated powers are, and what is their nature and extent, without considering the purposes they were intended to subserve.
Those purposes, it must be noted, reach beyond the mere
execution of all powers definitely intrusted to Congress and
mentioned in detail. They embrace the execution of all
other powers vested by the Constitution in the government
of the United States, or in any department oj _.ccer thereof.
It certainly was intended to confer upon the government tle
power of self-preservation. Said Chief Justice Marshall, in
Cohens v. The Bank of Virginia,* "America has chosen to be,
in many respects and to many purposes, a nation, and for all
these purposes her government is complete; for all these
objects it is supreme. It can then, in effecting these objects,
legitimately control all individuals or governments within
the American territory." He added, in the same case: "A
constitution is framed for ages to come, and is designed
to approach immortality as near as mortality can approach
it. Its course cannot always be tranquil. It is exposed to
storms and tempests, and its framers must be unwise statesmen indeed, if they have not provided it, as far as its nature
will permit, with the means of self-preservation from the
perils it is sure to encounter." That would appear, then,
to be a most unreasonable construction of the Constitution
which denies to the government created by it, the right to
* 6 Wheaton, 414.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of tie court.

employ freely every means, not prohibited, necessary for its
preservation, and for the fulfilment of its acknowledged
duties. Such a right, we hold, was given by the last
clause of the eighth section of its first article. The means
or instrumentalities referred to in that clause, and authorized, are not enumerated or defined. In the nature of
things enumeration and specification were impossible. But
they were left to the discretion of' Congress, subject only to
the restrictions that they be not prohibited, and be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the enumerated
powers given to Congress, and alI other powers vested in the
government of the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof.
And here it is t6 be observed it is not indispensable to the
existence of any power claimed fir the Federal government
that it can be found specified in the words of the Constitution, or clearly and directly traceable to some one of the
specified powers. Its existence may be deduced fairly from
more than one of the substantive powers expressly defined,
or from them all combined. It is allowable to group together any number of them and infer from them all that the
power claimed has been conferred. Such a treatment of
the Constitution is recognized by its own provisions. This
is well illustrated in its language respecting the writ of
habeas corpus. The power to suspend the privilege of that
writ is not expressly given, nor can it be deduced from any
one of the particularized grants of power. Yet it is provided
that the privileges of the writ shall not be suspended except
in certain defined contingencies. This is no express grant
of power. It is a restriction. But it shows irresistibly that
somewhere in the Constitution power to suspend the privilege of the writ was granted, either by some one or more
of the specifications of power, or by them all combined.
And, that important powers were understood by the people
who adopted the Constitution to have been created by it,
powers not enumerated, and not included incidentally in any
one of those enumerated, is shown by the amendments.
Tlre first ten of these were suggested in the conventions of

Dec. 1870.]

eEGAL TENDER OASES.
Opinion of the court.

the States, and proposed at the first session of the first Congress, before any complaint was made of a disposition to
assume doubtful powers. The preamble to the resolution
submitting them for adoption recited that the "conventions
of a number of the States had, at the time of their adopting
the Constitution, expressed a desire, in order to prevent
misconstruction or abuse of its powers, that further declaratory and reslriclive clauses should be added." This was the
origin of the amendments, and they are significant. They
tend plainly to show that, in the judgment of those who
adopted the Constitution, there were powers created by it,
neither expressly specified nor deducible from any one specified power, or ancillary to it alone, but which grew out of
the aggregate of powers conferred upon the government, or
out of the sovereignty instituted. Most of these amendments
are denials of power which had not been expressly granted,
and which cannot be said to have been necessary and proper
for carrying into execution any other powers. Such, for example, is the prohibition of any laws respecting the establishment of religion, prohibiting the free exercise thereof,
or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press.
And it is of importance to observe that Congress has often
exercised, without question, powers that are not expressly
given nor ancillary to any single enumerated power. Powers
thus exercised are what are called by Judge Story in his
Commentaries on the Constitution, resulting powers, arising
from the aggregate powers of the government. He instances
the right to sue and make contracts. Many others might
be given. The oath required by law fiom officers of the
government is one. So is building a capitol or a presidential.
mansion, and so also is the penal code. This last is worthy
of brief notice. Congress is expressly authorized " to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and
current coin of the United States, and to define and punish
piracies and felonies committed on the high seas and offences
against the laws of nations." It is also empowered to declare the punishment of treason, and provision is made for
impeachments. This is the extent of power to punish crime

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

expressly conferred. It might be argued that the expression
of these limited powers implies an exclusion of all other
subjects of criminal legislation. Such is the argument in
the present cases. It is said because Congress is authorized
to coin money and regulate its value it cannot declare anything other than gold and silver to be money or make it a
legal tender. Yet Congress, by the act of April 30, 1790,
entitled "An act more effectually to provide for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States," and the
supplementary act of March 3d, 1825, defined and provided
for the punishment of a large class of crimes other than
those mentioned in the Constitution, and some of the pulishments prescribed are manifestly not in aid of any single
substantive power. No one doubts that this was rightfully
done, and the power thus exercised has been affirmed by
this court in United States v. Marigold.* This case shows
that a power may exist as an aid to the execution of an express power, or an aggregate of such powers, though there
is another express power given relating in part to the same
subject bat less extensive. Another illustration of this may be
found in connection with the provisions respecting a census.
The Constitution orders an enumeration of free persons in
the different States every ten years. The direction extends
Yet Congress has repeatedly directed an enu]lo further.
meration not only of free persons in the States but of free
persons in the Territories, and not only an enumeration of
persons but the collection of statistics respecting age, sex,
and production. Who questions the power to do this?
Indeed the whole history of the government and of congressional legislation has exhibited the use of a very wide
discretion, even in times of peace and in the absence of any
trying emergency, in the selection of the necessary and
proper means to carry into effect the great objects for which
the government was framed, and this discretion has generally been unquestioned, or, if questioned, sanctioned by this
.ourt. This is true not only when an attempt has been
9 Howard, 560.

Dee. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

made to execute a single power specifically given, but equally
true when the means adopted have been appropriate to the
execution, not of a single authority, but of all the powers
created by the Constitution. Under the power to establish
post-offices and post-roads Congress has provided for carrying the mails, punishing theft of letters and mail robberies,
and even for transporting the mails to foreign countries.
Under the power to regulate commerce, provision has been
made by law for the improvement of harbors, the establishment of observatories, the erection of lighthouses, breakwaters, and buoys, the registry, enrolment, and construction
of ships, and a code has been enacted for the government
of seamen. Under the same power and other powers over
the revenue and the currency of the country, for the convenience of the treasury and internal commerce, a corporation known as the United States Bank was early created.
To its capital the government subscribed one-fifth of its stock.
But the corporation was a private one, doing business for
its own profit. Its incorporation was a constitutional exercise of congressional power for no other reason than that it
was deemed to be a convenient instrument or means for accomplishing one or more of the ends for which the government was established, or, in the language of the first article,
already quoted, "necessary and proper" for carrying into
execution some or all the powers vested in the government.
Clearly this necessity, if any existed, was not a direct and
obvious one. Yet this court, in McCulloch v. Maryland,*
unanimously ruled that in authorizing the bank, Congress
had not transcended its powers. So debts due to the United
States have been declared by acts of Congress entitled to
priority of payment over debts due to other creditors, and
this court has held such acts warranted by the Constitution.t
This is enough to show how, from the earliest period of
our existence as a nation, the powers conferred by the Constitution have been construed by Congress and by this court
whenever such action by Congress has been called in ques* 4 Wheaton, 416.

t Fisher v. Blight, 2 Cranch, 358.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion. Happily the true meaning of the clause authorizing
the enactment of all laws necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the express powers conferred upon Congress,
and all other powers vested in the government of the United
States, or in any of its departments or officers, has long since
been settled. In _Fisher v. Bliqhl,* this court, speaking by
Chief Justice Alarshall, said that in construing it " it would
be incorrect and would produce endless difficulties if the
opinion should be maintained that no law was authorized
which was not indispensably necessary to give effect to a
specified power. Where various systems might be adopted
for that purpose it might be said with respect to each that
it was not necessary because the end might be obtained by
other means." " Congress," said this court, " must possess
the choice of means, and must be empowered to use any
means which are in ftct conducive to the exercise of a power
granted by the Constitution. The government is to pay the
debt of the Union and must be authorized to use the means
which appear to itself most eligible to effect that object. It
has, consequently, a right to make remittances by bills or
otherwise, and to take those precautions which will render
the transaction safb." It was in this case, as we have
already remarked, that a law giving priority to debts due
to the United States was ruled to be constitutional for the
reason that it appeared to Congress to be an eligible means
to enable the government to pay the debts of the Union.
It was, however, in _McCulloch v. Maryland that the fullest
consideration was given to this clause of the Constitution
granting auxiliary powers, and a construction adopted that
has ever since been accepted as determining its true meaning. We shall not now go over the ground there trodden.
It is familiar to the legal profession, and, indeed, to the
whole country. Suffice it to say, in that case it was finally
settled that in the gift by the Constitution to Congress of
authority to enact laws " necessary and proper" for the execution of all the powers created by it, the necessity spoken
*

2 Cranch, 358.

Dec.1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Opinion of the court.

of is not to be understood as an absolute one. On the contrary, this court then held that the sound construction of the
Constitution must allow to the national legislature that discretion with respect to the means by which the powers it
confers are to be carried into execution, which will enable
that body to perform the high duties assigned to it in the
manner most beneficial to the people. Said Chief Justice
Marshall, in delivering the opinion or the court: "Let the
end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional." The case also marks out with admirable precision
the province of this court. It declares that " when the law
(enacted by Congress) is not prohibited and is really calculated to effiect any of the objects intrusted to the government, to undertake here to inquire into the degree of its
necessity would be to pass the line which circumscribes the
judicial department and to tread on legislative ground.
This court (it was said) disclaims all pretensions to such a
power." It is hardly necessary to say that these principles
are received with universal assent. Even inHepburn v. Griswold,* both the majority and minority of the court concurred
inaccepting the doctrines of McCulloch v. Maryland as sound
expositions of the Constitution, though disagreeing in their
application.
With these rules of constitutional construction before us,
settled at an early period in the history of the government,
hitherto universally accepted, and not even now doubted,
we have a safe guide to a right decision of the questions before us. Before we can hold the legal tender acts unconstitutional, we must be convinced they were not appropriate
means, or means conducive to the execution of any or all of
the powers of Congress, or of the governm ent, not appropriate in any degree (for we are not judges of the degree of appropriateness), or we must hold that they were prohibited.
* 8 Wallace, 603.

LEGAL TENDER

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This brings us to the inquiry whether they were, when enacted, appropriate instrumentalities for carrying into effect,
or executing any of the known powers of Congress, or of
any department of the government. Plainly to this inquiry,
a consideration of the time when they were enacted, and of
the circumstances in which the government then stood, is
important. It is not to be denied that acts may be adapted
to the exercise of lawful power, and appropriate to it, in
seasons of exigency, which would be inappropriate at other
tim es.
We do not propose to dilate at length upon the circumstances in which the country was placed, when Congress
attempted to make treasury notes a legal tender. They are
of too recent occurrence to justify enlarged description.
Suffice it to say that a civil war was then raging which seriously threatened the overthrow of the government and the
destruction of the Constitution itself. It demanded the
equipment and support of large armies and navies, and the
employment of money to an extent beyond the capacity of all
ordinary sources of supply. Meanwhile the public treasury
was nearly empty, and the credit of the government, if not
stretched to its utmost tension, had become nearly exhausted.
Moneyed institutions had advanced largely of their means,
and more could not be expected of them. They had been
compelled to suspend specie payments. Taxation was inadequate to pay even the interest on the debt already incurred, and it was impossible to await the income of additional taxes. The necessity was inimediate and pressing.
The army was unpaid. There was then due to the soldiers in
the field nearly a score of millions of dollars. The requisitions from the War and Navy Departments for supplies exceeded fifty millions, and the current expenditure was over
one million per day. The entire amount of coin in the
country, including that in private hands, as well as that in
banking institutions, was insufficient to supply the need of
the government three months, had it all been poured into
the treasury. Foreign credit we had none. We say nothing
of the overhanging paralysis of trade, and of business gener.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

541

Opinion of the court.

ally, which threatened loss of confidence in the ability of the
government to maintain its continued existence, and therewith the complete destruction of all remaining national
credit.
It was at such a time and in such circumstances that
Congress was called upon to devise means for maintaining
the army and navy, for securing the large supplies of money
needed, and, indeed, for the preservation of the government
created by the Constitution. It was at such a time and in
such an emergency that the legal tender acts were passed.
Now, if it were certain that nothing else would have supplied the absolute necessities of the treasury, that nothing
else would have enabled the government to maintain its
armies and navy, that nothing else would have saved the
government and the Constitution from destruction, while
the legal tender acts would, could any one be bold enough
to assert that Congress transgressed its powers ? Or if these
enactments did work these results, can it be maintained now
that they were not for a legitimate end, or "appropriate and
adapted to that end," in the language of Chief Justice Marshall? That they did work such results is not to be doubted.
Something revived the drooping faith of the people; something brought immediately to the government's aid the
resources of the nation, and something enabled the successful prosecution of the war, and the preservation of the
national life. What was it, if not the legal tender enactments?
But if it be conceded that some other means might have
been chosen for the accomplishment of these legitimate and
necessary ends, the concession does not weaken the argument. It is urged now, after the lapse of nine years, and
when the emergency has passed, that treasury notes without
the legal tender clause might have been issued, and that the '
necessities of the government might thus have been supplied. Hence it is inferred there was no necessity for giving to the notes issued the capability of paying private
debts. At best this is mere conjecture. But admitting it
to be true, what does it prove? Nothing more than that

LEGAL TENDER OAsEs.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Congress had the choice of means for a legitimate end, each
appropriate, and adapted to that end, though, perhaps, in
different degrees. What then? Can this court say that it
ought to have adopted one rather than the other ? Is it our
province to decide that the means selected were beyond the
constitutional power of Congress, because we may think
that other means to the same ends would have been more
appropriate and equally efficient? That would be to assume
legislative power, and to disregard the accepted rules for
construing the Constitution. The degree of the necessity
for any congressional enactment, or the relative degree of
its appropriateness, if it have any appropriateness, is for
consideration in Congress, not here. Said Chief Justice
Marshall, in McCulloch v. Mlaryland, as already stated,
1When the law is not prohibited, and is really calculated
to effect any of the objects intrusted to the government, to
undertake here to inquire into the degree of its necessity,
would be to pass the line which circumscribes the judicial
department, and to tread on legislative ground."
It is plain to our view, however, that none of those measures which it is now conjectured might have been substituted for the legal tender acts, could have met the exigencies
of the case, at the time when those acts were passed. We
have said that the credit of the government had been tried
to its utmost endurance. Every new issue of notes which
had nothing more to rest upon than government credit,
must have paralyzed it more and more, and rendered it increasingly difficult to keep the army in the field, or the navy
afloat. It is an historical fact that many persons and institutions refused to receive and pay those notes that had been
issued, and even the head of the treasury represented to
Congress the necessity of making the new issues legal
tenders, or rather, declared it impossible to avoid the necessity. The vast body of men in the military service was
composed of citizens who had left their farms, their workshops, and their business with families and debts to be pro.
vided fdr.
The government could not pay them with
ordinary treasury notes, nor could they discharge their debts

De. 1870.]

.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

with such a currency. Something more was needed, something that had all the uses of money. And as no one could
be compelled to take common treasury notes in payment of
debts, and as the prospect of ultimate redemption was remote and contingent, it is not too much to say that they
must have depreciated in the market long before the war
closed, as did the currency of the Confederate States. Making the notes legal tenders gave them a new use, and it
needs no argument to show that the value of things is in
proportion to the uses to which they may be applied.
It may be conceded that Congress is not authorized to enact
laws in furtherance even of a legitimate end, merely because
they are useful, or because they make the government
stronger. There must be some relation between the means
and the end; some adaptedness or appropriateness of the
laws to carry into execution the powers created by the Constitution. But when a statute has proved effective in the
execution of powers confessedly existing, it is not too much
to say that it must have had some appropriateness to the execution of those powers. The rules of construction heretofore
adopted, do not demand that the relationship between the
means and the end shall be direct and immediate. Illustrations of this may be found in several of the cases above cited.
The charter of a Bank of the United States, the priority
given to debts due the government over private debts, and
the exemption of Federal loans from liability to State taxation, are only a few of the many which might be given. The
case of Veazie Banlk v. .Feno*presents a suggestive illustration. There a tax of ten per cent. on State bank notes in
circulation was held constitutional, not merely because it
was a means of raising revenue, but as an instrument to put
out of existence such a circulation in competition with notes
issued, by the government. There, this court, speaking
through the Chief Justice, avowed that it is the constitutional right of Congress to provide a currency for the whols
country; that this might be done by coin, or United States
* 8 Wallace, 588.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

-=

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

notes, or notes of National banks; and that it cannot be
questioned Congress may constitutionally secure the benefit of such a currency to the people by appropriate legislation. It was said there can be no question of the power
of this government to emit bills of credit; to make them
receivable in payment of debts to itself; to fit them for use
by those who see fit to use them in all the transactions
of commerce; to make them a currency uniform in value
and description, and convenient and useful for circulation.
Here the substantive power to tax was allowed to be employed for improving the currency. It is not easy to see
why, if State bank notes can be taxed out of existence for
the purposes of indirectly making United States notes more
convenient and useful for commercial purposes, the same
end may not be secured directly by making them a legal
tender.
Concluding, then, that the provision which made treasury
notes a legal tender for the payment of all debts other than
those expressly excepted, was not an inappropriate means
for carrying into execution the legitimate powers of the
government, we proceed to inquire whether it was forbidden
by the letter or spirit of the Constitution. It is not claimed
that any express prohibition exists, but it is insisted that the
spirit of the Constitution was violated by the enactment.
Here those who assert the unconstitutionality of the acts
mainly rest their argument. They claim that the clause which
conferred upon Congress power "to coin money, regulate the
value thereof, and of foreign coin," contains an implication
that nothing but that which is the subject of coinage, nothing
but the precious metals can ever be declared by law to be
money, or to have the uses of money. If by this is meant
that because certain powers over the currency are expressly
given to Congress, all other powers relating to the sanle subject are impliedly forbidden, we need only remark that such
is not the manner in which the Constitution has always been
construed. On the contrary it has been ruled that power
over a particular subject may be exercised as auxiliary to an
express power, though there is another express power relat-

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

ing to the same subject, less comprehensive.* There an
express power to punish a dertain class of crimes (the only
direct reference to criminal legislation contained in the Constitution), was not regarded as an objection to deducing
authority to punish other crimes from another substantive
and defined grant of power. There are other decisions to
the same efict. To assert, then, that the clause enabling
Congress to coin money and regulate its value tacitly implies a denial of all other power over the currency of the
nation, is an attempt to introduce a new rule of construction
against the solemn decisions of this court. So far from its
containing a lurking prohibition, many have thought it was
intended to confer upon Congress that general power over
the currency which has always been an acknowledged attribute of sovereignty in every other civilized nation than our
own, especially when considered in connection with the
other clause which denies to the States the power to coin
money, emit bills of credit, or make anything but gold and
silver coin a tender in payment of debts. We do not assert
this now, but there are some considerations touching these
clauses which tend to show that if any implications are to
be deduced from them, they are of an enlarging rather than
a restraining character. The Constitution was intended to
frame a government as distinguished from a league or compact, a government supreme in some particulars over States
and people. It was designed to provide the same currency,
having a uniform legal value in all the States. It was for
this reason the power to coin money and regulate its value
was conferred upon the Federal government, while the same,
power as well as the power to emit bills of credit was withdrawn from the States. The States can no longer declare.
what shall be money, or regulate its value. Whatever power
there is over the currency is vested in Congress. If thepower to declare what is money is not in Congress, it is
annihilated. This may indeed have been intended. Somepowers that usually belong to sovereignties were extin* United States i. Marigold, 9 Howard, 560.
VOL. XII.

85

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

guished, but their extinguishment was not left to inference.
In most cases, if not in all, when it was intended that governmental powers, commonly acknowledged as such, should
cease to exist, both in the States and in the Federal government, it was expressly denied to both, as well to the United
States as to the individual States. And generally, when
one of such powers was expressly denied to the States only,
it was for the purpose of rendering the Federal power more
complete and exclusive. Why, then, it may be asked, if
the design was to prohibit to the new government, as well
as to the States, that general power over the currency which
the States had when the Constitution was framed, was such
denial not expressly extended to the new government, as it
was to the States? In view of this it might be argued with
much force that when it is considered in what brief and
comprehensive terms the Constitution speaks, how sensible
its framers must have been that emergencies might arise
when the precious metals (then more scarce than now) might
prove inadequate to the necessities of the government and
the demands of the people-when it is remembered that
paper money was almost exclusively in use in the States as
the medium of exchange, and when the great evil sought to
be remedied was the want of uniformity in the current value
of money, it might be argued, we say, that the gift of power
to coin money and regulate the value thereof, was understood as conveying general power over the currency, the
power which had belonged to the States, and which they
surrendered. Such a construction, it might be said, would
be in close analogy to the mode of construing other substantive powers granted to Congress. They have never been
.construed literally, and the government could not exist if
they were. Thus the power to carry on war is conferred by
the power to '"declare war." The whole system of the
transportation of the mails is built upon the power to establish post-offices and post-roads. The power to regulate commerce has also been extended far beyond the letter of the
grant. Even the advocates of a strict literal construction of
.the phrase, "to coin money and regulate the value thereof,'-

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TPNDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

while insisting that it defines the material to be coined as
metal, are compelled to concede to Congress large discretion in all other particulars. The Constitution does not
ordain what metals may be coined, or prescribe that the
legal value of the metals, when coined, shall correspond at
all with their intrinsic value in the market. Nor does it
even affirm that Congress may declare anything to be a legal
tender for the payment of debts. Confessedly the power to
regulate the value of money coined, and of foreign coins, is
not exhausted by the first regulation. More than once in
our history has the regulation been changed without any
denial of the power of Congress to change it, and it seems
to have been left to Congress to determine alike what metal
shall be coined, its purity, and how far its statutory value,
as money, shall correspond, from time to time, with the
market value of the same metal as bullion. How then can
the grant of a power to coin money and regulate its vahle,
made in terms so liberal and unrestrained, coupled also with
a denial to the States of all power over the currency, be
regarded as an implied prohibition to Congress against declaring treasury notes a legal tender, if such declaration is
appropriate, and adapted to carrying into execution the admitted powers of the government?
We do not, however, rest our assertion of the power of
Congress to enact legal tender laws upon this grant. We
assert only that the grant can, in no just sense, be regarded
as containing an implied prohibition against their enactment, and that, if it raises any implications, they are of
complete power over the currency, rather than restraining.
We come next to the argument much used, and, indeed,
the main reliance of those who assert the unconstitutionality
of the legal tender acts. It is that they are prohibited by
the spirit of the Constitution because they indirectly impair
the obligation of contracts. The argument, of course, relates only to those contracts which were made before Feb,
ruary, 1862, when the first act was passed, and it has no
bearing upon the question whether the acts are valid when

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

applied to contracts made after their passage. The argument assumes two things,-first, that the acts do, in effect,
impair the obligation of contracts, and second, that Congress
is prohibited from taking any action which may indirectly
have that effect. Neither of these assumptions can be accepted. It is true that under the acts, a debtor, who became
such before they were passed, may discharge his debt with
the notes authorized by them, and the creditor is compellable to receive such notes in discharge of his claim. But
whether the obligation of the contract is thereby weakened
can be determined only after considering what was the contract obligation. It was not a duty to pay gold or silver, or
the kind of money recognized by law at the time when the
contract was made, nor was it a duty to pay money of equal
intrinsic value in the market. (We speak now of contracts
to pay money generally, not contracts to pay some specifically defined species of money.) The expectation of the creditor and the anticipation of the debtor may have been that
the contract would be discharged by the payment of coined
metals, but neither the expectation of one party to the contract respecting its fruits, nor the anticipation of the other
constitutes its obligation. There is a well- recognized distinction between the expectation of the parties to a contract
and the duty imposed by it.* Were it not so the expectation of results would be always equivalent to a binding engagement that they should follow. But the obligation of a
contract to pay money is to pay that which the law shall
recognize as money when the payment is to be made. If
there is anything settled by decision it is this, and we do
not understand it to be controverted.t No one ever doubted
that a debt of one thousand dollars, contracted before 1834,
could be paid by one hundred eagles coined after that year,
though they contained no more gold than ninety-four eagles
such as were coined when the contract was made, and this,
* Apsden v. Austin, 5 Adolphus & Ellis, N. S. 671; Dunn v. Sayles, Ib.
686; Coffin v. Landis, 10 Wright, 426.
f Davies, 28; Barrington v. Potter, Dyer, 81, b., fol. 67; Faw v. Marsteller, 2 Cranch, 29.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

.549

Opinion of the court.

not because of the intrinsic value of the coin, but because
of its legal value. The eagles coined after 1884, were not
money until they were authorized by law, and had they been
coined before, without a law fixing their legal value, they
could no .more have paid a debt than uncoined bullion, or
cotton, or wheat. Every contract for the payment of money,
simply, is necessarily subject to the constitutional power of
the government over the currency, whatever that power may
be, and the obligation of the parties is, therefore, assumed
with reference to that power. Nor is this singular. A coveiiant for quiet enjoyment is not broken, nor is its obligation
impaired by the government's taking the land granted in
virtue of its right of eminent domain. The expectation of
the covenantee may be disappointed. Ie may not enjoy all
he anticipated, but the grant was made and the covenant
undertaken in subordination to the paramount right of the
government.* We have been asked whether Congress can
declare that a contract to deliver a quantity of grain may be
satisfied by the tender of a less quantity. Undoubtedly not.
But this is a false analogy. There is a wide distinction between a tender of quantities, or of specific articles, and a
tender of legal values. Contracts for the delivery of specific
articles belong exclusively to the domain of State legislation,
while contracts for the payment of hmoney are subject to the
authority of Congress, at least so far as relates to the means
of payment. They are engagements to pay with lawful
money of the United States, and Congress is empowered to
regulate that money. It cannot, therefore, be maintained
that the legal tender acts impaired the obligation of contracts.
Nor can it be truly asserted that Congress may not, by its
action, indirectly impair the obligation of contracts, if by
the expression be meant rendering contracts fruitless, or
partially fruitless. Directly it may, confessedly, by passing
a bankrupt act, embracing past as well as future transac* Dobbins r. Brown, 2 Jones (Pennsylvania), 75; Workman v. Miffin, 6
Casey, 862.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tions. This is obliterating contracts entirely. So it may
relieve parties from their apparent obligations indirectly in
a multitude of ways. It may declare war, or, even in peace,
pass non-intercourse acts, or direct an embargo. All such
measures may, and must operate seriously upon existing
contracts, and may not merely hinder, but relieve the parties
to such contracts entirely from performance. It is, then,
clear that the powers of Congress may be exerted, though
the effect of such exertion may be in one case to annul, and
in other cases to impair the obligation of contracts. And
it is no sufficient answer to this to say it is true only when
the powers exerted were expressly granted. There is no
ground for any such distinction. It has no warrant in the
Constitution, or in any of the decisions of this court. We
are accustomed to speak for mere convenience of the express
and implied powers conferred upon Congress. But in fiet
the auxiliary powers, those necessary and appropriate to the
execution of other powers singly described, are as expressly
given as is the power to declare war, or to establish uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcy. They are not catalogued,
no list of them is made, but they are grouped in the last
cluse of section eight of the first article, and granted in the
same words in which all other powers are granted to Congress. And this court has recognized no such distinction
as is now attempted. An embargo suspends many contracts and renders performance of others impossible, yet the
power to enforce it has been declared constitutional.* The
power to enact a law directinog au embargo is one of the
auxiliary powers, existing only because appropriate in time
of peace to regulate commerce, or appropriate to carrying
on war. Though not conferred as a substantive power, it
has not been thought to be in conflict with the Constitution,
because it impairs indirectly the obligation of contracts.
That discovery calls for a new reading of the Constitution.
If, then, the legal tender acts were justly chargeable with
impairing contract obligations, they would not, for that
• Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1.

Dec. "1870.-]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

reason, be forbidden, unless a different rule is to be applied
to them from that which has hitherto prevailed in the construction of other powers granted by the fundamental law.
But, as already intimated, the objection misapprehends the
nature and extent of the contract obligation spoken of in
the Constitution. As in a state of civil society property of
a citizen or subject is ownership, subject to the lawful demands of the sovereign, so contracts must be understood as
made in reference to the possible exercise of the rightful
authority of the government, and no obligation of a contract
can extend to the defeat of legitimate government authority.
Closely allied to the objection we have just been considering is the argument pressed upon us that the legal tender
acts were prohibited by the spirit of the fifth amendment,
which forbids taking private property for public use without
just compensation or due process of law. That provision
has always been understood as referring only to a direct appropriation, and not to consequential injuries resulting from
the exercise of lawful power. It has never been supposed
to have any bearing upon, or to inhibit laws that indirectly
work harm and loss to individuals. A new tariff, an embargo, a draft, or a war may inevitably bring upon individuals great losses; may, indeed, render valuable property
almost valueless. They may destroy the worth of contracts.
But whoever supposed that, because of this, a tariff could
not be changed, or a non-intercourse act, or au embargo be
enacted, or a war be declared? By the act of June 28, 1834,
a new regulation of the weight and value of gold coin was
adopted, and about six per cent. was taken from the weight
of each dollar. The effet of this was that all creditors
were subjected to a corresponding loss. The debts then
due became solvable with six per cent. less gold than was
required to pay them before. The result was thus precisely
what it is contended the legal tender acts worked. But
was it ever imagined this was taking private property without compensation or without due process of law? Was the
idea ever advanced that the new regulation of gold coin was
against the spirit of the fifth amendment? And has any

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

one in good faith avowed his belief that even a law debasing
the current coin, by increasing the alloy, would be taking
private property? It might be impolitic and unjust, but
could its constitutionality be doubted?
Other statutes
have, from time to time, reduced the quantity of silver in
silver coin without any question of their constitutionality.
It is said, however, now, that the act of 1834 only brought
the legal value of gold coin more nearly into correspondence
with its actual value in the market, or its relative value to
silver. But we do not perceive that this varies the case or
diminishes its force as an illustration. The creditor who
had a thousand dollars due him on the 31st day of July,
1834 (the day before the act took effect), was entitled to a
thousand dollars of coined gold of the weight and fineness
of the then existing coinage. The day after, he was entitled
only to a sum six per cent. less in weight and in market
value, or to a smaller number of silver dollars. Yet he
would have been a bold man who had asserted that, because
of this, the obligation of the contract was impaired, or that
private property was taken without compensation or without due process of law. No such assertion, so far as we
know, was ever made. Admit it was a hardship, but it is
not every hardship that is unjkst, much less that is unconstitutional; and certainly it would be an anomaly for us to
hold an act of Congress invalid merely because we might
think its provisions harsh and unjust.
We are not aware of anything else which has been advanced in support of the proposition that the legal tender
acts were forbidden by either the letter or the spirit of the
Constitution. If, therefore, they were, what we have endeavored to show, appropriate means for legitimate ends,
they were not transgressive of the authority vested in Congress.
Here we might stop; but we will notice briefly an argument presented in support of the position that the unit of
money value must possess intrinsic value. The argument
is derived from assimilating the constitutional provision respecting a standard of weights and measures to that confer-

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of the court.

ring the power to coin money and regulate its value. It is
said there can be no uniform standard of weights without
weight, or of measure without length or space, and we are
asked how anything can be made a uniform standard of
value which has itself no value? This is a question foreign
to the subject before us. The legal tender acts do not attempt to make paper a standard of value. We do not rest
their validity upon the assertion that their emission is coinage, or any regulation of the value of money; nor do we
assert that Congress may make anything which has no value
money. What we do assert is, that Congress has power to
enact that the government's promises to pay money shall be,
for the time being, equivalent in value to the representative
of value determined by the coinage acts, or to multiples
thereof It is hardly correct to speak of a standard of value.
The Constitution does not speak of it. It contemplates a
standard for that which has gravity or extension; but value
is an ideal thing. The coinage acts fix its unit as a dollar;
but the gold or silver thing we call a dollar is, in no sense, a
standard of a dollar. It is a representative of it. There
might never have been a piece of money of the denomination
of a dollar. There never was a pound sterling coined until
1815, if we except a few coins struck in the reign of Henry
VIII, almost immediately debased, yet it has been the unit
of British currency for niny generations. It is, then, a mistake to regard the legal tender acts as either fixing a standard of value or regulating money values, or making that
money which has no intrinsic value.
But, without extending our remarks further, it will be
seen that we hold the acts of Congress constitutional as applied to contracts made either before or after their passage.
In so holding, we overrule so much of what was decided in
Hepburn v. Giszwold,* as ruled the acts unwarranted by the
Constitution so far as they apply to contracts made before
their enactment. That case was decided by a divided court,
and by a court having a less number of judges than the law
8 Wallace, 608.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

then in existence provided this court shall have. These
cases have been heard before a full court, and they have
received our most careful consideration. The questions involved are constitutional questions of the most vital importance to the government and to the public at large. We have
been in the habit of treating cases involving a consideration
of constitutional power differently from those which concern
merely private right.* We are not accustomed to hear them
in the absence of a full court, if it can be avoided. Even in
cases involving only private rights, if convinced we had
made a mistake, we would hear another argument and correct our error. And it is no unprecedented thing in courts
of last resort, both in this country and in England, to overrule decisions previously made. We agree this should not
be done inconsiderately, but in a case of such far-reaching
consequences as the present, thoroughly convinced as we
are that Congress has not transgressed itt powers, we regard
it as our duty so to decide and to affirm both these judgments.

The other questions raised in the case of Knox v. Lee
were substantially decided in Texas v. White.t
JUDGMENT IN EACH CASE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, concurring:
I concur in the opinion just read, and should feel that
it was out of place to add anything further on the subject
were it not for its great importance. On a constitutional
question involving the powers of the government it is proper
that every aspect of it, and every consideration bearing upon
it, should be presented, and that no member of the court
should hesitate to express his views. I do not propose, however, to go into the subject at large, but only to make such
additional observations as appear to me proper for consideration, at the risk of some inadvertent repetition.
The Constitution of the United States established a gov* Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 8 Peters, 118.

t7 Wallace, 700.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL

TENDER CASES.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

ernment, and not a league, compact, or partnership. It was
constituted by the people. It is called a government. In
the eighth section of Article I it is declared that Congress
shall have power to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any department or office
thereof. As a government it was invested with all the attributes of sovereignty. It is expressly declared in Article VI
that the Constitution, and the laws of the United States
made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made under the
author-ity of the United States, shall be the supreme law of
the land.
The doctrine so long contended for, that the Federal
Union was a mere compact of States, and that the States, if
they chose, might annul or disregard the acts of the National legislature, or might secede from the Union at their
pleasure, and that the General government had no power to
coerce them into submission to the Constitution, should be
regarded as definitely and forever overthrown. This has
been finally effected by the National power, as it had often
been before, by overwhelming argument.
The United States is not only a government, but it is a
National government, and the only government in this country that has the character of nationality. It is invested with
power over all the foreign relations of the country, war,
peace, and negotiations and intercourse with other nations;
all which are forbidden to the State governments. It has
jurisdiction over all those general subjects of legislation and
sovereignty which affect the interests of the whole people
equally and alike, and which require uniformity of regulations and laws, such as the coinage, weights and measures,
bankruptcies, the postal system, patent and copyright laws,
the public lands, and interstate commerce; all which subjects are expressly or impliedly prohibited to the State governments. It has power to suppress insurrections, as well
as to 'repel invasions, and to organize, arm, discipline, and
call into service the militia of the whole country. The 2resi-

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

dent is charged with the duty and invested with the power
to take care that the laws be faithfully executed. The judiciary has jurisdiction to decide controversies between the
States, and between their respective citizens, as well as questions of National concern; atnd the government is clothed
with power to guarantee to every State a republican form of
government, and to protect each of them against invasion
and domestic violence. For the purpose of carrying into
effect and executing these and the other powers conferred,
and of providing for the common defence and general welfare, Congress is further invested with the taxing power in
all its forms, except that of laying duties on exports, with
the power to borrow money on the National credit, to punish
crimes against the laws of the United States and of nations,
to constitute courts, and to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the various powers vested
in the government or any department or officer thereof.
Such being the character of the General government, it
seems to be a self-evident propositi on that it is invested with
all those inherent and implied powers which, at the time
of adopting the Constitution, were generally considered to
belong to every government as such, and as being essential
to the exercise of its functions. If this proposition be not
true, it certainly is true that the government of the United
States has express authority, in the clause last quoted, to
make all such laws (usually regarded as inherent and implied) as may be necessary and proper fbr carrying on the
government as constituted, and vindicating its authority and
existence.
Another proposition equally clear is, that at the time the
Constitution was adopted, it was, and had for a long time
been, the practice of most, if not all, civilized governments,
to employ the public credit as a means of anticipating the
national revenues for the purpose of enabling them to exercise their governmental functions, and to meet the various
exigencies to which all nations are subject; and that the
mode of employing the public credit was various in different
countries, and at different periods-sometimes by the agency

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

of a national bank, sometimes by the issue of exchequer
bills or bills of credit, and sometimes by pledges of the
public domain. In this country, the habit had prevailed
from the commencement of the eighteenth century, of issuing bills of credit; and the revolution of independence had
just been achieved, in great degree, by the means of similar
bills issued by the Continental Congress. These bills were
generally made a legal tender for the payment of all debts
public and private, until, by the influence of English merchants at home, Parliament prohibited the issue of bills with
that quality. This prohibition was first exercised in 1751,
against the New England colonies; and subsequently, in
1763, against all the colonies. It was one of the causes of
discontent which finally culminated in the Revolution. Dr.
Franklin endeavored to obtain a repeal of the prohibitory
acts, but only succeeded in obtaining from Parliament, in
1773, an act authorizing the colonies to make their bills receivable for taxes and debts due to the colony that issued
them. At the breaking out of the war, the Continental
Congress commenced the issue of bills of credit, and the
war was carried on without other resources for three or four
years. It may be said with truth, that we owe our national
independence to the use of this fiscal agency. Dr. Franklin,
in a letter to a friend, dated from Paris, in April, 1779, after
deploring the depreciation which the Continental currency
had undergone, said: "The only consolation under the evil
is, that the public debt is proportionately diminished by the
depreciation; and this by a kind of imperceptible tax, every
one having paid a part of it in the fall of value that took
place between the receiving and paying such sums as passed
through his hands." He adds: "This effect of paper currency is not understood this side the water. And indeed
the whole is a mystery even to the politicians, how we have
been able to continue a war four years without money, and
bow we could pay with paper, that had no previously fixed
fund appropriated specially to redeem it. This currency, as
we manage it, is a wonderful machine. It performs its
office when we issue it; it pays and clothes troops, and pro-

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

vides victuals and ammunition."* In a subsequent letter,
of 9th October, 1780, he says: "They [the Congress] issued
an immense quantity of paper bills, to pay, clothe, arm, and
feed their troops, and fit out ships; and with this paper,
without taxes for the first three years, they fought and battled one of the most ppwerful nations of Europe."t The
Continental bills were not made legal tenders at first, but in
January, 1777, the Congress passed resolutions declaring
that they ought to pass current in all payments, and be
deemed in value equal to the same nominal sums in Spanish
dollars, and that any one refusing so to receive them ought
to be deemed an enemy to the liberties of the United States;
and recommending to the legislatures of the several States
to pass laws to that effect.t
Massachusetts and other colonies, on the breaking out of
the war, disregarded the prohibition of Parliament, and
again conferred upon their bills the quality of legal tender.§
These precedents are cited without reference to the policy
or impolicy of the several measures in the particular cases;
that is always a question for the legislative discretion. They
establish the historicalfact that when the Constitution was
adopted, the employment of bills of credit was deemed a
legitimate means of meeting the exigencies of a regularly
constituted government, and that the affixing to them of the
quality of a legal tender was regarded as entirely discretionary with the legislature. Such a quality was a mere incident that might or might not be annexed. The Continental
Congress not being a regular government, and not having
the power to make laws for the regulation of private transactions, referred the matter to the State legislatures. The
framers of the Constitution were familiar with all this history. They were familiar with the governments which had
thus exercised the prerogative of issuing bills having the
quality, and intended for the purposes referred to. They
had first drawn their breath under these governments; they
Works, vol. 8, p. 329.
f Ib. p. 507.
: Journals of Congress, vol. 3, p. 19-20; Pitkin's History, vol. 2, p. 155
:Bancroft's History, vol. 7, p. 324.

*Franklin's

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

had helped to adiininister them. They had seen the important uses to which these securities might be applied.
In view, therefore, of all these facts when we find them
establishing the present government, with all the powers
before rehearsed, giving to it, amongst other things, the sole
control of the money of the country and expressly prohibiting the States from issuing bills of credit and from making
anything but gold and silver a legal tender, and imposing
no such restriction upon the General government, how can
we resist the conclusion that they intended to leave to it
that power unimpaired, in case the future exigencies of the
nation should require its exercise?
I am aware that according to the report of Mr. Madison
in the original draft of the Constitution, the clause relating
to the borrowing of money read, "to borrow money and
emit bills on the credit of the United States," and that the
words, " and emit bills," were, after some debate, struck
out. But they were struck out with diverse views of members, some deeming them useless and others deeming them
hurtful., The result was that they chose to adopt the Constitution as it now stands, without any words either of grant
or restriction of power, and it is our duty to construe the
instrument by its words, in the light of history, of the general nature of government, and the incidents of sovereignty.
The same argument was employed against the creation
of a United States bank. A power to create corporations
was proposed in the Convention and rejected. The power
was proposed with a limited application to cases where the
public good might require them and the authority of a single
State might be incompetent. It was still rejected. It was
then confined to the building of canals, but without effect.
It was argued that such a power was unnecessary and might
be dangerous. Yet Congress has not only chartered two
United States banks, whose constitutionality has been sustained by this court, but several other institutions. As a
means appropriate and conducive to the end of carrying
into effect the other powers of the government, such as that
of borrowing money with promptness and dispatch, and

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

facilitating the fiscal operations of the government, it was
deemed within the power of Congress to create such an institution under the general power given to pass all such laws
as might be necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the other powers granted. The views of particular members or the course of proceedings in the Convention cannot
control the fair meaning and general scope of the Constitution as it was finally framed and now stands. It is a finished
document, complete in itself, and to be interpreted in the
light of history and of the circumstances of the period in
which it was framed.
No one doubts at the present day nor has ever seriously
doubted that the power of the government to emit bills
exists. It has been exercised by the government without
question for a large portion of its history. This being conceded, the incidental power of giving such bills the quality
of legal tender follows almost as a matter of course.
I hold it to. be the prerogative of every government not
restrained by its Constitution to anticipate its resources by
the issue of exchequer bills, bills of credit, bonds, stock, or
a banking apparatus. Whether those issues shall or shall
not be receivable in payment of private debts is an incidental
matter in the discretion of such government unless restrained
by constitutional prohibition.
This power is entirely distinct from that of coining money
and regulating the value thereof. It is not only embraced
in the power to make all necessary auxiliary laws, but it is
incidental to the power of borrowing money. It is often a
necessary means of anticipating and realizing promptly the
national resources, when, perhaps, promptness is necessary
to the national existence. It is not an attempt to coin
money out of a valueless material, like the coinage of leather
or ivory or kowrie shells. It is a pledge of the national
credit. It is a promise by the government to pay dollars;
it is not an attempt to make dollars. The standard of value
is not changed. The government simply demands that its
credit shall be accepted and received by public and private
creditors during the pending exigency. Every government

Dec.1870.]

LEGAL TENDEl

OASES.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

has a right to demand this when its existence is at stake.
The interests of every citizen are bound up with the fate of
the government. None can claim exemption. If they cannot trust their government in its time of trial they are not
worthy to be its citizens.
But it is said, why not borrow money in the ordinary
way ? The answer is, the legislative department, being the
nation itself; speaking by its representatives, has a choice of
methods, and is the master of its own discretion. One mode
of borrowing, it is true, is to issue the government bonds,
and to invite capitalists to purchase them. But this is not
the only mode. It is often too tardy and inefficient. In time
of war or public danger, Congress, representing the sovereign
power, by its right of eminent domain, may authorize the
President to take private property for the public use and
give government certificates therefor. This is largely done
on such occasions. It is an indirect way of compelling the
owner of property to lend to the government. He is forced
to rely on the national credit.
Can the poor man's cattle, and horses, and corn be thus
taken by the government when the public exigency requires
it, and cannot the rich man's bonds and notes be in like
manner taken to reach the same end? If the government
enacts that the certificates of indebtedness which it gives to
the farmer for his cattle and provender shall be receivable
by the farmer's creditors in payment of his bonds and notes,
is it anything more than transferring the government loan
from the hands of one man to the hands of another-perhaps far more able to advance it? Is it anything more than
putting the securities of the capitalist on the same platform.
as the farmer's stock?
No one supposes that these government certificates are
never to be paid-that the day of specie payments is never
to return. And it matters not in what form they are issued.
The principle is still the same. Instead of certificates they
may be treasury notes, or paper of any other form. And
their payment may not be made directly in coin, but they
may be first convertible into government bonds, or othet
VOL. X"i.

86

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

government securities. Through whatever changes they
pass, their ultimate destiny is to be paid. But it is the prerogative of the legislative department to determine when the
fit time for payment has come. It may be long delayed,
perhaps many may think it too long after the exigency has
passed. But the abuse of a power, if proven, is 11o argument against its existence. And the courts are not responsible therefor. Questions of political expediency belong to
the legislative halls, not to the judicial forum. It might
subserve the present good if we should declare the legal
tender act unconstitutional, and a temporary public satisfaction might be the result. But what a miserable consideration would that be for a permanent loss of one of the just
and necessary powers of the government; a power which,
had Congress failed to exercise it when it did, we might
have had no court here to-day to consider the question, nor
a government or a country to make it important to do so.
Another ground of the power to issue treasury notes or
bills is the necessity of providing a proper currency for the
country, and especially of providing for the failure or disappearance of the ordinary currency in times of financial
pressure and threatened collapse of commercial credit. Currency is a national necessity. The operations of the government, as well as private transactions, are wholly dependent
upon it. The State governments are prohibited from making money or issuing bills. Uniformity of money was one
of the objects of the Constitution. The coinage of money
and regulation of its value is conferred upon the General
government exclusively. That government has also the
power to issue bills. It follows, as a matter of necessity, as
a consequence or these various provisions, that it is specially
the duty of the General government to provide a National
.currency. The States cannot do it, except by the charter of
local banks, and that remedy, if strictly legitimate and constitutional, is inadequate, fluctuating, uncertain, and insecure, and operates with all the partiality to local interests,
which it was the very object of the Constitution to avoid.
But regarded as a duty of the General government, it is

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

strictly in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution, as
well as In line with the national necessities.
It is absolutely essential to independent national existence
that government should have a firm hold on the two great
sovereign instrumentalities of the sword and the purse, and
the right to wield them without restriction on occasions of
national peril. In certain emergencies government must
have at its command, not only the personal services-the
bodies and lives-of its citizens, but the lesser, though not
less essential, power of absolute control over the resources
of the country. Its armies must be filled, and its navies
manned, by the citizens in person. Its material of war, its
munitions, equipment, and commissary stores must come
from the industry of the country. This can only be stimulated into activity by a proper financial system, especially
as regards the currency.
A constitutional government, notwithstanding the right
of eminent domain, cannot take physical and forcible possession of all that it may need to defend the country, and is
reluctant to exercise such a power when it can be avoided.
It must purchase, and by purchase command materials and
supplies, products of manufacture, labor, service of every
kind. The government cannot, by physical power, compel
the workshops to turn out millions of dollars' worth of
manufactures in leather, and cloth, and wood, and iron,
which are the very first conditions of military equipment.
It must stimulate and set in motion the industry of the
country. In other words, it must purchase. But it cannot
purchase with specie. That is soon exhausted, hidden, or
exported. It must purchase by credit. It cannot force its
citizens to take its bonds. It must be able to lay its hands
on the currency-that great instrument of exchange by
which the people transact all their own affairs with each
other; that thing which they must have, and which lies at
the foundation of all industrial effort and all business in the
community. When the ordinary currency disappears, as it
often does in time of war, when business begins to stagnate
and general bankruptcy is imminent, then the government

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

must have power at the same time to renovate its own resources and to revive the drooping energies of th'e nation
by supplying it with a circulating medium. What that
medium shall be, what its character and qualities, will depend upon the greatness of the exigency, and the degree of
promptitude which it demands. These are legislative questions. The heart of the nation must not be crushed out.
The people must be aided to pay their debts and meet their
obligations. The debtor interest of the country represent
its bone and sinew, and must be encouraged to pursue its
avocations. If relief were not afforded universal bankruptcy
would ensue, and industry would be stopped, and government would be paralyzed in the paralysis of the people. It
is an undoubted fact that during the late civil war, the ictivity of the workshops and fietories, mines and machinery,
shipyards, railroads and canals of the loyal States, caused
by the issue of the legal tender currency, constituted an inexhaustible fountain of strength to the National cause.
These views are exhibited, not for the purpose of showing
that the power is a desirable one, and therefore ought to be
assumed; much less for the purpose of giving judgment on
the expediency of its exercise in any particular case; but
for the purpose of showing that it is one of those vital and
essential powers inhering in every national sovereignty and
necessary to its self-preservation.
But the creditor interest will lose some of its gold! Is
gold the one thing needful ? Is it worse for the creditor to
lose a little by depreciation than everything by the bankruptey of his debtor? Nay, is it worse than to lose everything by the subversion of the government? What is it
that protects him in the accumulation and possession of his
wealth? Is it not the government and its laws? and can he
not consent to trust that government for a brief period until
it shall have vindicated its right to exist ? All property and
all rights, even those of liberty and life, are held subject to
the fundamental condition of being liable to be impaired by
providential calamities and national vicissitudes. Taxes
impair my income or the value of my property. The con-

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

demnation of my homestead, or a valuable part of it for a
public improvement, or public defence, will sometimes destroy its value to me; the conscription may deprive me of
liberty and destroy my life. So with the power of government to borrow money, a power to be exercised by the consent of the lender, if possible, but to be exercised without
his consent, if necessary. And when exercised in the form
of legal tender notes or bills of credit, it may operate for
the time being to compel the creditor to receive the credit
of the government in place of the gold which he expected to
receive from his debtor. All these are fundamental political
conditions on which life, property, and money are respectively held and enjoyed under our- system of government,
nay, under any system of government. There are times
when the exigencies of the state rightly absorb all subordinate considerations of private interest, convenience, or feeling; and at such times, the temporary though compulsory
acceptance by a private creditor of the government credit,
in lieu of his debtor's obligation to pay, is one of the slightest forms in which the necessary burdens of society can be
sustained. Instead of being a violation of such obligation,
it merely subjects it to one of those conditions under which
it is held and enjoyed.
Another consideration bearing upon this objection is the
fact that the power given to Congress to coin money and
regulate the value thereof; includes the power to alter the
metallic standard of coinage, ts was done in 1834; whereby
contracts made before the alteration, and payable thereafter,
were satisfied by the payment of six per cent. less of pure
gold than was contemplated when the contracts were made.
This power and this consequence flowing from its exercise,
were much discussed in the great case of Mixed Moneys, in
Sir John Davies's Reports,* and it was there held to belong
to the king's ordinary prerogative over the coinage of
money, without any sanction from Parliament. Subsequent
acts of Parliament fixed the standard of purity and weight
* Page 48.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

in the coinage of the realm, which has not been altered for
a hundred and fifty years past. But the same authority
which fixed it in the time of Queen Anne, is competent at
any time to change it. Whether it shall be changed or not
is a matter of mere legislative discretion. And such is undoubtedly the public law,of this country. Therefore, the
mere fact that the value of debts may be depreciated by
legal tender laws, is not conclusive against their validity;
for that is clearly the effect of other powers which may be
exercised by Congress in its discretion.
It follows as a corollary from these views, that it makes
no difference in the principle of the thing, that the contract
of the debtor is a specific engagement, in terms, to pay gold
or silver money, or to pay in specie. So long as the money
of the country, in whatever terms described, is in contemplation of the parties, it is the object of the legal tender
laws to make the credit of the government a lawful suibstitute therefor. If the contract is for the delivery of a chattel
or a specific commodity or substance, the law does not apply.
If it is bondfide for so many carats of diamonds or so many
ounces of gold as bullion, the specific contract must be performed. But if ternis which naturally import such a contract are used by way of evasion, and money only is intended, the law reaches the case. Not but that Congress
might limit the operation of the law in any way it pleased.
It might make an exception of cases where the contract expressly promises gold and silver money. But if it has not
done so; if the enactment is general in its terms, specific
promises to pay the money in specie are just as much subject to the operation of the law as a mere promise to pay so
many dollars-for that, in contemplation of law, is a promise
to pay money in specie.
Hence I differ from my brethren in the decision of one of
the cases now before the court, to wit, the case of Tribilcock
v. Wilson,* in which the promise (made in June, 1861), was
to pay, one year after date, the sum of nine hundred dollars
* See infra, 687.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

with ten per cent. interest from date, payable in specie. Of
course this difference arises from the different construction
given to the legal tender acts. I do not understand the majority of the court to decide that an act so drawn as to embrace, in terms, contracts payable in specie, would not be
constitutional. Such a decision would completely nullify
the power claimed for the government. For it would be
very easy, by the use of one or two additional words, to
make all contracts payable in specie.
It follows as another corollary from the views which I
have expressed that the power to make treasury notes a
legal tender, whilst a mere incidental one to that of issuing
the notes themselves, and to one of the forms of borrowing
money, is nevertheless a power not to be resorted to except
upon extraordinary and pressing occasions, such as war or
other public exigencies of great gravity and importance;
and should be no longer exerted than all the circumstances
of the case demand.
I do not say that it is a war power, or that it is only to
be called into exercise in time of war; for other public exigencies may arise in the history of a nation which may make
it expedient and imperative to exercise it. But of the occasions when, and of the times how long, it shall be exercised
and in force, it is for the legislative department of the government to judge. Feeling sensibly the judgments and
wishes of the people, that department cannot long (if it is
proper to suppose that within its sphere it ever can) misunderstand the business interests and just rights of the community.
I deem it unnecessary to enter into a minute criticism of
all the sayings, wise or foolish, that have, from time to time,
been uttered on this subject by statesmen, philosophers, or
theorists. The writers on political economy are generally
opposed to the exercise of the power. The considerations
which they adduce are very proper to be urged upon the
depositary of the power. The question whether the power
exists in a national government, is a great practical question
relating to the national safety and independence, and states-

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

men are better judges of this question than economists can
be. Their judgment is ascertained in the history and practice of governments, and in the silence as well as the words
of our written Constitution. A parade of authorities would
serve but little purpose after Chief Justice Marshall's profound discussion of the powers of Congress in the great case
of Mc Olloch v. The State of Maryland. If we speak not
according to the spirit of the Constitution and authorities,
and the incontrovertible logic of events, elaborate extracts
cannot add weight to our decision.
Great stress has been laid on the supposed fact that England in all its great wars and emergencies, has never made
its exchequer bills a legal tender. This imports a eulogium
on British conservatism in relation to contracts, which that
nation would hardly regard as flattering. It is well known
that for over twenty years, from 1797 to 1820, the most
stringent paper money system that ever existed prevailed in
England, and lay at the foundation of all her elasticity and
endurance. It is true that the Bank of England notes, which
the bank was required to issue until they reached an amount
then unprecedented, were not technically made legal tenders,
except for the purpose of relieving from arrest and imprisonment for debt; but worse than that, the bank was expressly forbidden to redeem its notes in specie, except for a
certain small amount to answer the purpose of change. The
,people were obliged to receive them. The government had
nothing else wherewith to pay its domestic creditors. The
people themselves had no specie, for that was absorbed by
the Bank of England, and husbanded for the uses of government in carrying on its foreign wars and paying its foreign
subsidies. The country banks depended on the Bank of
England for support, and of course they could not redeem
their circulation in specie. The result was that the naUion
was perforce obliged to treat the bank notes as a legal tender
or suffer inevitable bankruptcy. In such a state of things
it went very hard with any man who demanded specie in
fulfilment of his contracts. A man by the name of Grigby
tried it, and brought his case into court, and elicited from

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

Lord Alvanley the energetic expression: "Thank God, few
such creditors as the present plaintiff have been found since
the passing of the act."* It is to be presumed that he was
the last that ever showed himself in an English court.
It is well known that since the resumption of specie payments, the act of 1833, rechartering the bank, has expressly
made the Bank of England notes a legal tender.
It is unnecessary to refer to other examples. France is a
notable one. Her assignats, issued at the commencement
and during the Revolution, performed the same office as
our Continental bills; and enabled the nation to gather up
its latent strength and call out its energies. Almost every
nation of Europe, at one time or another, has found it necessary, or expedient, to resort to the same method of carrying
on its operations or defending itself against aggression.
It would be sad, indeed, if this great nation were now to
be deprived of a power so necessary to enable it to protect
its own existence, and to cope with the other great powers
of the world. No doubt foreign powers would rejoice if
we should deny .the power. No doubt foreign creditors
would rejoice. They have, from the first, taken a deep interest in the question. But no true friend to our government, to its stability and its power to sustain itself under all
vicissitudes, can be indifferent to the great wrong which it
would sustain by a denial of the power in question-a power
to be seldom exercised, certainly; but one, the possession of
which is so essential, and as it seems to me, so undoubted.
Regarding the question of power as so important to the
stability of the government, I cannot acquiesce in the decision of Hbepburn v. Griswold. I cannot consent that the
government should be deprived of one of its just powers by
a decision made at the time, and under the circumstances,
in which that-decision was made. On a question relating
to the power of the government, where I am perfectly satisfied that it has the power, I can never consent to abide by
a decision denying it, unless made with reasonable una* 2 Bosanquet & Puller, 528.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

nimity and acquiesced in by the country. Where the decision is recent, and is only made by a bare majority of the
court, and during a time or public excitement ol the subject,
when the question has largely entered into the political discussions of the day, I consider it our right and duty to sfbject it to a further examination, if a majority of the court
are dissatisfied with the former decision. And in this case,
with all deference and respect for the former judgment of
the court, I am so fully convinced that it was erroneous, and
prejudicial to the rights, interest, and safety of the general
government, that I, for one, have no hesitation in rqviewing
and overruling it. It should be remembered, tbat this court,
at the very term in which, and within a few weeks after, the
decision in flepburn v. Griswold was delivered, when the vacancies on the bench were filled, determined to bear the
question reargued. This fact must necessarily have had the
effect of apprising the country that the decision was not
fully acquiesced in, and of obviating any injurious consequences to the business of the country by its reversal.
In my judgment the decrees in all the cases before us
should be affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting:
We dissent from the argument and conclusion in the
opinion just announced.
The rule, by which the constitutionality of an act of Congress passed in the alleged exercise of an implied power is
to be tried, is no longer, in this court, open to question. It
was laid down in the case of 1cCalloch v. Maryland,* by
Chief Justice Marshall, in these words: "Let the end be
legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution,
and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end, which are not prohibited but consistent
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
And it is the plain duty of the court to pronounce acts of
* 4 Wheaton, 421.

Dec. 1870..]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

Congress not made in the exercise of an express power nor
coming within the reasonable scope of this rule, if made in
virtue of an implied power, unwarranted by the Constitution. Acts of Congress not made in pursuance of the Constitution are not laws.
Neither of these propositions was questioned in the case
of Eepburn v. G.riswold.* The judges who dissented in that
case maintained that the clause in the act of February 25th,
1862, making the United States notes a legal tender in payment of debts was an appropriate, plainly adapted means to
a constitutional end, not prohibited but consistent with the
letter and spirit of the Constitution. The majority of the
court as then constituted, five judges out of eight, felt
"oblied to conclude that an act making mere promises to
pay dollars a legal tender in payments of debts previously
contracted is not a means appropriate, plainly adapted, really
calculated to carry into effect any express power vested in
Congress, is inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution,
and is prohibited by the Constitution."
In the case of the United States v. De Witt,t we held unanimously that a provision of the internal revenue law prohibiting the sale of certain illuminating oil in the States was
unconstitutional, though it might increase the production
and sale of other oils, and consequently the revenue derived
from them, because this consequence was too remote and
uncertain to warrant the court in saying that the prohibition
was an appropriate and plainly adapted means for carrying
into execution the power to lay and collect taxes.
We agree, then, that the question wh'ether a lav is a
necessary and proper means to execution of an express
power, within the meaning of these words as defined by the
rule-that is to say, a means appropriate, plainly adapted,
not prohibited but consistent with the letter and spirit of the
Constitution ,-is a judicial question. Congress may not
adopt any means for the execution of an express power that
Congress may see fit to adopt. It must be a necessary and
* 8 Wallace, 606.

t- 9 Id. 41.

[Sup. Ct.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

proper means within the fair meaning of the rule. If not
such it cannot be employed consistently with the Constitution. Whether the means actually employed in a given
case are such or not the court must decide. The court
must judge of the fact, Congress of the degree of necessity.
A majority of the court, five to four, in the opinion which
has just been read, reverses the judgment rendered by the
former majority of five to three, in pursuance of an opinion
formed after repeated arguments, at successive terms, and
careful consideration; and declares the legal tender clause
to be constitutional; that is to say, that an act of Congress
making promises to pay dollars legal tender as coined dollars in payment of pre-existing debts is a means appropriate
and plainly adapted to the exercise of powers expressly
granted by the Constitution, and not prohibited itself by the
Constitution but consistent with its letter and spirit. And
this reversal, unprecedented in the history of the court, has
been produced by no change in the opinions of those who
concurred in the former judgment. One closed an honorable judicial career by resignation after the case had been
decided,* after the opinion had been read and agreed to in
conference,t and after the day when it would have been delivered in court,J had not the delivery been postponed for a
week to give time for the preparation of the dissenting
opinion. The court was then full, but the vacancy caused
by the resignation of Mr. Justice Grier having been subsequently filled and an additional justice having been appointed under the act increasing the number of judges to
nine, which took effect on the first Monday of December,
1869, the then majority find themselves in a minority of the
court, as now constituted, upon the question.
Their convictions, however, remain unchanged. We adhere to the opinion pronounced in .lepburn v. Griswold.
Reflection has only wrought a firmer belief in the soundness
of the constitutional doctrines maintained, and in the importance of them to the country.
* 27th November, 1869,

t 29th January, 1870.

$ 31st January, 1870.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

We agree that much of what was said in the dissenting
opinion in that case, which has become the opinion of a
majority of the court as now constituted, was correctly said.
We fully agree in all that was quoted from Chief Justice
Marshall. We had indeed accepted, without reserve, the
definition of implied powers in which that great judge
summed up his argument, of which the language quoted
formed a part. But if it was intended to ascribe to us "the
doctrine that when an act of Congress is brought to the test
of this clause of the Constitution," namely, the clause granting the power of ancillary legislation, " its necessity must
be absolute, and its adaptation to the conceded purpose unquestionable," we must be permitted not only to disclaim
it, but to say that there is nothing in the opinion of the then
majority which approaches the assertion of any such doctrine. We did indeed venture to cite, with approval, the
language of Judge Story in his great work on the Constitution, that the words necessary and proper were intended to
have "a sense at once admonitory and directory," and to
require that the means used in the execution of an express
power "should be bond fide, appropriate to the end,"* and
also ventured to say that the tenth amendment, reserving
to the States or the people all powers not delegated to the
tUnited.States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to
the States, "was intended to have a like admonitory and
directory sense," and to restrain the limited government established by the Constitution from the exercise of powers
not clearly delegated or derived by just inference from
powers so delegated. In thus quoting Judge Story, and in
this expression of our own opinion, we" certainly did not
suppose it possible that we could be understood as asserting
that the clause in question" was designed as a restriction
upon the ancillary power incidental to every grant of power
in express terms." It was this proposition which "was
stated and refuted" in Mc Culloch v. Maryland. That refutatioti touches nothing said by us. We assert only that the
* 1 Story on the Constitution, p. 42,

1251.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

words of the Constitution are such as admonish Congress
that implied powers are not to be rashly or lightly assumed,
and that they are not to be exercised at all, unless, in the
words of Judge Story, they are "bondfide appropriate to the
end," or, in the words of Chief Justice Marshall, "appropriate, plainly adapted" to a constitutional and legitimate
end, and "not prohibited, but consistent with the letter and
spirit of the Constitution."
There appears, therefore, to have been no real difference
of opinion in the court as to the rule by which the existence
of an implied power is to be tested, when Hepburn v. Griswold
was decided, though the then minority seem to have supposed there was. The difference had reference to the application of the rule rather than to the rule itself.
The then minority admitted that in the powers relating
to coinage, standing alone, there is not "a sufficient warrant
for the exercise of the power" to make notes a legal tender,
but thought them " not without decided weight, when we
come to consider the question of the existence of this power
as one necessary and proper for carrying into execution
other admitted powers of the government." This weight
they found in the fact that an "express power over the lawful
money of the country was confided to Congress and forbidden to the States." It seemed to them not an "unreasonable inference" that, in a certain contingency, "making the
securities of the government perform the office of money in
the payment of debts would be in harmony with the power
expressly granted to coin money." We perceive no connection between the express power to coin money and the inference that the govelrument may, in any contingency, make
its securities perform the functions of coined money, as a
legal tender in payment of debts. We have supposed that
the power to exclude from circulation notes not authorized
by the national government might, perhaps, be deduced
from the power to regulate the value of coin; but that the
power of the government to emit bills of credit was an exercise of the power to borrow money, and that its power
over the currency was incidental to that power and to the

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL
10
TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

power to regulate commerce. This was the doctrine of
the Veazie Bank v. Fenno,* although not fully elaborated in
that case. The question whether the quality of legal tender
can be imparted to these bills depends upon distinct considerations.
Was, then, the power to make these notes of the government-these bills of credit-a legal tender in payments an
appropriate, plainly-adapted means to a legitimate and constitutional end ? or, to state the question as the opinion of
the then minority stated it, "does there exist aniy power in
Congress, or in the government, by express grant, in execution of which this legal tender act was necessary and proper
in the sense here defined and under the circumstances of its
passage ?"
The opinion of the then minority affirmed the power on
the ground thatit was a necessary and proper means, within
the definition of the court, in the case of McCulloch v.
Maryland, to carry on war, and that it was not prohibited by
the spirit or letter of the Constitution, though it was admitted to be a law impairing the obligation of contracts, and
notwithstanding the objection that it deprived many persons
of their property without compensation and without due
process of law.
We shall not add much to what was said in the opinion
of the then majority on these points.
The reference made in the opinion just read, as well as in
the argument at the bar, to the opinions of the Chief Justice,
when Secretary of the Treasury, seems to warrant, if it does
not require, some observations before proceeding further in
the discussion.
It was his fortune at the time the legal tender clause was
inserted in the bill to authorize the issue of United States
notes and received the sanction of Congress, to be charged
with the anxious and responsible duty of providing funds
for the prosecution of the war. In no report made by him
to Congress was the expedient of making the notes of the
* 8 Wallace, 548.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

.[Sup.

Ot.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

United States a legal tender suggested. He urged the issue
of notes payable on demand in coin or received aE coin in
payment of duties. When the State banks had suspended
specie payments, he recommended the issue of United Stales
notes receivable for all loans to the United States and all
government dues except duties on imports. In his report
of December, 1862, he said that " United States notes receivable for bonds bearing a secure specie interest are next
best to notes convertible into coin," and after stating the
financial measures which in his judgment were advisable,
he added: "The Secretary recommends, therefore, no mere
paper money scheme, but on the contrary a series of measures looking to a safe and gradual return to gold and silver
as the only permanent basis, standard, and measure of value
recognized by the Constitution." At the session of Congress
before this report was made, the bill containing the legal
tender clause had become a law. He was extremely and
avowedly averse to this clause, but was very solicitous for
the passage of the bill to authorize the issue of United
States notes then pending He thought it indispensably
necessary that the authority to issue these notes, should be
granted by Congress. The passage of the bill was delayed,
if not jeoparded, by the difference of opinion which prevailed
on the question of making them a legal tender. It was under
these circumstances that he expressed the opinion, when
called upon by the Committee of Ways and Means, that it
was necessary; * and he was not sorry to find it sustained
by the decisions of respected courts, not unanimous indeed,
nor without contrary decisions of State courts equally respectable. Examination and reflection under more propitious circumstances have satisfied him that this opinion was
erroneous, and he does not hesitate to declare it. He would
do so, just as unhesitatingly, if his favor to the legal tender
clause had been at that time decided, and his opinion as to
the constitutionality of the measure clear.
Letters of the Secretary of the Treasury to the Committee of Ways and
Means, January 22 and 29, 1862; Spaulding's Financial History, pp. 27, 46,

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

Was the making of the notes a legal tender necessary to
the carrying on the war? In other words, was it necessary
to the execution of the power to borrow money ? It is not
the question whether the issue of notes was necessary, nor
whether any of the financial measures of the government
were necessary. The issuing of the circulation ommonly
known as greenbacks was necessary, and was constitutional.
They were necessary to the payment of the army and the
navy and to all the purposes for which the government uses
money. The banks had suspended specie payment, and the
government was reduced to the alternative of using their
paper or issuing its own.
Now it is a common error, and in our judgment it was the
error of the opinion of the minority in Hepburn v. Griswold,
and is the error of the opinion just read, that considerations
pertinent to the issue of United States notes have been urged
in justification of making them a legal tender. The real
question is, was the making them a legal tender a necessary
means to the execution of the power to borrow money? If
the notes would circulate as well without as with this quality
it is idle to urge the plea of such necessity. But the circulation of the notes was amply provided for by making them
receivable for all national taxes, all dues to the government,
and all loans. This was the provision relied upon for the
purpose by the secretary when the bill was first prepared,
and his reflections since have convinced him that it was sufficient. Nobody could pay a tax, or any debt, or buy a bond
without using these notes. As the notes, not being immediately redeemable, would undoubtedly be cheaper than
coin, they would be preferred by debtors and purchasers.
They would thus, by the universal law of trade, pass into
general circulation. As long as they were maintained by
the government at or near par value of specie they would
be accepted in payment of all dues, private as well as public.
Debtors as a general rule would pay in nothing else unless
compelled by suit, and creditors would accept them as long
as they would lose less by acceptance than by suit. In new
transactions, sellers would demand and purchasers wouldVOL. ILI.

37

578

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Ohief Justice.

pay the premium for specie in the prices of commodities.
The difference to them, in the currency, whether of coin or
of paper, would be in the fluctuations to which the latter is
subject. So long as notes should not sink so low as to induce creditors to refuse to receive them because they could
not be said to be in any just sense payments of debts due,
a provision for making them a legal tendei would be without effect except to discredit the currency to which it was
applied. The real support of note circulation not convertible
on demand into coin, is receivability for debts due the government, including specie loans, and limitation of amount.
If the amount is smaller than is needed for the transactions
of the country, and the law allows the use in these transactions of but one description of currency, the demand for that
description will prevent its depreciation. But history shows
no instance of paper issues so restricted. An approximation
in limitation is all that is possible, and this was attempted
when the issues of United States notes were restricted to
one hundred and fifty millions. But this limit was soon extended to four hundred and fifty millions, and even this was
soon practically removed by the provision for the issue of
notes by the national banking associations without any provision for corresponding reduction in the circulation of
United States notes; and still further by the laws authorizing the issue of interest-bearing securities, made a tender
for their amount, excluding interest.
The best support for note circulation is not limitation,
but receivability, especially for loans bearing coin interest.
This support was given until the fall of 1864, when a loan
bearing increased currency interest, payable in three years
and convertible into a loan bearing less coin interest, was
substituted for the six per cent. and five per cent. loans
bearing specie interest, for which the notes had been previously received.
It is plain that a currency so supported cannot depreciate
more than the loans; in other words, below the general
credit of the country. It will rise or fall with it. At the
present moment, if the notes were received for five per cent.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

bonds, they would be at par. In other words, specie payments would be resumed.
Now, does making the notes a legal tender increase their
value? It is said that it does, by giving them a new use.
The best political economists say that it does not. When
the government compels the people to receive its notes, it
virtually declares that it does not expect them to be received
without compulsion. It practically represents itself insolvent. This certainly does not improve the value of its notes.
It is an element of depreciation. In addition, it creates a
powerful interest in the debtor class and in the purchasers
of bonds to depress to the lowest point the credit of the
notes. The cheaper these become, the easier the payment
of debts, and the more profitable the investments in bonds
bearing coin interest.
On the other hand, the higher prices become, for everything the government needs to buy, and the greater the
accumulation of public as well as private debt. It is true
that such a state of things is acceptable to debtors, investors
in bonds, and speculators. It is their opportunity of relief
or wealth. And many are persuaded by their representations that the forced circulation is not only a necessity but a
benefit. But the apparent benefit is a delusion and the aecessity imaginary. In their legitimate use, the notes are
hurt not helped by being made a legal tender. The legal
tender quality is only valuable for the purposes of dishonesty.
Every honest purpose is answered as well and better without it.
We have no hesitation, therefore, in declaring our conviction that the making of these notes a legal tender, was not
a necessary or proper means to the carrying on war or to
the exercise of any express power of the government.
But the absence of necessity is not our only, or our
weightiest objection to this legal tender clause. We still
think, notwithstanding the argument adduced to the contrary, that it does violate an express provision of the Constitution, and the spirit, if not the letter, of the whole instrument. It cannot be maintained that legislation justly

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

obnoxious to such objections can be maintained as the exer-ise of an implied power. There can be no implication
against the Constitution. Legislation to be warranted as the
exercise of implied powers must not be "prohibited, but
consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution."
The fifth amendment provides that no person shall be
deprived of life, liberty, or property without compensation
or due process of law. The opinion of the former minority
says that the argument against the validity of the legal
tender clause, founded on this constitutional provision, is
"too vagne for their perception." Itsays that a "declaration of war would be thus unconstitutional," because it might
depreciate the value of property; and "the abolition of tariff
on sugar, or iron," because it might destroy the capital employed in those manufactures; and "the successive issues
of government bonds," because they might make those
already in private hands less valuable. But it seems to have
escaped the attention of the then minority that to declare
war, to lay and repeal taxes, and to borrow money, are all
express powers, and that the then majority were opposing
the prohibition of the Constitution to the claim of an implied power. Besides, what resemblance is there between
the effect of the exercise of these express powers and the
operation of the legal tender clause upon pre-existing debts?
The former are indirect effects of the exercise of undisputed
powers. The latter acts directly upon the relations of debtor
and creditor. It violates that fundamental principle of all
just legislation that the legislature shall not take the property of A. and give it to B. It says that B., who has purchased a farm of A. for a certain price, may keep the farm
without paying for it, if he will only tender certain notes
which may bear some proportion to the price, or be even
worthless. It seems to us that this is a manifest violation of
this clause of the Constitution.
We think also that it is inconsistent with the spirit of the
Constitution in that it impairs the obligation of contracts. In
the opinion of the then minority it is frankly said: "Undoubtedly it is a law impairing the obligation of contracts made

Dec. 1870.']

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

before its passage," but it is immediately added: "While
the Constitution forbids the States to pass such laws, it does
not forbid Congress," and this opinion, as well as the opinion
just read, refers to the express authority to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy as a proof that it was not the
intention of the Constitution to withhold that power. It is
true that the Constitution grants authority to pass a bankrupt law, but our inference is, that in this way only can
Congress discharge the obligation of contracts. It may provide for ascertaining the inability of debtors to perform
their contracts, and, upon the surrender of all their property may provide for their discharge. But this is a very
different thing from providing that they may satisfy contracts without payment, without pretence of inability, and
without any judicial proceeding.
That Congress possesses the general power to impair the
obligation of contracts is a proposition which, to use the hanguage of Chief Justice Marshall,* " must find its vindication
in a train of reasoning not often heard in courts of justice."
"It may well be added," said the same great j udge,t "whether
the nature of society and of government does not prescribe
some limits to legislative power; and, if any be prescribed,
where are they to be found, if the property of an individual,
fairly and honestly acquired, can be seized without compen•sation ? To the legislature all legislative power is granted,
but the question whether the act of transferring the property of an individual to the public is in the nature of a
legislative power is well worthy of serious reflection."
And if the property of an individual cannot be transferred
to the public, how much less to another individual?
These remarks of Chief Justice Marshall were made in a
case in which it became necessary to determine whether a
certain act of the legislature of Georgia was within the con.
stitutional prohibition against impairing the obligation of
contracts. And they assert fundamental principles of society
and government in which that prohibition had its origin.
*Fletcher v. Peck 6 Cranch, 132.

tIbid. 135.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

They apply with great force to the construction of the Constitution of the United States. In like manner and spirit
Mr. Justice Chase had previously declared* that ",n act of
the legislature contrary to the great first principles of the
social compact cannot be considered a rightful exercise of
legislative authority." Among such acts he instances "a
law that destroys or impairs the lawful private contracts of
citizens." Can we be mistaken in saying that such a law is
contrary to the spirit of a Constitution ordained to establish
justice? Can we be mistaken in thinking that if Marshall
and Story were here to pronounce judgment in this case
they would declare the legal tender clause now in question
to be prohibited by and inconsistent with the letter and
spirit of the Constitution ?
It is unnecessary to say that we reject wholly the doctrine,
advanced for the first time, we believe, in this court, by the
present majority, that the legislature has any "powers under
the Constitution which grow out of the aggregate of powers
conferred upon the government, or out of the sovereignty
instituted by it." If this proposition be admitted, and it be
also admitted that the legislature is the sole judge of the
necessity for the exercise of such powers, the government
becomes practically absolute and unlimited.
Our observations thus far have been directed to the question of the constitutionality of the legal tender clause and
its operation upon contracts made before the passage of the
law. We shall now consider whether it be constitutional in
its application to contracts made after its passage. In other
words, whether Congress has power to make anything but
coin a legal tender.
And here it is well enough again to say that we do not
question the authority to issue notes or to fit them for a circulating medium, or to promote their circulation by providing for their receipt in payment of debts to the government.
and for redemption either in coin or in bonds; in short, to
adapt them to use as currency. Nor do we question the
*

Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 388.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

lawfulness of contracts stipulating for payment in such notes,
or the propriety of enforcing the performance of such contracts by holding the tender of such currency, according to
their terms, sufficient. The question is, has Congress power
to make the notes of the government, redeemable or irredeemable, a legal tender without contract and against the
will of the person to whom they are tendered? In considering this question we assume as a fundamental proposition
that it is the duty of every government to establish a standard of value. The necessity of such a standard is indeed
universally acknowledged. Without it the transactions of
society would become impossible. All measures, whether
of extent, or weight, or value, must have certain proportions
of that which they are intended to measure. The unit of
extent must have certain definite length, the unit of weight
certain definite gravity, and the unit of value certain definite
value. These units, multiplied or subdivided, supply the
standards by which all measures are properly made. The
selection, therefore, by the common consent of all nations,
of gold and silver as the standard of value was natural, or,
more correctly speaking, inevitable. For whatever definitions of value political economists may have given, they all
agree that gold and silver have more value in proportion to
weight and size, and are less subject to loss by wear or abrasion than any other material capable of easy subdivision and
impression, and that their value changes less and by slower
degrees, through considerable periods of time, than that of
any other substance which could be used for the same purpose. And these are qualities indispensable to the convenient use of the standard required. In the construction of
the constitutional grant of power to establish a standard of
value every presumptionis, therefore, against that which would
authorize the adoption of any other materials than those
sanctioned by universal consent.
But the terms of the only express grant in the Constitution of power to establish such a standard leave little room
for presumptions. The power conferred is the power to coin
money, and these words must be understood as they were

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

used at the time the Constitution was adopted. And we
have been referred to no authority which at that time defined coining otherwise than as minting or stamping metals
for money; or money otherwise than as metal coined for
the purposes of commerce. These are the words of Johnson, whose great dictionary contains no reference to money
of paper.
It is true that notes issued by banks, both in England and
America, were then in circulation, and were used in exchanges, and in common speech called money, and that bills
of credit, issued both by Congress and by the States, had
been recently in circulation under the same general name;
but these notes and bills were never regarded as real money,
but were always treated as its represensatives only, and were
described as currency. The legal tender notes themselves
do not purport to be anything else than promises to pay
money. They have been held to be securities, and therefore
exempt from State taxation;* and the idea that it was ever
designed to make such notes a standard of value by the
framers of the Constitution is wholly new. It seems to us
impossible that it cuuld have been entertained. Its assertion seems to us to ascribe folly to the framers of our fundamental law, and to contradict the most conspicuous facts in
our public history.
The power to coin money was a power to determine the
fineness, weight, and denominations of the metallic pieces
by which values were to be measured; and we do not perceive how this meaning can be extended without doing
violence to the very words of the Constitution by imposing
on them a sense they were never intended to bear. This
construction is supported by contemporaneous and all subsequent action of the legislature; by all the recorded utterances of statesmen and jurists, and the unbroken tenor of
judicial opinion until a very recent period, when the excitement of the civil war led to the adoption, by many, of
different views.
* Bank v. Supervis)rs, 7 Wallace, 31.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

The sense of the Convention which friamed the Constitution is clear, from the account given by Mr. Madison of
what took place when the power to emit bills of credit was
stricken from the reported draft. He says distinctly that
he acquiesced in the motion to strike out, because the government would not be disabled thereby from the use of
public notes, so far as they would be safe and proper, while
it cut off the pretext for a paper currency, and particularly
for making the bills a tender either for public or private
debts.* The whole discussion upon bills of credit proves,
beyond all possible question, that the Convention regarded
the power to make notes a legal tender as absolutely excluded from the Constitution.t
The papers of the Federalist, widely circulated in favor
of the ratification of the Constitution, discuss briefly the
power to coin money, as a power to fiLbricate metallic money,
without a hint that any power to fabricate money of any
other description was given to Congress;T and the views
which it promulgated may be fairly regarded as the views
of those who voted for adoption.
Acting upon the same views, Congress took measures for
the establishment of a mint, exercising thereby the power
to coin money, and has continued to exercise the same power,
in the same way, until the present day. It established the
dollar as the money unit, determined the quantity and quality
of gold and silver of which each coin should consist, and
prescribed the denominations and forms of all coins to be
issued.§ Until recently no one in Congress ever suggested
that that body possessed power to make anything else a
standard of value.
Statesmen who have disagreed widely on other points
have agreed in the opinion that the only constitutional
measures of value are metallic coins, struck as regulated
by the authority of Congress. Mr. Webster expressed not
only his opinion but the universal and settled conviction of
t See infra, pp. 653, 656.-R.P.
J Dawson's Federalist, 294.
I Stat. at Large, 225, 246. and subsequent acts.

* 3 Madison's Papers, 1346.

LEGAL TENDER

[Sup. Ct.

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of the Chief Justice.

the country when he said :* "Most unquestionably there is
no legal tender and there can be no legal tender in this
country, under the authority of this government or any
other, but gold and silver, either the coinage of our mints
or foreign coin at rates regulated by Congress. This is a
constitutional principle perfectly plain and of the very highest
importance. The States are prohibited from making anything but gold and silver a tender iu payment of debts, and
although no such express prohibition is applied to Congress,
yet as Congress has no power granted to it in this respect but to
coin money and regulate the value of foreign coin, it clearly has
no power to substitute paper or anything else for coin as a
tender in payment of debts and in discharge of contracts."
And this court, in Gwin v. Breedlove,t said: "By the Constitution of the United States gold and silver coin made current
by law can only be tendered in payment of debts." And in
The United States v. Marigold,T this court, speaking of the
trust and duty of maintaining a uniform and pure metallic
standard of uniform value throughout the Union, said: "The
power of coining money and regulating its value was delegated to Congress by the Constitution for the very purpose, as
assigned by the framers of that instrument, of creating and
preserving the uniformily and purity of such a standardof value."
The present majority of the court say that legal tender
notes " have become the universal measure of values," and
they hold that the legislation of Congress, substituting such
measures for coin by making the notes a legal tender in
payment, is warranted by the Constitution.
But if the plain sense of words, if the contemporaneous
exposition of parties, if common consent in understanding,
if the opinions of courts avail anything in determining the
meaning of the Constitution, it seems impossible to doubt
that the power to coin money is a power to establish a uniform standard of value, and that no other power to establish
such a standard, by making notes a legal tender, is conferred
upon Congress by the Constitution.
* 4 "Webster's Works, 271, 280.

t] 2 Howard, 38.

$ 9 Id. 567.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

My brothers CLIFFORD and FIELD concur in these
views, but in consideration of the importance of the principles involved will deliver their separate opinions. My
brother NELSON also dissents.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
Money, in the constitutional sense, means coins of gold
and silver fabricated and stamped by authority of law as a
measure of value, pursuant to the power vested in Congress
by the Constitution.*
Coins of copper may also be minted for small fractional
circulation, as authorized by law and the usage of the government for eighty years, but it is not necessary to discuss
that topic at large in this investigation.t
Even the authority of Congress upon the general subject
does not extend beyond the power to coin money, regulate
the value thereof and of foreign coin.t
Express power is also conferred upon Congress to fix the
standard of weights and measures, and of course that standard, as applied to future transactions, may be varied or
changed to promote the public interest, but the grant of
power in respect to the standard of value is expressed in
more guarded language, and the grant is much more restricted.
Power to fix the standard of weights and measures is evidently a power of comparatively wide discretion, but the
power to regulate the value of the money authorized by the
Constitution to be coined is a definite and precise grant of
power, admitting of very little discretion in its exercise, and
is not equivalent, except to a very limited extent, to the
power to fix the standard of weights and measures, as the
money authorized by that clause of the Constitution is coined
money, and as a necessary consequence must be money of
actual value, fabricated from the precious metals generally
used for that purpose at the period when the Constitutioii
was framed.
* Walker's Science of Wealth, 124; Liverpool on Coins, 8.
1 Constitution, art. 8, clause 6.
t 7 Jefferson's Works, 462.

588

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

Coined money, such as is authorized by that clause of the
instrument, consists only of the coins of the United States
fabricated and stamped by authority of law, and is the same
money as that described in the next clause of the same section as the curre~nt coins of the United States, and is the
same money also as "the gold and silver coins" described
in the tenth section of the same article, which prohibits the
States from coining money, emitting bills of credit, or naking "anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment
of debts."
Intrinsic value exists in gold and silver, as well before as
after it is fabricated and stamped as coin, which shows conclusively that the principal discretion vested in Congress
under that clause of the Constitution consists in the power
to determine the denomination, fineness, or value and description of the coins to be struck, and the relative proportion of gold or silver, whether standard or pure, and the
proportion of alloy to be used in minting the coins, and to
prescribe the mode in which the intended object of the grant
shall be accomplished and carried into practical effect.
Discretion, to some extent, in prescribing the value of the
coins minted, is beyond doubt vested in Congress, but the
plain intent of the Constitution is that Congress, in determining that matter, shall be governed chiefly by the weight
and intrinsic value of the coins, as it is clear that if the
stamped value of the same should much exceed the real
value of gold and silver not coined, the minted coins would
immediately cease to be either current coins or a standard
of value as contemplated by the Constitution.* Commercial
transactions imperiously require a standard of value, and the
commercial world, at a very early period in civilization,
adopted gold and silver as the true standard for that purpose,
and the standard originally adopted has ever since continued
to be so regarded by universal consent to the present time.
Paper emissions have, at one time or another, been authorized and employed as currency by most commercial nations,
*

uskisson on Depreciation of Currency.

22 Financial Pamphlets, 679.

Dec. 1870.]

TENDER CASES.
LEGAL
0
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

and by no government, past or present, more extensively than
by the United States, and yet it is safe to affirm that all experience in its use as a circulating medium has demonstrated
the proposition that it cannot by any legislation, however
stringent, be made a standard of value or the j ust equivalent
of gold and silver. Attempts of the kind have always failed,
and no body of men, whether in public or private stations,
ever had more instructive teachings of the truth of that
remark than the patriotic men who framed the Federal
Constitution, as they had seen the power to emit bills of
credit freely exercised during the war of the Revolution,
not only by the Confederation, but also by the States, and
knew from bitter experience its calamitous effects and the
utter worthlessness of such a circulating medium as a standard of value. Such men so instructed could not have done
otherwise than they did do, which was to provide an irrepealable standard of value, to be coined from gold and silver,
leaving as little upon the subject to the discretion of Congress as was consistent with a wise forecast and an invincible
determination that the essential principles of the Constitution should be perpetual as the means to secure the blessings
of liberty to themselves and their posterity.
Associated as the gcant to coin money and regulate the
value thereof is with the grant to fix the standard of weights
and measures, the conclusion, when that fact is properly
weighed in connection 'with the words of the grant, is irresistible that the purpose of the framers of the Constitution
was to provide a permanent standard of value which should,
at all times and under all circumstances, consist of coin,
fabricated and stamped, from gold and silver, by authority
of law, and that they intended at the same time to withhold
from Congress, as well as from the States, the power to substitute any other money as a standard of value in matters*
of finance, business, trade, or commerce.
Support to that view may also be drawn from the last
words of the clause giving Congress the unrestricted power
to regulate the value of foreign coin, as it would be difficult
if not impossible to give full effect to the standard of value

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. ot.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

prescribed by the Constitution, in times of fluctuation, if
the circulating medium could be supplied by foreign coins
not subject to any congressional regulation as to their
value.
Exclusive power to regulate the alloy and value of the
coin struck by their own authority, or by the authority of
the States, was vested in Congress under the Confederation,
but the Congress was prohibited from enacting any regulation as to the value of the coins unless nine States assented
to the proposed regulation.
Subject to the power of Congress to pass such regulations
it is unquestionably true that the States, under the Confederation as well as the United States, possessed the power to
coin money, but the Constitution, when it was adopted,
denied to the States all authority upon the subject, and also
ordained that they should not make anything but gold and
silver coin a tender in payment of debts.
Beyond all doubt the framers of the Constitution intended
that the money unit of the United States, for measuring
values, should be one dollar, as the word dollar in the plural
form is employed in the body of the Constitution, and also
in the seventh amendment, recommended by Congress at
its first session after the Constitution was adopted. Two
years before that, to wit, July 6, 1785, the Congress of the
Confederation enacted that the money unit of the United
States should " be one dollar," and one year later, to wit,
August 8, 1786, they. established the standard for gold and
silver, and also provided that the money of account of the
United States should correspond with the coins established
by law.*
On the 4th of March, 1789, Congress first assembled under
the Constitution, and proceeded without unnecessary delay
to enact such laws as were necessary to put the government
in operation which the Constitution had ordained and established. Ordinances had been passed during the Confedera* 1 Laws of the U. S., 1st ed., 646 ; 1 Curtis's History of the Constitufion,
443; 10 Journals of Congress (Dunlap's ed.), 225; 1 Life of Gouverneuf
Morris, 273; 11 Journals of Congress, 179.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

tion to organize the executive departments, and for the
establishment of a mint, but the new Constitution did not
perpetuate any of those laws, and yet Congress continued to
legislate for a period of three years before any new law was
passed prescribing the money unit or the money of account,
eithef for "the public offices" or for the courts. Throughout that period it must have been understood that those
matters were impliedly regulated by the Constitution, as
tariffs were enacted, tonnage duties imposed, laws passed
for the collection of duties, the several executive departments created, and the judiciary of the United States organized and empowered to exercise full jurisdiction under
the Constitution.
Duties of tonnage and import duties were required, by
the act of the 31st of July, 1789, to be paid "in gold and
silver coin," and Congress in the same act adopted comprehensive regulations as to the value of foreign coin, but no
provision was made for coining money or for a standard of
value, except so far as that subject is involved in the regulation as to the value of foreign coin, or for a money unit,
nor was any regulation prescribed as to the money of account. Revenue for the support of the government, under
those regulations, was to be derived solely from duties of
tonnage and import duties, and the express provision was
that those duties should be collected in gold and silver
coin.*
Legislation under the Constitution had proceeded thus
far before the Treasury Department was created. Treasury
regulations for the collection, safe-keeping, and disbursement of the public moneys became indispensable, and Congress, on the 2d September, 1789, passed the act to establish
the Treasury Department, which has ever since remained in
force.t By that act, the Secretary of the Treasury is declared to be the head of the department, and it is made his
duty, among other things, to digest and prepare plans for
the improvement and management of the public finances
* 1 Stat. at Large, 24; Ib. 29.

t 1b. 66.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

ESuip. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

and for the support of the public credit; to prepare and report estimates of the public revenue and of the public expenditures; to superintend the collection of the revenue;
to prescribe forms of keeping and stating accounts and for
making returns; to grant all warrants for moneys to be
issued from the treasury, in pursuance of appropriations by
law, and to perform all such services relative to the finances
as he shall be directed to perform.
Moneys collected from duties of tonnage and from import
duties constituted at that period the entire resources of the
national treasury, and the antecedent act of Congress, providing for the collection of those duties, imperatively required that all such duties should be paid in gold and silver
coin, from which it follows that the moneys mentioned in
the act creating the Treasury Department were moneys of
gold and silver coin which were collected as public revenue
from the duties of tonnage and import duties imposed by
the before-mentioned prior acts of Congress. Appropriations made by Congress were understood as appropriations
of moneys in the treasury, and all warrants issued by the
Secretary of the Treasury were understood to be warrants
for the payment of gold and silver coin. Forms for keeping
and stating accounts, and for making returns and for warrants for moneys to be issued from the treasury were prescribed, and in all those forms the Secretary of the Treasury
adopted the money unit recognized in the Constitution, and
which had been ordained four years before by the Congress
of the Confederation.
Argument to show that the national treasury was organized on the basis that the gold and silver coins of the United
States were to be the standard of value is unnecessary, as it
is a historical fact which no man or body of men can ever
successfully contradict. Public attention had been directed
to the necessity of establishing a mint for the coinage of
gold and silver, several years before the Convention met to
frame the Constitution, and a committee was appointed by
the Congress of the Confederation to consider and report
upon the subject. They reported on the 21st February,

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

1782, more than a year before the treaty of peace, in favor
of creating such an establishment, and on the 16th of October, 1786, the Congress adopted an ordinance providing that
a mint should be established for the coinage of gold, silver,
and copper, agreeably to the resolves of Congress previously
mentioned, which prescribed the standard of gold and silver,
and recognized the money unit established by the resolves
passed in the preceding year.*
Congressional legislation organizing the new government
had now progressed to the point where it became necessary
to re-examine that subject and to make provision for the
exercise of the power to coin money, as authorized by the
Constitution. Pursuant to that power Congress, on April
2d, 1792, passed the act establishing a mint for the purpose
of a national coinage, and made provision, among other
things, that coins of gold and silver, of certain fineness and
weight, and of certain denominations, value and descriptions, should be from time to time struck'and coined at the
said mint. Specific provision is there made for coining gold
and silver coins, as follows: First, gold coins, to wit: Eagles
of the value of ten dollars or units; half-eagles of the value
of five dollars; quarter-eagles of the value of two and a half
dollars, the act specifying in each case the number of grains
and fractions of a grain the coin shall contain, whether fabricated from pure or standard gold. Second, silver coins,
to wit: "DOLLARS OR UNITS," each to contain 371 grains and
fths parts of a grain of pure silver, or 416 grains of standard silver. Like provision is also made for the coinage of
half-dollars, quarter-dollars, dimes, and half-dimes, and also.
for the coinage of certain copper coins, but it is not neces
sary to enter much into those details in this case.
Provision, it must be conceded, is not there made, in express
terms, that the money unit of the United States shall be one
dollar, as in the ordinance passed during the Confederation,
but the act under consideration assumes throughout that the
* 1 Laws of the U. S 647; 10 Journals of Congress, 225; 11 Id. 254; 8Stat. at Large, 80.
88
voL. XII.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

E'Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

coin called dollar is the coin employed for that purpose, as
is obvious from the fact that the words dollars and units are
treated as synonymous, and that all the gold coins previously
described in the same section are measured by that word as
the acknowledged money unit of the Constitution. Very
strong doubts are entertained whether an act of Congress is
absolutely necessary to constitute the gold and silver coins
of the United States, fabricated and stamped as such by the
proper executive officers of the mint, a legal tender in payment of debts. Constituted as such coins are by the Constitution, the standard of value, the better opinion would
seem to be that they become legal tender for that purpose,
if minted of the required weight and fineness, as soon as
they are coined and put in circulation by lawful authority,
but it is unnecessary to decide that question in this case, as
the Congress, by the 16th section of the act establishing a
mint, provided that all the gold and silver coins which shall
have been struck at, and issued from, the said mint shall be
a lawful tender in all payments whatsoever-those of full
weight "according to the respective values herein declared,
and those of less than full weight at values proportioned to
their respective weights." Such a regulation is at all events
highly expedient, as all experience shows that even gold and
silver coins are liable to be diminished in weight by wear
and abrasion, even if it is not absolutely necessary in order
to constitute the coins, if of full weight, a legal tender.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the
money unit of the United States is the coined dollar, described in the act establishing the mint, but if more be
-wanted it will be found in the 20th section of that act, which
provides that the money of account of the United States
shal be expressed in dollars or units, dimes or tenths, &c.,
and that all accounts in the public offices and all proceedings in the Federal courts shall be kept and had in conformity to that regulation.*
Completed, as the circle of measures adopted by Congress
* 1 Stat. at Large: 248, 250.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

were, to put the new government into successful operation,
by the passage of that act, it will be instructive to take a brief
review of the important events which occurred within the
period of ten years next precedihg its passage, or of the ten
years next following the time when that measure was first
proposed in the Congress of the Confederation. Two reasons
suggest the 21st of February, 1782, as the time to commence
the review, in addition to the fact that it was on that day
that the committee of Congress made their report approving
of the project to establish a natioual mint.* They are as
follows: (1) Because that date just precedes the close of the
War of the Revolution; and (2), because the date at the same
time extends back to a period when all America had come
to the conclusion that all the paper currency in circulation
was utterly worthless, and that nothing was fit for a standard of value but gold and silver coin fabricated and stamped
by the national authority. Discussion upon the subject was
continued, and the ordinance was passed, but the measure
was not put in operation, as the Convention met the next year,
and the Constitution was framed, adopted, and ratified, the
President and the members of Congress were elected, laws
were passed, the judicial system was organized, the executive departments were created, the revenue system established, and provision was made to execute the power vested
in Congress to coin money and provide a standard of value,
as ordained by the Constitution.
Perfect consistency characterizes the measures of that
entire period in respect to the matter in question, and it
would be strange if it had been otherwise, as the whole
series of measures were to a very large extent the doings of
the same class of men, whether the remark is applied to the
old Congress, or the Convention which framed the Constitution, or to the first and second sessions of the new Congress which passed the laws referred to and put the new
system of government under the Constitution into full operation. Wise and complete as those laws were, still some
* 7 Journals of Congress, 286.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

difficulties arose, as the several States had not adopted the
money unit of the United States, nor the money of account
prescribed by the twentieth section of the act establishing
the mint. Such embarrassinents, however, were chiefly felt
in the Federal courts, and they were not of long continuance, as the several States, one after another, in pretty
rapid succession, adopted the new system established by Congress both as to the money unit and the money of account.
Virginia, December 19th, 1792, re-enacted that section in
the act of Congress without any material alteration, and
New Hampshire, on the 20th of February, 1794, passed a
similar law.* Massachusetts adopted the same provision
the next year, and so did Rhode Island and South Carolina.t
Georgia concurred on the 22d of February, 1796, and New
York on the 27th of January, 1797, and all the other States
adopted the same regulation in the course of a few years.1
State concurrence was essential in those particulars to the
proper working of the new system, and it was cheerfully
accorded by the State legislatures without unnecessary
delay.
Congress established as the money unit the coin mentioned
in the Constitution, and the one which had been adopted as
such seven years before in the resolve passed by the Congress of the Confederation. Dollars, and decimals of dollars,
were adopted as the money of account by universal consent,
as may be inferred from the unanimity exhibited by the
States in following the example of Congress. Nothing remained for Congress to do to perfect the new system but to
execute the power to coin money and regulate the value
thereof, as it is clear that the Constitution makes no provision for a standard of value unless the power to establish
it is conferred by that grant.
Power to fix the standard of weights and measures is
vested in Congress by the Constitution in plain and unam*

13 H ning's Statutes (Va.), 478; Laws of New Hampshire, 240.

t" 2 Laws of Massachusetts, 657 ; Revised Laws of Rhode Island, p. 319;
5 Statutes of South Carolina, 262.
$ M. & 0. Dig. (Ga.), 33; 3 Laws of New York, Greeln. ed. 363.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

biguous terms, and it was never doubted, certainly not until
within a recent period, that the power conferred to coin
money or to fabricate and stamp coins from gold and silver,
which in the constitutional sense is the same thing, together
with the power to determine the fineness, weight, and denominations of the moneys coined, was intended to accomplish the same purpose as to values. Indubitably it was so
understood by Congress in prescribing the various regulations contained in the act establishing the national mint,
and it continued to be so understood by all branches of the
government-executive, legislative, and judicial-and by the
whole people of the United States, for the period of seventy
years, from the passage of that act.
New regulations became necessary, and were passed in
the meantime increasing slightly the proportion of alloy
used in fabricating the gold coins, but if those enactments
are carefully examined it will be found that no one of them
contains anything inconsistent in principle with the views
here expressed. Gold, at the time the act establishing the
mint became a law, was valued 15 to 1 as compared with
silver, but the disparity in value gradually increased, and to
such an extent that the gold coins began to disappear from
circulation, and to remedy that evil Congress found it necessary to augment the relative proportion of alloy by diminishing the required amount of gold, whether pure or standard.
Eagles coined under that act were required to contain each
232 grains of pure gold, 6r 258 grains of standard gold.*
Three years later Congress enacted that the standard for
both gold and silver coins should thereafter be such that, of
1000 parts by weight, 900 should be of pure metal and 100
of alloy, by which the gross weight of the dollar was reduced
to 412- grains, but the fineness of the coins was correspondingly increased, so that the money unit remained of the
same intrinsic value as under the original act. Apply that
rule to the eagle and it will be seen that its gross weight
would be increased, as it was in fact by that act, but it con* 4 Stat. at Large, 699.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

tinned to contain, as under the preceding act, 232 grains of
pure gold and no more, showing conclusively that no change
was made in the value of the coins.*
Double eagles and gold dollars were authorized to be
"struck and coined" at the mint, by the act of. March 3d,
1849, but the standard established for other gold coins was
not changed, and the provision was that the new coins should
also be legal tender for their coined value.t
Fractional silver coins were somewhat reduced in value
by the act of February 21st, 1853, but the same act provided
to the effect that the silver coins issued in conformity thereto
should not be a legal tender for any sum exceeding five
dollars, showing that the purpose of the enactment was to
prevent the fractional coins, so essential for daily use, from
being hoarded or otherwise withdrawn from circulation.1
Suppose it be conceded, however, that the effect of that
act was slightly to debase the fractional silver coins struck
and coined under it, still it is quite clear that the amount
was too inconsiderable to furnish any solid argument against
the proposition that the standard of value in the United
States was fixed by the Constitution, and that such was the
understanding, both of the government and of the people
of the United States, for a period of more than seventy
years from the time the Constitution was adopted and put in
successful operation under the laws of Congress. Through.
out that period the value of the money unit was never diminished, and it remains to-day, in respect to value, what it
was when it was defined in the act establishing the mint, and
it is safe to affirm that no one of the changes made in the
other coins, except perhaps the fractional silver coins, ever
extended one whit beyond the appropriate liniit of constitutional regulation.
Treasury notes, called United States notes, were authorized to be issued by the act of February 25th, 1862, to the
amount of $150,000,000, on the credit of the United States,
but they were not to bear interest, and were to be made
*5 Star. at Large, 137.

t 9 Id. 397.

1 10 Id. 160

:Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

payable to bearer at the treasury. -They were to be issued
by the Secretary of the Treasury, and the further provision
was that the notes so issued should be lawful money and
legal tender in payment of all debts, public and private,
within the United States, except duties on imports and interest upon bonds and notes of the United States, i;hich the
act provides "shall be paid in coin."* Subsequent acts
passed for a similar purpose also except "certificates of indebtedness and of deposit," but it will not be necessary to
refer specially to the other acts, as the history of that legislation is fully given in the prior decision of this court upon
the same subject.t
Strictly examined it is doubtful whether either of the cases
before the court present any such questions as those "which
have been discussed in the opinion of the majority of the
court just read; but suppose they do, which is not admitted,
it then becomes necessary to inquire in the first place whether
those questions are not closed by the recorded decisions of
this court. Two questions are examined in the opinion of
the majority of the court: (1.) Whether the legal tender
acts are constitutional as to contracts made before the acts
were passed. (2.) Whether they are valid if applied to contracts made since their passage.
Assume that the views here expressed are correct, and it
matters not whether the contract was made before or after
the act of Congress was passed, as it necessarily follows that
Congress cannot, under any circumstances, make paper
promises, of any kind, a legal tender in payment of debts.
Prior to the decision just pronounced it is conceded that the
second question presented in the record was never determined by this court, except as it is involved in the first
question, but it is admitted by the majority of the court that
the first question, that is the question whether the acts under
consideration are constitutional as to contracts made before
their passage, was fully presented in the case of Hepburn v.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 845.
t Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wallace, 618; 12 Stat. at Large, 370, 582, 710,
822.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

Griswold, and that the cburt decided that an act of Congress
making mere paper promises to pay dollars a legal tender in
payment of debts previously contracted is unconstitutional
and void.
Admitted or not, it is as clear as anything in legal decision can be that the judgment of the court in that case
controls the first question presented in the cases before the
court, unless it be held that the judgment in that case was
given for the wrong party and that the opinion given by the
Chief Justice ought to be overruled.
Attempt is made to show that the second question is an
open one, but the two, in My judgment, involve the same
considerations, as Congress possesses no other power upon
the subject than that which is derived from the grant to
coin money, regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin.
By that remark it is not meant to deny the proposition that
Congress in executing the express grants may not pass all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying the
same into execution, as provided in another clause of the
same section of the Constitution. Much consideration of
that topic is not required, as the discussion was pretty nearly
exhausted by the Chief Justice in the case of Hlepburn v.
Griswold,* which arose under the same act and in which he
gave the opinion. In that case the contract bore date prior
to the passage of the law, and he showed conclusively that
it could never be necessary and proper, within the meanino
of the Constitution, that Congress, in executing any of the
express powers, should pass laws to compel a creditor to accept paper promises as fulfilling a contract for the payment
of money expressed in dollars. Obviously the decision was
confined to the case before the court, but I am of the opinion
that the same rule must be applied whether the contract was
made before or after the passage of the law, as the contract
for the payment of money, expressed in dollars, is a contract
to make the payment in such money as the Constitution
recognizes and establishes as a standard of value. Money
* 8 Wallace, 614, 625.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

values can no more be measured without a standard of value
than distances without a standard of extent, or quantities
without a standard of weights or measures, and it is as
necessary that there should be a money unit as that there
should be a unit of extent, or of weight, or quantity.*
Credit currency, whether issued by the States or the
United States, or by private corporations or individuals, is
not recognized by the Constitution as a standard of vauu,
nor can it be made such by any law which Congress or the
States can pass, as the laws of trade are stronger than any
legislative enactment. Commerce requires a standard of
value, and all experience warrants the prediction that commerce will have it, whether the United States agree or disagree, as the laws of commerce in that respect are stronger
than the laws of any single nation of the commercial world.t
Values cannot be measured without a standard any more
than time or duration, or length, surface, or solidity, or
weight, gravity, or quantity. Something in every such case
must be adopted as a unit which bears a known relation to
that which is to be measured, as the dollar for values, the
hour for time or duration, the foot of twelve inches for
length, the yard for cloth measure, the square foot or yard
for surface, the cubic foot for solidity, the gallon for liquids,
and the pound for weights; the pound avoirdupois being
used in most commercial transactions and the pound troy
"for weighing gold and silver and precious stones, except
diamonds."t
Unrestricted power " to fix the standard of weights and
measures" is vested in Congress, but uritil recently Congress had not enacted any general regulations in execution
of that power.§ Regulations upon the subject existed in the
States at the adoption of the Constitution, the same as those
* 7 Jefferson's Works, 472; 22 Financial Pamphlets, 417; Horner's Bul-

lion Report.
t McCullock, Commercial Dictionary, edition of 1869, 880.
$ 2 Bouvier's Law Dictionary, 648; 7 Jefferson's Works, 472; 1 Jefferson's Correspondence, 183.
4 Stat. at La-ge, 278; 5 Id. 133; 14 Id. 839.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

which prevailed at that time in the parent country, and
Judge Story says that the understanding was that those regulations remained in full force and that the States, until
Congress should legislate, possessed the power to fix their
own weights and measures.*
Power to coin money and regulate the value of domestic
and foreign coin was vested in the national government to
produce uniformity of value and to prevent the embarrassments of a perpetually fluctuating and variable currency.t
Money, says the same commentator, is the universal medium or common standard by'a comparison with which the
value of all merchandise may be ascertained; and he also
speaks of it as "a sign which represents the respective
values of all other commodities."
Such a power, that is
the power to coin money, he adds, is one of the ordinary
prerogatives of sovereignty, and is almost universally exercised inorder to preserve a proper circulation of good coin,
of a known value, in the home market.§
Interests of such magnitude and pervading importance as
those involved in providing for a uniform standard of value
throughout the Union were manifestly entitled to the protection of the national authority, and in view of the evils
experienced for the want of such a standard during the war
of the Revolution, when the country was inundated with
floods of depreciated paper, the members of the Convention
who framed the Constitution did not hesitate to confide the
power to Congress not only to coin money and regulate the
value thereof, but also the power to regulate the value of
foreign coin, which was denied to the Congress of the Confederation.II
Influenced by these considerations and others expressed
* 2 Story on the Constitution (3d ed.), 1122; Rawle on the Constitution,
102; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, 596; Pomeroy on the Constitution, 263.
f 2 Story on the Constitution, 1122.
$ 2 Story on the Constitution, 1118.
SMill, Political Economy, 294.
I 2 Phillips's Paper Currency, 135; 9 Jefferson's Works, 254, 289; 6
Sparks, Washington's Letters, 321.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

in the opinion of the Chief Justice, this court decided in the
case referred to, that the act of Congress making the notes
in question "lawful money and a legal tender in payment
of debts" could not be vindicated as necessary and proper
means for carrying into effect the power vested in Congress
to coin money and regulate the value thereof; or any other
express power vested in Congress under the Constitution.
Unless that case, therefore, is overruled, it is clear in my
judgment, that both the cases before the court are controlled
by that decision. Controversies determined by the Supreme
Court are finally and conclusively settled, as the decisions
are numerous that the court cannot review and reverse their
own judgments.*
But where the parties are different, it -is said the court,
in a subsequent case, may overrule a former decision, and
it must be admitted that the proposition, in a technical
point of view, is correct. Such examples are to be found
in the reported decisions of the court, but they are not numerous, and it seems clear that the number ought never to
be increased, especially in a matter of so much importance,
unless the error is plain and upon the clearest convictions
of judicial duty.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff in that case on
the 17th of September, 1864, in the highest court of the
State, and on the 23d of June in the succeeding year the
defendants sued out a writ of error, and removed the cause
into this court for re-examination.t Under the regular call
of the docket the case was first argued at the December
Term, 1867, but at the suggestion of the Attorney-General
an order was passed that it be re-argued, and the case was
accordingly continued for that purpose. Able counsel appeared at the next term, and it was again elaborately argued
on both sides. Four or five other cases were also on the
calendar, supposed at that time to involve the same constiSibbald v. United States, 12 Peters, 492; Bridge Co. v. Stewart, 8 Howard, 424 ; Peck v. Sanderson, 18 Id. 42 ; Noonan v. Bradley, 12 Wallace,
121.
t Griswold v. Hepburn, 2 Duvall, 20.

[Sup. Ct.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions -Opinion

of Clifford, J.

tutional questions, and those cases were also argued, bringing to the aid of the court an unusual array of counsel of
great learning and eminent abilities. Investigation and
deliberation followed, authorities were examined, and oftrepeated consultations among the justices ensued, and the
case was held under advisement as long as necessary to the
fullest examination by all the justices of the court, before
the opinion of the court w. delivered. By law the Supreme
Court at that time consisted of the Chief Justice and seven
associate justices, the act of Congress having provided that
no vacancy in the office of associate justice should be filled
until the n.umber should be reduced to six.* Five of the
number, including the Chief Justice, concurred in the
opinion in that case, and the judgment of the State court
was affirmed, three of the associate justices dissenting.
Since that time one of the justices who concurred in that
opinion of the court has resigned, and Congress having increased the number of the associate justices to eight, the
two cases before the court have been argued, and the result
is that the opinion delivered in the former case is overruled,
five justices concurring in the present opinion and four dissenting. Five justices concurred in the first opinion, and
five have overruled it.t Persuaded that the first opinion
was right, for the reasons already assigned, it is not possible
that I should concur in the second, even if it were true that
no other reasons of any weight could be given in support
of the judgment in the first case, and that the conclusion
there reached must stand or fall without any other support.
Many other reasons, however, may be invoked to fortify
that conclusion, equally persuasive and convincing with
those to which reference has been made.
All writers upon political economy agree that money is
the universal standard of value, and the measure of exchange, foreign and domestic, and that the power to coin
and regulate the value of money is an essential attribute of
national sovereignty. Goods and chattels were directly bar* 14 Stat at Large, 209.

t 16 Id. 44.

Dec. 1870.]

eLEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

tered, one for another, when the division of labor was first
introduced, but gold and silver were adopted to serve the
purpose of exchange by the tacit concurrence of all nations
at a very early period in the history of commercial transactions.* Commodities of various kinds were used as money
at different periods in different countries, but experience
soon showed the commercial nations that gold and silver
embodied the qualities desirable in money in a much greater
degree than an-y other known commodity or substance.t
Daily experience shows the truth of that proposition, and
supersedes the necessity of any remarks to enforce it, as all
admit that a commodity to serve as a standard of value and
a medium of exchange must be easily divisible into small
portions; that it must admit of being kept for an indefinite
period without deteriorating; that it must possess great value
in small bulk, and be capable of being easily transported
from place to place; that a given denomination of money
should always be equal in weight and quality, or fineness to
other pieces of money of the same denomination, and that
its value should be the same or as little subject to variation
as possible.T Such qualities, all agree, are united in a much
greater degree in gold and silver than in any other known
commodity, which was as well known to the members of
the Convention who framed the Constitution as to any body
of men since assembled, and intrusted to any extent with the
public affairs. They not oniy knew that the money of the
commercial world was gold and silver, but they also knew,
from bitter experience, that paper promises, whether issued
by the States or the United States, were utterly worthless as
a standard of value for any practical purpose.
Evidence of the truth of these remarks, of the most convincing character, is to be found in the published proceedings of that Convention. Debate upon the subject first arose
when an amendment was proposed to prohibit the States
"Walker's Science of Wealth, 127.

t 1 Smith's Wealth of Nations, 35.
$ McCullock's Commercial Dictionary (ed. 1869), 894; Mill's Political
Economy, 294; 7 Jefferson's Works, 490.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

from emitting bills of credit or making anything but gold
and silver coin a tender in payment of debts, and from the
character of that debate, and the vote on the amendment, it
became apparent that paper money had but few, if any
friends in the Convention.* Article seven of the draft of the
Constitution, as reported to the Convention, contained the
clause, "and emit bills on the credit of the United States,"
appended to the grant of power vested in Congress to borrow money, and it was on the motion to strike out that
clause that the principal discussion in respect to paper money
took place. Mr. Madison inquired if it would not be sufficient to prohibit the making such bills a tender, as that
would remove the temptation to emit them with unjust
views. Promissory notes, he said, in that shape, that is
when not a tender, "may in some emergencies be best."
Some were willing to acquiesce in the modification suggested
by Mr. Madison, but Mr. Morris, who submitted the motion,
objected, insisting that if the motion prevailed there would
still be room left for the notes of a responsible minister,
which, as he said, "would do all the good without the mischief." Decided objections were advanced by Mr. Ellsworth, who said le thought the moment a favorable one
"to shut and bar the door against paper money;" and others
expressed their opposition to the clause in equally decisive
language, even saying that they would sooner see the whole
plan rejected than retain the three words, "and emit bills."
Suffice it to say, without reproducing the discussion, that
the motion prevailed-nine States to two-and the clause
was stricken out and no attempt was ever made to restore
it. Paper money, as legal tender, had few or no advocates in
the Convention, and it never had more than one open advocate throughout the period the Constitution was under discussion, either in the Convention which framed it, or in the
conventions of the States where it was ratified. Virginia
voted in the affirmative on the motion to strike out that
clause, Mr. Madison being satisfied that if the motion pre* 3 Madison Papers, 1442.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

607

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

vailed it would not have the effect to disable the government from the use of treasury notes, and being himself in
favor of cutting "off the pretext for a paper currency, and particularlyfor making the bills a tender, either for public or private
debts."* When the draft for the Constitution was reported
the clause prohibiting the States from making anything but
gold and silver a tender in payment of debts contained an
exception, "in case Congress consented," but the Convention struck out the exception, and made the prohibition
absolute, one of the members remarking that it was a favorable moment to crush out paper money, and all or nearly
all of the Convention seemed to concur in the sentiment.t
Contemporaneous acts are certainly evidence of intention,
and if so, it is difficult to see what more is needed to show
that the members of that Convention intended to withhold
from the States, and from the United States, all power to
make anything but gold and silver a standard of value, or a
tender in payment of debts. Equally decisive proof to the
same effect is found in the debates which subsequently occurred in the conventions of the several States, to which the
Constitution, as adopted, was submitted for ratification.1
Mr. Martin thought that the States ought not to be totally
deprived of the right to emit bills of credit, but he says
"that the Convention was so smitten with the paper money
dread that they insisted that the prohibition should be absolute."§
Currency is a word much more comprehensive than the
word money, as it may include bank bills and even bills of
exchange as well as coins of gold and silver, but the word
money, as employed in the grant of power under consideration, means the coins of gold and silver, fabricated and
stamped as required by law, which, byvirtue of their intrinsic value, as universally acknowledged, and their official
origin, become the medium of exchange and the standard
3 Mladison Papers, 1344; 5 Elliott's Debates, 434, 485.
t 2 Curtis's History of the Constitution, 364.
1 1 Elliott's Debates, 492; 2 Id. 486; 4 Id. 184; Ib. 334, 336; 8 Id. 290,
1 Id. 376.
472, 478; 1 Id. 369, 370.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

by which all other values are expressed and discharged.
Support to the proposition that the word money, as employed in that clause, was intended to be used in the sense
here supposed is also derived from the language employed
in certain numbers of the Federalist, which, as is well
known, were written and published during the period the
question whether the States would ratify the Constitution
was pending in their several conventions. Such men as the
writers of those essays never could have employed such language if they had entertained the remotest idea that Congress possessed the power to make paper promises a legal
tender.*
Like support is also derived from the language of Mr.
Hamilton in his celebrated report recommending the incorporation of a national bank. ie first states the objection to
the proposed measure, that banks tend to banish the gold
and silver of the country; and secondly he gives the answer
to that objection made by the advocates of the bank, that it
is immaterial what serves the purpose of money, and then
says that the answer is not entirely satisfactory, as the permanent increase or decrease of the precious metals in a
country can hardly ever be a matter of indifference. "As
the commodity taken in lieu of every other, it (coin) is a
species of the most effective wealth, and as the money of the
world it is of great eoncern to the state that it possesses a
sufficiency of it to face any demands which the protection
of its external interests may create." He favored the incorporation of a national bank, with power to issue bills and
notes payable on demand in gold and silver, but he expressed
himself as utterly opposed to paper emissions by the United
States, characterizing them as so liable to abuse and even so
certain of being abused that the government ought never to
trust itself "with the use of so seducing and dangerous an
element."t Opposed as he was to paper emissions by the
United States, under any circumstances, it is past belief that
he could ever have concurred in the proposition to make
* Federalist, No. 44; Ibid. No.42.
t Hist. of the Bank of the United States, 21, 24, 82.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions -Opinion

of Clifford, J.

such emissions a tender in payment of debts, either as a
member of the Convention which framed the Constitution
or as the head of the Treasury Department. Treasury notes,
however, have repeatedly been authorized by Congress,
commencing with the act or 30th of June, 1812, but it was
never supposed before the time when the several acts in
question were passed that Congress could make such notes
a legal tender in payment of debts.* Such notes, it was enacted, should be received in payment of all duties and taxes
laid, and in payment for public lands sold, by the Federal
authority. Provision was also made in most or all of the
acts that the Secretary of the Treasury, with the approbation of the President, might cause treasury notes to be
issued, at the par value thereof, in payment of services, of
supplies, or of debts for which the United States were or
might be answerable by law, to such person or persons as
should be willing to accept the same in payment, but it never
occurred to the legislators of that day that such notes could
be made a legal tender in discharge of such indebtedness,
or that the public creditor could be compelled to accept
them in payment of his just demands.t
Financial embarrassments, second only in their disastrous
consequences to those which preceded the adoption of the
Constitution, arose towards the close of the last war with
Great Britain, and it is matter of history that those embarrassments were too great and pervading to be overcome
by the use of treasury notes or any other paper emissions
without a specie basis. Expedients of various kinds were
suggested, but it never occurred either to the executive or.
to Congress that a remedy could be found by making treasury notes, as then authorized, a legal tender, and the result
was that the second Bank of the United States was incorporated.t Paper currency, it may be said, was authorized by
that act, which is undoubtedly true; and it is also true that
the bills or notes of the bank were made receivable in all
payments to the United States, if the same were at the timet 3 Id. 315.

* 2 Stat at Large, 766; 8 Id 100.

VOL. Xr.

39

1 Ib. 266.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

payable on demand, but the act provided that the corporation should not refuse, under a heavy penalty, the payment
in gold and silver, of any of its notes, bills, or obligations,
nor of any moneys received upon deposit in the bank or in
any of its offices of discount and deposit.
Serious attempt is made, strange to say, to fortify the
proposition that the acts in question are constitutional from
the fact that Congress, in providing for the use of treasury
notes, and in granting the charters to the respective national
banks, made the notes and bills receivable in payment of
duties and taxes, but the answer to the suggestion is so
obvious that it is hardly necessary to pause to suggest its
refutation.* Creditors may exact gold and silver or they
may waive the right to require such money, and accept
credit currency, or commodities, other than gold and silver,
and the United States, as creditors, or in the exercise of
their express power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises, may, if they see fit, accept the treasury notes
or bank bills in such payments as substitutes for the constitutional currency. Further discussion of the proposition is
unnecessary, as it is plainly destitute of any merit whatever.t
Resort was also had to treasury notes in the revulsion of
1837, and during the war with Mexico, and also in the great
revulsion of 1857, but the new theory that Congress could
make treasury notes a legal tender was not even suggested,
either by the President or by any member of Congress.1
Seventy years are included in this review, even if the
computation is only carried back to the passage of the act
establishing the mint, and it is clear that there is no trace
of any act, executive or legislative, within that period, which
affords the slightest support to the new constitutional theory
that Congress can by law constitute paper emissions a tender
in payment of debts. Even Washington, the father of our
country, refused to accept paper money in payment of debts,
,ontracted before the War of Independence, and the proof
Bank v. Van Dyck, 27 New York, 42.
t 4 Webster's Works, 271; Thorndike v. United States, 2 Mason, 18.
1 5 Stat. at Large, 201; Lb. 469; 9 Id. 118; 11 1d. 257.
*Metropolitan

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

is full to the point that Hamilton, as well as Jefferson and
Madison, was opposed to paper emissions by the national
authority.*
Sufficient also is recorded in the reports of the decisions
of this court to show that the court, from the organization
of the judicial system to the day when the judgments in the
cases before the court were announced,t held opinions
utterly opposed to such a construction of the Constitution
as would authorize Congress to make paper promises a legal
tender as between debtor and creditor. Throughout that
period the doctrine or the court has been, and still is, unless
the opinion of the court just read constitutes an exception,
that the government of the United States, as ordained and
established by the Constitution, is a government of enumerated powers; that all the powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States,
are reserved to the States respectively or to the people; that
every power vested in the Federal government under the
Constitution is in its nature sovereign, and that Congress
may pass all laws necessary and proper to carry the same
into execution, or, in other words, that the power being sovereign includes, by force of the term, the requisite means,
fairly applicable to the attainment of the contemplated end,
which are not precluded by restrictions or exceptions expressed, or necessarily implied, and not contrary to the essential ends of political society.1
Definitions slightly different have been given by different
jurists to the words "necessary and proper," employed in
the clause of the Constitution conferring upon Congress
the power to pass laws for carrying the express grants of
power into execution, but no one ever pretended that a construction or definition could be sustained that the general
clause would authorize the employment of such means in
the execution of one express grant as would practically
* 2 Phillips's Paper Currency, 135; 6 Sparks's Letters of Washington,
821.
t Legal Tender Cases, 11 Wallace, 682.
+ History of the Bank of the United States, 95.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Cto

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

nullify another or render another utterly nugatory. Circumstances made it necessary that Mr. Hamilton should
examine that phrase at a very early period after the Constitution was adopted, and the definition he gave to it is as
follows: "All the means requisite and fairly applicable to
the attainment of the end of such power which are not precluded by restrictions and exceptions specified in the Constitution, and not contrary to the essential ends of political
society." Twenty-five years later the question was examined by the Supreme Court* and authoritatively settled, the
Chief Justice giving the opinion. His words were: "Let
the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are
plainly adapted to that end, and which are not prohibited
but consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution,
are constitutional."
Substantially the same definition was adopted by the
present Chief Justice in the former case, in which he gave
the opinion of the court, and there is nothing contained in
the Federal reports giving the slightest sanction to any
broader definition of those words. Take the definition given
by Mr. Hamilton, which, perhaps, is the broadest, if there is
any difference, and still it is obvious that it would give no
countenance whatever to the theory that Congress, in passing a law to execute one express grant of the Constitution,
could authorize means which would nullify another express
grant, or render it nugatory for the attainment of the end
which the framers of the Constitution intended it should
accomplish.
Authority to coin money was vested in Congress to provide a permanent national standard of value, everywhere
the same, and subject to no variation except what Congress
shall make under the power to regulate the value thereof,
and it is not possible to affirm, with any hope that the utterance will avail in the argument, that the power to coin
money is not an express power, and if those premises are
.* McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 421.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

conceded it cannot be shown that Congress can so expand
any other express power by implication as to nullify or defeat the great purposes whichi the power to coin money and
establish a standard of value was intended to accomplish.
Government notes, it is conceded, may be issued as a
means of borrowing money, because the act of issuing the
notes may be, and often is, a requisite means to execute the
granted power, and being fairly applicable to the attainment
of the end, the notes, as means, may be employed, as they
are not precluded by any restrictions or exceptions, and are
not repugnan.t to any other express grant contained in the
Constitution. Light-houses, buoys, and beacons may be
erected under the power to regulate commerce, but Congress cannot authorize an officer of the government to take
private property for such a purpose without just compensation, as the exercise of such a power would be repugnant to
the fifth amendment. Power to lay and collect taxes is
conferred upon Congress, but the Congress cannot tax the
salaries of the State judges, as the exercise of such a power
is incompatible with the admitted power of the States to
create courts, appoint judges, and provide for their compensation.*
Congress may also impose duties, imposts, and excises to
pay the debts and provide for the common defence and
general welfare, but the Congress cannot lay any tax or duty
on articles exported from any State, nor can Congress give
any preference by any regulation of commerce or revenue
to the ports of one State over those of another, as the exercise of any such power is prohibited by the Constitution.
Exclusive power is vested in Congress to declare war, to
raise and support armies, to provide and maintain a navy,
and to make rules for the government and regulation of the
land and naval forces. Appropriations to execute those
powers may be made by Congress, but no appropriations of
money to that use can be made for a longer term than two
years, as an appropriation for a longer term is expressly
* Collector v. Day, 11 Wallace, 113; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Id. 418.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

prohibited by the same clause which confers the power to
raise and support armies. By virtue of those grants of
power Congress may erect forts and magazines, may construct navy-yards and dock-yards, manufacture arms and
munitions of war, and may establish depots and other needful buildings for their preservation, but the Congress cannot
take private property for that purpose without making compensation to the owner, as the Constitution provides that
private property shall not be taken for public use without
just compensation.
Legislative power under the Constitution can never be
rightfully extended to the exercise of a power not granted
nor to that which is prohibited, and it makes no difference
whether the prohibition is express or implied, as an implied
prohibition, when once ascertained, is as effectual to negative
the right to legislate as one that is expressed; the rule being
that Congress, in passing laws to carry the express powers
granted into execution, cannot select any means as requisite
for that purpose or as fairly applicable to the attainment of
the end, which are precluded by restrictions or exceptions
contained in the Constitution, or which are contrary to the
essential ends of political society.*
Concede these premises, and it follows that the acts of
Congress in question cannot be regarded as valid unless it
can be held that the power to make paper emissions a legal
tender in payment of debts can properly be implied from
the power to coin money, and that such emissions, when enforced by such a provision, become the legal standard of
value under the Constitution. Extended discussion of the
first branch of the proposition would seem to be unnecessary, as the dissenting justices in the former case abandoned
that point and frankly stated in the dissenting opinion delivered that they were not able to see in those clauses,
"standing alone, a sufficient warrant for the exercise of this
power." Through their organ on the occasion they referred
to the power to declare war, to suppress insurrection, to
* History of the Bank of the United States, 95.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

raise and support armies, to provide and maintain a navy,
to borrow money, to pay the debts of the Union, and to provide for the common defence and general welfare, as grants
of power conferred in separate clauses of the Constitution.
Reference was then made in very appropriate terms to the
exigencies of the treasury during that period and the conclusion reached, though expressed interrogatively, appears
to be that the provision making the notes a legal tender was
a necessary and proper one as conducing "towards the purpose of borrowing money, of paying debts, of raising armies,
of suppressing insurrection," or, as expressed in another
part of the same opinion, the provision was regarded as
"necessary and proper to enable the government to borrow
money to carry on the war."*
Suggestions or intimations are made in one or more of
the opinions given in the State courts that the power assumed by Congress may be vindicated as properly implied
from the power to coin money, but inasmuch as that assumption was not the ground of the dissent in the former case,
and as the court is not referred to any case where a court
affirming the validity of the acts of Congress in question has
ventured to rest their decision upon that theory, it does not
appear to be necessary to protract the discussion upon that
point.
Such notes are not declared in the acts of Congress to be
a standard of value, and if they were the provision would be
as powerless to impart that quality to the notes as were the
processes of the alchemist to convert chalk into gold, or the
contrivances of the mechanic to organize a machine and
give it perpetual motion. Gold and silver were adopted as
the standard of value, even before civil governments were
organized, and they have always been regarded as such to
the present time, and it is safe to affirm that they will continue to be such by universal consent, in spite of legislative
enactments and of judicial decisions. Treasury notes, or the
notes in question, called by what name they may be, never
Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wallace, 682.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Cr.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

performed that office, even for a day, and it may be added
that neither legislative enactments nor judicial decisions
can compel the commercial world to accept paper emissions
of any kind as the standard of value by which all other
values are to be measured.* Nothing but money will in
fact perform that office, and it is clear that neither legislative enactments nor judicial decisions can perform commercial impossibilities. Commodities undoubtedly may be
exchanged as matter of barter, or the seller may accept
paper promises instead of money, but it is nevertheless true,
as stated by Mr. Huskisson, that money is not only the common measure and common representative of all other commodities, but also the common and universal equivalent. Whoever buys, gives, whoever sells, receives such a quantity of
pure gold or silver as is equivalent to the article bought or
sold; or if he gives or receives paper instead of money, he
gives or receives that which is valuable only as it stipulates
the payment of a given quantity of gold or silver.t
"Most unquestionably," said Mr. \Vebster,$ "there is no
legal tender, and there can be no legal tender, in this country,
under the authority of this government, or any other, but
gold and silve.... .This is a constitutional principle, perfectly plain and of the very highest importance." He admitted that no such express prohibition was contained in the
Constitution, and then proceeded to say: "As Congress has
no power granted to it in this respect but to coin money and
to regulate the value of foreign coins, it clearly has no power
to substitute paper or anything else for coin as a tender in
payment of debts and in discharge of contracts," adding
that " Congress has exercised the power fully in both its
branches. It has coined money and still coins it, it has
regulated the value of foreign cOins and still regulates their
value. The legal tender, therefore, Tn CONSTITUTIOXAL
STANDARD

OF VALUE, IS ESTABLISHIED AND CANNOT BE OVER-

." Beyond peradventure he was of the opinion that
gold and silver, at rates fixed by Congress, constituted the
THRWN

* Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wallace, 608.

+ 22 Financial Pamphlets, 680.

+ 4 Webster's Works, 271.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dec.1870.]

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

legal standard of value, and that neither Congress nor the
States had authority to establish any other standard in its
place.*
Views equally decisive have been expressed by this court
in a case where the remarks were pertinent to the question
presented for decision.t Certain questions were certified
here which arose in the Circuit Court in the trial of an indictment in which the defendant was charged with having
brought into the United States from a foreign place, with
intent to pass, utter, publish, and sell certain false, forged,
and counterfeit coins, made, forged, and counterfeited in
the resemblance and similitude of the coins struck at the
mint. Doubts were raised at the trial whether Congress
had the power to pass the law on which the indictment was
founded. Objection was made that the acts charged were
only a fraud in traffic, and, as such, were punishable, if at
all, under the State law. Responsive to that suggestion the
court say that the provisions of the section "appertain rather
to the execution of an important trust invested by the C6nstitution, and to the obligation to fulfil that trust on the
part of the government, namely, the trust and the duty of
creating and maintaining a uniform and pure metallic standard
of value throughout the Union ; that the power of coining
money and of regulating its value was delegated to Congress by the Constitution for the very purpose of creating
and preserving the uniformity and purity of such a standard of
value, and on account of the impossibility which was foreseen
of otherwise preventing the inequalities and the confusion
necessarily incident to different views of policy which in different communities would be brought to bear on this subject.
The power to coin money being thus given to Congress,
founded on public necessity, it must carry with it the correlative power of protecting the creature and object of that
power." Appropriate suggestions follow as to the right of
the government to adopt measures to exclude counterfeits
and prevent the true coin from being substituted by others
*4 Id. 280.

t United States v. Marigold, 9 Howard, 567.

TLEGAL TENDER

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opnion of Clifford, J.

of no intrinsic value, and the justice delivering the opinion
then proceeds to say, that Congress " having emitted a circulating medium, a slandardof value indispensablefor the purposes of the community and for the action of the government
itself, the Congress is accordingly authorized and bound in
duty to prevent its debasement and expulsion and the destruction of the general confidence and convenience by the
influx and substitution of a spurious coin in lieu of the constitutional currency."
Equally decisive views were expressed by the court six
years earlier, in the case of Gwin v. Breedlove,* in which the
opinion of the court was delivered by the late Mr. Justice
Catron, than whom no justice who ever sat in tie court was
more opposed to the expression of an opinion on a point not
involved in the record.
No State shall coin money, emit bills of credit, or make
anything but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts.
These prohibitions, said Mr. Justice Washington,t associatdd with the powers granted to Congress to coin money
and regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin, most obviously constitute members of the same fimily, being upon
the same subject and governed by the same policy. This
policy, said the learned justice, was to provide a fixed and
uniform standard of value throughout the 'nited States, by
which the commercial and other dealings between the citizens thereof, or between them and foreigners, as well as the
moneyed transactions of the government, should be regulated. Language so well chosen and so explicit cannot be
misunderstood, and the views expressed by Mi. Justice
-fe said
Johnson in the same case are even more decisive.
the prohibition in the Constitution to make anything but
gold or silver coin a tender in payment of debts is express
and universal. The framers of the Constitution regarded it
as an evil to be repelled without modification, and that they
have therefore left nothing to be inferred or deduced from
construction on the subject.1
* 2 Howard, 38.

t Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 265.

$ lb. 288.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

Recorded as those opinions have been for forty-five years,
and never questioned, they are certainly entitled to much
weight, especially as the principles which are there laid
down were subsequently affirmed in two cases by the unanimous opinion of this court.*
Strong support to the view here taken is also derived from
the case of Craig v. Missouri, last cited, in which the opinion
was given by the Chief Justice. Loan certificates issued by
the State were the consideration of the note in suit in that
case, and the 'defence was that the certificates vere bills of
credit and that the consideration of the note was illegal.
Responsive to that defence the plaintiff insisted that the certificates were not bills of credit, because they had not been
made a legal tender, to which the court replied, that the
emission of bills of credit and the enactment of tender laws
were distinct operations, independent of each other; that
both were forbidden by the Constitution; that the evils of
paper money did not result solely from the quality of its
being made a tender in payment of debts; that that quality
might be the most pernidious one, but that it was not an essential quality of bills of credit nor the only mischief resulting
from such emissions.t
Remarks of the Chief Justice in the case of Sturges v.
Growninshieltd may also be referred to as even more explicit
and decisive to the same conclusion than anything embodied
in the other cases. He first describes, in vivid colors, the
general distress which followed the war in which our independence was established. Paper money, he said, was issued,
worthless lands and other property of no use to the creditor
were made a tender in payment of debts, and the time of
payment stipulated in the contract was extended by law.
Mischief to such an extent was done, and so much more
was apprehended, that general distrust prevailed and all
* United States v. Marigold, 9 Howard, 567; Gwin v. Breedlove, 2 Id
38; Craig v. Missouri, 4 Peters, 431.
- Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 317; Fox v. Ohio, 5 Howard,
433.
+ 4. Wheaton, 204.

IEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions -Opinion

[Sup. Ct.

of Clifford, J.

confidence between man and man was destroyed. Special
reference was made to those grievances by the Chief Justice
because it was insisted that the prohibition to pass laws impairing the obligation of contracts ought to be confined by
the court to matters of that description, but the court was
of a different opinion, and held that the Convention intended
to establish a great principle, that contracts should be inviolable, that the provision was intended " to prohibit the
use of any means by which the same mischief might be produced." II admitted that that provision was not intended
to prevent the issue of paper money, as that evil was remedied and the practice prohibited by the clause forbidding
the States to " emit bills of credit," inserted in the Constitution expressly for that purpose, and he also admitted that
the prohibition to emit bills of credit was not intended to
restrain the States from enabling debtors to discharge their
debts by the tender of property of no real value to the creditor, "because for that subject also particular provision is
made" in the Constitution; but he added, "OTHlING
BUT
GOLD AND SILVER COIN CAN BE MADE A TENDER IN PAYMENT OF
DEBTS."*

Utterances of the kind are found throughout tlhe reported
decisions of this court, but there is not a sentence or word
to be found within those volumes, friom the organization of
the court to the passage of the acts of Congress in question,
to support the opposite theory.
Power, as before remarked, was vested in the Congress
under the Confederation to borrow money and emit bills
of credit, and history shows that the power to emit such
bills had been exercised, before the Convention which
framed the Constitution assembled, to an amount exceeding
350,000,000.t Still the draft of the Constitution, as reported, contained the words "and to emit bills" appended
* Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 205.
t 2 Story on the Constitution, 3d ed. 249; Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky,
11 Peters, 337; 1 Jefferson's Correspondence, 401; American Almanac for
1830, p. 183.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

to the clause authorizing Congress to borrow money. When
that clause was reached, says Mr. Martin, a motion was made
to strikc out the words "to emit bills of credit;" and his
account of what followed affords the most persuasive and
convincing evidence that the Convention, and nearly every
member of it, intended to put an end to the exercise of such
a power. Against the motion, he says, we urged that it
would be improper to deprive the Congress of that power;
that it would be a novelty unprecedented to establish a government which should not have such authority; that it was
impossible to look forward into futurity so far as to decide
that events might not happen that would render the exercise
of such a power absolutely necessary, &c. But a majority
of the Convention, lie said, being wise beyond every event,
and being willing to risk any political evil rather than admit
the idea of a paper emission in any possible case, refused to
trust the authority to a government to which they were
lavishing the most unlimited powers of taxation, and to the
mercy of which they were willing blindly to trust the liberty
and property of the citizens of every State in the Union,
and "they erased that clausefrom the system."*
More forcible vindication of the action of the Convention
could hardly be made than is expressed in the language of
the Federalist,t and the authority of Judge Story warrants
the statement that the language there employed is "justified
by almost every contemporary writer," and is "attested in
its truth by facts" beyond the influence of every attempt at
contradiction. Having adverted to those facts the commentator proceeds to say, "that the same reasons which show
the necessity of denying to the States the power of regulating coin, prove with equal force that they ought not to be
at liberty to substitute a paper medium instead of coin."
Emissions of the kind were not declared by the Continental Congress to be a legal tender, but Congress passed a
resolution declaring that they ought to be a tender in payment of all private and public debts, and that a refusal to
* I Elliott's Debates, 369.

t[ :Federalist, No. 44.

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

receive the tender ought to be an extinguishment of the
debt, and recommended the States to pass such laws. They
even went further and declared that whoever should refuse
to receive the paper as gold or silver should be deemed an
enemy to the public liberty; but our commentator says that
these measures of violence and terror, so far from aiding the
circulation of the paper, led on to still further depreciation.*
New emissions followed and new measures were adopted to
give the paper credit by pledging the public faith for its redemption. Effort followed effort in that direction until the
idea of redemption at par was abandoned. Forty for one
was offered and the States were required to report the bills
under that regulation, but few of the old bills were ever reported, and of course few only of the contemplated new
notes were issued, and the bills in a brief period ceased to
circulate, and in the course of that year quietly died in the
hands of their possessors.t
Bills of credit were made a tender by the States, but all
such, as well as those issued by the Congress, were dead in
the hands of their possessors before the Convention assembled to frame the Constitution. Intelligent and impartial
belief in the theory that such men, so instructed, in framing
a government for their posterity as well as for themselves,
would deliberately vest such a power, either in Congress or
the States, as a part of their perpetual system, cnii never in
my judgment be secured in the face of the recorded evidences to the contrary which the political and judicial history of our country affords. Such evidence, so persuasive
and convincing as it is, must ultimately bring all to the conelusion that neither the Conogress nor the States can make
anything but gold or silver coin a tender in payment of debts.
Exclusive power to coin money is certainly vested in Congress, but "no amount of reasoning can show that executing a promissory note and ordering it to be taken in pay-* 2 Journals of Congress, 21; 3 Id. 20; 2 Pitkin's History, 155-6.
t 2 Story on the Constitution, 3d ed., a 1359, 1360; 2 Pitkin's History,
157; 1 Jefferson's Correspondence, 402.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opir.ions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

ment of public and private debts is a species of coining
money."*
Complete refutation of such theory is also found in the
dissenting opinion in the former case, in which the justice
who delivered the opinion states that he is not able to deduce
the power to pass the laws in question from that clause of
the Constitution, and in which he admits, without qualification, that the provision making such notes a legal tender
does undoubtedly impair the "obligation of contracts made
before its passage." Extended argument, therefore, to show
that the acts in question impair the obligation of contracts
made before their passage is unnecessary, but the admission
stops short of the whole truth, as it leaves the implication
to be drawn that the obligation of subsequent contracts is
not impaired by such legislation. Contracts for the payment of money, whether made before or after the passage
of such a provision, are contracts, if the promise is expressed
in dollars, to pay the specified amount in the money recog
nized and established by the Constitution as the standard ol
value, and any act of Congress which in theory compels the
creditor to accept paper emissions, instead of the money so
recognized and established, impairs the obligation of such a
contract, no matter whether the contract was made before
or after the act compelling the creditor to accept such payment, as the Constitution in that respect is a part of the
contract, and by its terms entitles the creditor to demand
payment in the medium which the Constitution recognizes
and establishes as the standard of value.
Evidently the word dollar, as employed in the Constitution, means the money recognized and established in the
express power vested in Congress to coin money, regulate
the value thereof and of foreign coin, the framers of the
Constitution having borrowed and adopted the word as used
by the Continental Congress in the ordinance of the 6th
of July, 1785, and of the 8th August, 1786, in which it was
enacted that the money unit of the United States should be
* Pomeroy on the Constitution,

409.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

1 624

[Sup. ot.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

" one dollar," and that the money of account should be dollars and fractions of dollars, as subsequently provided in. the
ordinance establishing a mint. *
Repeated decisions of this court, of recent date,t have established the rule that contracts to pay coined dollars can
only be satisfied by the payment of such money, which is
precisely equivalent to a decision that such notes as those described in the acts of Congress in question are not the money
recoggnized and established bythe Constitution as the standard
of value, as the money so recognized and established, if the
contract is expressed in dollars, will satisfy any and every
contract between party and party. Beyond all question the
cases cited recognize " the fact accepted by all men throughout the world, that value is inherent in the precious metals;
that gold and silver are in themselves values, and being such,
and being in other respects best adapted to the purpose, are
the only proper measures of valae; that these values are determined by weight and purity, and that fbrm and impress are
simply certificates of value, worthy of absolute reliance only
because of the known integrity and good faith of the government which " put them in circulation.1
When the intent of the parties as to the medium of payment is clearly expressed in a contract, the court decide, in
Butler v. Hlorwitz, above cited, that damages for the breach
of it, whether made before or since the enactment of these
laws, may be prbperly assessed so as to give effect to that
intent, and no doubt is entertained that that rule is correct.
Parties may contract to accept payment in treasury notes,
or specific articles, or in bank bills, and if they do so they
are bound to accept the medium for which they contracted,
provided the notes, specific articles, or bills are tendered on
the day the payment under the contract becomes due, and
it is clear that such a tender, if seasonable and sufficient in
* 10 Journals of Congress, 225; 11 Id. 179.

t Bronson v Rodes, 7 Wallace, 248; Butler v. Horwitz, lb. 259; Bank
v. Supervisors, 1b. 28.

Dewing v. Sears, 11 Id. 379; Lane Co. v. Oregon, 7 Id. 73; Willard v
Tayloe, 8 Id. 568.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

amount, is a good defence to the action. Decided cases also
carry the doctrine much further, and hold, even where the
contract is payable in money and the promise is expressed
in dollars, that a tender of bank bills is a good tender if the
party to whom it was made placed his objections to receiving it wholly upon the ground that the amount was not. sufficient.*
Grant all that, and still it is clear that where the contract
is for the payment of a certain sum of money, and the promise is expressed in dollars, or in coined dollars, the promisee,
if he sees fit, may lawfully refuse to accept payment in any
other medium than gold and silver, made a legal tender by
act of Congress passed in pursuance of that provision of the
Constitution which vests in Congress the power to coin
money, regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin.
Foreign coin of gold and silver may be made a legal tender, as the power to regulate the value thereof is vested in
Congress as well as the power to regulate the value of the
coins fabricated and stamped at the mint.
Opposed, as the new theory is by such a body of evidence,
covering the whole period of our constitutional history, all
tending to the opposite conclusion, and unsupported as the
theory is by a single historical fact, entitled to any weight,
it would seem that the advocates of the theory ought to
be able to give it a fixed domicile in the Constitution, or
else be willing to abandon it as a theory without any solid
constitutional foundation. Vagrancy in that behalf, if conceded, is certainly a very strong argument at this day, that
the power does not reside in the Constitution at all, as if the
fact were otherwise, the period of eighty-five years which
has elapsed since the Constitution was adopted is surely
long enough to have enabled its advocates to discover its
locality and to be able to point out its home to those whose
researches have been less successful and whose conscientious
Bank of the United States v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheaton, 347; Thompson v. Riggs, 5 Wallace, 678; Robinson v. Noble, 8 Peters, 198; Wright v.
Reid, 3 Term, 554; Snow v. Perry, 9 Pickering, 542; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, 601.
VOL. Xii.
40

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

convictions lead them to the conclusion that, as applied to
the Constitution, it is a myth without a habitation or a
name.
Unless the power to enact such a provision can be referred
to some one or more of the express grants of power to Congress, as the requisite means, or as necessary and proper for
carrying such express power or powers into execution, it is
usually conceded that the provision must be regarded as unconstitutional, as it is not pretended that the Constitution
contains any express grant of power authorizing such legislation. Powers not granted cannot be exercised by Congress, and certainly all must agree that no powers are
granted except what are expressed or such as are fairly applicable as requisite means to attain the end of a power
which is granted, or, in other words, are necessary and
proper to carry those which are expressed into execution.*
Pressed by these irrepealable rules of construction, as applied to the Constitution, those who maintain the affirmative
of the question under discussion are forced to submit a specification. Courts in one or more cases have intimated that
the power in question may be implied from the express
power to coin money, but inasmuch as no decided case is
referred to where the judgment of the court rests upon that
ground, the suggestion will be dismissed without further
consideration, as one involving a proposition too latitudinous
to require refutation. Most of the cases referred to attempt
to deduce the power to make such paper emissions a legal
tender from the express power to borrow money, or from
the power to declare war, or from the two combined, as in
the dissenting opinion in the case which is now overruled.
Authority, it is conceded, exists in Congress to pass laws
providing for the issue of treasury notes, based on the national credit, as necessary and proper means for fulfilling
the end of the express power to borrow money, nor can it
be doubted at this day, that such notes, when issued by the
* Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, I Wheaton, 326; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4

Id. 405; 1 Story on the Constitution (3d ed.),

417.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

proper authority, may lawfully circulate as credit currency,
and that they may, in that conventional character, be lawfully employed, if the act authorizing their issue so provides,
to pay duties, taxes, and all the public exactions required to
be paid into the national treasury. Public creditors may
also be paid in such currency by their own consent, and they
may be used in all other cases, where the payment in such
notes comports with the terms of the contract. Established
usage founded upon the practice of the government, often
repeated, has sanctidned these rules, until it may now be
said that they are not open to controversy, but the question
in the cases before the court is whether the Congress may
declare such notes to be lawful money, make them a legal
tender, and impart to such a currency the quality of being
a standard of value, and compel creditors to accept the payment of their debts in such a currency as the equivalent of
the money recognized and established by the Constitution
as the standard of value by which the value of all other
commodities is to be measured. Financial measures, of
various kinds, for borrowing money to supply the wants of
the treasury, beyond the receipts from taxation and the sales
of the public lands, have been adopted by the government
since the United States became an independent nation.
Subscriptions for a loan of twelve millions of dollars were,
on the 4th of August, 1790, directed to be opened at the
treasury, to be made payable in certificates issued for the
debt according to their specie value.* Measures of the kind
were repeated in rapid succession for several years, and laws
providing for loans in one form or another appear to have
been the preferred mode of borrowing money, until the 30th
of June, 1812, when the first act was passed "to authorize
the issue of treasury notes."t
Loans had been previously authorized in repeated instances, as will be seen by the following references, to which
many more might be added.t
* 1 Stat. at Large, 139.

t

t- 2 Stat. at Large, 766.

1 Id. 142; lb. 187; lb. 345; lb. 433; Ib. 607, 2 Id. 60; 1b. 245; lb.
349; Ib. 610; Ib. 656; lb. 694.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

Earnest opposition was made to the passage of the first
act of Congress authorizing the issue of treasury notes, but
the measure prevailed, and it may be remarked that the
vote on the occasion was ever after regarded as having settled the question as to the constitutionality of such an act.
Five millions of dollars were directed to be issued by that
act, and the Secretary of the Treasury, with the approbation
of the President, was empowered to cause such portion of
the notes as he might deem expedient to be issued at- par
"to such public creditors or other persons as may choose to
receive such notes in payment," it never having occurred to any
one that even a public creditor could be compelled to receive
such notes in payment except by his own consent. Twenty
other issues of such notes were authorized by Congress in
the course of the fifty years next after the passage of that
act and before the passage of the acts making such notes a
legal tender, and every one of such prior acts, being twenty
in all, contains either in express words or by necessary implication, an equally decisive negation to the new constitutional theory that Congress can make paper emissions,
either a standard of value or a legal tender.* Superadded
to the conceded fact that the Constitution contains no express words to support such a theory, this long and unbroken usage, that treasury notes shall not be constituted a
standard of value nor be made a tender in payment of debts,
is entitled to great weight, and when taken in connection
with the persuasive and convincing evidence, derived from
the published proceedings of the Convention, that the franiers of the Constitution never intended to grant any such
power, and from the recorded sentiments of ftle great men
whose arguments in favor of the reported draft procured its
ratification, and supported as that view is by the repeated
decisions of this court, and by the infallible rule of interpretation that the language of one express power shall not be
* 5Id. 202; 9 Id. 64; 4Id. 765; 2 Id. 766; 1b. 801; 3 Id. 161; 1b. 213;
5 Id. 201; Ib. 228; lb. 323; Ib. 469; Ib. 474; lb. 581; Ib. 614; 9 Id. 39;
lb. 118; 11 Id. 257; 12 Id. 121; lb. 179; Ib. 259; lb. 313; lb. 338.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

so expanded as to nullify the force and effect of another express power in the same instrument, it seems to me that it
ought to be deemed final and conclusive that Congress cannot constitute such notes or any other paper emissions a
constitutional standard of value, or make them a legal tender in payment of debts-especially as it covers the period
of two fbreign wars, the creation of the second national
bank, and the greatest financial revulsions through which
our country has ever passed.
Guided by the views expressed in the dissenting opinion
in the former case it must be taken for granted that the
legal tender feature in the acts in question was placed emphatically, by those who enacted the provision, upon the
necessity of the measure to the further borrowing of money
and maintaining the army and navy, and such appears to be
the principal ground assumed in the present opinion of the
court. Enough also appears in some of the interrogative
sentences of the dissenting opinion to show that the learned
justice who delivered it intended to place the dissent very
largely upon the same ground.
Nothing need be added, it would seem, to show that the
power to make such notes a standard of value and a legal
tender cannot be derived from the power to borrow money,
without so expanding it by implication as to nullify the
power to coin money and regulate its value, nor without
extending the scope and operation of the power to borrow
money to an object never contemplated by the framers of
the Constitution ; and if so, then it only remains to inquire
whether it may be implied from the power to declare war,
to raise and support armies, or to provide and maintain a
navy, or "to enable the government to borrow money to
carry on the war," as the phrase is in the dissenting opinion
in the former case.
Money is undoubtedly the sinews of war, but the power
to raise money to carry on war, under the Constitution, is
not an implied power, and whoever adopts that theory commits a great constitutional error. Congress may declare
war and Congress may appropriate all moneys in the treas-

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

ury to carry on the war, or Congress may coin money for
that purpose, or borrow money to any amount for the same
purpose, or Congress may lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises to replenish the treasury, or may dispose
of the public lands or other property belonging to the
United States, and may in fact, by the exercise of the express powers of the Constitution, command the whole
wealth and substance of the people to sustain the public
credit and prosecute the war to a successful termination.
Two foreign wars were successfully conducted by means derived from those sources, and it is not doubted that those
express powers will always enable Congress to maintain the
national credit and defray the public expenses in every
emergency which may arise, even though the national independence should be assailed by the combined forces of
all the rest of the civilized world. All remarks, therefore,
in the nature of entreaty or appeal, in favor of an implied
power to fulfil the great purpose of national defence or to
raise money to prosecute a war, are a mere waste of words,
as the most powerful and comprehensive means to accomplish the purpose for which the appeal is made are found in
the express powers vested in Congress to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts, and excises without limitation as to
amount, to borrow money also without limitation, and to
coin money, dispose of the public lands, and to appropriate
all moneys in the public treasury to that purpose.
Weighed in the light of these suggestions, as the question
under discussion should be, it is phlin, not only that the exercise of such an implied power is unnecessary to supply
the sinews of war, but that the framers of the Constitution
never intended to trust a matter of such great and vital importance as that of raising means for the national defence or
for the prosecution of a war to any implication whatever, as
they had learned from bitter experience that the great weakness of the Confederation during the war for independence
consisted in the want of such express powers. Influenced
by those considerations the framers of the Constitution not
only authorized Congress to lay and collect taxes, duties,

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, ..

imposts, and excises to any and every extent, but also to
coin money and to borrow money without any limitation as
to amount, showing that the argument that to deny the implied power to make paper emissions a legal tender will be
to cripple the government, is a mere chimera, without any
solid constitutional foundation for its support.
Comprehensive, however, as the power of Federal taxation is, being without limitation as to amount, still there are
some restrictions as to the manner of its exercise, and some
exceptions as to the objects to which it may be applied.
Bills for raising revenue must originate in the House of
Representatives; duties, imposts, and excises must be uniform throughout the United States; direct taxes must be
apportioned according to numbers; regulations of commerce
and revenue shall not give any preference to the ports of
one State over those of another; nor shall vessels bound to
or from one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties
in another; nor shall any tax or duty be laid on articles exported from any State.
Preparation for war may be made in peace,.but neither
the necessity for such preparation nor the actual existence
of war can have the effect to abrogate or supersede those restrictions, or to empower Congress to tax the articles excepted from taxation by the Constitution. Implied exceptions also exist, limiting the power of Federal taxation as
well as that of the States, and when an exception of that
character is ascertained the objects falling within it are as
effectually shielded from taxation as those falling within an
express exception, for the plain reason that the" government
of the United States is acknowledged by all to be one of
enumerated powers," from which it necessarily follows that
powers not granted cannot be exercised.*
Moneys may be raised by taxes, duties, imposts, and excises to carry on war as well as to pay the public debt or to
provide for the common defence and general welfare, but
no appropriation of money to that use can be made for a
* McOulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 405.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

period longer than two years, nor can Congress, in exercising
the power to levy taxes for that purpose, or any other, abrogate or supersede those restrictions, exceptions, and limitations, as they are a part of the Constitution, and as such are
as obligatory in war as in peace, as any other rule would
subvert, in time of war, every restriction, exception, limitation, and prohibition in the Constitution, and invest Congress with unlimited power, even surpassing that possessed
by the British Parliament.
Congress may also borrow money to carry on war, without limitation, and in exercising that express power may
issue treasury notes as the requisite means for carrying the
express power into execution, but Congress cannot constitute such notes a standard of value nor make them a legal
tender, neither in time of war nor in time of peace, for at
least two reasons, either of which is conclusive that the exercise of such a power is not warranted by the Constitution:
(1) Because the published proceedings of the Convention
which adopted the Constitution, and of the State conventions which ratified it, show that those who participated in
those deliberations never intended to confer any such power.
(2) Because such a power, if admitted to exist, would nullify
the effect and operation of the express power to coin money,
regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin; as it would
substitute a paper medium in the place of gold and silver
coin, which in itself, as compared with coin, possesses no
value, is not money, either in the constitutional or commercial sense, but only a promise to pay money, is never
worth par, and often much less, even as domestic exchange,
and is always fluctuating and never acknowledged either as
a medium of exchange or a standard of value in any foreign
market known to American commerce.
Power to issue such notes, it is conceded, exists without
limitation, but the question is whether the framers of the
Constitution intended that Congress, in the exercise of that
power or the power to borrow money, whether in peace or
war, should be empowered to constitute paper emissions,
of any kind, a standard of value, and make the same a legal

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Clifford, J.

tender in payment of debts. Mere convenience, or even a
financial necessity in a single case, cannot be the test, but
the question is what did the framers of the Constitution intend at the time the instrument was adopted and ratified?
Constitutional powers, of the kind last mentioned-that
is, the power to ordain a standard of value and to provide
a circulating medium for a legal tender-are subject to no
mutations of any kind. They are the same in peace and in
war. What the grants of power meant when the Constitution was adopted and ratified they mean still, and their
meaning can never be changed except as described in the
fifth article providing for amendments, as the Constitution
"is a law for rulers and people, equally in war and in peace,
and covers with the shield of its protection all classes of men
and under all circumstances."*
Delegated power ought never to be enlarged beyond the
fair scope of its terms, and that rule is emphatically applicable in the construction of the Constitution. Restrictions
may at times be inconvenient, or even embarrassing, but
the power to remove the difficulty by amendment is vested
in the people, and if they do not exercise it the presumption
is that the inconvenience is a less evil than the mischief to
be apprehended if the restriction should be removed and'
the power extended, or that the existing inconvenience is
the least of the two evils; and it should never be forgotten
that the government ordained and established by the Constitution is a government "of limited and enumerated powers," and that to depart from the true import and meaning
of those powers is to establish a new Constitution or to do
for the people what they have not chosen to do for themselves, and to usurp the functions of a legislator and desert
those of an expounder of the law. Arguments drawn from
impolicy or inconvenience, says Judge Story, ought here to
be of no weight, as "the only sound principle is to declare
ila lex scripla est, to follow and to obey."t
Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace, 120.
f 1 Story on the Constitution, 3d ed.,

426.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. or.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

For these reasons I am of the opinion that the judgment
in each of the eases before the court should be reversed.
Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting:

Whilst I agree with the Chief Justice in the views expressed in his opinion in these cases, the great importance
which I attach to the question of legal tender induces me to
present some further considerations on the subject.
Nothing has been heard from counsel in these cases, and
nothing from the present majority of the court, which has
created a doubt in my mind of the correctness of the judgment rendered in the case of _Hepbarn v. Griswold,* or of the
conclusions expressed in the opinion of the majority of the
court as then constituted. That judgment was reached only
after repeated arguments were heard from able and eminent
counsel, and after every point raised on either side had been
the subject of extended deliberation.
The questions presented in that case were also involved
in several other cases, and had been elaborately argued in
them. It is not extravagant to say that no case has ever
been decided by this court since its organization, in which
the questions presented were more fully argued or more
maturely considered. It was hoped that a judgment thus
reached would not be lightly disturbed. It was hoped that
it had settled forever that under a Constitution ordained,
among other things, "to establish justice," legislation giving to one person the right to discharge his obligations to
another by nominal instead of actual fulfilment, could never
be justified.
I shall not comment upon the causes which have led to a
reversal of that judgment. They are patent to every one.
I will simply observe that the Chief Justice and the associate justices, who constituted the majority of the court when
that judgment was rendered, still adhere to their former
convictions. To them the reasons for the original decision
are as cogent and convincing now as they were when that
* 8 Wallace, 603.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

decision was pronounced; and to them its justice, as applied
to past contracts, is as clear to-day as it was then.
In the cases now before us the questions stated, by order
of the court, for the argument of counsel, do not present
with entire accuracy the questions actually argued and decided. As stated, the questions are: 1st. Is the act of Congress, known as the legal tender act, constitutional as to
contracts made before its passage? 2d. Is it valid as applicable to transactions since its passage ?
The act thus designated ac the legal tender act is the act
of Congress of February 25th, 1862, authorizing the issue
of United States notes, and providing for their redemption
or funding, and for funding the floating debt of the United
States;* and the questions, as stated, would seem to draw
into discussion the validity of the entire act; whereas, the
only questions intended for argument, and actually argued
and decided, relate-Ist, to the validity of that provision of
the act which declares that these notes shall be a legal
tender in payment of debts, as applied to private debts and
debts of the government contracted previous to the passage
of the act; and 2d, to the validity of the provision as applied
to similar contracts subsequently made. The case of Parker
v. Davis involves the consideration of the first question; and
the case of Knox v. Lee is supposed by a majority of the
court to present the second question.
No question was raised as to the validity of the provisions
of the act authorizing the issue of the notes, and making
them receivable for dues to the United States; nor do I perceive that any objection could justly be made at this day to
these provisions. The issue of the notes was a proper exercise 6f the power to borrow money, which is granted to
Congress without limitation. The extent to which the
power may be exercised depends, in all cases, upon the
judgment of that body as to the necessities of the government. The power to borrow includes the power to give
evidences of indebtedness and obligations of repayment.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 845.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Or.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

Instruments of this character are among the securities of
the United States mentioned in the Constitution. These
securities are sometimes in the form of certificates of indebtedness, but they may be issued in any other form, and
in such form and in such amounts as will fit them for general circulation, and to that end may be made payable to
bearer and transferable by delivery. The form of notes,
varying in amounts to suit the convenience or ability of the
lender, has been found by experience a convenient form,
and the one best calculated to secure the readiest acceptance
and the largest loan. It has been the practice of the government to use notes of this character in raising loans and
obtaining supplies from an early period in its history, their
receipt by third parties being in all cases optional.
In June, 1812, Congress passed an act which provided for
the issue of treasury notes, and authorized the Secretary of
the Treasury, with the approbation of the President, "to
borrow from time to time, not under par, such sums" as the
President might think expedient, "on the credit of such
notes."*
In February, 1813, Congress passed another act for the
issue of treasury notes, declaring "that the amount of money
borrowed or obtained by virtue of the notes" issued under
its second section should be a part of the money authorized
to be borrowed under a previous act of the same session.t
There are numerous other acts of a similar character on our
statute-books. More than twenty, I believe, were passed
previous to the legal tender act.1
2 Stat. at Large, 766.

t

t 2 Stat. at Large, 801.

Acts of Congress authorizing the issue of treasury notes: 2 Stat at
Large, 766, approved June 30, 1812; Id. 801, approved February 25, 1813;
3 Stat. at Large, 100, approved March 4, 1814; Id. 161, approved December
26, 1814; Id. 213, approved February 24, 1815; 5 Stat. at Large, 201, approved October 12,1837; Id. 228, approved May 21, 1838; Id 323, approved
March 2, 1839; Id. 370, approved March 81, 1810; Id. 411, approved February 15, 1841; Id. 469, approved January 31, 1842; Id. 473, approved April
15, 1842; Id. 581, approved August 31, 1842; Id. 614, approved March 3,
1843; 9 Sttt. at Large, 39, approved July 22, 1846; Id. 64, approved August
6, 1846; ld. 118, approved January 28, 1847; 11 Stat. at Large, 257, approved
December 23, 1857; Id. 430, approved March 3d, 1859.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

In all of them the issue of the notes was authorized as a
means of borrowing money, or obtaining supplies, or paying
the debts of the United States, and in all of them the receipt of the notes by third parties was purely voluntary.
Thus, in the first act, of June, 1812, the Secretary of the
Treasury was authorized, not only to borrow on the notes,
but to issue such notes as the President might think expedient "in payment of supplies or debts due by the United
States to such public creditors or other persons" as might
"choose to receive such notes in payment at par." Similar provisions are found in all the acts except where the notes are
authorized simply to take up previous loans.
The issue of the notes for supplies purchased or services
rendered at the request of the United States is only giving
their obligations for an indebtedness thus incurred; and the
same power which authorizes the issue of notes for money
must also authorize their issue for whatever is received as
an equivalent for money. The result to the United States
is the same as if the money were actually received for the
notes and then paid out for the supplies or services.
The notes issued under the act of Congress of February
25th, 1862, differ from the treasury notes authorized by the
previous acts to which I have referred, in the fact that they
do not bear interest and do not designate on their face a
period at which they shall be paid, features which may affect
their value in the market but do not change their essential
character. There cannot be, therefore, as already stated,
any just objection at this day to the issue of the notes, nor
to their adaptation in form for general circulation.
Nor can there be any objection to their being made receivable for dues to the United States. Their receivability
in this respect is only the application to the demands of the
government, and demands against it, of the just principle
which is applied to the demands of individuals against each
other, that cross-demands shall offset and satisfy each other
to the extent of their respective amounts. No rights of
third parties are in any respect affected by the application
of the rule here, and the purchasing and borrowing power

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

of the notes are greatly increased by making them thus receivable fbr the public dues. The objection to the act does
not lie in these features; it lies in the provision which declares that the notes shall be "a legal tender in payment of
all debts, public and private," so far as that provision applies
to private debts, and debts owing by the United States.
In considering the validity and constitutionality of this
provision, I shall in the first place confine myself to the provision in its application to private debts. Afterwards I shall
have something to say of the provision in its application to
debts owing by the government.
In the discussions upon the subject of legal tender the
advocates of the measure do not agree as to the power in
the Constitution to which it shall be referred; some placing
it upon the power to borrow money, some on the coining
power, and some on what is termed a resulting power from
the general purposes of the government; and these discussions have been accompanied by statements as to the effect
of the measure, and the consequences which must have followed had it been rejected, and which will now occur if its
validity be not sustained, which rest upon no solid foundation, and are not calculated to aid the judgment in coming
to a just conclusion.
In what I have to say I shall endeavor to avoid any such
general and loose statements, and shall direct myself to an
inquiry into the nature of these powers to which the measure
is referred, and the relation of the measure to them.
Now if Congress can, by its legislative declaration, make
the notes of the United States a legal tender in payment of
private debts-that is, can make them receivable against the
will of the creditor in satisfaction of debts due to him by
third parties-its power in this respect is not derived from
its power to borrow money, under which the notes were
issued. That power is not different in its nature or essential
incidents from the power to borrow possessed by individuals,
and is not to receive a larger definition. Nor is it different
from the power often granted to public and private corporations. The grant, it is true, is usually accompanied in these

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

latter cases with limitations as to the amount to be borrowed,
and a designation of the objects to which the money shall
be applied-limitations which in no respect affect the nature
of the power. The terms "power to borrow money" have
the same meaning in all these cases, and not one meaning
when used by individuals, another when granted to corporations, and still a different one when possessed by Congress.
They mean only a power to contract for a loan of money
upon considerations to be agreed between the parties. The
amount of the loan, the time of repayment, the interest it
shall bear, and the. form in which the obligation shall be expressed are simply matters of arrangement between the
parties. They concern no one else. It is no part or incident of a contract of this clracter that the rights or interests of third parties, strangers to the matter, shall be in any
respect affected.
The transaction is completed when the
lender has parted with his money, and the borrower has
given his promise of repayment at the time, and in the
manner, and with the securities stipulated between them.
As an inducement to the loan, and security for its repayment, the borrower may of course pledge such property or
revenues, and annex to his promises such rights and privileges as he may possess. His stipulations in this respect
are necessarily limited to his own property, rights, and privileges, and cannot extend to those of other persons.
Now, whether a borrower-be the borrower an individual,
a corporation, or the government-can annex to the bonds,
notes, or other evidences of debt given for the money borrowed, any quality by which they will serve as a means of
satisfying the contracts of other parties, must necessarily depend upon the question whether the borrower possesses any
right to interfere with such contracts, and determine how
they shall be satisfied. The right of the borrower in this
respect rests upon no different foundation than the right to
interfere with any other property of third parties. And if
it will not be contended, as I think I may assume it will not
be, that the borrower possesses any right, in order to make
a loan, to interfere with the tangible and visible property of

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

third parties, I do not perceive how it can be contended that
he has any right to interfere with their property when it
exists in the form of contracts, A large part of the property
of every commercial people exists in that form, and the principle which excludes a stranger from meddling with another's
property which is visible and tangible, equally excludes him
from meddling with it when existing in the form of contracts.
That an individual or a corporation borrowing possesses
no power to annex to his evidences of indebtedness any
quality by which the holder will be enabled to change his
contracts with third parties, strangers to the loan, is admitted; but it is contended that Congress possesses such
power because, in addition to the express power to borrow
money, there is a clause in the Constitution which authorizes Congress to make all laws " necessary and proper" for
the execution of the powers enumerated. This clause neither
augments nor diminishes the expressly designated powers.
It only states in terms what Congress would equally have
had the right to do without its insertion in the Constitution.
It is a general principle that a power to do a particular act
includes the power to adopt all the ordinary and appropriate
means for its execution.
" Had the Constitution," says
Hamilton, in the Federalist, speaking of this clause, "been
silent on this head, there can be no doubt that all the particular powers requisite as a means of executing the general
powers would have resulted to the government by unavoidable implication. No axiom is more clearly established in
law or in reason, that whenever the end is required the
means are authorized; whenever a general power to do a
thing is given, every particular power necessary for doing it
is included."*
The subsidiary power existing without the clause in question, its insertion in the Constitution was no doubt intended,
as observed by Mr. Hamilton, to prevent "all cavilling refinements" in those who might thereafter feel a disposition
* The Federalist, No. 44.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, 3.

to curtail and evade the legitimate authorities of the Union;
and also, I may add, to indicate the true sphere and limits
of the implied powers.
But though the subsidiary power would have existed
without" this clause, there would have been the same perpetually recurring question as now, as to what laws are necessary and proper for the execution of the expressly enumerated powers.
The particular clause in question has at different timesundergone elaborate discussion in Congress, in cabinets, and,
in the courts. Its meaning was much debated in the first
Congress upon the proposition to incorporate a national
bank, and afterwards in the cabinet of Washington, when
that measure was presented for his approval. Mlr. Jefferson,.
then Secretary of State, and Mr. Hamilton, then Secretary
of the Treasury, differed widely in their construction of the
clause, and each gave his views in an elaborate opiuion.
Mr. Jefferson held that the word "necessary " restricted the
power of Congress to the use of those means, without which
the grant would be nugatory, thus making necessary equivalent to indispensable.
Mr. Hamilton favored a more liberal, and in my judgment,.
a more just interpretation, and contended that the terms
"necessary and proper" meant no more than that the measures adopted must have an obvious relation as a means to,
the end intended. "If the end," he said, "be clearly comprehended within any of the specified powers, and if themeasure have an obvious relation to that end, and. is not
forbidden by any particular provision of the Constitution,
it may safely be deemed to come within the compass of the"There is also," he added,. "this
national authority."
further criterion which may materially assist the decision.
Does the proposed measure abridge a pre-existing right of.
any State, or of any individual ? If it does not, there is a
strong presumption in favor of its constitutionality; and
slighter relations to any declared object may be permitted
From the criterion thus indicated it
to turn the scale."
VOL. XII.

41

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

['Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

would seem that the distinguished statesman was of opinion
that a measure which did interfere with a pre-existing right
of a State or au individual would not be constitutional.
The interpretation given by Mr. Hamilton was substantially followed by Chief Justice Marshall, in McCulloch v.
The Slate of Maryland, when, speaking for the court, he said
that if the end to be accomplished by the legislation of Congress be legitimate, and within the scope of the Constitution,
"all the means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end, and which are not prohibited, but are
consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are
constitutional." The Chief Justice did not, it is true, in
terms declare that legislation which is not thus appropriate,
and plainly adapted to a lawful end, is unconstitutional, but
such is the plain import of the argument advanced by him;
and that conclusion must also follow from the principle that,
when legislatioii of a particular character is specially authorized, the opposite of such legislation is inhibited.
Tested by the rule given by Mr. Hamilton, or by the rule
thus laid down by this court through Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall, the annexing of a quality to the promises of the
government for money borrowed, which will enable the
holder to use them as a means of satisfying the demands of
third parties, cannot be sustained as the exercise of an appropriate means of borrowing. That is only appropriate
which has some relation of fitness to an end. Borrowing,
as already stated, is a transaction by which, on one side, the
lender parts with his money, and on the other the borrower
.agrees to repay it in such form and at such time as may be
stipulated. Though not a necessary part of the contract of
borrowing, it is usual for the borrower to offer securities for
the repayment of the loan. The fitness which would render
a means appropriate to this transaction thus considered must
have respect to the terms which are essential to the contract,
,or to the securities which the borrower may furnish as an
inducement to the loan. The quality of legal tender does
not touch the terms of the contract of borrowing, nor does
,it stand .as a security for the loan. A security supposes

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

some right or interest in the thing pledged, which is subject to the disposition of the borrower.
There has been much confusion on this subject from a
failure to distinguish between the adaptation of particular
means to an end and the effect, or supposed effect, of those
means in producing results desired by the government.
The argument is stated thus: the object of borrowing is to
raise funds; the annexing of the quality of legal tender to
the notes of the government induces parties the more readily
to loan upon them; the result desired by the governmentthe acquisition of funds-is thus accomplished; therefore,
the annexing of the quality of legal tender is an appropriate
means to the execution of the power to borrow. But it is
evident that the same reasoning would justify, as appropriate
means to the execution of this power, any measures which
would result in obtaining the required funds. The annexing of a provision by which the notes of the government
should serve as a free ticket in the public conveyances of
the country, or for ingress into places of public amusement,
or which would entitle the holder to a percentage out of the
revenues of private corporations, or exempt his entire property, as well as the notes themselves, from State and municipal taxation, would produce a ready acceptance of the notes.
But the advocate of the most liberal construction would
hardly pretend that these measures, or similar measures
touching the property of third parties, would be appropriate
as a means to the execution of the power to borrow. Indeed, there is no invasion by government of the rights of
third parties which might not thus be sanctioned upon the
pretence that its allowance to the holder of the notes would
lead to their ready acceptance and produce the desired loan.
The actual effect of the quality of legal tender in inducing
parties to receive them was necessarily limited to the amount
required by existing debtors, who did not scruple to discharge with them their pre-existing liabilities. For moneys
desired from other parties, or supplies required for the use
of the army or navy, the provision added nothing to the
value of the notes. Their borrowing power or purchasing

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

power depended, by a general and a universal law of currency, not upon the legal tender clause, but upon the confidence which the parties receiving the notes had in their
ultimate payment. Their exchangeable value was determined by this confidence, and every person dealing in them
advanced his money and regulated his charges accordingly.
The inability of mere legislation to control this universal
law of currency is strikingly illustrated by the history of the
bills of credit issued by the Continental Congress during our
Revolutionary War. From June, 1775, to March, 1780,
these bills amounted to over $300,000,000. Depreciation
followed as a natural consequence, commencing in 1777,
when the issues only equalled $14,000,000. Previous to this
time, in January, 1776, when the issues were only $5,000,000,
Congress had, by resolution, declared that if any person
should be " so lost to all virtue and regard to his country"
as to refuse to receive the bills in payment, he should, on
conviction thereof by the committee of the city, county, or
district, or, in case of appeal from their decision, by the
assembly, convention, council, or committee of safety of the
colony where he resided, be" deemed, published, and treated
as an enemy of his country, and precluded from all trade or
intercourse with the inhabitants" of the colonies.*
And in January, 1777, when as yet the issues were only
$14,000,000, Congress passed this remarkable resolution:
"Resolved, That all bills of credit emitted by authority of
Congress ought to pass, current in all payments, trade, and
dealings in these States, and be deemed in value equal to
the same nominal sums i.nSpanish milled dollars, and that
whosoever shall offer, ask, or receive more in the said bills
for any gold or silver coins, bullion, or any other species of
money whatsoever, than the nominal sum or amount thereof
in Spanish milled dollars, or more in. the said bills for any
lands, houses, goods, or commodities whatsoever than the
same could be purchased at of the same person or persons
in gold, silver, or any other species of money whatsoever,
* 2 Journals of Congress, 2L

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

645

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

or shall offer to sell any goods orcommodities for gold or
silver coins or any other species of money whatsoever and
refuse to sell the same for the said continental bills, every
such person ought to be deemed an enemy to the liberty of
these United States and to forfeit the value of the money so
exchanged, or house, land, or commodity so sold or offered
for sale. And it is recommended to the legislatures of the
respective States to enact laws inflicting such forfeitures and
other penalties on offenders as aforesaid as will prevent such
pernicious practices. That it be recommended to the legislatures of the United States to pass laws .to make the bills
of credit issued by the Congress a lawful tender in -payments
of public and private debts, and a refusal thereof an extinguishment of such debts; that debts payable in sterling
money be discharged with continental dollars at the rate of
4s. 6d. sterling per dollar, and that in discharge of all other
debts and contracts continental -dollars .pass at the rate fixed
by the respective States for the value of Spanish milled
dollars."
The several States promptly ;'esponded to the recommendations of Congress -and made the bills a legal tender for
debts and the refusal to receive them au extinguishment of
the debt.
Congress also issued, in September, 1779, a circular addressed to the people on the subject, in which they showed
that the United States would be able to redeem the bills,
and they repelled with indignation the suggestion that there
could be any violation of the public faith. "The pride of
America," said the address, "revolts from the idea; her
citizens know for what purposes these emissions were made,
and have repeatedly plighted their faith for the redemption
of them; they are to be found in every man's possession,
and every man is interested in their being red-eemed; they
must, therefore, entertain a high opinion of American credulity who suppose the people capable of believing, on due
reflection, that all America will, against the fhith, the honor,
and the interest of all America, be ever prevailed upon to
countenance, support, or permit so rui.nous, ,so disgraceful a

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinion,.-Opinion of Field, J.

measure. We are convinced that the efforts and arts of our
enemies will not be wanting to draw us into this humiliating
and contemptible situation. Impelled by malice and the
suggestions of chagrin and disappointment at not being able
to bend our necks to the yoke, they will endeavor to force
or seduce us to commit this unpardonable sin in order to
subject us to the punishment due to it, and that we may
thenceforth be a reproach and a byword among the nations.
Apprised of these consequences, knowing the value of national character, and impressed with a due sense of the immutable laws of justice and honor, it is impossible that
America should think without horror of such an execrable
deed."
Yet in spite of the noble sentiments contained in this address, which bears the honored name of John Jay, then
President of Congress and afterwards the first Chief Justice
of this court, and in spite of legal tender provisions and
harsh penal statutes, the universal law of currency prevailed.
Depreciation followed until it became so great that the very
idea of redemption at par was abandoned.
Congress then proposed to take up the bills by issuing
new bills on the credit of the several States, guaranteed by
the United States, not exceeding one-twentieth of the amount
of the old issue, the new bills to draw interest and be redeemable in six years. But the scheme failed and the bills
became, during 1780, of so little value that they ceased to
circulate and "quietly died," says the historian of the period,
"in the hands of their possessors."t
And it is within tle memory of all of us that during the
late rebellion the notes of the United States issued under
the Legal Tender Act rose in value in the market as the
successes of our arms gave evidence of an early termination
of the war, and that they fell in value with every triumph
of the Confederate forces. No legislation of Congress declaring these notes to be money instead of representatives
6 Journals of Congress, p. 351. This address was written by Mr. Jay
(See Flanders's Lives and Times of the Chief Justices, vol. 1, p. 256.)
t Pitkin's History, vol. 2, p. 157.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

of money or credit could alter this result one jot or tittle.
Men measured their value not by congressional declaration,
which could not alter the nature of things, but by the confidence reposed in their ultimate payment.
Without the legal tender provision the notes would have
circulated equally well and answered all the purposes of
government-the only direct benefit resulting from that
provision arising, as already stated, from the ability it conferred upon unscrupulous debtors to discharge with them
previous obligations. The notes of State banks circulated
without possessing that quality and supplied a currency for
the people just so long as confidence in the ability of the
banks to redeem the notes continued. The notes issued by
the national bank associations during the war, under the
authority of Congress, amounting to $300,000,000, which
were never made a legal tender, circulated equally well with
the notes of the United States. Neither their utility nor
their circulation was diminished in any degree by the absence of a legal tender quality. They rose and fell in the
market under the same influences and precisely to the same
extent as the notes of the United States, which possessed
this quality.
It is foreign, however, to my argument to discuss the
utility of the legal tender clause. The utility of a measure
is not the subject of judicial cognizance, nor, as already
intimated, the test of its constitutionality. But the relation of the measure as a means to an end, authorized by
the Constitution, is a subject of such cognizance, and the
test of its constitutionality, when it is not prohibited by any
specific provision of that instrument, and is consistent with
its letter and spirit. "The degree," said Hamilton, "in
which a measure is necessary can never be a test of the legal
right to adopt it. That must be a matter of opinion, and
can only be a test of expediency. The relation between the
means and the end, between the nature of a means employed
toward the execution of the power and the object of that
power, must be the criterion of unconstitutionality; not the
more or less of necessity or utility."

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

If this were not so, if Congress could not only exercise, as
it undoubtedly may, unrestricted liberty of choice among
the means which are appropriate and plainly adapted to the
execution of an express power, but could also judge, without
its conclusions being subject to question in cases involving
private rights, what means are thus appropriate and adapted,
our government would be, not what it was intended to be,
one of limited, but one of unlimited powers.
Of course Congress must inquire in the first instance and
determine for itself not only the expediency, but the fitness
to the end intended, of every measure adopted by its legislation. But the power of this tribunal to revise these determinations in cases involving private rights has been uniformly asserted, since the formation of the Constitution to
this day, by the ablest statesmen and jurists of the country.
I have thus dwelt at length upon the clause of the Constitution investing Congress with the power to borrow
money on the credit of the United States, because it is un,der that power that the notes of the United States were
issued, and it is upon the supposed enhanced value which
the quality of legal tender gives to such notes, as the means
of borrowing, that the validity and constitutionality of the
provision annexing this quality are founded. It is true that,
in the arguments of counsel, and in the several opinions of
different State courts, to which our attention has been called,
and in the dissenting opinion in .Hepburnv. Griswold, refer'ence is also made to other powers possessed by Congress,
;particularly to declare war, to suppress insurrection, to raise
,and support armies, and to provide and maintain a navy;
.all of which were called into exercise and severely taxed at
the time the Legal Tender Act was passed. But it is evi-dent that the notes have no relation to these powers, or to
.any other powers of Congress, except as they furnish a con-venient means for raising money for their execution. The
,existence of the war only increased the urgency of the gov-ernment for funds. It did not add to its powers to raise
-such funds, or change, in any respect, the nature of those
-powers or the transactions which they authorized. If the

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

power to engraft the quality of legal tender upon the notes
existed at all with Congress, the occasion, the extent, and
the purpose of its exercise were mere matters of legislative
discretion; and the power may be equally exerted when a
loan is made to meet the ordinary expenses of government
ill time of peace, as when vast sums are needed to raise
armies and provide navies in time of war. The wants of
the government can never be the measure of its powers.
The Constitution has specifically designated the means by
which funds can be raised for the uses of the government,
either in war or peace. These are taxation, borrowing,
coining, and the sale of its public property. Congress is
empowered to levy and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises to any extent which the public necessities may
require. Its power to borrow is equally unlimited. It can
convert any bullion it may possess into coin, and it can dispose of the public lands and other property of the United
States or any part of such property. The designation of
these means exhausts the powers of Congress on the subject
of raising money. The designation of the means is a negation of all others, for the designation would be unnecessary
and absurd if the use of any and all means were permissible
without it. These means exclude a resort to forced loans,
and to any compulsory interference with the property of
third persons, except by regular taxation in one of the forms
mentioned.
But this-is not all. The power "to coin money" is, in
my judgment, inconsistent with and repugnant to the existence of a power to make anything but coin a legal tender.
To coin money is to mould metallic substances having intrinsic value into certain forms convenient for commerce,
and to impress them with the stamp of the government indicating their value. Coins are pieces of metal, of definite
weight and value, thus stamped by national authority. Such
is the natural import of the terms "to coin money" and
"coin ;" and if there were any doubt that this is their meaning in the Constitution, it would be removed by the language which immediately follows the grant of the "power

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

to coin," authorizing Congress to regulate the value of the
money thus coined, and also "of foreign coin," and by the
distinction made in other clauses between coin and the obligations of the General government and of the several States.
The power of regulation conferred is the power to determine the weight and purity of the several coins struck, and
their consequent relation to the monetary unit which might
be established by the authority of the government-a power
which can be exercised with reference to the metallic coins
of foreign countries, but which is incapable of execution
with reference to their obligations or securities.
Then, in the clause of the Constitution immediately following, authorizing Congress "to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the
United States," a distinction between the obligations aind
coins of the General government is clearly made. And in
the tenth section, which forbids the States to "coin money,
emit bills or credit, and make anything but gold and silver
coin a tender in payment of debts," a like distinction is
made between coin and the obligations of the several States.
The terms gold and silver as applied to the coin exclude the
possibility of any other conclusion.
Now, money in the true sense of the term is not only a
medium of exchange, but it is a standard of value by which
all other values are measured. Blackstone says, and Story
repeats his language, "Money is a universal medium or
common standard, by a comparison with which the value of
all merchandise may be ascertained, or it is a sign which represents the respective values of all commodities."* Money
being such standard, its coins or pieces are necessarily a legal
tender to the amount of their respective values foir all contracts or judgments payable in money, without any legislative enactment to make them so. The provisions in the
different coinage acts that the coins to be struck shall be
such legal tender, are merely declaratory of their effect when
offered in payment, and are not essential to give them that
character.
* 1 Blackstone's Commentaries, 276; 1 Story on the Constitution,

1118.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

The power to coin money is, therefore, a power to fabricate coins out of metal as money, and thus make them a
legal tender for their declared values as indicated by their
stamp. If this be the true import and meaning of the language used, it is difficult to see how Congress can make the
paper of the government a legal tender. When the Constitution says that Congress shall have the power to make metallic coins a legal tender, it declares in effect that it shall
make nothing else such tender. The affirmative grant is
here a negative of all other power over the subject.
Besides this, there cannot well be two different standards
of value, and consequently two kinds of legal tender for the
discharge of obligations arising from the same transactions.
The standard or tender of the lower actual value would in
such case inevitably exclude and supersede the other, for
no one would use the standard or tender of higher value
when his purpose could be equally well accomplished by the
use of the other. A practical illustration of the truth of this
principle we have all seen in the effect upon coin of the act
of Congress making the notes of the United States a legal
tender. It drove coin from general circulation, and made
it, like bullion, the subject of sale and barter in the market.
The inhibition upon the States to coin money and yet to
make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment
of debts, must be read in connection with the grant of the
coinage power to Congress. The two provisions taken together indicate beyond question that the coins which the
National government was to fabricate, and the foreign coins,
the valuation of which it was to regulate, were to consist
principally, if not entirely, of gold and silver.
The framers of the Constitution were considering the subject of money to be used throughout the entire Union when
these provisions were inserted, and it is plain that they intended by them that metallic coins fabricated by the National government, or adopted from abroad by its authority,
composed of the precious metals, should everywhere be the
standard and the only standard of value by which exchanges
could be regulated and payments made.

LEGAL TENDER

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

At that time gold and silver moulded into forms convenient for use, and stamped with their value by public authorit.y,
constituted, with the exception of pieces of copper for small
values, the money of the entire civilized world. Indeed
these metals divided up and thus stamped always have constituted money with all people having any civilization, from
the earliest periods in the history of the world down to the
present time. It was with "four hundred shekels of silver,
current money with the merchant," that Abraham bought
the field of Machpelah, nearly four thousand years ago.*
This adoption of the precious metals as the subject of coinage,-the material of money by all peoples in all ages of the
world,-has not been the result of any vagaries of fimcy, but
is attributable to the fiet that they of all metals alone possess the properties which are essential to a circulating medium of uniform value.
"The circulating medium of a commercial community,"
says IMr. Webster, "must be that which is also the circulating medium of other commercial communities, or must be
capable of being converted into that medium without loss.
It must also be able not only to pass in payments and receipts among individuals of the same society and nation,
but to adjust and discharge the balance of exchanges between different nations. It must be something which has a
value abroad as well as at home, by which foreign as well as
domestic debts can be satisfied. The precious metals alone
answer these purposes. They alone, therefore, are money,
and whatever else is to pIer'orni the functions of money
must be their representative and capable of being turned
into them at will. So long as bank paper retains this quality
it is a substitute for money. Divested of this nothing can
give it that character."T
The statesmen who framed the Constitution understood
this principle as well as it is understood in our day. They
had seen in the experience of the Revolutionary period the
demoralizing tendency, the cruel injustice, and the intoler*Genesis 23 :16.

t"Webster's Works, vol. 3, page 41.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions -Opinion

of Field, J.

able oppression of a paper currency not convertible on demand into money, and forced into circulation by legal
tender provisions and penal enactments. When they therefore were constructing a government for a country, which
they could not fail to see was destined to be a mighty empire, and have commercial relations with all nations, a government which they believed was to endure foir ages, they
determined to recognize in the fundamental law as the
standard of value, that which ever has been and always
must be recognized by the world as the true standard, and
thus facilitate commerce, protect industry, establish justice,
and prevent the possibility of a recurrence of the evils which
they had experienced and the perpetration of the injustice
which they had witnessed. " We all know," says Mr. Webster, "that the establishment of a sound and uniform currency was one of the greatest ends contemplated in the adoption of the present Constitution. If we could now fully
explore all the motives of those who framed and those who
supported that Constitution, perhaps we should hardly find
a more powerful one than this."*
And how the framers of the Constitution endeavored to
establish this "sound and uniform currency" we have
already seen in the clauses which they adopted providing
for a currency of gold and silver coins. Their determination to sanction only a metallic currency is further evident
from the debates in the Convention upon the proposition to
authorize Congress to emit bills on the credit of the United
States. By bills of credit, as the terms were then understood, were meant paper issues, intended to circulate through
the community for its ordinary purposes as money, bearing
upon their face the promise of the government to pay the
sums specified thereon at a future day. The original draft
contained a clause giving to Congress power "to borrow
money and emit bills on the credit of the United States,"
and when the clause came up for consideration, Mr. Morris
moved to strike out the words "and emit bills on the credit
* Webster's Works, vol. 8, p. 895.

654

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

of the United States," observing that "if the United States
had credit, such bills would be unnecessary; if they had
not, unjust and useless." Mr. Madison inquired whether it
would not be " sufficient to prohibit the making them a legal
tender." " This will remove," he said, " the temptation to
emit them with unjust views, and promissory notes in that
shape may in some emergencies be best." Mr. Mor.ris replied that striking out the words would still leave room for
" notes of a responsible minister," which would do "all the
good without the mischief." Mr. Gorham was for striking
out the words without inserting any prohibition. If the
words stood, he said, they might "suggest and lead to the
measure," and that the power, so far as it was necessary or
safe, was "involved in that of borrowing."
Mr. Mason said
he was unwilling "to tie the hands of Congress," and thought
Congress "would not have the power unless it were expressed." Mr. Ellsworth thought it "a favorable moment
to shut and bar the door against paper money." "The mischiefs," he said, "of the various experiments which had been
made were now fresh in the public mind and had excited the
disgust of all the respectable part of America. By withholding the power from the new government, more friends of influence would be gained to it than by almost anything else.
Paper money can in no case be necessary. Give the government credit, and other resources will offer. The power may
do harm, never good." Mr. Wilson thought that "it would
have a most salutary influence on the credit of the United
States to remove the possibility of paper money." " This
expedient," he said, "can never succeed whilst its mischiefs
are remembered, and as long as it can be resorted to it will
be a bar to other resources." Mr. Butler was urgent for
disarming the government of such a power, and remarked
"that paper was a legal tender in no country in Europe."
Mr. Mason replied that if there was no example in Europe
there was none in which the government was restrained on
this head, and he was averse "to tying up the hands of the
legislature altogether."
Mr. Langdon preferred to reject
the whole plan than retain the words.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

Of those who participated in the debates, only one, Mr.
Mercer, expressed an opinion favorable to paper money, and
none suggested that if Congress were allowed to issue the
bills their acceptance should be compulsory-that is, that
they should be made a legal tender. But the words were
stricken out by a vote of nine States to two. Virginia voted
for the motion, and Mr. Madison has appended a note'to the
debates, stating that her vote was occasioned by his acquiescence, and that he "became satisfied that striking out the
words would not disable the government from the use of
public notes, as far as they could be safe and proper; and
would only cut off the pretext for a paper currency and particularly for making the bills a tender either for public or
private debts."*
If anything is manifest from these debates it is that the
members of the Convention intended to withhold from Congress the power to issue bills to circulate as money-that is,
to be receivable in compulsory payment, or, in other words,
having the quality of legal tender-and that the express
power to issue the bills was denied, under an apprehension
that if granted it would give a pretext to Congress, under
the idea of declaring their effect, to annex to them that
quality. The issue of notes simply as a means of borrowing
money, which of course would leave them to be received at
the option of parties, does not appear to have been seriously
questioned. The circulation of notes thus issued as a voluntary currency and their receipt in that character in payment
of taxes, duties, and other public expenses, was not subject
to the objections urged.
I am aware of the rule that the opinions and intentions of
individual members of the Convention, as expressed in its
debates and proceedings, are not to control the construction
of the plain language of the Constitution or narrow down
the powers which that instrument confers. Members, it is
said, who did not participate in the debate may have entertained different views fr-om those expressed. The several
* Madison Papers, vol. 3, page 1346.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

State conventions to which the Constitution was submitted
may have differed widely from each other and from its
framers in their interpretation of its clauses. We all know
that opposite opinions on many points were expressed in the
conventions, and conflicting reasons were urged both for the
adoption and the rejection of that instrument. All this is
very true, but it does not apply in the present case, for on
the subject now under consideration there was everywhere,
in the several State conventions and in the discussions before the people, atn entire uniformity of opinion, so far as we
have any record of its expression, and that concurred with
the intention of the Convention, as disclosed by its debates,
that the Constitution withheld from Congress all power to
issue bills to circulate as money, meaning by that bills made
receivable in compulsory payment, or, in other words, having the quality of legal tender. Every one appears to have
understood that the power of making paper issues a legal
tender, by Congress or by the States, was absolutely and
forever prohibited.
Mr. Luther Martin, a member of the Convention, in his
speech before the Maryland legislature, as reported in his
letter to that body, states the arguments urged against depriving Congress of the power to emit bills of credit, and
then says that a "majority of the Convention, being wise
beyond every event and being willing to risk any political
evil rather than admit the idea of a paper emission in any
possible case, refused to trust this authority to a government
to which they were lavishing the most unlimited powers of
taxation and to the mercy of which they were willing blindly
to trust the liberty and property of the citizens of every State
in the Union, and they erased that clausefrom the system."
Not only was this construction given to the Constitution
by its framers and the people in their discussions at the
time it was pending before them, but until the passage of
the act of 1862, a period of nearly three-quarters of a century, the soundness of this construction was never called in
question by any legislation of Congress or the opinion of
any judicial tribunal. Numerous acts, as already stated,

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

were passed during this period, authorizing the issue of
notes for the purpose of raising funds or obtaining supplies,
but in none of them was the acceptance of the notes made
compulsory. Only one instance have I been able to find in
the history of congressional proceedings where it was even
suggested that it was within the competency of Congress to
annex to the notes the quality of legal tender, and this occurred in 1814. The government was then greatly embarrassed from the want of funds to continue the war existing
with Great Britain, and a member from Georgia introduced
into the House of Representatives several resolutions directing an inquiry into the expediency of authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to issue notes convenient for circulation
and making provision for the purchase of supplies in each
State. Among the resolutions was one declaring that the
notes to be issued should be a legal tender for debts due or
subsequently becoming due between citizens of the United
States and between citizens and foreigners. The House
agreed to consider all the resolutions but the one containing
the legal tender provision. That it refused to consider by
a vote of more than two to one.*
As until the act of 1862 there was no legislation making
the acceptance of notes issued on the credit of the United
States compulsory, the construction of the clause of the Constitution containing the grant of the coinage power never
came directly before this court for consideration, and the attention of the court was only incidentally drawn to it. But
whenever the court spoke on the subject, even incidentally,
its voice was in entire harmony with that of the Convention..
Thus, in Gwin v. Breedlove,t where a marshal of Mississippi, commanded to collect a certain amount of dollars on
execution, received the amount in bank notes, it was held
that he was liable to the plaintiff in gold and silver. "By
the Constitution of the United States," said the court, "goldor silver coin made current by law can only be tendered in.
payment of debts."
Benton's Abridg., vol. 5, p. 361.

VOL.

1IL

42

t 2 Howard, 38..

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

And in the case of the United States v. Marigold,* where
the question arose whether Congress had power to enact
certain provisions of law for the punishment of persons
bringing into the United States counterfeit coin with intent
to pass it, the court said: These provisions "appertain to
the execution of an important trust invested by the Constitution, and to the obligation to fulfil that trust on the part
of the government, namely, the trust and the duty of creating and maintaining a uniform and pure metallic standard
of value throughout the Union. The power of coining
money and of regulating its value was delegated to Congress
by the Constitution fir the very purpose, as assigned by the
framers of that instrument, of creating and preserving the
uniformity and purity of such a standard of value, and on
account of the impossibility which was foreseen of otherwise
preventing the inequalities and the confusion necessarily incident to different views of policy, which in different communities would be brought to bear on this subject. The
power to coin money being thus given to Congress, founded
on public necessity, it must carry with it the correlative
power of protecting the creature and object of that power."
It is difficult to perceive how the trust and duty here designated, of" creating and maintaining a uniform and metallic standard of value throughout the Union," is discharged,
when another standard of lower value and fluctuating character is authorized by law, which necessarily operates to
drive the first from circulation.
In addition to all the weight of opinion I have mentioned
we have, to the same purport, from the adoption of the Constitution up to the passage of the act of 1862, the united testimony of the leading statesmen and jurists of the country.
Of all the men who, during that period, participated with
any distinction in the councils of the nation, not one can be
named who ever asserted any different power in Congress
than what I have mentioned. As observed by the Chief
Justice, statesmen who disagreed widely on other points
,agreed on this.
9 Howard, 567.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

Mr. Webster, who has always been regarded by a large
portion of his countrymen as one of the ablest and most enlightened expounders of the Constitution, did not seem to
think there was any doubt on the subject, although he belonged to the class who advocated the largest exercise of
powers by the General government. From his first entrance
into public life, in 1812, he gave great consideration to the
subject of the currency, and"in an elaborate speech in the
Senate, in 1836, he said: " Currency, in a large and perhaps
just sense, includes not only gold and silver and bank bills,
but bills of exchange also. It may include all that adjusts
exchanges and settles balances in the operations of trade and
business; but if we understand by currency the legal money
of the country, and that which constitutes a lawful tender
for debts, and is the statute measure of value, then undoubtedly nothing is included but gold and silver. Most unquestionably there is no legal tender, and there can be no legal
tender in this country, under the authority of this government or any other, but gold and silver--either the coinage
of our own mints or foreign coins, at rates regulated by
Congress. This is a constitutional principle perfectly plain,
and of the very highest importance. The States are expressly
prohibited from making anything but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts, and, although no such express prohibition is applied to Congress, yet, as Congress has no
power granted to it in this respect but to coin money, and
to regulate the value of foreign coins, it clearly has no power
to substitute paper, or anything else, for coin as a tender in
payment of debts and in discharge of contracts. Congress
has exercised this power fully in both its branches. It has
coined money, and still coins it; it has regulated the value
of foreign coins, and still regulates their value. The legal
tender, therefore, the constitutional standard of value, is
established and cannot be overthrown. To overthrow it
would shake the whole system."
If, now, we consider the history of the times when the
Constitution was adopted; the intentions of the framers of
that instrument, as shown in their debates; the contempora-

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

neons exposition of the coinage power in the State conventions assembled to consider the Constitution, and in the
public discussions before the people; the natural meaning
of the terms used ; the nature of the Constitution itself as
creating a government of enumerated powers; the legislative exposition of nearly three-quarters of a century; the
opinions of judicial tribunals, and the recorded utterances
of statesmen, jurists, and commentators, it would seem impossible to doubt that the only standard of value authorized
by the Constitution was to consist of metallic coins struck
or regulated by the direction of Congress, and that the power
to establish any other standard was denied by that instruInent.
There are other considerations besides those I have stated,
which are equally convincing against the constitutionality
of the legal tender provision of the act of February 25th,
1862, so far as it applies to private debts and debts by the
government contracted previous to its passage. That provision operates directly to impair the obligation of such contracts. In the dissenting opinion, in the case of Hepburn v.
Griswold, this is admitted to be its operation, and the position
is taken that, while the Constitution forbids the States to
pass such laws, it does not forbid Congress to do this, and
the power to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy,
which is expressly conferred, is mentioned in support of the
position. In some of the opinions of the State courts, to
which our attention has been directed, it is denied that the
provision in question impairs the obligation of previous
contracts, it being asserted that a contract to pay money is
satisfied, according to its meaning, by the payment of that
which is money when the payment is made, and that if the
law does not interfere with this mode of satisfaction, it does
not impair the obligation of the contract. This position is
true so long as the term money represents the same thing in
both cases or their actual equivalents, but it is not true
when the term has different meanings. Money is a generic
term, and contracts for money are not made without a specification of the coins or denominations of money, and the

:Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

number of them intended, as eagles, dollars, or cents; and
it will not be pretended that a contract for a specified
number of eagles can be satisfied by a delivery of an equal
number of dollars, although both eagles and dollars are
money; nor would it thus be contended, though at the time
the contract matured the legislature had determined to call
dollars eagles. Contracts are made for things, not names
or sounds, and the obligation of a contract arises from its
terms and the means which the law affords for its enforcement.
A law which changes the terms of the contract, either in
the time or mode of performance, or imposes new conditions, or dispenses with those expressed, or authorizes for its
satisfaction something different from that provided, is a law
which impairs its obligation, for such a law relieves the
parties from the moral duty of performing the original
stipulations of the contract, and it prevents their legal enforcement.
The notion that contracts for the payment of money stand
upon any different footing in this respect from other contracts appears to have had its origin in certain old English
cases, particularly that of mixed money,* which were decided upon the fbrce of the prerogative of the king with
respect to coin, and have no weight as applied to powers
possessed by Congress under our Constitution. The language of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in Paw v. Marsteller,t
which is cited in support of this notion, can only be made to
express concurrence with it when detached from its context
and read separated from the facts in reference to which it
was used.
It is obvious that the act of 1862 changes the terms of
contracts for the payment of money made previous to its
passage, in every essential particular. All such contracts
bad reference to metallic coins, struck or regulated by Congress, and composed principally of gold and silver, which
constituted the legal money of the country. The several
* Davies's Reports, 48.

t- 2 Cranch, 20.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

coinage acts had fixed the weight, purity, forms, impressions,
and denominations of these coins, and had provided that
their value should be certified by the form and impress
which they received at the mint.
They bad established the dollar as the money unit, and
prescribed the grains of silver it should contain, and the
grains of gold which should compose the different gold
coins. Every dollar was therefore a piece of gold or silver
certified to be of a specified weight and purity, by its form
and impress. A contract to pay a specified number of dollars was then a contract to deliver the designated number
of pieces of gold or silver of this character; and by the laws
of Congress and of the several States the delivery of such
dollars could be enforced by the holder.
The act of 1862 changes all this; it declares that gold or
silver dollars need not be delivered to the creditor according
to the stipulations of the contract; that they need not be
delivered at all; that promises of the United States, with
which the creditor has had no relations, to pay these dollars,
at some uncertain future day, shall be received in discharge
of the contracts-in other words, that the holder of such
contracts shall take in substitution for them different contracts with another party, less valuable to him, and surrender the original.
Taking it, therefore, for granted that the law plainly impairs the obligation of such contracts, I proceed to inquire
whether it is for that reason subject to any constitutional
objection. In the dissenting opinion in -cpburn v. Gliswold,
it is said, as already mentioned, that the Constitution does
not forbid legislation impairing the obligation of contracts.
It is true there is no provision in the Constitution forbidding in express terms such legislation. And it is also true
that there are express powers delegated to Congress, the
execution of which necessarily operates to impair the obligation of contracts. It was the object of the framers of that
instrument to create a National government competent to
represent the entire country in its relations with foreign
nations and to accomplish by its legislation measures of

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of.Field, J.

common interest to all the people, which the several States
in their independent capacities were incapable of effecting,
or if capable, the execution of which would be attended
with great difficulty and embarrassment. They, therefore,
clothed Congress with all the powers essential to the successful accomplishment of these ends, and carefully withheld the grant of all other powers. Some of the powers
granted, from their very nature, interfere in their execution
with contracts of parties. Thus war suspends intercourse
and commerce between citizens or subjects of belligerent
nations; it renders during its continuance the perfbrmance
of contracts previously made, unlawful. These incidental
consequences were contemplated in the grant of the war
power. So the regulation of commerce and the imposition
of duties may so affect the prices of articles imported or
manufactured as to essentially alter the value of previous
contracts respecting them; but this incidental consequence
was seen in the grant of the power over commerce and
duties. There can be no valid objection to laws passed in
execution of express powers that consequences like these
follow incidentally from their execution. But it is otherwise when such consequences do not follow incidentally, but
are directly enacted.
The only express authority for any legislation affecting
the obligation of contracts is found in the power to. establish
a uniform system of bankruptcy, the direct object of which
is to release insolvent debtors from their contracts upon the
surrender of their property. From this express grant in the
Constitution I draw a very diflrent conclusion from that
drawn in the dissenting opinion in _Hepburn v. Griswold, and
in the opinion of the majority of the court just delivered.
To my mind it is a strong argument that there is no general
power in Congress to interfere with contracts, that a special
grant was regarded as essential to authorize a uniform* system of bankruptcy. If such general power existed the delegation of an express power in the case of bankrupts was
unnecessary. As very justly observed by counsel, if this
sovereign power could be taken in any case without express

664

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

grant, it could be taken in connection with bankruptcies,
which might be regarded in some respects as a regulation
of commerce made in the interest of traders.
The grant of a limited power over the subject of contracts
necessarily implies that the framers of the Constitution did
not intend that Congress should exercise unlimited power,
or any power less restricted. The limitation designated is
the measure of congressional power over the subject. This
follows from the nature of the instrument as one of enumerated powers.
The doctrine that where a power is not expressly forbidden it may be exercised, would change the whole character
of our government. As I read the writings of the great
commentators and the decisions of this court, the true doctrine is the exact reverse, that if a power is not in terms
granted, and is not necessary and proper for the exercise of
a power thus granted, it does not exist.
The position that Congress possesses some undefined
power to do anything which it may deem expedient, as a
resulting power from the general purposes of the government, which is advanced in the opinion of the majority,
would of course settle the question under consideration without difficulty, for it would end all controversy by changing
our government from one of enumerated powers to one
resting in the unrestrained will of Congress.
"The government of the United States," says Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall, speaking for the court in Martinv. luntuer's
Lessee,* "can claim no powers which are not granted to it
by the Constitution, and the powers actually granted must
be such as are expressly given or given by necessary implication." This implication, it is true, may follow from the
grant of several express powers as well as from one alone,
but the power implied must, in all cases, be subsidiary to
the execution of the powers expressed. The language of
the Constitution respecting the writ of habeas corpus, declaring that it shall not be suspended unless, when in cases
1 Wheaton, 326.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it, is
cited as showing that the power to suspend such writ exists
somewhere in the Constitution; and the adoption of the
amendments is mentioned as evidence that important powers
were understood by the people who adopted the Constitution to have been created by it, which are not enumerated,
and are not included incidentally in any of those enumerated.
The answer to this position is found in the nature of the
Constitution, as one of granted powers, as stated by Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall. The inhibition upon the exercise
of a specified power does not warrant the implication that,
but for such inhibition, the power might have been exercised. In the Convention which framed the Constitution a
proposition to appoint a committee to prepare a bill of rights
was unanimously rejeoted, and it has been always understood
that its rejection was upon the ground that such a bill would
contain various exceptions to powers not granted, and on
this very account would afford a pretext for asserting more
than was granted.* In the discussions before the people,
when the adoption of the Constitution was pending, no objection was urged with greater effect than this absence of a
bill of rights, and in one of the numbers of the Federalist,
Mr. Hamilton endeavored to combat the objection. After
stating several reasons why such a bill was not necessary, he
said: "I go further and affirm that bills of rights, in the
sense and to the extent they are contended for, are not only
unnecessary in the proposed Constitution, but would even
be dangerous. They would contain various exceptions to
powers not granted, and on this very account would afford
a colorable pretext to claim more than were granted. For
why declare that things shall not be done which there is no
power to do? Why, for instance, should it be said that the
liberty of the press shall not be restrained when no power is
given by which restrictions may be imposed? I will not
* Journal of the Convention, 369; Story on the Constitution,
1862, and note.

1861,

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

contend that such a provision would confer a regulating
power, but it is evident that it would furnish to men disposed to usurp a plausible pretence for claiming that power.
They might urge, with a semblance of reason, that the Constitution ought not to be charged with the absurdity of providing against the abuse of an authority which was not given,
and that the provision against restraining the liberty of the
press afforded a clear implication that a right to prescribe
proper regulations concerning it was intended to be vested
in the National government. This may serve as a specimen
of the numerous handles which would be given to the doctrine of constructive powers by the indulgence of an injudicious zeal for bills of right."*
When the amendments were presented to the States for
adoption they were preceded by a preamble stating that the
conventions of a number of the States had, at the time of
their adopting the Constitution, expressed a desire "in order
to prevent misconception or abuse of its powers, that further
declaratory and restrictive cluses should be added."
Now, will any one pretend that Congress could have made
a law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof, or abridging the freedom of speech,
or the right of the people to assemble and petition the government for a redress of grievances, had not prohibitions
upon the exercise of any such legislative power been embodied in an amendment?
How truly did Hamilton say that had a bill of rights been
inserted in the Constitution, it would have given a handle to
the doctrine of constructive powers. We have this day an
illustration in the opinion of the majority of the very claim
of constructive power which he apprehended, and it is the
first instance, I believe, in the history of this court, when
the possession by Congress of such constructive power has
been asserted.
The interference with contracts by the legislation of the
several States previous to the adoption of the Constitution
* The Federalist, No. 84.

Dec. 1870.]

TEGAL TENDER

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

was the cause of great oppression and injustice. "Not only,"
says Story,* "was paper money issued and declared to be a
tender in payment of debts, but laws of another character,
well known under the appellation of tender laws, appraisement laws, instalment laws, and suspension laws, were from
time to time enacted, which prostrated all private credit and
all private morals. By some of these laws the due payment
of debts was suspended; debts were, in violation of the very
terms of the contract, authorized to be paid by instalments
at different periods; property of any sort, however worthless,
either real or personal, might be tendered by the debtor in
payment of his debts, and the creditor was compelled to take
the property of the debtor, which he might seize on execution, at an appraisement wholly disproportionate to its known
value. Such grievances and oppressions and others of a like
nature were the ordinary results of legislation during the
Revolutionary War and the intermediate period down to the
formation of the Constitution.
They entailed the most
enormous evils on the country and introduced a system of
fraud, chicanery, and profligacy, which destroyed all private
confidence and all industry and enterprise."
To prevent the recurrence of evils of this character not
only was the clause inserted in the Constitution prohibiting
the States from issuing bills of credit and making anything
but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts, but also
the more general prohibition, from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts. "To restore public confidence completely," says Chief Justice Marshall,t "it was
necessary not only to prohibit the use of particular means
by which it might be effected, but to prohibit the use of any
means by which thd same mischief might be produced. The
Convention appears to have intended to establish a great
principle, that contracts should be inviolable."
It would require very clear evidence, one would suppose,
to induce a belief that with the evils resulting from what
Marshall terms the system of lax legislation following the
* Commentaries on the Constitution, 8, see. 1371.

t Sturgis v.Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 206.

LEGAL TENDER

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

Revolution, deeply impressed on their minds, the framers
of the Constitution intended to vest in the new government
created by them this dangerous and despotic power, which
they were unwilling should remain with the States, and thus
widen the possible sphere of its exercise.
When the possession of this power has been asserted in
argument (for until now it has never been asserted in any
decision of this court), it has been in cases where a supposed
public benefit resulted from the legislation, or where the interference with the obligation of the contract was very slight.
Whenever a clear case of injustice, in the absence of such
supposed public good, is stated, the exercise of the power
by the government is not only denounced but the existence
No one, indeed, is found bold
of the power is denied.
enough to contend that if A. has a contract for one hundred
acres of land, or one hundred pounds of fruit, or one hundred yards of cloth, Congress can pass a law compelling him
to accept one-half of the quantity in satisfaction of the contract. But Congress has the same power to establish a
standard of weights and measures as it has to establish a
standard of value, and can, from time to time, alter such
standard. It can declare that the acre shall consist of eighty
square rods instead of one hundred and sixty, the pound of
eight ounces instead of sixteen, and the foot of six inches
instead of twelve, and if it could compel the acceptance of
the same 2umber of acres, pounds, or yards, after such alteration, instead of the actual quanlily stipulated, then the acceptance of one-half of the quantity originally designated could
be directly required without going through the form of altering the standard. No just man could be imposed upon by
this use of words in a double sense, where the same names
were applied to denote different quantities of the same thing,
nor would his condemnation of the wrong committed in such
case be withheld, because the attempt was made to conceal
it by this jugglery of words.
The power of Congress to interfere with contracts for the
payment of money is not greater or in any particular different from its power with respect to contracts for lands or

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

goods. The contract is not fulfilled any more in one case
than in the other by the delivery of a thing which is not
stipulated, because by legislative action it is called by the
same name. Words in contracts are to be construed in both
cases in the sense in which they were understood by the parties at the time of the contract.
Let us for a moment see where the doctrine of the power
asserted will lead. Congress has the undoubted right to
give such denominations as it chooses to the coins struck
by its authority, and to change them. It can declare that
the dime shall hereafter be called a dollar, or, what is the
same thing, it may declare that the dollar shall hereafter
be composed of the grains of silver which now compose
the dime. But would anybody pretend that a contract for
dollars, composed as at present, could be satisfied by the
delivery of an equal number of dollars of the new issue?
I have never met any one who would go to that extent. The
answer always has-been that would be too flagrantly unjust
to be tolerated. Yet enforcing the acceptance of paper
promises or paper dollars, if the promises can be so called,
in place of gold or silver dollars, is equally enforcing a departure from the terms of the contract, the injustice or the
measure depending entirely upon the actual value at the
time of the promises in the market. Now reverse the case.
Suppose Congress should declare that hereafter the eagle
should be called a dollar, or that the dollar should be composed of as many grains of gold as the eagle, would anybody for a moment contend that a contract for dollars, composed as now of silver, should be satisfied by dollars composed of gold? I am confident that no judge sitting on this
bench, and, indeed, that no judge in Christendom could be
found who would sanction the monstrous wrong by decreeing that the debtor could only satisfy his contract in such
case by paying ten times the value originally stipulated.
The natural sense of right which is implanted in every mind
would revolt from such supreme injustice. Yet there cannot be one law for debtors and another law for creditors.
If the contract can at one time be changed by congressional

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J. •

legislation for the benefit of the debtor it may at another
time be changed for the benefit of the creditor.
For acts of flagrant injustice such as those mentioned
there is no authority in any legislative body, even though
not restrained by any express constitutional prohibition.
For as there are unchangeable principles of right and morality, without which society would be impossible, and men
would be but wild beasts preying upon each other, so there
are fundamental principles of eternal justice, upon the existence of which all constitutional government is founded,
and without which government would be an intolerable and
hateful tyranny. There are acts, says Mr. Justice Chase, in
Calder v. Bull,* which the Federal and State legislatures
cannot do, without exceeding their authority. Among these
he mentions a law which punishes a citizen for an innocent
action; a law that destroys or impairs the lawful private
contracts of citizens; a law that makes a man ajudge in his
own cause; and a law that takes the property from A. and
gives it to 3. "It is against all reason and right," says the
learned justice, "for a people to intrust a legislature with
such powers; and therefore it cannot be presumed that they
have done it. The genius, the nature, and the spirit of our
State governments amount to a prohibition of such acts of
legislation, and the general principles of law and reason
forbid them. The legislature may enjoin, permit, forbid,
and punish; they may declare new crimes, and establish
rules of conduct for all its citizens in future cases; they may
command what is right and prohibit what is wrong, but they
cannot change innocence into guilt, or punish innocence as
a crime, or violate the rights or an antecedent lawful private
contract, or the right of private property. To maintain
that our Federal or State legislatures possess such powers,
if they had not been expressly restrained, would, in my
opinion, be a political heresy, altogether inadmissible in our
free republican governments."
In Ogden v. Saunders,t Mr. Justice Thompson, referring
to the provisions in the Constitution forbidding the States
* 3 Dallas, 388.

t 12 Wheaton, 303.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

to pass any bill of attainder, ex postfacto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, says: "Neither provision
can strictly be considered as introducing any new principle,
but only for greater security and safety to incorporate into
this charter provisions admitted by all to be among the first
principles of government. No State court would, I presume,
sanction and enforce an ex post facto law if no such prohibition was contained in the Constitution of the United States;
so, neither would retrospective laws, taking away vested
rights, be enforced. Such laws are repugnant to those fundamental principles upon which every just system of laws is
founded. It is an elementary principle, adopted and sanctioned by the courts of justice in this country and in Great
Britain, whenever such laws have come under consideration, and yet retrospective laws are clearly within this prohibition."
In Wilkeson v. Leland,* Mr. Justice Story, whilst commenting upon the power of the legislature of Rhode Island under
the charter of Charles II, said: "The fundamental maxims
of a free government seem to require that the rights of personal liberty and private property should be held sacred.
At least no court of justice in this country would be warranted in assuming that the power to violate and disregard
them, a power so repugnant to the common principles of
justice and civil liberty, lurked under any general grant of
legislative authority, o: ought to be implied from any general expressions of the will of the people. The people ought
not to be presumed to part with rights so vital to their
security and well-being without very strong and direct expressions of such an intention."
Similar views to these cited from the opinions of Chase,
Thompson, Story, and Marshall, are found scattered through
the opinions of the judges who have preceded us on this
bench. As against their collective force the remark of Mr.
Justice Washington, in the case of Evans v. Eaton,t is without significance. That was made at nisiprius in answer to
* 2 Peters, 657.

t 1 Peters's Circuit Court, 323.

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

a motion for a nonsuit in an action brought for an infringement of a patent right. The State of Pennsylvania had, in
March, 1787, which was previous to the adoption of the
Constitution, given to the plaintiff the exclusive right to
make, use, and vend his invention for fourteen years. In
January, 1808, the United States issued to him a patent for
the invention for fourteen years from that date. It was
contended, for the nonsuit, that after the expiration of the
plaintiff's privilege granted by the State, the right to his
invention became invested in the people of the State, by an
implied contract with the government, and, therefore, that
Congress could not consistently with the Constitution grant
to the plaintiff an exclusive right to the invention. The
court replied that neither the premises upon which the motion was founded, nor the conclusion, could be admitted;
that it was not true that the grant of an exclusive privilege
to an invention for a limited time implied a bindinig and
irrevocable contract with the people that at the expiration
of the period limited the invention should become their
property; and that even if the premises were true, there
was nothing in the Constitution which forbade Congress to
pass laws violating the obligation of contracts.
The motion did not merit any consideration, as the Federal court had no power to grant a nonsuit against the will
of the plaintiff in any case. The expression under these
circumstances of any reason why the court would not grant
the motion, if it possessed the power, was aside the case, and
is not, therefore, entitled to any weight whatever as authority. It was true, however, as observed by the court,
that no such contract with the public, as stated, was implied,
and inasmuch as Congress was expressly authorized by the
Constitution to secure for a limited time to inventors the
exclusive right to their discoveries, it had the power in that
way to impair the obligation of such a contract, if any had
existed. And this is perhaps, all that Mr. Justice Washington meant. It is evident from his language in Ogden v.
Saunders, that be repudiated the existence of any general
power in Congress to destroy or impair vested private rights.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

What I have heretofore said respecting the power of Congress to make the notes of the United States a legal tender
in payment of debts contracted previous to the act of 1862,
and to interfere with contracts, has had reference to debts
and contracts between citizens. But the same power which
is asserted over these matters is also asserted with reference
to previous debts owing by the government, and must
equally apply to contracts between the government and the
citizen. The act of 1862 declares that the notes issued shall
be a legal tender in payment of all debts, public and prirate,
with the exception of duties on imports and interest on the
public debt. If they are a legal tender for antecedent private debts, they are also a legal tender for such debts owing
by the United States, except in the cases mentioned. That
any exception was made was a mere matter of legislative
discretion. Express contracts for the payment of gold or
silver have been maintained by this court, and specifically
enforced on the ground that, upon a proper construction of
the act of 1862, in connection with other acts, Congress intended to except these contracts from the operation of the
legal tender provision. But the power covers all cases if it
exist at all. The power to make the notes of the United
States the legal equivalent to gold and silver necessarily includes the power to cancel with them specific contracts for
gold as well as money contracts generally. Before the passage of the act of 1862, there was no legal money except
that which consisted of metallic coins, struck or regulated
by the authority of Congress. Dollars then meant, as already
said, certain pieces of gold or silver, certified to be of a prescribed weight and purity by their form and impress received.
at the mint. The designation of dollars, in previous contracts, meant gold or silver dollars as plainly as if those
metals were specifically named.
It follows, then, logically, from the doctrine advanced by
the majority of the court as to the power of Congress over.
the subject of legal tender, that Congress may borrow gold
coin upon a pledge of the public faith to repay gold at the
maturity of its obligations, and yet, in direct disregard of its
VOL. XII.

48

LEGAL TENDER OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

pledge, in open violation of faith, may compel the lender to
take, in place of the gold stipulated, its own promises; and
that legislation of this character would not be in violation of
the Constitution, but in harmony with its letter and spirit.
The government is, at the present time, seeking, in the
markets of the world, a loan of several hundred millions of
dollars in gold upon securities'containing the promises of
the United States to repay the money, principal and interest,
in gold; yet this court, the highest tribunal of the country,
this day declares, by its solemn decision, that should such
loan be obtained, it is entirely competent for Congress to
pay it off, not in. gold, but in notes of the United States
themselves, payable at such time and in such manner as
Congress may itself determine, and that legislation sanctioning such gross breach of faith would not be repugnant to
the fundamental law of the land.
What is this but declaring that repudiation by the government of the United States of its solemn obligations would
be constitutional? Whenever the fulfilment of the obligation in the manner stipulated is refused, and the acceptance
of something different from that stipulated is enfbrced
against the will of the creditor, a breach of faith is committed; and to the extent of the difference of value between
the thing stipulated and the thing which the creditor is compelled to receive, there is repudiation of the original obliga.
tion. I am not willing to admit that the Constitution, the
boast and glory of our country, would sanction or permit
-any such legislation. Repudiation in any form, or to any
-extent, would be dishonor, and for the commission of this
public crime no warrant, in my judgment, can ever be found
in that instrument.
Some stress has been placed in argument in support of the
asserted power of Congress over the subject of legal tender
in the fact that Congress can regulate the alloy of the coins
issued under its authority, and has exercised its power in
this respect, without question, by diminishing in some instances, the actual quantity of gold or silver they contain.
Congress, it is assumed, can thus put upon the coins issued

:Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

other than their intrinsic value; therefore, it is argued, Congress may, by its declaration, give a value to the nfotes of
the United States, issued to be used as money, other than
that which they actually possess.
The assumption and the inference are both erroneous, and
the argument thus advanced is without force, and is only
significant of the weakness of the position which has to rest
for its support on an assumed authority of the government
to debase the coin of the country.
Undoubtedly Congress can alter the value of the coins
issued by its authority by increasing or diminishing, from
time to time, the alloy they contain, just as it may alter, at
its pleasure, the denominations of the several coins issued,
but there its power stops. It cannot make these altered
coins the equivalent of the coins in their previous condition;
and, if the new coins should retain the same names as the
original, they would only be current at their true value.
Any declaration that they should have any other value would
be inoperative in fact, and a monstrous disregard by Congress of its constitutional duty. The power to coin money,
as already declared by this court,* is a great trust devolved
upon Congress, carrying with it the duty of creating and
maintaining a uniform standard of value throughout the
Union, and it would be a manifest abuse of this trust to give
to the coins issued by its authority any other than their real
value. By debasing the coins, when once the standard is
fixed, is meant giving to the coins, by their form and impress, a certificate of their having a relation to that standard
different from that which, in truth, they possess; in other
words, giving to the coins a false certificate of their value.
Arbitrary and profligate governments have often resorted to
this miserable scheme of robbery, which Mill designatest
as a shallow and impudent artifice, the "least covert of all
modes of knavery, which consists in calling a shilling a
pound, that a debt of one hundred pounds may be cancelled
by the payment of one hundred shillings."
* United States v. Marigold, 9 Howard, 567.
t Mill's Political Economy, vol. 2, p. 20.

'LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Slip. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

In this country no such debasement has ever been attempted, and I feel confident that none will ever be tolerated.
The changes in the quantity of alloy in the different coins
has been made from time to time, not with any idea of debasing them, but for the purpose of preserving the proper
relative value between gold and silver. The first coinage
act, passed in 1792, provided that the coins should consist
of gold, silver, and copper-the coins of cents and half-cents
consisting of copper, and the other coins consisting of gold
and silver-and that the relative value of gold and silver
should be as fifteen to one, that is, that an ounce of gold
should be taken as the equal in value of fifteen ounces of
silver.
In progress of time, owing to the increased production
of silver, particularly from the mines of Mexico and South
America, this relative value was changed. Silver declined
in relative value to gold until it bore the relation of one to
sixteen instead of one to fifteen. The result was that the
gold was bought up as soon as coined, being worth intrinsically sixteen times the value of silver, and yet passing by
law only at fifteen times such value, and was sent out of
the country to be recoined. The attention of Congress was
called to this change in the relative value of the two metals
and the consequent disappearance of gold coin. This led,
in 1834,* to an act adjusting the rate of gold coin to its true
relation to silver coin.
The discovery of gold in California, some years afterwards, and the great production of that metal, again changed
in another direction the relative value of the two metals.
Gold declined, or in other words, silver was at a premium,
and as gold coin before 1834 was bought up, so now silver
coin was bought up, and a scarcity of small coin for change
was felt in the community. Congress again interfered, and
in 1853 reduced the amount of silver in coins representing
fractional parts of a dollar, but even then these coins were
restricted from being a legal tender for sums exceeding five
4 Stat. at Large, 699.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

dollars, although the small silver coins of previous issue
continued to be a legal tender for any amount. Silver pieces
of the denomination of three cents had been previously authorized in 1851, but were only made a tender for sums of
thirty cents and under. These coins did not express their
actual value, and their issue was soon stopped, and in 1853
their value was increased to the standard of coins of other
fractional parts of a dollar.
The whole of this subject has been fully and satisfactorily
explained in the very able and learned argument of the
counsel who contended for the maintenance of the original
decision of this court in Hepburn v. Griswold. He showed
by the debates that Congress has been moved, in all its
actions under the coinage power, only by an anxious desire
to ascertain the true relative value of the two precious metals,
and to fix the coinage in accordance with it; and that in no
case has any deviation from intrinsic value been permitted
except in coins for fractional parts of a dollar, and even that
has been only of so slight a character as to prevent them
from being converted into bullion, the actual depreciation
being made up by their portability and convenience.
It follows, from this statement of the action of Congress
in altering at different times the alloy of certain coins, that
the assumption of power to stamp metal with an arbitrary
value and give it currency, does not rest upon any solid
foundation, and that the argument built thereon goes with
it to the ground.
I have thus far spoken of the legal tender provision with
particular reference to its application to debts contracted
previous to its passage. It only remains to say a few words
as to its validity when applied to subsequent transactions.
So far as subsequent contracts are made payable in notes
of the United States, there can of course be no objection to
their specific enforcement by compelling a delivery of an
equal amount of the notes, or by a judgment in damages
for their value as estimated in gold or silver dollars, nor
would there be any objection to such enforcement if the legal
tender provision had never existed. From the general use

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

of the notes throughout the country and the disappearance
of gold and silver coin from circulation, it may perhaps be
inferred, in most cases, that notes of the United States are
intended by the parties where gold or silver dollars are not
expressly designated, except in contracts made in the Pacific
States, where the constitutional currency has always continued in use. As to subsequent contracts, the legal tender
provision is not as unjust in its operation as when applied
to past contracts, and does not impair to the same extent
private rights. But so far as it makes the receipt of the
notes, in absence of any agreement of the parties, compulsory in payment of such contracts, it is, in my judgment,
equally unconstitutional. This seems to me to follow necessarily from the duty already mentioned cast upon Congress
by the coinage power,-to create and maintain a uniform
metallic standard of value throughout the Union. Without
a standard of value of some kind, commerce would be difficult, if not impossible, and just in proportion to the uniformity and stability of the standard is the security and consequent extent of commercial transactions. How is it possible
fbr Congress to discharge its duty by making the acceptance
of paper promises compulsory in all future dealings-promises which necessarily depend for their value upon the confidence entertained by the public in their ultimate payment,
and the consequent ability of the holder to convert them
into gold or silver-promises which can never be uniform
throughout the Union, but must have different values in different portions of the country; one value in New York,
another at New Orleans, and still a different one at San
Francisco.
Speaking of paper money issued by the States,-and the
sarme language is equally true of paper money issued by the
United States-Chief Justice -Marshall says, in 0-aig v. The
Slate of lMissouri:* '"Such a medium has been always liable
to considerable fluctuation. Its value is continually changing; and these changes, often great and sudden, expose in* 4 Peters, 432.

Dec. 1870.]

LEGAL TENDER OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

dividuals to immense loss, are the sources of ruinous specu
lations, and destroy all confidence between man and man.
To cut up this mischief by the roots, a mischief which was
felt through the United States, and which deeply affected
the interest and prosperity of all, the people declared in their
Constitution that no State should emit bills of credit."
Mr. Justice Washington, after referring, in Ogden v. Saunders,* to the provision of the Constitution declaring that no
State shall coin money, emit bills of credit, make anything
but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts, says:
"These prohibitions, associated with the powers granted to
Congress 'to coin money and to regulate the value thereof,
and of foreign coin,' most obviously constitute members of
the same family, being upon the same subject and governed
by the same policy. This policy was to provide a fixed and
uniform standard of value throughout the United States, by
which the commercial and other dealings between the citizens thereof, or between them and foreigners, as well as the
moneyed transactions of the government, should be regulated. For it might well be asked, why vest in Congress
the power to establish a uniform standard of value by the
means pointed out, if the States might use the same means,
and thus defeat the uniformity of the standard, and consequently the standard itself? And why establish a standard
at all for the government of the various contracts which
might be entered into, if those contracts might afterwards
be discharged by a different standard, or by that which is
not money, under the authority of State tender laws? It
is obvious, therefore, that these prohibitions in the tenth
section are entirely homogeneous, and are essential to the
establishment of a uniform standard of value in the formation and discharge of contracts."
It is plain that this policy cannot be carried out, and this
fixed and uniform metallic standard of value throughout the
United States be maintained, so long as any other standard
is adopted, which of itself has no intrinsic value and is forever fluctuating and uncertain.
*12 Wheaton, 265.

680

LEGAL TENDER CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

For the reasons which I have endeavored to unfold, I am
compelled to dissent from the judgment of the majority of
the court. I know that the measure, the validity of which
I have called in question, was passed in the midst of a
gigantic rebellion, when even the bravest hearts sometimes
doubted the safety of the Republic, and that the patriotic
men who adopted it did so under the conviction that it
would increase the ability of the government to obtain funds
and supplies, and thus advance the National cause. Were I
to be governed by my appreciation of the character of those
men, instead of my views of the requirements of the Constitution, I should readily assent to the views of the majority
of the court. But, sitting as a judicial officer, and bound to
compare every law enacted by Congress with the greater
law enacted by the people, and being unable to reconcile
the measure in question with that fundamental law, I cannot
hesitate to pronounce it as being, in my judgment, unconstitutional and void.
in the discussions which have attended this subject of
legal tender there has been at times what seemed to me to
be a covert intimation, that opposition to the measure in
question was the expression of a spirit not altogether favorable to the cause, in the interest of which that measure was
adopted. All such intimations I repel with all the energy I
can express. I do not yield to any one in honoring and
reverencing the noble and patriotic men who were in the
councils of the nation during the terrible struggle with the
rebellion. To them belong the greatest of all glories in
our history,-that of having saved the Union, and that of
having emancipated a race. For these results they will be
remembered and honored so long as the English language
is spoken or read among men. But I do not admit that
a blind approval of every measure which they may have
thought essential to put down the rebellion is any evidence
of loyalty to the country. The only loyalty which I can
admit consists in obedience to the Constitution and laws
made in pursuance of it. It is only by obedience that affection $and reverence can be shown to a superior having a

Dec.

1870.]

BRONSON's EXECUTOR V. CHAPPELL.

681

General statement of the case.

right to command. So thought our great Master when he
said to his disciples: "If ye love me, keep my commandments."

BRONSON'S

EXECUTOR V.

CHAPPELL.

Where one, without objection, suffers another to do acts which proceed upon
the ground of authority from him, or, by his conduct, adopts and sanctions such acts after they are done, he will be bound, though no previous
authority exist, in all respects as though the requisite power had been
given in the most formal way. This doctrine applied to a case depending on special facts.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
Bronson, of New York, being owner as executor of lands
in Wisconsin, sold a tract to E. and J. Chappell, residing
near Galena, in that State, the sale being negotiated by one
W. C. Bostwick, of the last-named place. A portion of the
purchase-money was secured by mortgage; and as it became
due it was paid by the Chappells to Bostwick, under the assumption by them that Bostwick, who had -advertised himself during a term of twelve or fourteen years as the agent
of Bronson, was the duly constituted agent of Bronson to
receive it. Bostwick having failed, and appropriated the
money to his own use, Bronson now filed a bill against the
Chappells in the court below to foreclose the mortgage.
The defendants set up the payments to Bostwick; and the
question involved was thus a pure question of agency. The
defendants relied upon a correspondence between Bronson
and Bostwick, and particularly, as sufficient of itself, on a
letter from the latter to the former, dated 9th February,
1860, and a reply to it of the 15th. These two letters are
quoted and the general character of the others, with the
leading fitcts of the case, stated in different parts of the
opinion. The court below dismissed the bill, and Bronson
took the appeal.

