BAKER V. MORTON.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Leave is granted to the appellees to file such a bond, but
the court does not decide what the effect will be nor that it
is or is not competent for this court in such a case to grant
a supersedeas, as no such application is before the court.

BAKER V.

MfORTON.

1. A deed procured through fear of loss of life, produced by threats of the
grantee, may be avoided for duress.
2. A judgment being but a general lien and the creditor under it obtaining
no incumbrance but on such estate as his debtor really had, the equity
of such creditor gives way before the superior right of an owner in the
land who had conveyed it to the debtor only by duress and who never
parted with possession.
3. Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 205, identical with this case in principle and
almost identical with it also in fact and circumstance, affirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska; the case was this:
In the spring of 1857 there existed, near Omaha, in the
then Territory of Nebraska, an organization known as the
Omaha Claim Club. The object and purpose of the club
was to nullify the land laws of the United States, to the end
that the members of the club, who were engaged in land
speculations, might hold and control the public lands in the
vicinity of Omaha to the exclusion of actual settlers. The
club numbered from 100 to 200 men. It made laws and
promulgated decrees to suit its purposes, and enforced their
observance with revolvers, guns, bayonets, ropes, and other
appliances. It was regularly officered. The sheriff of the
county, secretary of the Territory, mayor of the city, and
register and receiver of the land office, all held high positions
in the club. It had stated meetings, and when any supposed
exigency should arrive the band would assemble at an hour's
notice and be ready for business. It drove actual settlers
from their claims, burned down their cabins, and marched

Dec. 1870.]

:BAKER V.

MORT0ON.

" 151

Statement of: the case.

the settlers, surrounded by armed men, to the land office of
the United States, and compelled them to withdraw their
applications for land. If the subject was obstinate, he was
taken to the Missouri River, and, with a rope around his
neck, thrown in and pulled out, and thrown in again, and
the operation repeated as often as might be necessary in
order "to bring the subject to his senses, so he would agree
to abide the law of the land." The character and objects
of the club, while it lasted, were notorious.
In this state of things Baker, in the spring of 1857, settled
upon and improved a quarter of a section of land near
Omaha; erected a house and continued to occupy it until
August 10th, 1857, when he entered the land under the provisions of the pre-emption laws of the United States. Having acquired title, and being thus in possession, one Pierce,
at that time a member of this club and a man of influence
in it, though then and subsequently a citizen of New York,
claimed the land by virtue of its laws and regulations, and
taking several members of the club with him, went to Baker's house and demanded a deed of the land. Baker, on
the 10th of August, 1857, executed to him such a deed;
Pierce, however, suffering Baker to remain in possession
either of this or of an adjoining tract (which he had got in
the same way that he did this), under some sort of lease.
Pierce being thus invested with a paper title, Morton, a respectable banker of New York, where, as already said, Pierce
resided, lent him money, and the debt not being paid sued
him and got judgment.
In this state of things Baker, in September, 1860, still residing in Nebraska, filed a bill in the Territorial court of
that Territory against Pierce as grantee, and Morton as
claiming an interest, to set aside the deed as obtained by
duress and without consideration. It set forth the respective residences of himself in Nebraska, and of Pierce and
Morton in New York; the demand for the deed by Pierce,
and execution of it by Baker to him. It alleged that when
Pierce and his company demanded the deed, they threatened
to take Baker's life by hanging or drowning him if he did

BAKER V.

MORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

not comply with the demand; that the club had posted
handbills calling the members together to take action against
Baker; and that he made the deed knowing'all this, and in
actualfear of his life, or of great bodily harm; that he received
no consideration whatever for the deed.
Pierce did not appear to the bill, which was taken pro confesso against him, and decree rendered accordingly.
Morton answered, alleging that he had no knowledge as
to the circumstances under which the deed had been procured and that he could not answer to the charge, on belief
or otherwise; but upon information he denied the same and
alleged that the deed was freely and voluntarily made, and
that Pierce was the true and lawful owner of the premises,
free from all claim.
The cause was heard on pleading and proofs in the District Court for Nebraska Territory, by the then Chief Justice,
who rendered a decree dismissing the bill. It was then carried by appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, where
it.was pending when 'Nebraska was admitted into the Union.
Thereupon, owing to the citizenship of the parties-the complainant in the State of Nebraska, and the defendants in New
York-and according to the usual rule by which cases that
by reason of the character of the parties, belong most naturally to the Federal courts are transferred into those courts,
and those which cannot be taken into them are transferred
to the State courts, this case was removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States. Here it was heard again and a
decree given dismissing the bill. The complainant appealed
to this court.
The reader who has read and remembers the case of
Brown v. Pierce, which came before this court two terms
ago and is reported in 7th Wallace, 205, will have seen, of
course, that the case is identical in principle and scarcely at
all variant in fact from that one.
The facts alleged by the bill being considered by the court,
here as there, fully proved by the evidence, the only questions which remained were:
1. Whether a deed executed without any consideration

Dec.1870.]

BAKER V.

MORTON.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

and only because the party making it is put in fear of his
life, or of great bodily harm, may be avoided?
2. Whether the case made was one for relief as against
Morton, whose good faith in lending his money was not to
be questioned.
Messrs. Bedeck and Briggs,for the appellant; Mr. Woolworth,
contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Territorial courts are created by an act of Congress, and
they usually possess jurisdiction of controversies of a civil
nature, without regard to the inquiry whether the controversies, if they had arisen in a State, would have been cognizable in the tribunals of the State or in the Federal courts.*
By the organic act creating the Territory of Nebraska the
judicial power of the Territory was vested in a Supreme
Court and certain district courts, and the provision was that
the jurisdiction of those courts should be as prescribed and
limited by law.t
Whenever a Territory is admitted into'the Union as a State
the cases pending in the Territorial courts of a Federal character or jurisdiction are transferred to the proper Federal
court, but all such as are not cognizable in the Federal
courts are transferred to the tribunals of the new State.
Pending cases, where the Federal and State courts have concurrent jurisdiction, may be transferred either to the State
or Federal courts by either party possessing that option under
the existing laws.
On the seventh of September, 1860, the appellant filed his
bill of complaint in one of the district courts of the Territory
against Roswell G. Pierce and the appellee, in which he alleged that he, the appellant, under the laws of the United
States, settled, improved, and entered as a pre-emptor the
southwest quarter of section eight, township fifteen north,
-x1 Stat. at Large, 77; 9 Id. 209; Benner v. Porter, 9 Howard, 235.
t 10 Stat. at Large, 280.

BAKER V. MORTON.

E-Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

range thirteen east, in the county of Douglas; that the firstnamed respondent claimed to own the tract so settled, improved, and entered as a pre-emption right by the complainant; that the said respondent made claim to the same, not
by virtue of any law of the United States, but by virtue of
the rules and regulations of what was known at the time as
the Omaha Claim Club, an organization composed of one
or two hundred men, the object of which was to protect
every claimant, whether resident or non-resident, in holding
three hundred and twenty acres of land as a claim upon the
public lands of the United States; that a few days before he,
the complainant, entered the land the said Pierce and his
agent and a few other persons, members of the said club,
came to the house of the complainant, and that the said
Pierce, as the leader of the party, assured the complainant
that unless he would agree to deed the tract, in case he preempted the same, to the said Pierce, that he, the said Pierce,
with the assistance of the said claim club, would take his
life by hanging or drowning him, or in such other manner
as the agents of the club might think fit and proper to employ; that on the tenth of August, 1857, he entered the tract
under the pre-ermption laws of the United States, when the
said Pierce, his agents, and certain members of that club
again came to him and repeated the threats before used, and
assured him that unless he immediately conveyed the tract
to the said Pierce they would carry their threats into execution, and that he, by means of those threats and through
fear that the threats would be carried into effect it he refused
to convey the land, on the same day conveyed the tract to
the said Pierce by deed in the usual form, which was duly
acknowledged.
Based upon these allegations the complainant charges that
the conveyance made by him was procured by threats and
through fear of death and without consideration. Morton,
the appellee, was also made a party to the bill of complaint,
because he was a judgment creditor of the other respondent,
and'claimed an interest in the land by virtue, as he alleged,
of a lien created by his judgment. Wherefore the complain-

Dec. 1870.]

BAKER V.

MORTON.

Statement of the case in the opinicn.

ant prayed that the conveyance of the tiact he made to the
said Pierce may be decreed to be inoperative and void and
that the said Pierce may be decreed to reconvey the premises
to the complainant.
Service was made by publication, as the respondents were
non-residents, and the respondents failing to appear and
plead, answer, or demur to the bill of complainant, they
were duly defaulted, and a decree was entered that the bill
of complaint be taken as confessed.
Testimony was taken and the cause was submitted to the
court and the court found that the conveyance was obtained
by the said Pierce from the complainant through threats of
personal violence made by the said Pierce and his agents,
and without consideration, and a decree was entered ordering that the conveyance should be cancelled, and requiring
the respondent to reconvey the premises to the complainant,
as prayed in the bill of complaint.
Pursuant to a motion, however, subsequently filed by the
appellee, it was ordered by the court that the decree as to
him should be vacated, and that he have leave to appear and
make defence. He accordingly filed an answer, in which
he admitted that the complainant entered the land as alleged
in the bill of complaint, and that he, the complainant, had
been in the possession of the same from that time to the present, but alleged that the complainant occupied the same as
tenant of the other respondent. Responsive to the charge
made that the deed was procured from the complainant by
threats, the appellee alleged that he had no knowledge upon
the subject, that he could not answer to the charge as to his
belief or otherwise, but upon information he denied the same
and alleged the fact to be that the deed was the free and
voluntary act of the complainant, and that the other respondent was the true and lawful owner in fee of the premises,
divested of all the claims set forth in the bill of complaint;
that he, the appellee, loaned to the other respondent the sum
of five thousand dollars, and that the borrower fhiling to
make payment as stipulated he brought suit against him
and recovered judgment for the amount, of which two thou-

BA KER V. MORTON .

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sand five hundred dollars remained due and unpaid, and
that his judgment was a lien on the land described in the
pleadings. Wherefore he insisted that his judgment ought
in equity to be held abetter claim on the laud than the claim
made by the complainant.
Defects exist in the record, arising from the loss of some
portion of the minutes and files of the clerk, but it is conceded that the usual replication was filed, and the record
shows that proofs having been taken by both parties the
cause was heard and the District Court of the Territory
entered a decree dismissing the bill or complaint and awarded costs to the respondent. From which decree the complainant appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory.
Pending the appeal in the Supreme Court of the Territory,
to wit, on the ninth of February, 1867, Nebraska was admitted into the Union upon an equal footing with the original
States.*
Undetermined as the appeal was at that date, and it appearing in due form that the parties were citizens of different States, the cause was transferred to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Nebraska, and the parties having been again heard the Circuit Court determined
that the deed made by the complainant to the other respondent was not made while he, the complainant, was in duress,
and that the appellee, by reason of his judgment, has a better
equity in the premises than the complainant, and entered a
decree dismissing the bill of complaint. Whereupon the
complainant appealed to this court, and now insists that the
decree of the Circuit Court ought to be reversed.
Much examination of the evidence or of the law applicable in the decision of the case is unnecessary, as the fhcts
are substantially the same as in a case between the same
parties which was recently heard and determined by the
court after mature deliberation.t
By the bill of complaint a complete title is set up by the
* 14 Star. at :Large 392.

t Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 214.

Dec. 1870.]

B AKER VJ. i

OILT01N.

Opinion of the court.

complainant to the land under the pre-emption laws of the
United States, and the answer admits that he held such
a title at the date of the deed he made to the other respondent. Argument upon that topic, therefore, is unnecessary,
and the complainant charges that he was induced to execute
the deed by threats and from fear of death or great bodily
harm, and the respondent concedes that he is not able to
deny that allegation from any personal knowledge upon the
subject, and lie even goes further and says that lie cannot
answer concerning the same, because lie has no information
or belief upon the subject. Such an answer does not make
it necessary for the complainant to int'oduce more than one
witness to overcome the defence, but the cQurtis not inclined
to place the decision upon any technical ground, as the
proofs in the case show to the entire satisfiction of the court
that all the matters alleged in the bill of complaint are true,
and that the same are fully established, even if the allegations of the answer be regarded as denials made by a respondent in respect to matters within his own knowledge. Some
conflict undoubtedly exists in the proofs, but the weight of
the evidence is so decidedly with the complainant that the
court feels ho hesitation in saying that the allegations of the
bill of complaint are fully proved.
Complete incipient title was acquired by the complainant
under the pre-emption laws of the United States, and on the
same day the defaulted respondent, through threats to take
his life if he refused, compelled him to convey the same to
that party, and the settled law of this court is that such acts
amount to legal duress, and that a deed, or other written
obligation or contract, procured by such means, is inoperative and void, and that rule is applied in all jurisdictions
where the principles of the common law prevail.*
Actual violence is not necessary to constitute duress even
at common law, as understood in the parent country, because
consent is the very essence of a contract, and if there be
compulsion there is no consent, and it is well-settled law
* Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 214.

BAKER V. MORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that moral compulsion, such as that produced by threats to
take life or to inflict great bodily harm, as well as that produced by imprisonment, is sufficient to destroy free agency,
without which there can be no contract, as in that state of
the case there is no consent.*
Where a party enters into a contract for fear of loss of
life, or for fear of loss of limb, or fear of mayhem, or for
fear of imprisonment, the contract is as clearly void as when
it was procured by duress of imprisonment, which is where
there is an arrest for an improper purpose without just cause,
or where there is an arrest for a just cause but without lawful authority, or for a just cause but for an unlawful purpose, and the rule is that in either of those events the party
arrested, if he was thereby induced to enter into a contract,
may avoid it as one procured by duress.
2. Judgments were not liens at common law, but Congress, in adopting the modes of process prevailing in the
States at the time the judicial system of the United States
was organized, made judgments recovered in the Federal
courts liens in all cases where they were so by the laws of
the States, and a later act of Congress has provided that
judgments shall cease to have that operation in the same
manner and at the same periods in the respective Federal
districts as like processes do when issued from the State
courts.t
Such a lien confers a right to levy on the land to the exclusion of other adverse interests acquired subsequently to
the judgment, but the lien constitutes no property or right
in the land itself, as it is merely a general lien securing a
preference over subsequently acquired interests in the property..
* Chitty on Contracts, 192; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, 283; 2 Institutes,
482; 2 Rolle's Abridgement, 124; Richardson v. Duncan, 3 New Hampshire, 508; Watkins v. Baird, 6 Massachusetts, 511.
t Williams v. Benedict et al., 8 Howard, Ill ; Riggs v. Johnson Co., 6
Wallace, 166.
* Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Peters, 443; Massingill v. Downs, 7 Howard, 767 ; -Buchan v. Sumner, 2 Barbour's Ch. 165; Ells v. Tousley, I Paige,
280; White v. Carpenter, 2 Id. 217.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER

v. THE

STATE.

Statement of the case-.

For these reasons we are of opinion that the Circuit Court
erred in entering a decree for the appellee.
DECREE REVERSED with costs, and the cause remanded with
directions to enter a decree for the appellant,

IN

CONFORMITY WITH THE OPINION OF THIS COURT.

MILLER ET AL. V.

THE

STATE.

Although a suit be nominally by a State as the plaintiff, yet where the real
plaintiffs are individuals-as ex gr. in a quo warranto, where the State
is plaintiff ex relatione-thecdurt will not advance, even by consent of
counsel on both sides, a case under the act of June 30th, 1870.

to advance a cause, &c.
Seven persons, asserting themselves to be the true directors of the Rochester and Genesee Railroad Company, a corporation created by the State of New York, brought suit in
one of the courts of that State in the nature of a quo warranlo-using the name of The People of the State of New
York as plaintiff with their own names as relators-against
one Miller and several others, who also asserted themselves
to be directors, charging that these last had unlawfully
usurped the office of directors, from which they, the relators,
had been unlawfully ousted.
The case being transferred from the special term of the
court to which it was brought to the general term, the
names of the seven relators were dropped, and the matter
proceeded in the name of" The People of the State of New
York" alone. Judgment being finally given in the case
thus entitled, by the Court of Appeals in New York, the
case came here from that court on error. and now, standing
low down on the docket, a motion was made by Mr. T. Bacon, for the plaintiff in error, Mr. J. C. Cochrane in behalf of the
other side, favoring the same, and having himself made a
MOTION

