Dec,.1870.]

RAILROAD. COMPANY V. HARRIS.

65

Syllabus.

the patent of George A. Parker, and also all description of
his invention made by the plaintiff to any one prior to the date
of his patent in 1861 or '62, and also the conversation (whatever they might find it to have been) between the plaintiff
and the engineer of the defendants in 1862, prior to the
date of the plaintiff's application for a patent. This was all
the defendants had a right to ask. They bad given notice
of nothing more. They had not apprised the plaintiff that
the novelty of his invention would be assailed by any other
evidence than such as they had particularized in their notice
of defence. While, therefore, evidence in regard to the state
of the art was proper to be considered by the court in construing the patent and determining what invention was
claimed, it had no legitimate bearing upon the question
whether the patentee was the first inventor.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.
1. Where a Maryland railroad corporation whose charter contemplated the
extension of the road beyond the limits of Maryland, was allowed by
act of the legislature of Virginia-re-enacting the Maryland charter in
words-to continue its road through that State, and was also allowed by
act of Congress to extend into the District of Columbia, a lateral road
in connection with the road through Maryland and Virginia; Held:
(the unity of the road being unchanged in name, locality, election and
power of officers, mode of declaring dividends, and doing all its business,)
First. That no new corporations were created, either in the District or in,
Virginia, but only that the old one was exercising its faculties in therr
with their permission; and that, as related to responsibility for damages, there was a unity of ownership throughout.
Second. That in view of such unity the corporation was amenable to the
courts of the District f',r injuries done in Virginia on its road.
Third. That this responsibility was not changed by a traveller's receiving
tickets in "coupons" or different parts, announcing that "Responsibility for safety of person or loss of baggage on each portion of the
route is confined to the proprietors of that portion alone."
2. The principle of pleading that a demurrer, after several pleadings,
reaches back to a defective declaration, has no application, where thedefect is one of form simply.
VOL. XII.

5

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

]IARRIS:.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. A plea in bar waives all pleas in abatement.
4. A defective declaration may be cured by sufficient averments in a replication demurred to.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
the case being thus:
On the 28th February, 1827, the State of Maryland incorporated a company known as the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company. It was, of course, a Maryland corporation,
with capacity to sue and be sued, to take and condemn
lands, subject to certain restrictions, and with the ordinary
powers, rights, and privileges of corporations in that State
and elsewhere. The place where the board of directors was
to meet was Baltimore. There its dividends from the company's earnings were to be declared, and there was to be
the seat of its government generally. It had power to make
lateral roads. But the principal and declared purpose of
the charter of the company, a purpose indicated by the company's name, was "the construction of a railroad from the
city of Baltimore to some suitable point on the Ohio River;"
a matter to do which, in a line at all direct, it was necessary
to have some action of the legislature of Virginia. Accordingly the legislature of Virginia, within eight days after the
legislature of Maryland had passed its act of incorporation,
passed an act to "confirm" the same. The Virginia act
reads thus:
"Whereas, an act has passed the legislature of Iaryland, entitled 'An act to incorporate the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, in the following words and figures,' viz.: (setting out
the Maryland act,) Therefore be it enacted by the General Assembly, that the same rights and privileges shall be and are
diereby granted to the aforesaid company, within the territory
,of Virginia, as are granted to them. within the territory of
Maryland. The said company shall be subject to the same
yains,penalties, and obligations as are imposed by said act; and
the same rights, privileges, and immunities which are reserved
to the State of Maryland, or to the citizens thereof, are hereby
reserved to the State of Virginia and her citizens, except as to
)making lateral roads; and that the road shall not strike the

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

67

Statement of the case.

Ohio at a point below the mouth of the Little Kanawha; that
the words ' other property,' in the 17th section of the Maryland act, shall not be construed to extend to any property other
than materials necessary for the road, works, and buildings;
and that in procuring land and materials for the road, they
shall pursue the course pointed'out by the Virginia laws."
Under these acts a rail road was accordingly made between
Baltimore and the Ohio River.
Subsequently to this date, that is to say, on the 22d February, 1831, the legislature of Maryland gave the company
authority to build a lateral road, from the main road between Baltimore to the Ohio, to the line of the District of
Columbia. In immediate sequence, Congress passed a law
by which a connection with the Capital was opened through
the District. The act of Congress, which was approved
March 2d, 1831, entitled "Au act to authorize the extension, construction, and use of a lateral branch of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, into and within the District of
Columbia," ran thus:
"Whereas, It is represented to this present Congress that the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, incorporated by the
General Assembly of the State of Maryland, by an act passed
the 28th day of February, 1827, are desirous under the powers
which they claim to be vested in them by virtue of the provisions of the beforementioned act, to construct a lateral branch
from the said Baltimore and Ohio Railroad to the District of
Columbia; therefore,
"Be it enacted, &c., That the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, incorporated by the said act of the General Assembly
of the State of Maryland, shall be, and they are hereby authorized to extend into and within the District of Columbia, a lateral
railroad, such as the said company shall construct or cause to
be constructed, in a direction towards the said District, in connection with the road they have located and are constructing
from the city of Baltimore to the Ohio River, in pursuance of
said act of incorporation. And the said Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company are hereby authorized to exercise the same
powers, rights, and privileges, and shall be subject to the same
restrictions in the construction and extension of the said lateral

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

road into and within the said -District,as they may exercise or be
subject to under or by virtue of the said act of incorporation in
the extension and construction of any railroad within the State
of Maryland, and shall be entitled to the same rights, benefits,
and immunities, in the use of said road and in regard thereto, as
are provided in the said charter, except the right to construct
any lateral road or roads in said District from said lateral road."
A supplementary act of the legislature of Maryland,
passed March 14th, 1832, provided that the stock issued by
the company to complete this lateral road "shall, united,
form the capital upon which the net profits derived from
the use of said road shall be apportioned."
Under this act of Congress, and the act of Maryland authorizing a lateral road, a road was made from Washington
to a point on the main road called the Washington Junction, not far from Baltimore, and so a complete road by rail
opened from Washington to the Ohio River. At this point
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad terminated. From Belair,
in Ohio, opposite this point of termination, began another
road (the Ohio Central), running to Columbus. While,
however, the road from Washington to the Ohio River was
thus made up of two parts, one from Washington to the
Junction, and one from the Junction to the Ohio River, each
part, as the reader will have observed, was made in virtue
of two different enactments; the former, from Washington
to the Junction, by the act of Congress and the act of Maryland; the latter, or main branch, by the act of Maryland
and the act of Virginia.
In this state of things, one Harris bought, at an office
vhich the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company had established in Washington, a ticket with which to go to Columbus, Ohio. This ticket was made up of three coupons, one
for travel between 'Washington City and the Washington
Junction; another for travel between Washington Junction
and the Ohio River, over the line of the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad, and the third and last, for travel from Belair,
in Ohio, opposite the terminus of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad, to Columbus, in Ohio, over the line of the Cen-

Dee. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

69

Statement of the case.

tral Ohio Railroad, already mentioned as confessedly disconnected with the Baltimore and Ohio one, except in the matter
of running junction.*
Over the first coupon was a memorandum thus:
"Responsibility for safety of person or
loss of baggage on each portion of the
route is confined to the proprietors of that
portion alone."

And each coupon had printed on it
" CONDITIONED AS ABOVE."

While travelling on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, at
Mannington, in the State of Virginia, Harris was severely injured by a collision between the train in which he was so travelling, and another train of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company. He accordingly brought suit against the railroad
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for the injury he had suffered. The writ was served on the President
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company. At the time
that the writ was thus served, there was no act of Congress,
authorizing suits againstforeign corporations, doing business
in the District. Some time afterwards, that is to say, on
the 22d of February, 1867,t Congress enacted:
"That in actions againstforeign corporations doing business in
the District of Columbia, all process may be served on the agent
of such corporation, or person conducting its business aforesaid,
or in case he is absent and cannot be found, by leaving a copy
thereof at the principal place of business of, in the District, and
such service shall be effectual to bring the corporation before
the court."
The declaration was against the company, describing it not
as a citizen, or resident, or inhabitant of the District, or of
* The division of the ticket is described in a slightly different way in the
opinion, i7!fra, p. 85. The Reporter describes it as he himself, perhaps erroneously, understood it. The matter is not important.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 404.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

any State, but as "a corporation duly and legally established
by law, having and professing a legal and recognized existence,
within the limits of the District of Columbia, and exercising therein
corporate powers, rights, and privileges, in the making of the
contracts,receiving freight and passengers, for transportation
in and along their said railroad, from the city of Washington
to the Ohio River;" and it relied on the purchase of the
ticket, and a contract in virtue thereof, to carry the plaintiff
safely to the Ohio River, and the breach of the contract in
what had occurred.
The company pleaded in abatement,
1st. That the company was net an inhabitant of the District of Columbia when the writ was served.
2d. That the company was not found in the District of
Columbia when the writ was served.
The view of the company in their pleas apparently was,
that no new corporation had been. created by the act of Congress of 1831, within the District, and so made an inhabitant
of it; that the old corporation by virtue of that act, did not
become such an inhabitant, or found within the District, and
that the court in which the action was brought had succeeded but to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
District; a court in regard to whose jurisdiction it was provided by the 6th section of an act of February 27th, 1801,*
identical, so far as this suit was concerned, with the 11th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789:
"That no action or suit shall be brought before said court, by
any original process, against any person who shall not be an inhabitant of, or found within said District at the time of serving
the writ."
To the first of the above-mentioned pleas, Harris replied
that the company was an inhabitant of the District of Columbia, by virtue of the act of Congress already mentioned, the
date and title of which he set forth, and that they had accepted its provisions, and constructed their roads under the
*2

Stat. at Large, 106.

Dec. 1870:]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.
Argument for the railroad company.

act, availing themselves of the privileges thus conferred, and
doing business under it in the District of Columbia.
To the second, that the company was found within the
District of Columbia when the writ was served, and was
within the jurisdiction of the court, by virtue of the acts of
Congress mentioned in the first replication, and that due and
legal service of the writ was made upon the person of the
president within the District, &c.
The company demurred to these replications, adding to
the demurrer an admission of the service on the president,
but denying that such service was a legal service, or service
on the company. The demurrers were overruled. The
company thereupon filed the general issue of Not Guilty.
Upon the trial, the counsel of the company asked the court
to instruct the jury that upon the evidence before them the
plaintiff could not recover.
'The court refused to give the instruction, and the jury
having found $8250 damages for the plaintifF, the company
brought the case here.
It was argued at the last term, when a re-argument was
directed upon one of the points raised in the first argument,
to wit:
" Whether the acts of Congress and the statutes of West Virginia, relating to the Baltimore and Ohio fRailroad Company,
created a new and distinct corporation under that name in the
said State and District of Columbia respectively, or whether they
are only enabling acts, as respected the corporation under that
name, created by the State of Maryland."
Messrs. Bradley and Buchanan, on the different arguments,
for the plaintiffs in error:
1. The instruction asked for should have been given, for
this reason among others, that the declaration was essentially
defective. The decisions of this court require that the averment of jurisdiction shall be positive; that the declaration
shall state expressly the fact on which jurisdiction depends.*
* Brown v. Keene, 8 Peters, 115.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

HARRIS.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the railroad company.

Now all that this declaration avers it could aver under the
Bank of Augusta v. Earle,* though that case decided that "a
corporation can have no legal existence outside of the place
in which it was created; must dwell in the place of its creation, and cannot migrate to another sovereignty." For,
though a nou-resident corporation, it might con)tract, through
its agents, within the District of Columbia, and thus exercise a corporate power, right, and privilege, in the making
of such contracts. There is thus an absolute failure in the
averment of this varr to state the single and necessary circumstances, essential to the jurisdiction of this court. And
this defect which is reached by the demurrer, is fittal to the
case of the plain tiff
2. The company has lost none of the benefits of its pleas
to the jurisdiction or its demurrer by pleaing over; and if
it appears, from an inspection of the whole record, either
that the court below had no jurisdiction of the case at bar,
or that the pleadings of the plaintiff below were so defective
that the court below should have rendered judgment for the
defendant, this court will reverse the judgment given.t
3. But supposing the narr good. Was this defendant an
inhabitant of the District of Columbia, or capable of being
found within it?
"If a corporation,J as is well settled, and is declared in
words in the case of the Ohio and MississippiRailroad Company
v. Wheeler,§ can have no legal existence beyond the State or
sovereignty which brings it into life," and must dwell in the
place of its creation, this defendant cannot, by possibility, be
an inhabitant of this District, or be found within this District,
unless it can be shown that it has been incorporatedby a law
of Congress, operating within this District. Now, before a
- 13 Peters, 588.
f Louisville Railroad Company v. Letson, 2 Howard, 558; Lawson v.
Snyder, 1 Maryland, 77; Tucker v. State, 11 Id. 322.
I Marshall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 16 Howard, 328; Covington
Drawbridge Co. v. Shepherd, 20 Id. 233; Louisville Railroad Co. v. Letson,
2 Id. 558; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 519.
1 Black, 297.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPAY IV.- "HARRIS.

71

Argument for the railroad company.

sovereignty can be said to give existence to a corporation,
it must authorize such a body to have perpetual succession,
to sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, grant and
receive by its corporate name, to have a common seal, to
make by-laws, to have the power of amotion or removal of
members. Certainly the act of Congress did not incorporate
this company. Yet unless the company be incorporated in
the District it cannot be sued there against its will. It is not
enough that the corporation should be able to hold, control,
and manage property, or possess certain privileges and powers within the District. All this may be done by an agent;
it may still be a non-resident.- The late case of Day v. Newark Idia-rubber Cornpany* is a case in point adverse to the
right of Harris to sue the defendant in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia. The defendant corporation was
there sued in the Circuit Court for the district of New York,
whosejurisdiction under the eleventh section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, is identical with that given to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia under the act of 1801, local to
the District, which regulates this case. The court relying
on the cases cited by us held that there was no jurisdiction.
The syllabus is thus:
" Where a manufacturing corporation, chartered by New Jersey, and having its place of business and manufhctory in that
State, had a store in New York, conducted by its agents, where
its goods were sold, and a suit was commenced in this court by
attaching the goods found in that store, and serving a summons
on its president at New York, yet held that the corporation was
not an inhabitant of the district of New York, or found within
it at the time of serving the process."
And this view of the law is sustained by nearly every
legislature in the country, as also by Congress. Certainly
it has been found necessary to provide, by legislation, for
giving jurisdiction, even to Slate courts, having common law
powers, over foreign corporations, having agents within the
State, and there exercising some of their franchises. This
1 Blatchford, 628.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

was done in Maryland by art. 75, sees. 100, 101, and 102,
of the Public General Laws of that State; in Pennsylvania,
by the act of 21st March, 1849; in New York, by the act of
1849, ch. 107. In other States, as in Illinois, a foreign corporation coming into the State is required by statute to enter
into a stipulation that its agents shall accept service of writs
issued against it.* And what shall we say of this very District of Columbia? Why was the act of February 27th, 1867,
passed, authorizing service upon a foreign corporation doing
business within the District, if the power to make such service was already in existence? This act of 1867 is a declaration by Congress that its act of 1831 authorizing the introduction of the railroad into the District, gave no such right
against the road. But the act of 1867 was not passed till
after this suit was brought.
The language of the Virginia act is very different from
that of the act of Congress. It re-enacts, totidei"verbis, the
Maryland statute of incorporation. In other words it reincorporates the company; and hence in The Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company v. Gallahiue,reported in 12th Grattan,t
it was decided that this act of Virginia did make the company a clear and complete Virginia corporation. The same
view was taken-the question being afterwards regarded as
hardly longer open to question-by the Court of Appeals
of West Virginia in the subsequent cases of Goshorn v. The

Supervisors,_ and The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
v. The Supervisors.§ But, on the question of jurisdiction, we
are not concerned with what the statute of Virginia did.
The question is, did the act of Congress re-incorporate?
Plainly it did not.
But if the company is incorporated within the District of
Columbia, there were three distinct corporations; for if the
act of Congress made a corporation in the District, the act
of Virginia did, afortiori,make one in Virginia. But if there
were three distinct corporations, the instruction asked for
ought certainly to have been given ; for that corporation in
See Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wallace, 410.
1 West Virginia, 808.

t Page 658.
3 Id. 319.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

HARRIS.

Argument for the party injured.

the District was no more responsible for the injuries which
Harris sustained near Mannington, in Virginia, than it would
have been had the same been sustained on the line of the
Central Ohio Railroad in the State of Ohio. The American
rule is, that in the absence of special contract, each company
is only liable for the extent of its own route.*
Instead of producing and proving the ticket as laid in his
narr, the plaintiff produced a ticket consisting of three coupons, by which the liability of each company was limited to
its respective route. This was a fatal variance.
Messrs. T. I. D. Fullerand W. D. Davidge,contra, contended
that the declaration, reasonably interpreted, and especially
as helped by the replication, demurred to, and all whose
allegations of fact were thus admitted, did show a habitat;
which was all that was necessary for it to show; that whether
the act of Congress and the act of Virginia created ndw and
distinct corporations or were only enabling acts, was not, as
respected the great point in the case-the right to sue the
corporation in the District-a practical question, for that
even though no new corporation was created in the District,
still if the old corporation had a habitat there, that this was
enough: that coming there to exercise its franchise, to take,
condemn, and hold, to take land, ltres and freight, to run
its cars in and out, it was estopped to deny a habitat.
The true view of the case, the learned counsel contended,
was that there was but one company and one road; though
a road divided for convenience into sections; sections, however, not identical with the territories of the different sovereignties. It had never been pretended by any one (they
argued), that there was more than one company, one organization, and one set of officers. Three distinct corporations
would destroy the unity of purpose and action essential to
the ends of the charter. The charter as originally conferred
by the State of Maryland, contemplated the exercise of corporate powers outside of the State, and such as were not
Nutting v.,Connecticut River Railway Company, 1 Gray, 502

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

within the power of the State alone to confer. It contemplated the extension and construction of the road into two
other sovereignties for its termini. And, immediately after
its creation by the State of Maryland, the company applied
to Congress and the State of Virginia for the privilege of
extending its road into their jurisdictions, and obtained it,
with the corporate right to exercise the same powers as were
conferred by the parent act. But when the corporation
actually came into the District or into Virginia, whether by
being " enabled" or "re-incorporated" it was not the less
in the place whither it had come, and having a habilat there
it was liable to process. The broad language used by this
court in The Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company v. Wheeler,
"that a corporation can have no legal existence beyond the
State which created it," should be limited to the question
then before the court-that of citizenship.
If the act of Congress did not re-incorporate, and if reincorporation was necessary to give a right to sue, to what
inconvenience is the suitor not exposed! The argument
cannot be better put than in the language of the court in
12th Grattan.
"It would be a startling proposition if in all such cases citizens of the District and others should be denied all remedy in
its courts, for causes of action arising under contracts and acts
entered into or done within its territory, and should be turned
over to the courts and laws of a sister State to seek redress."
Did Congress in allowing the entry into the District design this great inconvenience?
The argument of the other side, founded on the coupons
or division of the tickets, assumed that there were three
separate corporations; an assumption now shown to be without foundation.
-Reply: The argument ab ineonvenienti in 12th Grattan was
used to help out the argument, which logically or legally it
cannot at all help out, that the legislature of Virginia had
meant to create a new and separate corporation; the exact
point decided in that case and affirmed in the two cases from

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. HARRIS.

77

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

West Virgina. It was not used to show that a corporation
of one State extending its road into another, even with its
leave, became liable to be sued in that other without being
re-incorporated., But the argument ab inconvenientiamounts
to nothing. The rule of the common law and whatever of
inconvenience it has, is remediable by a statute of two or
three lines, and everywhere is being remedied as corporations go into foreign States, and the necessity for a remedy
arises.
What Congress meant to do on this particular point by its
act of 1831 is a point to be settled by the language of the
act, not by the suggestion of an inconvenience but fancied.
What Congress itself considered that it meant by. its act of
1831, and what it considered had both been done and left
undone by that act, Congress has itself declared by another
act; its act of 1867. From the last-named year, and not
before, Congress declares that it meant to change the rule
of the common law. As this perhaps is the only case in the
District where service on a foreign corporation has been
sought for, the inconvenience has hitherto been little. Since
1867 and for all future time it is nothing.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Harris sued the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
for injuries which he received by a collision. The declaration sets out that the company is a corporation established
by law by the name of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, having a legal and recognized existence within
the limits of the District of Columbia and exercising there
their corporate rights and privileges in the making of contracts and receiving freight and passengers for transportation upon their roads 'from the city of Washington to the
Ohio River; that at the city of Washington, on the 23d of
October, 1864, the plaintiff, wishing to be transported by the
company over their roads to the Ohio River and towards the
city of Columbus in the State of Ohio, for the sum of fifteen

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

[Slip. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

dollars, paid to the company, purchased of them a ticket
for a seat and passage in their cars, to be transported along
their roads from the city of Washington to the Ohio River
and towards the city of Columbus; that in pursuance of this
contract he took his seat in one of the cars of the company;
that the company, in consideration of the money so paid,
undertook and promised to transport him safely to the Ohio
River; that the company managed their trains so negligently
and carelessly that two trains, running in opposite directions,
came in collision near Mannington, in the State of Virginia,
whereby the plaintiff received the injuries complained of.
The company pleaded two pleas in abatement.
(1) That the company was not an inhabitant of the District of Columbia when the writ was served. (2) That the
company was not found in the District of Columbia when
the writ was served.
To the first plea Harris replied that the company was an
inhabitant of the District of Columbia by virtue of certain
acts of Congress, the dates and titles of which are set forth,
and that they had accepted the provisions of those acts and
constructed their roads under them, availing themselves of
the privileges thus conferred and doing business under them
in the District of Columbia. To the second plea he replied
that the company was found within the District of Columbia
when the writ was served, and was within the jurisdiction
of the court by virtue of the acts of Congress mentioned in
the first replication.
The company demurred to these replications. The demurrers were overruled. The company thereupon filed the
general issue of not guilty. The cause was tried by a jury
and a verdict found for the plaintiff, upon which judgment
was entered.
Upon the trial the counsel for the company prayed the
court to instruct the jury that upon the evidence before them
the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. The court refused
to give this instruction, and the company excepted. Other
exceptions appear by the record to have been taken, but
they were not embodied in a bill of exceptions and we can-

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

not therefore consider them. The errors insisted upon here,
at the first argument of the case, were:
Tie overruling of the demurrers to the replications to the
pleas in abatement.
The refusal of the court to give the instruction above set
forth.
And that the declaration is fatally defective, wherefore
the judgment should have been arrested and must now be
reversed.
When the case was first considered by this court in conference, it was found that while all the judges were of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed, there was a difference of opinion upon the question whether the acts of
Congress and the statutes of Virginia relating to the company
created a new and distinct corporation in the District of Columbia and in the State of Virginia respectively, or whether
they were only enabling acts in respect to the corporation
under the name of the " Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company," as originally created by the State of Maryland. Subsequently the question was ordered to stand for reargument,
and it has been reargued by the counsel on both sides. As
the solution of this question must determine, to a large extent, the grounds upon which the judgment of the court is
to be placed, it is necessary carefully to consider the subject.
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company was incorporated by an act of the legislature of Maryland, passed on the
28th of February, 1827. On the 8th of March following,
the legislature of Virginia passed an act whereby, after reciting the Maryland act, it was declared "that the same
rights and privileges shall be, and are hereby, granted to
the aforesaid company within the territory of Virginia, and
the said company shall be subject to the same pains, penalties, and obligations as are imposed by said act, and the
same rights, privileges, and immunities which are reserved
to the State of Maryland or to the citizens thereof are hereby reserved to the State of Virginia and her citizens."
Several other statutes relating to the company were sulsequently passed in Virginia, but they do not materially

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

affect the question under consideration, and need not be
more particularly adverted to. By an act of the legislature
of Maryland, of the 22d of February, 1831, the company
was authorized to build a lateral road to the line of the District of Columbia. On the 2d of March, 1831, Congress
passed an act which, after reciting, by a preamble, the original act of incorporation, enacted " that the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company, incorporated by the said act of the
General Assembly of the State of Maryland, shall be, and
they are hereby, authorized to extend into and within the
District of Columbia a lateral railroad." . . . "And the said
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company are hereby authorized to exercise the same powers, rights, and privileges,
and shall be subject to the same restrictions in the construetion and extension of the said lateral road into and within
the said District as they may exercise or be subject to under
or by virtue of the said act of incorporation in the extension
and construction of any railroad within the State of _Maryland, and shall be entitled to the same rights, benefits, and
immunities in the use of said road and in regard thereto as
are provided in the said charter, except the right to construct any lateral road or roads in said District from said
lateral road." A number of local regulations follow, which
are not material to be considered. A supplementary act of
the legislature of Maryland, passed March 14th, 1832, provided that the stock issued by the company to complete this
lateral road " shall, united, form the capital upon which the
net profits derived from the use of said road shall be apportioned," &c.
The act of Congress of February 26th, 1834, and of March
3d, 1835, are confined to matters of detail, and may be laid
out of view.
When the case was reargued as directed by this court, the
counsel for the company admitted that the acts of Congress
in question were only enabling acts, and that they did not
create a new corporation, but they insisted that the acts of
Virginia were of a different character, and that they worked
that result.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

81

Opinion of the court.

As regards the point under consideration we find no sub•stantial diference. In both the original Maryland act of
incorporation is referred to, but neither expressly or by implication create a new corporation. The company was chartered to construct a road in Virginia as well as in Maryland.
The latter could not be done without the consent of Virginia. That consent was given upon the terms which she
thought proper to prescribe. With a few exceptions, not
material to the question before us, they were the same as to
powers, privileges, obligations, restrictions, and liabilities as
those contained in the original charter. The permission
was broad and comprehensive in its scope, but it was a
license and nothing more. It was given to the Maryland
corporation as such, and that body was the same in all its
elements and in its identity afterwards as before. In its
name, locality, capital stock, the election and power of its
officers, in the mode of declaring dividends, and doing all
its business, its unity was unchanged. Only the sphere of
its operations was enlarged.
In what it does in Virginia the same principle is involved
as in the transactions of the Georgia corporation in Alabama, which came under the consideration of this court in
The Bank of Augusta v. Earle.* The distinction is that here
the assent of the foreign authority is express, while there it
was implied. A corporation is in law, for civil purposes,
deemed a person. It may sue and be sued, grant and receive, and do all other acts not ultra vires which a natural
person could do. The chief point of difference between the
natural and the artificial person is that the former may do
whatever is not forbidden by law; the latter can do only
what is authorized by its charter. It cannot migrate, but
may exercise its authority in a foreign territory upon such
conditions as may be prescribed by the law of the place.
One of these conditions may be that it shall consent to be
sued there. If it do business there it will be presumed to
have assented and will be bound accordingly.t For the
S13Peters, 558.
VOL. XII.

t Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 Howard, 405.
6

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

purposes of Federal jurisdiction it is regarded as if it were a
citizen of the State where it was created, and no averment.
or proof as to the citizenship of its members elsewhere will
be permitted. There is a presumption of law which is conclusive.*
We see no reason why several States cannot, by competent legislation, unite in creating the same corporation or
in combining several pre-existing corporations into a single
one. The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company is one of the latter description. In the case
of that company against Maryland,t Chief Justice Taney, in
delivering the opinion of this court, said: " The plaintiff in
error is a corporation composed of several railroad companies, which had been previously chartered by the States
of M\Taryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania, and which, by
corresponding laws of the respective States, were united
together and form one corporation, under the name and
style of The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company. The road of this corporation extends from
Philadelphia to Baltimore." He gives the history of the
legislation by which this result was produced. No question
was raised on the subject, but the opinion assumes the valid
existence of the corporation thus created. The case was
brought into this court under the 25th section of the Judi'iary Act of 1789. The jurisdictional effect of the exist,ence of such a corporation, as regards the Federal courts, is
the same as that of a copartnership of individual citizens
residing in different States. Nor do we see any reason why
one State may not make a corporation of another State, as
there organized and conducted, a corporation of its own,
quc ad hoe any property within its territorial jurisdiction.
That this may be done was distinctly held in The Ohio and
Mississippi Railroad Co. v. WVheeler.1 It is well settled that
,corporations of one State may exercise their faculties in an* 'Louisville, Cincinnati & Charleston Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 Howard,

497; Marshall v. The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 16 Id. 329; Ohio &
iississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 297.
it UOHoward, 392.
T IBlack, 297.

Dec. .1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

83

Opinion of the court.

other, so far, and on such terms, and to such extent as may
be permitted by the latter.* We hold that the case before
us is within this latter category. The question is always
one of legislative intent, and not of legislative power or
legal possibility. So far as there is anything in the language
of the court in the case of The Ohio and Mississippi Railroad
Co. v. Wheeler, in conflict with what has been here said, it is
intended to be restrained and qualified by this opinion. We
will add, however, that as the case appears in the report, we
think the judgment of the court was correctly given. It
was the case of an Indiana railroad company licensed by
Ohio, suing a citizen of Indiana in the Federal court of that
State.

In The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co. v. Gallahue's Administrator, 12 Grattan,t it was held by the Court of Appeals
of Virginia that the company was suable in that State. In
this we concur. We think this condition is clearly implied
in the license, and that the company, by constructing its
road there, assented to it. The authority of that case was
recognized by the Court of Appeals of West Virginia, in

Goshorn v. The Supervisors,t and in The Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Co. v. The Supervisors et al.§ Here the question is
whether the company was suable in the District of Columbia.
In the case reported in Grattan, it was said: "It would be
a startling proposition if in all such cases citizens of Virginia
and others should be denied all remedy in her courts, for
causes of action arising under contracts and acts entered
into or done within her territory, and should be turned over
to the courts and laws of a sister State to seek redress."
The same considerations apply to the case before us. When
this suit was commenced, if the theory maintained by the
counsel for the plaintiff in error be correct, however large
or small the cause of action, and whether it were a proper
one for legal or equitable cognizance, there could be no
legal redress short of the seat of the company in another
* Blackstone Manufacturing Co. v.Inhabitants, &c., 13 Gray, 489; Bank'
of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 588.
38 Id. 319.
$ 1 West Virginia, 308.
t Page 658.

RAILROAD C0MPANY V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

State. In many instances the cost of the remedy would
have largely exceeded the value of its fruits. In suits local
in their character, both at law and in equity, there could be
no relief. The result would be, to a large extent, immunity
from all legal responsibility. It is not to be supposed that
Congress intended that the important powers and privileges
granted should be followed by such results.
But turning our attention from this view of the subject
and looking at the statute alone, and reading it by its own
light, we entertain no doubt that it made the company liable
to suit, where this suit was brought in all respects as if it
had been an independent corporation of the same locality.
We will now consider, specifically, the several objections
to the judgment, relied upon by the plaintifs in error.
The pleas in abatement were bad. The demurrers reached
back to the first error in the pleadings, and judgment Was
properly given against the party who committed it. If the
replications were bad, bad replications were sufficient answers to bad pleas. But it is said the declaration was bad,
and that the demurrers brought the defect in that pleading
under review. The principle has no application where the
defect is one of form and not of substance.*
The alleged defect in the declaration will be considered in
connection with the error assigned relating to that subject.
But if the court decided erroneously, the company waived
the error by pleading over in bar. If it were desired to bring
up the judgment upon the pleadings for examination by this
court the company should have stood by the demurrers. In
the proper order of pleading which is obligatory a plea in
bar waives all pleas, and the right to plead, in abatement.t
The bill of exceptions which brought upon the record the
refusal of the court to instruct the jury that the plaintiff was
not entitled to recover, exhibits, among others, the following
facts: Harris contracted, paid his money, and received his
* Aurora City v. West, 7 Wallace, 82.
j Young v. Martin, 8 Wallace, 854; Aurora City v. West, 7 Id. 92; Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Id. 42; 1 Chitty's Pleading, 440, 441.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.
Opinion of the epurt.

tickets at the city of Washington. The tickets consisted of
three coupons-one for his passage from Baltimore to Columbus, Ohio; another for his passage from Washington
Junction to Baltimore, and the third for his passage from
Washington City to Washington Junction. It is necessary to
consider only the two last mentioned. They are both headed
"Baltimore and Ohio Railroad," and signed "L. M. Cole,
general ticket agent." Above the coupon first mentioned
is this memorandum: "1Responsibilityfor safety of person or
loss of baggage on each portion of the route is coilfined to the proprietors of that portion alone." Each coupon has printed on
its face the words " Conditioned as above." The coupon
last mentioned gave Harris the right of passage over the
lateral branch both in the District of Columbia and in Maryland. The second coupon gave him the same right in respect
to the main stem both in Maryland and in Virginia.
The instruction asked for assumed erroneously that there
were two corporations under the same name, one of them in
Virginia, and that the latter was liable and alone liable to
the plaintiff. The attempted limitation of responsibility by
the memoranda at the head and on the face of the coupons
proceeded upon the same erroneous assumption as to the
duality of the corporate ownership of the roads.
These views are sufficiently answered by what has been
already said upon the subject. But if we concurred with
the counsel for the plaintiff in error we should then hold that
the agent who issued the coupons was the agent of both
corporations; that the contract was ajoint one; and that it
involved a joint liability, unless the knowledge of the memoranda on the coupons and the assent of the plaintiff were
clearly brought home to him.* In all such cases the burden
of proof rests upon the carrier.t The bill of exceptions does
* Bissell v. Miebigan

S. & Northern Indiana Railroad Co., 22 N. Y.,

258; Champion v. Bostwick, 18 Wendell, 173; Cary v Cleveland & Toledo
Railroad Co., 29 Barbour, 35; Quimby v. Vanderbilt, 17 N Y. 306; Najac
v. Boston & Lowell Railroad Co., 7 Allen, 329; The Great Western Railway Co. v. Blake, 7 Ilurlstone & Norman. 987.
t New Jersey Steam Nay. Co. v. The Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 383;
Brown v. Eastern Railroad Co., 11 Cashing, 97; Bean v. Green et al., 8

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Slip. Ct

Syllabus.

not show that any testimony was given upon that subject.
The court was asked to assume that the limitation on the
face of coupons was itself conclusive, and to instruct the
jury accordingly. But having held the unity of the corporation, of the proprietorship of the roads, and of the contract, it is needless further to consider the case in this aspect.
The instruction asked for was properly refused.
The jurisdiction of the court was not governed by the 11th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. It did not depend
upon the citizenship of the parties. It was controlled by
acts of Congress local to the district. A citizen of the district cannot sue in the Circuit Courts of a State.* Ir a corporation appear and defend in a foreign State itis bound by
the judgment.t If the declaration were insufficient, the additional averments in the replications admitted by the demurrer to be true, cured the defcct.1
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

FRENCH1

V.

SHOEMAKER.

1. Where the whole law of a case before a Circuit Court is settled by a'decree, and nothing remains to be done, unless a new application shall be
made at the foot of the decree, the decree is a final one, so far as respects a right of appeal.
2. Where there is nothing on the record to show to the court that the indemnity given by an appeal bond is insufficient, the presumption is that
it is sufficient.
3. Where a party is perpetually enjoined and restrained by a decree of a
Circuit Court, from anyproceedingwhatever, not in accordance with certain contracts which a complainant had applied to that court to make
him, by injunction, observe, that court-though an appeal here has been
taken within ten days, and an appeal bond with sufficient indemnity
given ,-may yet properly order the defendant to desist from a second
Fairfield, 422; Dorr v. The New Jersey Steam Nay. Co., 4 Sandford, 136;
S. C , 1 Kernan, 485.
* Hepburn v. I llzey, 2 Cranch, 445.
t Angel & Ames on Corporations, 404, 405; Flanders v. zEtna Ins. Co..
3 Mason, 158; Cook v. The Champlain Transportation Co., 1 Dcnio, 98.

t

Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 Howard, 405.

