HIANAUER

v.

DOANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

rents, issues, and profits, and improvements made upon the
premises must also be taken into the account.
THE DECREE IS REVERSED, and the cause will be remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to enter a decree and
proceed
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

HIANAUER V. DOANE.
1. Action will not lie for the price of goods sold in aid of the Rebellion, or
with knowledge that they were purchased for the Confederate States
government.
2. A promissory note, the consideration of which is wholly or in part the
price of such goods, is void, and an action cannot be sustained thereon
by a holder who received it knowing for what it was given.
3. Due-bills given for the price of such goods and passed into the hands of a
person knowing the fact, will not be a good consideration for a note.
4. It is contrary to public policy to give the aid of the courts to a vendor
who knew that his goods were purchased, or to a lender who knew
that his money was borrowed, for the purpose of being employed in
the commission of a criminal act, injurious to society or to any of its
members.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas.
This was an action by Doane against L. & J. Ianauer, to
recover the amount of two promissory notes, dated in Februarv, 1867. These notes were originally given by the said
L. &. J. Hanauer, under the firm of L. Ianauer & Co., to
one Hunter, in settlement of an account between them and
the firm of Hunter & Oakes, which had mostly accrued in
the years 1860, 1861, and 1862. A portion of this account
was for items of private and family use; the residue was
partly for supplies and commissary stores for the Confeder.
ate army sold by Hunter & Oakes to L. Hanauer, a recog
nized supply contractor of the Confederate government; and
partly for due-bills issued by Hanauer, as such contractor, to

Dec. 1870.]

H ANAUER

v.

DOANE.

Statement of the case.

other persons in payment of army stores and supplies, and
taken up by Hunter & Oakes at Hanauer's request, under a
promise to redeem the same.
The question in the case was whether the notes sued on,
having been given for the consideration mentioned, were
valid.
The defendants asked the court to charge thus:
"1. If the jnry find that Hunter & Oakes sold to L. Hanauer
a quantity of goods and chattels knowing that the said Ilanauer
was purchasing them as supplies for the rebel army to carry on
the war against the United States, and that the price of the
same form a part of the consideration of the notes sued on, then
they will find for the defendants.
"2.If they find that L. Hanauer, acting as a purchasing
agent for the Confederate States, in rebellion, gave out notes or
due-bills for supplies furnished the rebel army with the knowledge of the persons from whom such purchases were made, of
the use to which the said supplies were to be put, and that,
during the time when the said due-bills were in the course of
being issued, the said Hanauer made an agreement with said
Hunter & Oakes that the latter should take up said due-bills
and charge them to said Hanauer, the said Hunter & Oakes
knowing the purpose for which the same were issued, and that
the price of said due-bills so taken up forms any part of the
consideration of the notes sued on, then they will find for the
defendants."
The court refused so to charge, and charged as follows:
"If these due-bills were taken up by Hunter & Oakes, after
they were issued to the parties to whom they were payable,
and upon the promise of Hanauer that he would redeem them,
then, as between Hanauer and Hunter & Oakes, the surrender
by Hunter & Oakcs to Hanauer of such due-bills so taken up by
them, would constitute a good and sufficient consideration for
the amount thereof And this is the law, although you may
find that the parties to whom the due-bills were payable knew
at the time of making the sale of supplies or property to L.
Hanauer that he intended to turn the same over to the rebel
army, and that Hunter & Oakes had notice of these facts. To
affect the validity of the notes sued on, as to that part of the

HANAUER v. DOANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

consideration made up of these due-bills, you must he satisfied
that Hunter & Oakes were interested in furnishing the supplies
to the rebel army for which the due-bills were given, or that
what they did in the premises was done for the purpose or with
the view of aiding in furnishing supplies to the rebel army,
otherwise giving aid and comfort to the rebellion.
"Then, as to the other item, comprising a part of the consideration of the notes sued, the account of Hunter & Oakes
against Hanauer as supply contractor for supplies sold to Hanauer. It is asserted that Hunter & Oakes knew that the articles
mentioned in this account were purchased by Hanauer to be
turned over as supplies to the rebel army, and the defendant
maintains that this knowledge of the use intended to be made
by Hlanauer of these goods made the sale illegal, and that the
amount of these sales having been included in the notes sued on,
they are illegal and void. This is not the law. Bare knowledge, on the part of Hunter & Oakes, that H anuer intended or
expected to turn the goods and property purchased from them
over to the rebel army as supplies for said army would not make
such sale of goods and property illegal and void. To make the
sale of goods from Hunter & Oakes to Hanauer illegal and void,
it must appear that Hunter & Oakes had some concern in furnishing the supplies to the rebel army, or that it was part of
the contract between Hunter & Oakes and Hanauer that such
goods should go to the support of the rebel army, or that the
design of Hl[unter & Oakes, in making such sale, was to aid in
furnishing supplies to the rebel army, or otherwise give aid and
comfort to the rebellion. But if the goods were sold by Hunter
& Oakes in the common and ordinary course of trade, and the
only inducement to the sale of the goods on the part of Hunter
& Oakes was the price agreed to be paid by Hanauer for the
same, then the sale was a legal and valid sale, although Hunter
& Oakes knew that Hanauer intended or expected to turn such
goods over jo the rebel army."
Judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the defendant,
ianauer, brought the case here on exceptions to the charge;
the question in this court being, of course, the same one as
in the court below, to wit, whether the notes sued on, having been given for the consideration mentioned, were valid.

Dec. 1870.]

HANAUER

V. DOANE.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Watkins and Bose, for the plaintiffs in error; Mr. A.
-H. Garland,contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
We have already decided, in the case of Texas v. -Vhite,*
that a contract made in aid of the late rebellion, or in furtherance and support thereof, is void. The same doctrine
has been laid down in most of the circuits, and in many of
the State courts, and must be regarded as the settled law of
the land. Any contract, tinctured with the vice of giving
aid and support to the rebellion, can receive no countenance
or sanction from the courts of the country. Are the notes
in suit of this kind ? A portion of their consideration was
stores and supplies furnished to the army contractor of the
Confederate government, and another portion was due-bills
issued for the same consideration, and received by Hunter
& Oakes with full notice of their character. If either of
these portions of the consideration on which the notes were
given was illegal, the notes are void in toto. Such is the
elementary .rule, for which it is unnecessary to cite authorities.
On the trial of the cause below, the judge, in charging
the jury, instructed them that if Hunter & Oakes took up
Hanauer's due-bills for value, at his request and oti the faith
of his promise to redeem them, made after he had given
them out for supplies, these due-bills would constitute a
good consideration for the notes. We do not think that this
was a correct statement of the law. If Hanauer had borrowed money from Hunter & Oakes to redeem the due-bills
himself, the transaction would have been different, and the
loan of money would have been legal, although Hunter &
Oakes had known for what purpose Hanauer wanted the
money. They would have been one degree fhrther removed
from the unlawful transaction. But, instead of this, they
became the holders of the due-bills, knowing for what purpose and on what consideration they had been issued; and
* 7 Wallace, 700.

HANAUER v. DOANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

hence their title was no better than that of the original
holders. To vitiate this title it was not necessary, as stated by
the judge, that Hunter & Oakes should have been interested
in furnishing the supplies for which the due-bills were given;
nor that what they did should have been done with the view
of aiding the rebel cause. If the due-bills were invalid in
the hands of the original holders, they were invalid in the
hands of Hunter & Oakes. Whether they were invalid depends on the solution of the question whether the sales of
supplies to ianauer, for the use of the Confederate army,
was, or was not, an illegal transaction. We think it was.
But on this subject it is proper to examine the views of the
judge at the trial.
With regard to that portion of the consideration of the
notes which consisted of supplies sold by Hunter & Oakes
to Ianauer for the Confederate army, the judge instructed
the jury that bare knowledge on the part of Hunter & Oakes
that Ilananer intended, or expected, to turu the goods over
to the rebel army, would not make the sale illegal and void,
but that, to make it so, it nmust appear that Hunter & Oakes
had some concern in furnishing the supplies to the rebel
army, or intended to aid therein. In this instruction we
think the judge erred. Withlwhatever impunity a man may
lend money or sell goods to another who he knows intends
to devote them to a use that is only malum prohibilum, or of
inferior criminality, he cannot do it, without turpitude, when
he knows, or has every reason to believe, that such money
or goods are to be used for the perpetration of a heinous
crime, and that they were procured for that purpose. In
the words of Chief Justice Eyre, in Lighdfoot v. 7enant,*
"the man who sells arsenic to one who, lie knows, intends
to poison his wife with it, will not be allowed to maintain an
action on his contract. The consideration of the contract,
in itself good, is there tainted with turpitude which destroys
No man ought to furnish another
the whole merit of it ....
with the means of transgressing the law, knowing that he
* 1 Bosanquet & Puller, 551, 556.

Dec. 1870.]

D

.ANAUERV.

DOANE.

Opinion of the court.

intended to make that use of them." On this declaration
Judge Story remarks: "The wholesome morality and enlarged policy of this passage make it almost irresistible to
the judgment; and, indeed, the reasoning seems positively
unanswerable."* Can a man furnish another with the means
of committing murder, or any abominable crime, knowing
that the purchaser procures them, and intends to use them,
for that purpose, and then pretend that he is not a participator in the guilt? Can he wrap himself up in his own
selfishness and heartless indifference and say, " What business is that of mine? Am I the keeper of another man's
conscience?" No one can hesitate to say that such a man
voluntarily aids in the perpetration of the offence, and,
morally speaking, is almost, if not quite, as guilty as the
principal offender.
No crime is greater than treason. He who, being bound
by his allegiance to a government, sells goods to the agent
of an armed combination to overthrow that government,
knowing that the purchaser buys them for that treasonable
purpose, is himself guilty of treason or a misprision thereof.
He voluntarily aids the treason. He cannot be permitted to
stand on the nice metaphysical distinction that, although he
knows that the purchaser buys the goods for the purpose of
aiding the rebellion, he does not sell them for that purpose.
The consequences of his acts are too serious and enormous
to admit of such a plea. He must be taken to intend the
consequences of his own voluntary act.
The decision of Chief Justice Eyre, in the case above
referred to, has been followed iii several other Etglish cases.
It was followed by Lord Ellenborough in Langlon v. llughes,t
where a druggist sold drugs of a noxious and unwholesome
nature to a brewer, knowing that they were to be used in
his brewery, contrary to law, and it was held that he could
not recover the price. It was also followed by Chief Justice
Abbott, in Cannan v. Bryce,T where it was held that money
* Story's Conflict of Laws,

253.
3 Barnewall & Alderson, 179.

t 1 Maule & Selwyn, 593.

HANAUER V. DOANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lent to a man to enable him to settle his losses on an illegal
stockjobbing transaction, could not be recovered back. Said
the Chief Justice: "If it be unlawful in one man to pay,
how can it be lawful for another to furnish him with the
means of payment? . . . The means were furnished with a
full knowledge of the object to which they were to be applied, and for the express purpose of accomplishing that
object." In that case the lender bad no interest whatever
in the unlawful transaction, and was only connected with it,
as Hunter & Oakes were in this case, by knowing the object
for which the money was borrowed. These cases were followed by the Court of Errors of New York, in the case of
De 6hrool v. Van Duzer.* Chancellor Walworth, in that case,
observes that, "those cases in which an independent contract
has been held void from a mere knowledge of the fict of
the illegal end in view, proceed upon the ground that the
party having such knowledge intended to aid the illegal object at the time he made the contract."
There are cases to the contrary; but they are either cases
where the unlawful act contemplated to be done was merely
malum prohibilum, or of inferior criminality; or cases in
which the unlawful act was already committed, and the loan
was an independent contract, made, not to enable the borrower to commit the act, but to pay obligations which he
had already incurred in committing it. Of the latter class
was the case of Armstrong v. Mbler;t of the former, those
of flodgson v. Temple,j and others cited in the arguin ent. In
_Hodgson v. Temple, where a buyer of spirituous liquors was
known to be carrying on a rectifying distillery and a retail
liquor shop at the same time, contrary to law, the vendor of
the spirits was held entitled to recover the price. Sir James
Mansfield said: " The merely selling goods, knowing that
the buyer will make an illegal use of them, is not sufficient
to deprive the vendor of his just right of payment; but to
effect that, it is necessary that the vendor should be a sharer
in the illegal transaction."
*20

Wendell, .390.

t-11 Wheaton, 258.

$l 5 Taunton, 181.

Dec.

1870.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.

349

Syllabus.

This seems to have been the view taken by the judge who
tried this cause below, and which he applied to this case.
In our judgment it is altogether too narrow a view of the
responsibility of a vendor in such a case as the present.
Where to draw the precise line between the cases in which
the vendor's knowledge of the purchaser's intent to make an
unlawful use of the goods, will vitiate the contract, and those
in which it will not, may be difficult. Perhaps it cannot be
done by exact definitions. The whole doctrine of avoiding
contracts for illegality and immorality is founded on public
policy. It is certainly contrary to public policy to give the
aid of the courts to a vendor who knew that his goods were
purchased, or to a lender who knew that his money was
borrowed, for the purpose of being employed in the commission of a criminal act, injurious to society or to any of
its members.

This is all that we mean to decide in this case

JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.
[See the next case.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.
1. Where the issue of bills as a currency (except by banking institutions) is
prohibited, a municipal corporation has no power, without express authority, to issue such bills; and if it does issue them, the holders thereof
cannot recover the amount, either in an action on the bills themselves,
or for money had and received
2. Especially is this so, where the receiving, as well as issuing, of unlawful
bills is expressly prohibited.
8. A law authorizing and requiring the redemption of such bills, passed by
the legislature of one of the late Confederate States in aid of the rebellion, cannot be recognized or enforced.
4. Semble, that a bank or other private corporation issuing bills contrary to
law, might be compelled to pay the holder in an action for money had
and received, although the bills themselves were void, if the receiving
of the bills were not expressly prohibited.
5. But if the receiving as well as issuing were prohibited, both parties woule
be in pari delicto, and no action could be sustained for the amount of
the bills.

