400

BARTH V.

CLISE,

SHERIFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

least three public places in the town, parish, district, or
county. The evidence given at the trial tended to prove
that such advertisement had been made, and that such
notices had been posted; nor was this contested. But the
court held, and so instructed the jury, that the notice was
not such as the law required. The reasons assig-ned for this
ruling were that the advertisement did not state that the
whole town of Beaufort was to be sold, and that, being a
notice published within military lines, it was like a notice
only in a fortified camp, and could not, in fact, be supposed
to reach a citizen. We think, however, that neither of these
reaso~ns, nor any other not referred to, justified the court in
ruling, as a legal conclusion, that the notice given in this
case was not such as the law required. Whether the demands of the statute respecting notice of sale had been complied with was a mixed question of law and of fact, and it
should have been submitted to the jury. Undoubtedly the
advertisement must have been such as to inform persons
who read it what property was intended to be exposed for
sale. Any description that gave such information was sufficient. Whether the advertisement gave it or not depended
not alone upon its contents. It was necessary to compare
the description with the property described, and that was
the province of the jury.
JUDGMENT REVERSED

and a venire de novo awarded.

BARTH V. OLISE, SHERIFF.

1. When a sheriff, in obedience to a writ of hiabeas copus, makes a proper

return and brings his prisoner before the court which issued the writ,
the safe-keeping of the prisoner while he is before it is entirely under
the control and direction of the court to which the return is made.
The sheriff is accordingly not responsible for escape of the prisoner
while thus in the custody of the court, and before a remand or other
order placing new duties on him.

Dec. 1870.]

]BARTH V. CLISE, SHERIFF.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

2. Where the record shows that the case of a plaintiff is inherently and
fatally defective, a judgment against him will not be reversed for instructions however erroneous.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.

31r. G. W. Lakin, for the plainiff in error; Mr. i. H. Carpenter and H. 31. Cothren, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error sued Edward Brinkman, as survivor
of his late partner, Smid, in the Circuit Court of Grant
County, to recover a large sum of money alleged to be due
from Brinkman, as such survivor, to the plaintiffs. After
the institution of the suit the plaintifs applied to the county
judge of Grant County for a writ of ne exeat against Brinkman. The writ was accordingly issued and placed in the
hands of Clise, the defendant in this action, as the sheriff of
that county for execution. Pursuant to the writ, Clise arrested Brinkman, who, failing to give bail as required, was
held in custody. A writ of habeas corpus was issued by the
Honorable John T. Mills, the circuit judge of that circuit,
directed to the sheriff of Grant County, whereby he was
commanded to have before the judge, at Dodgeville, on the
day therein specified, the body of Brinkman, with the cause

of his imprisonment. Clise complied with this order. While
the argument upon the writ of habeas corpus was in progress,
Clise put Brinkman in the charge of Judge Dunn, one of
his eounsel, and absented himself. Before the argument
was concluded, Brinkman fled to Canada and has not returned. The judge refused to take any further action in
the case in the absence of Brinkman, and thus the proceed-

ing terminated.
This action was brought by the plaintiffs in error against
Clise for the escape of Brinkman. The cause was put at
issue by the pleadings of the parties and was tried by a jury.
A verdict was found and judgment rendered for the defend,
VOL. xII.

26

BARTH V. OLISE;

SHERIFF.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

ant, Clise. The plaintiffs thereupon sued out this writ of
error. It appears by the bill of exceptions found in the
record that in two instances upon the trial evidence objected to by the plaintiffs was admitted and exceptions duly
taken. The plaintifs also excepted to the several instructions given by the court to the jury. It is insisted that each
of these exceptions involves an error which is fatal to the
judgment.
In the view which we have found ourselves constrained
to take of the case it is unnecessary to consider either of
them.
The bill of exceptions purports to contain all the testimony.
The facts that the habeas corpus was issued and that the
sheriff obeyed it by making the proper return and taking
Brinkman before the judge who issued it, are fully proved.
The testimony is uncontradicted. There is no controversy
between the parties upon the subject.
By the common law, upon the return of a writ of habeas
corpus and the production of the body of the party suing it
out, the authority under which the original commitment
took place is superseded. After that time, and until the
case is finally disposed of, the safe-keeping of the prisoner is
entirely under the control and direction of the court to which
the return is made. The prisoner is detained, not under the
original commitment, but under the authority of the writ of
habeas corpus. Pending the hearing he may be bailed de die
in diem, or be remanded to the jail whence he came, or be
committed to any other suitable place of confinement under
ie may be brought before the
the control of the court.
court from time to time by its order until it is determined
whether he shall be discharged or absolutely remanded.*
We have not overlooked the statute of 31 Car. II. This
doctrine has been recognized by this court.t
* The King v. Bethel, 5 Modern, 19; Bacon's Ab., Title "Habeas Corpus," B. 13; Anonymous, 1 Vcntris, 330; Sir Robert Peyton's Case, Ib.
346; Hurd on Habeas Corpus, 324.
t In re Kaine, 14 Howard, 134.

Dec. 1870.]

BARTH V.

CLISE, SHERIFF.

Opinion of the court.

The statute of Wisconsin upon the subject is in accordance with the common law. It provides:
"Until judgment be given upon the return, the officer before whom such party shall be brought may either commit
such party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which
such officer shall be, or place him in such care or under such
custody as his age and other circumstances may require."*
The entire responsibility for the safe-keeping of the prisoner under this statute rests with the officer before whom
the prisoner is brought pursuant to the writ.
When Clise, as sheriff produced the body of Brinkman
before Judge Mills, Clise's duties as the custodian of Brinkman ceased, and this cesser could be terminated only by an
order of the judge clothing him with new duties and responsibilities. No such order was made. The flight of Brinkman was, therefore, in no sense an escape from the custody
of Clise. His custody by Clise, in the absence of an order
from the judge, would have been false imprisonment. The
act of Clise in putting Brinkman in the charge of Dunn
was simply a nullity. He had no authority at that time to
do any act or to give any direction touching the subject.
The plaintiffs in error, according to their own showing,
had not the shadow of a right to recover in this action
against Clise. Conceding, for the purpose of this opinion,
that the court below erred in all the particulars complained
of, the errors have done them no harm. Opposite rulings
could not have helped them. Their case was inherently
defective. The defect was incurable and inevitably fatal.
When such a defect exists, whether it be or be not brought
to the attention of the court below or of this court by counsel, it is our duty to consider it and to give it effect.t This
is decisive of the case before us. The defendant in error is
entitled to have the judgment affirmed, and it is
AFFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, 908, 4 23.
- Garland v. Davis, 4 Howard, 131; Roach v. Hulings, 16 Peters, 319;
Patterson v. The United States, 2 Wheaton, 222; Harrison v. Nixon, 9
Peters, 483; Slacum v. Pornery, 6 Oranch, 221.

