BIGLER V.

WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

clear that appeals in that respect are subject to the same
rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law
in case of writs of error. Appeals of the kind are usually
regarded as brought for delay, and it may become necessary
to amend the second article of the twenty-third rule so that
ten per cent. damages shall be allowed in addition to the
interest provided for in the first article of that rule.
MOTION DENIED.

BIGLER v. WALLER.
On a bill filed in the Circuit Court for Virginia, against A. and B., the
administrators of both were substituted on the record as defendants;
A. and B. themselves having died after the bill was filed, and suggestion of their deaths being made. In this state the cause was heard and
judgment given for the defendants. The complainant appealed to this
court, the appeal bond and the citation referring, however, throughout,
to A. and B. as defendants in the case, and not referring in any way to
their suggested deaths and the substitution of their administrators.
J. A. I., signing himself "counsel for the defendats in, this cause in, the Circuit Court of the United States for Virginia," acknowledged service of the
citation.
On motion in this court to dismiss, the court acknowledging the obvious
irregularity of both bond and citation, yet held,
1. That the acceptance by the counsel, J. A. I., in the-circumstantial
language above quoted, was a waiver of the irregularity in the citation.
2. That the irregularity, as respected the bond, did not necessarily exact
a dismissal, which was accordingly ordered, only unless the appellant
filed a sufficient appeal bond, in the usual form, within ten days, in
the same sum as that required on the allowance of the appeal.

to dismiss for want of jurisdiction an appeal from
the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia; the case being
thus:
James Bigler filed a bill in the court below against William
Waller and Robert Saunders. Pending the suit, Saunders
died, and his death being suggested, a scire facias to revive
the cause was issued, and returned executed on one Hlarrell,
MOTION

Dec. 1870.]

BIGLER V. WALLER.

Statement of the case.

his administrator. The death of the defendant, Waller, was
also afterwards suggested, and one W. G. Waller, administrator on his estate, moved for leave to appear and defend the
suit. The court, accordingly, on the 8d of June, 1870, ordered that the suit should proceed againstthe said Harrell, and
the said W. G. Waller, administrators, as already mentioned.
In this state of the cause it was heard, and a decree given
that Bigler, the complainant, pay to the said W. G. Waller,
administrator of William Waller, a sum of money specified,
and to the several defendants their costs. From that decree
Bigler took an appeal to this court; the appeal being taken
in assumed conformity to the second section of the Judiciary
Act, which gives an appeal from the Circuit Court to this
court, "the citation being signed by a judge, &c., and the
adverse party having at least thirty days' notice." And which
further says:
"And every justice or judge signing a citation, &c., shall take
good and sufficient security,that the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his writ."
By the already mentioned Judiciary or other acts of Congress, the appeal, if taken within a time limited (security
being given in like manner), operates as a supersedeas. Pre,
fixed to the appeal bond which Bigler, the appellant, gave in
this case, were these words:
"SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

James Bigler
V.

William Waller and Robert Saunders.
Bond on appeal."
The bond itself purported to be "given to the above-named
William Waller and Robert Saunders in the sum of $20,000,"
and was with a condition, reciting that "the above-named
James Bigler had prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States to reverse the decree rendered in the above
entitled suit by the Supreme Court of the United States." The

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

condition of the bond was, that "the above-named James
Bigler shall prosecute his said appeal to effect, and answer
all damages and costs if he shall fail to make good his plea."
The citation was directed "to
illian Willer ad -Robert
Saunders," and imported that they were to appeal, pursuant
to an appeal, "wherein James Bigler is plaintiff"and you are
defendants." On the citation was this indorsement:
"I hereby acknowledge service of the within citation.
"JAiEs ALFRED JONES,
"Counsel for the defendants in this cause in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Virginia."

In this court the appearance had been special.
Mr. Conway Robinson, in support of the motion:
1. There has been no proper citation to the "adverse
party." It was directed "to William Waller and Robert
Saunders," and therefore was without effect;* for both of
the parties cited were dead, and appeared by the record to
be dead before the decree. Nor has there been any waiver;
the indorsement by Mr. Jones, who had been counsel for
those who were defendants in he Circuit Court, not being intended as waiver, nor amounting to such; and there being
no waiver by the counsel in the Supreme Court, where the
appearance was, but a special one.
2. Neither had "good and sufficient security" been taken,
for the instrument was void by the common law, since both
the persons named as obligees were dead, and appeared by
the record to be dead before the decree.
After Catlett v. Brodie,t it was in one case said that "the
mode of taking the security, and the time of perfecting it,
are matters of discretion to be regulated by the court granting the appeal."T But subsequently where it appeared "that
no appeal bond was taken or approved by the judge signing
the citation," the appeal was dismissed.ยง Other cases supv. Donner, 7 Wallace, 541.
t 9 Wheaton, 553.
$ Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheaton, 311.
Boyce, &c., v. Grundy, 6 Peters, 777.
*Palmer

Dec. 1870.]

BIGLER v. WALLER.
"Restatementof the case in the opinion.

port this conclusion, where the appeal operates as a supersedeas.* In 1853, the court referring to the language above
quoted from the Dos Hermanos said :t
"This cannot apply to a case where the appeal operates as a
supersedeas. It must be brought strictly within the provisions
of the law."
3. Even if the appeal be not dismissed, it should not be
allowed to operate as a supersedeas when there has not been
taken "good and sufficient security" by a proper bond.t
Such terms should be imposed on the appellant as under the
circumstances appear proper. There should at least be an
order for the dismissal of the appeal, unless within such
time as the court may prescribe there be given a proper bond
with good and sufficient security.
Mr. W. F. Matlingly, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The record shows that the appellant, on the fourteenth of
June, 1866, instituted a suit in equity in the Circuit Court
against William Waller and Robert Saunders, for the cause
of action set forth in the bill of complaint. Among other
things he alleged that he entered into an agreement in writing with William Waller for the purchase of certain real
estate lying in the county of York and State of Virginia;
that the said respondent, on the 10th of May, 1853, executed
to the complainant a deed of the said real estate, and that
the complainant, on the same day, made the cash payment
as stipulated in the agreement, and gave to the respondent,
at the same time, his obligation to pay the balance of the,
purchase-money at the times therein specified; that on the
twenty-second of June, in the same year, the complainant
* Stafford et al. v. Union Bank, 16 Howard, 140.
t Adams, &c., v. Law, 16 Howard, 148.
1 Catlett v. Brodie, 9 Wheaton, 553; Stafford, &c., v. Union Bank, 16:
Howard, 140; Adams, &c., v. Law, Id. 148.

VOL. XII.

10

BIGLER V. WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

executed to the other respondent a trust deed of the premises to secure the balance of the consideration which he
agreed to pay for the real estate, as stipulated in that obligation; that he went into possession, made valuable improvements, and continued to make the stipulated payments until
April, 1861, when the war broke out, and he was compelled
to leave the State; that after he left the State, Waller authorized the other respondent, as such trustee, to make sale of
the real estate, and the complainant alleges that the trustee
effected the sale without publishing the notice required by
the terms of the deed of trust, and that he satisfied the said
obligation out of the proceeds of the sale, and has failed to
account to the complainant for the balance of the proceeds;
that Waller became the purchaser of the real estate at that
sale; that lie immediately took possession of the same, together with certain personal property of great value belonging to the complainant; that he sold the same and converted
the proceeds to his own use, and applied the same to the
payment of the balance due on the said obligation; that he
also rented the real estate and received large sums of money
as rents; that he, the complainant, subsequently succeeded,
through the aid of our military authorities, in recovering
possession of the real estate, but that he found it in a ruinous condition ; that since that time, to wit, on the eleventh
of November, 1865, Waller instituted a suit against him on
the said obligation in the Supreme Court of the City and
County of New York, to recover what he claims to be due
thereon ; that subsequently the other respondent posted up,
in the county where the real estate is situated, a notice "that
he would, at the request of said Waller, in a few weeks, sell
said real estate."
Based on these and other similar allegations the charge is
made that Waller may induce the trustee so to act in regard
to the sale of the premises as to cheat and defraud the complainant; therefore he prays that the trustee may be enjoined
from selling the said real estate, and that the said Waller
may be enjoined from assigning his interest in the said obli.gation until the suit in the Supreme Court of the City and

Dec. 1870.]

BIGLER V. WALLER.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

County of New York is determined, and for an account, and
that the respondents may be required to deliver up all deeds
and papers in their possession concerning said sale.
Suffice it to say, without entering into details, that such
proceedings were had that a decree was entered that the appellant should pay to William G. Waller, administrator of
William Waller, deceased, the sum of seventeen thousand
three hundred and seventy-seven dollars in coin, and costs,
to the defendants.
Dissatisfied with that decree the complainant appealed to
this court, which is the case involved in the motion.
Pending the suit here the appellees have appeared specially and filed a motion to dismiss the appeal upon two
grounds: (1) Because the citation is addressed to the original parties, one or both of whom deceased before the final
decree. (2) Because the bond given to prosecute the appeal
is executed to a deceased respondent and not to the administrator in whose favor the decree was entered.
Undoubtedly the citation is irregular, as it should be addressed to the actual parties to the suit at the time the appeal
was allowed and prosecuted. Where a party dies before
the appeal is allowed and prosecuted the suit should be revived in the subordinate court, and the citation, as matter
of course, should be addressed to the proper party in the
record at that time.
Notice is required by law, and where none is given and
the failure to comply with the requirement is not waived,
the appeal or writ of error must be dismissed, but the defect
may be waived in various ways, as by consent or appearance
or the fraud of the other party. Service of the citation may
be made upon the attorney of record of the proper party.*
Unquestionably the attorney of record may also waive
service, and acknowledge notice on the citation, as in that
behalf he represents the party.t
On the citation in this case is the following indorsement:
* Bacon et al. v. Hart, 1 Black, 38.

t Grosvenor v. Danforth, 16 Massachusetts, 74; Adams v. Robinson, 1
Pickering, 461.

]BIGLER V.

WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"I hereby acknowledge service of the within citation. James
Alfred Jones, counsel for the defendants in this cause in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Virginia."
Viewed in aniy reasonable light it seems to the court that
the attorney knew that the appeal was allowed by the court
and was prosecuted by the appellant, which is the only purpose intended to be effected by the citation. Having been
counsel in the cause the party signing that certificate must
have known that the suit had been revived, as that proceeding took place before the final decree was entered. Such a
service would be sufficient beyond all doubt if there had
been no error in the form of the citation, and as that objection is merely a formal one we are all of the opinion that it
must be considered as waived by the circumstantial language
of the certificate signed without objection by the attorney of
record in the Circuit Court.
2. Appeals from decrees of the Circuit Court to this court
are allowed where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars, and the
provision is that such appeals shall be subject to the same
rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law
in case of writs of error.*
Good and sufficient security must be taken by everyjustice
or judge who signs the citation, that the plaintiff in error
shall prosecute his writ to effect and answer all damages and
costs if he fail to make his plea good; and in order that the
writ of error may operate as a supersedeas and stay execution the writ must be served by a copy thereof being lodged
for the adverse party, in the clerk's office where the record
remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after the judgment was rendered or the decree was passed.t Such a service is not required in an appeal, but the requirement is that
the appeal must be taken and allowed, in cases where it is
required to be allowed, within the same period of time, and
*2 Stat. at :Large, 244.

t I Stat. at Large, 85.

Dec. 1870.]

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

Opinion of the court.

in both cases, that is whether the cause is removed by writ
of error or by appeal, the plaintiff in error or the appellant
must give the required security within the ten days, Sundays
exclusive, in order that the writ of error or appeal may
operate as a supersedeas. "What is necessary is that the
security be sufficient, and when it is desired to make the appeal a supersedeas the security must be given within ten days
from the rendering of the decree."* Unless taken within
the ten days an appeal cannot be made to operate as a supersedes, but a party appealing within that time may not desire
that the appeal shall have that effect, and in that event all
that can be required of him is that he shail give good and
sufficient security for costs, including "just damages for
delay."t
Argument to show that the bond in this case is irregular
and defective is unnecessary, as it is clear that it should be
given to the opposite party or parties in the suit, but it does
not follow, by arey means, that the appeal must be dismissed.
On the contrary, it is the constant practice of the court to
allow such defects to be obviated by granting leave to the
appellant or plaintiff in error to file a new bond within a
reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, in view of all the
circumstances when the application is made.t
Even if the appeal is not dismissed it is suggested by the
appellees that it should not be allowed to continue to operate
as a supersedeas, because the appeal bond or the required
"good and sufficient security" was not given within the ten
days from the date of the decree, but it is a sufficient answer
to that suggestion at this time to say that no such question is
before the court. Such a question may arise hereafter, but
the decision of the court at present is that the motion to
dismiss must be granted unless the appellant file a sufficient
appeal bond in the usual form within ten days in the same sun
as that required by the Chief Justice who allowed the appeal.
* Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 6 Wallace, 156; Catlett v. Brodie, 9

'Wheaton.. 553.
t Rule 32; 1 Stat. at Large, 404.
$ The Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheaton, 306; Brobst v. Brobst, 2 Wallace, 96.

BAKER V. MORTON.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Leave is granted to the appellees to file such a bond, but
the court does not decide what the effect will be nor that it
is or is not competent for this court in such a case to grant
a supersedeas, as no such application is before the court.

BAKER V.

MfORTON.

1. A deed procured through fear of loss of life, produced by threats of the
grantee, may be avoided for duress.
2. A judgment being but a general lien and the creditor under it obtaining
no incumbrance but on such estate as his debtor really had, the equity
of such creditor gives way before the superior right of an owner in the
land who had conveyed it to the debtor only by duress and who never
parted with possession.
3. Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 205, identical with this case in principle and
almost identical with it also in fact and circumstance, affirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska; the case was this:
In the spring of 1857 there existed, near Omaha, in the
then Territory of Nebraska, an organization known as the
Omaha Claim Club. The object and purpose of the club
was to nullify the land laws of the United States, to the end
that the members of the club, who were engaged in land
speculations, might hold and control the public lands in the
vicinity of Omaha to the exclusion of actual settlers. The
club numbered from 100 to 200 men. It made laws and
promulgated decrees to suit its purposes, and enforced their
observance with revolvers, guns, bayonets, ropes, and other
appliances. It was regularly officered. The sheriff of the
county, secretary of the Territory, mayor of the city, and
register and receiver of the land office, all held high positions
in the club. It had stated meetings, and when any supposed
exigency should arrive the band would assemble at an hour's
notice and be ready for business. It drove actual settlers
from their claims, burned down their cabins, and marched

