AVERY V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

held, under such circumstances, that the insurance company
assumes a reciprocal obligation where there is no evidence
to impeach the bond ides of the transaction.*
Conditions, it is sometimes said, cannot be waived even
by a general agent, but the decisive answer to that suggestion in this case is that the policy, when properly construed,
does not contain any absolute condition that it shall not
attach or be operative unless the cash premium is first paid
by the insured, and in the absence of any such positive condition in the policy it is not necessary to enter upon a discussion of that topic.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

AVERY V. UNITED STATES.
1. During the rebellion the United States took possession of A.'s house in a
rebel town as "captured and abandoned property," rented it from 1862
to 1865, and received rents, $7000, which were in the Federal treasury.
After the suppression of the rebellion, A. having returned home, the
government sued him, and in March, 1867, got judgment and issued
execution against him, he not pleading as a set-off the $7000 received by
the United States. In May, 1869, he applied to the court to satisfy the
judgment, and moved also for a writ of audit&quereld; assigning as a
reason for not having pleaded a set-off, that he did not know until just
before lie filed his petition and made his present motion, that the money
was in the treasury of the United States. Held, that the petition and
motion were rightly denied; for that if A. had a claim on the United
States, he was in fault in not having discovered and pleaded it.
2. Auditg querelO does not lie where the party has had a legal opportunity
of defence and neglected it.
8. INor in any case against the United States.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of West Tennessee.
Avery owning a warehouse in Memphis, Tennessee, had
become surety for the postmaster there appointed before the
rebellion. During the war and after the government troops
* -Whitaker v. Insurance Co., 29 Barbour, 319; -Postv. .Etna Insurance
Co., 43 Id. 351; Com. M1.Ins. Co. v. Union M. Ins. Co., 19 Howard, 323.

Dec. 1870.]

AVERY V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

had driven the insurgents from Memphis, and were themselves in military occupation of the place, the treasury
agents of the United States taking possession of the house
(under the act of Congress, as was stated in the brief of
Avery's counsel, relating to captured and abandoned property), leased it to one Ford, who occupied it from September,
1862, till the same month in 1865, paying a monthly rent
which amounted in all to about $7000. The rebellion being
suppressed, and Avery having returned to Memphis, the.
United States sued him in the court below as surety on the.
postmaster's bond, and in March, 1867, got judgment against
him for $5023, and issued execution.
In this state of facts, which for the purposes of this case,,
seemed to be conceded on both sides, Avery now, May, 1869,
filed a petition in the same court in which the judgment had"
been got, setting forth the fact of the judgment and execution, the previous occupation of this property by the United
States, and the receipt by rental agents of the United States,,
and payment into the Federal treasury of rent for it amounting to the sum of $7000, and praying the court to stay proceedings on the execution and to have the judgment declared!
satisfied. The ground of his petition, of course, was the
alleged fact that the government had received rents from
his warehouse, for a sum larger than the amount of theirjudgment, a fact in proof of which he annexed to his petition copies of the rental agent's receipts. As a reason why
he had not presented his demand by way of set-off on the,
trial of the suit against him as the postmaster's surety, he
alleged that he did not know at that time that the money
was in the treasury of the United States, nor did he receive.
knowledge of that fact or evidence on which to found his
demand until shortly before presenting his petition. When
filing his petition he moved also for a writ of audild quereld;
asking for it on the facts and statements contained in his,
petition.
The court below, without any formal pleadings, denied
the prayer of the petition, and also refused to grant the writTo this, its action, the present writ of error was taken.
voL. Xii.

20

AVERY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Albert Pike and B?. IV. Johnson,for the plaintiff in
error; .31. B. ff. Bristow and C. RI. .Rill,contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Conceding, for the purposes of this suit, that the order of
the Circuit Court in the premises is a final judgment, within
the meaning of the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, to review which a writ of error will lie, did the court err in the
disposition it made of the case?
The lease of the house was authorized, if the owner of
the property was voluntarily absent from it and engaged in
the rebellion, and, as the Federal military forces during the
term of the lease occupied Memphis, it is fairly to be inferred that Avery had abandoned his house under circumstances which warranted the officers of the government in
taking possession of it; and the presumption is, in the absence of an averment in the petition to the contrary, that
these officers discharged their duty, and paid into the treasury
the money received by them for the rent of this property long
before the suit against Avery was tried in the Circuit Court.
If so, and the United States, on this account, were indebted
to Avery (a point on which we express no opinion), it was
the duty of Avery to plead this indebtedness by way of setoff, to the action brought against him. It is a familiar principle that no one can be relieved against a judgment, however unjust he may consider it, if he had a defence and,
through his own fault, failed to present it. Avery is in this
predicament. It will not avail him to say that he did not
know, when the suit was tried, that the money was in the
treasury, for it was his business to have informed himself
on the subject. This he could easily have done, by communicating with the bureau of the Treasury Department where
the accounts of the leases and sales of abandoned property
were kept, and this inquiry would have resulted in obtaining evidence equally available for his purpose as that which
accompanies his petition. It would lead to endless embarrassments in the administration of justice, if a party were
permitted to reopen a judgment on the ground that he had

Dec. 1870.]

WADSWORTH V.

WARREN.

Syllabus.

a defence which he did not present, because ignorant of it,
but which, the court can see, he could have known if he had
used reasonable diligence to ascertain it. It is impossible to
suppose that Avery, on his return to Memphis after the war,
was not informed of the state of things concerning the occupation of his house during his absence, and yet he institutes
no inquiry on the subject, and when subsequently sued by
the United States for a large demand, allows it to pass into
a judgment without the assertion of any claim for the use
of his property. Under these circumstances he cannot be
permitted to do, two years after the rendition of the judgment, what he should have done on the trial of the cause.
It follows, as the result of these views, that the Circuit
Court did not err in overruling the motion to recall the execution and satisfy the judgment.
Nor did it err in refusing the writ of audild quereld, because this writ does not lie, where the party complaining has
had a legal opportunity of defence and has neglected it.*
Besides auditd quereld is a regular suit in which the parties may plead and take issue on the merits,t and cannot,
therefore, be sued against the United States, as in England
it could not against the Crown.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WADSWORTH V. WARREN.

A. sued B. for rent as a co-lessee with C.; B., admitting his mere signature,
set up in defence that he had signed the lease with the express understanding between him and A. that one D. would also sign it; that D.
refused to sign it, and that it was then proposed by A. to have C. in the
place of A. ; but that he, B., positively objected to having his name on
a lease with C.; that thereupon A. said that it would make no difference, for that he would release B. 0. now signed. Some evidence
* Lovejoy v. Webber, 10 Massachusetts, 104; Thatcher v. Gammon, 12 Id
270; Bacon's Abrid., title Audit&Quereld; Wharton's Law Lexicon, same
title.
t Brooks v. Hunt, 17 Johnson, 484.

