Dec. 1870.]

UNITED

STATES V. CRUSELL.

Statement of the case.

necessities of military occupation, and was subject to revocation whenever, in the judgment of the military governor,
revocation should become necessary or expedient. The
adoption of the constitution during the war, under military
orders, and the election of Hahn as governor, did not affect
the military occupation, in the judgment of the national
authorities, for Hahn was appointed military governor by
the President. If the situation was not changed, Hahn, as
military governor, had the same right as his predecessor to
revoke the appointment of judge. If it was changed and
the civil constitution of the State was in full operation, independent of military control, the authority derived from
the appointment by the military governor designated by the
President ceased of necessity. The office became vacant,
and Hahn had whatever authority the State constitution
conferred to enforce the vacancy by removal, and to fill it
by a new appointment. We are unable to approve the reasons assigned for removal, but we cannot doubt the power.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is therefore
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. CRUSELL.
1. A continuance granted on an appeal from the Court of Claims, there having been a motion made there by the appellant, and yet undisposed of,
for a new trial on the ground of after-acquired evidence. But the court
declares that it must not be understood as giving any sanction to the
idea that indefinite postponement of final hearing and determination
can be obtained by repeated motions for continuance here.
2. The court below: not this court, must determine whether the application
for a new trial is seasonably made.

THis was an application by Mr. Bristow, the Solicitor-General, and Mr. Hill, the Assistant Attorney- General, in behalf oy
the government, for the continuance of an appeal from the
Court of Claims, founded upon the fact that evidence had
been newly discovered on which a motion in behalf of the
United States had been made for a new trial, under the act

UNITED STATES V.

CRUSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of June 25, 1868. By that act the Court of Claims is authorized "at any time, while any suit or claim is pending
before, or on appeal from, said court, or within two years
next after the final disposition of any such suit or claim,"
to grant a new trial on motion of the United States.
The motion was opposed by Mr.J. ilughes, for the appellee,
1st. On account of the fact which he stated, that the record
and minutes of the Court of Claims showed, to wit, that more
than two years had elapsed after judgment in the Court of
Claims was given before a new trial was asked for.
2d. Because if a party, by the mere filing of a motion for
a new trial in the court below, after appeal taken here, could
get a continuance, an appellee might be delayed in this court
indefinitely. The case would be different, he admitted, if
a new trial had been actually granted; for then indeed a
dismissal of the appeal might be asked.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of the Uniled States v. Ayres* this court denied
a motion to dismiss an appeal from a judgment of the Court
of Claims when the motion was made upon the sole ground
that a motion for a new trial had been made by the United
States, and was pending in that court, but afterwards dismissed the same appeal when a new trial had been granted.
We are satisfied with the rulings then announced, and think
that the,spirit of them requires us to allow the continuance
now asked for. *We must not be understood, however, as
giving any sanction to the idea that indefinite postponement
of final hearing and determination can be obtained by repeated motions for continuance here.
The objection that more than two years had elapsed after
judgment in the Court of Claims before the motion fbr new
trial was made should be addressed to that court in opposition to the motion. Its decision, whatever it may be, can
be reviewed here.
CONTINUANCE

* 6 Wallace, 608.

GRANTED.

