Dec. 1870.]

SHOEMAKER V.

]KINGSBURY.

Statement of the case.

SHOEMAKER ET AL. V. -KINGSBURY.
1. When contractors for building a railroad, running a construction train,
consent to take a passenger for hire on their train, they are private carriers for hire, and are only bound to exercise such care and skill in the
management and running of the train as prudent and cautious men,
experienced in that business, are accustomed to use under similar circumstances.
2. The passenger in such case takes upon himself the risks incident to the
mode of conveyance.
3. Where an accident occurs to a passenger carried on such a train, by the
car in which he was carried being thrown off the track, the contractors
are not responsible, unless the accident is directly attributable to their
negligence or unskilfulness in that particular; that is to say, in the
management and running of the train. Accordingly, an instruction
that it is incumbent on the defendants to prove that the agents and
servants in charge of the train were persons of competent skill, of good
habits, and in every respect qualified and suitably prepared for the business in which they were engaged, and that they acted on this occasion
with reasonable skill, and with the utmost prudence and caution, was
held erroneous, in that it turned the attention of the jury from the
question at issue for their determination, and directed it to the skill,
habits, and attainments for their business of the agents and servants of
the defendants, as well as to their conduct on the occasion of the accident.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas.

Suit for damages for personal injuries happening on a ran
car; the case being thus:
In 1867, Shoemaker and another were contractors for
building the Eastern Division of the Union Pacific Railway
in Kansas; and in October of that year they ran a construction train over a portion of the road, carrying material for
it. To this train was attached what was called a "caboose
car"-a car for the accommodation of the men connected
with the train, who had their " sleeping bunks" in this car,
and who stored their tools there, as also the lamps used on
the cars. The road was not yet delivered over to the Pacific
Railway Company, and the contractors did not wish to carry
passengers. Persons, however, were sometimes carried on
the caboose car, and sometimes fare had been charged for
their passage, but not always.
VOL. XI.

24

SHOEMAKER V.

KINGSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In this state of things, one Kingsbury, a sheriff in Kansas,
and a deputy marshal, wanted to make an arrest on the line
of the road, and he applied for passage as far as to a place
called Wilson's Creek, asking the conductor to stop the
train there, in order that he might make the arrest. He
was accordingly taken on the train, and the train stopped
until he had made the arrest.
A part of the fare charged was paid by Kingsbury on the
cars, and the balance afterwards. The train ran from Ellsworth to Walker's Creek in Kansas. In going towards
Walker's Creek the train was made up and ran in the usual
way of making up and running railway trains, the engine
being in front, with the caboose and flat-cars attached in regular order. But on the return from Walker's Creek, as there
was, as yet, no turntable on the road, the usual order for
making up such trains was reversed, and both engine and
tender were backed over the road, a distance of more than
fifty miles: the tender being'ahead, the engine next, the
caboose and other cars attached, and following in regular
order. When about three miles from Ellsworth, on this
return trip, both the engine and tender were thrown from
the track and upset. At the time this accident occurred,
Kingsbury was riding in the caboose car with the conductor
of the train, and either jumped out or was thrown out, which
of the two did not exactly appear. Whichever of the two
things was true be was hurt, and for the injuries which he
received he broughot the action below.
The accident was occasioned by the engine running
against a young ox, which leaped on to the track about
twenty feet in front of the advancing train, from grass or
weeds five or six feet high, growing on the sides of the road.
The train was running at its usual rate of speed. The accident occurred just after dark; but it was a moonlight night,
and the engineer testified that he could have seen an animal
two hundred yards distant on the track; that the animal
was only about twenty feet from the engine when first seen.
He continued his testimony thus:
'As soon as I saw the animal I shut off the steam, and seized

Dec. 1870.]

SHOEMAKER V. KINGSBURY.
Statement of the case.

the lever to reverse the engine, and had it about half over when
the engine went off the track. Something struck me on the
head and I did not know anything more. I was injured. I did
what I thought was best to be done to stop the train. The
whistle lever was in the top of the cab. I did not whistle for
brakes. I had no time to do so after I saw the animal and
before the engine went off the track. The train could have been
stopped in about one hundred and fifty yards. When danger
appears, the first thing to be done is to reverse the engine and
then sound the whistle for brakes. Both could not be done at
the same time. In order to reverse and blow the whistle two
motions are necessary-first, to cut off the steam, and then take
hold of the lever to throttle valve and move it over. It takes
both hands to reverse. The whistle is sounded by a lever in the
top of the cab. Brakemen would know, by shutting off steam
and reversing, that something was the matter. It would take
about ten seconds to do all this. I did it as quick as I could. I
could have done nothing more than I did do."
There was no fence on the sides of the road. The plaintiff had been several times before over the road and knew its
condition, and the manner in which the trains were made
up and run.
The court, among other instructions, gave the following
as a fifth to the jury, to which the defendants excepted:
"When it is proved that the car was thrown from the track, and the
plaintiff injured, it is incumbent on the defendants to prove that the
agents and servants in charge of the train were persons of competent
skill, oF GOOD HABITS, and in every respect qualified and suitably prepared for the business in which they were engaged, AND that they
acted on this occasion with reasonable skill, and with the utmost
prudence and caution; and if the disaster in question was occasioned by the least negligence, or want of skill or prudence on
their part, then the defendants are liable in this action."
There was no evidence in the case in relation to the skill,
habits, or qualifications of the agents and servants of the
defendants, except what arose from the fact that the engineer
had been employed on a railroad about four years, and had
been engineer for more than two years, and that the fireman
had been on a railroad for about eighteen months.

SHOEMIAKER V. KINGSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the carriers.

Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
defendants brought the case here on error.
Mlessrs. A. P. Usher and William T. Otto, for the plaintiffs
in error:
Even if these two defendants, contractors only for building
the Union Pacific Railroad, had been general carriers of
passengers fibr hire-and "common carriers" of freight and
baggage-had been, in short, the Union Pacific Railroad
Company itself-and offering, like railroad companies generally, to carry everybody who applied to them to be carried,
and all freight and baggage offered-the first part of the instruction-the part italicized and ending with the words,
"were engaged "-would have been erroneous. The instruction must be taken in reference to the facts of this case. The
question was one of foresight, care, and skill. None other
can arise in the case even of general carriers of passengers.
Their obligation is distinguished from that of" common carriers" or general carriers of goods for hire. This distinction
is universally received,* and the question is always one as to
the application of this rule under the special sort of carriage,
as whether by horse coaches or rail cars, sailing vessels or
steamers; the case in regard to all vehicles impelled by
steam, being, of course, vastly different, we admit, in application from those impelled by feeble agents.
In Boyce v. Anderson,t this court, 'Marshall, C. J., delivering its judgment, decides "that the doctrine of common
carriers does not apply to the carrying of intelligent beings:"
"The carrier," says the Chief Justice, thus speaking, "is undoubtedly answerable for any injury sustained in consequence
of his negligence or want of skill, but we have never understood that he is responsible further."
And a judgment below, given on an instruction that the
carriers were "responsible for negligence or unskilful conduct, but not otherwise," was affirmed. A similar view itaken in Stokes v. Saltonstall.1
See 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th edition, note to Coggs v. Bernard.
t 2 Peters, 150.

$ 13 Id. 191.

:Dec. 1870.]

SHOEMAKER V. KINGSBURY.

Argument for the carriers.

The question was then one of nothing but foresight, care,
and skill, and the instruction must be taken in reference to
the case. :No want of either foresight, care, or skill was attempted to be inferred, by showing want of good habitsthe court probably meaning by the words, want of ebrietythough the words go far beyond the matter of ebriety, and
may have been naturally understood by the jury as doing so.
How, then, is the matter of the "good habits" of the company's servants properly brought into issue ? If the car was
thrown from the track by an inevitable accident, how could
the defendants be made liable, even if the "habits" of their
servants were not "good?"
If it was thrown from it by a
specific act of negligence, what would "habits" even the
most exemplary avail as a defence? The court had no right
to require evidence of the defendants on this subject. Assuming that which we deny, to wit, that the defendants were
general carriers of passengers, the instruction ought to have
been, "Did they, taking into account the mode of transportation, provide, as far as human care and foresight could go,
for the safety of the plaintiff? And did their servants in
charge of the train exercise the highest degree of skill and
judgment on the occasion of the accident? Was the accident solely their fault, or was it unavoidable?" The affirmative of all these issues was upon the plaintiff. But the instruction disposed of all consideration as to the cause of the
accident, and declares the defendants in fault from the fact
of it.
But the defendants were not general carriers of passengers any more than they were " common carriers" of goods.
They were but contractors to build a road. Carriage of any
body or any thing was neither their principal and direct
business nor an occasional and incidental employment. For
the purpose of building the road, they bad a "caboose car,"
and having occasion to go forward and back themselves, for
a short time before delivering the road to the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, whose road it was, they let the defendant ride on it. That was all. If they took reasonable care,
under the circumstances-which included going through a

SHOEMAKER V. KINGSBURY.

[Sup. Ck

Argument for the passenger.

dreary, uninhabited wilderness, tender going foremost, engine moving backwards, it was enough. The rule which
the court applied in the second part of its charge was not
applicable to such carriers. They were not bound to the
"utmost prudence and caution," and liable for the "least
negligence or want of skill," however much general carriers
of passengers, sometimes in ordinary parlance called "common carriers of passengers," may be.
Moreover, in this case,-even had the carriers been general carriers,-the instruction, in the way in which it was
given, was calculated, like all the rest of"the instructions, to
mislead; and the jury would have found for the plaintiT;
though the accident had been caused wholly by his own
fault.
The instruction, in short, was wrong from beginning to
end.
Messrs. George Earle and G. TV. Paschall,contra:
The defendants did make the carriage of passengers an
occasional and incidental employment. That is enough to
constitute them general carriers of passengers, for in the
case of goods it would make the party a "common carrier."*
The latter part of the instruction vas right.
Then, as to the first part. It does not indeed follow, even
as a primafacie inference, because a man who has just been
in a rail car is found greatly hurt, that the railroad company
is responsible for his injury. The injury may have been
caused by his own act, and if the car is in its right place
and everything regular, the presumption would be that it
was so caused. But when you show that the car is off the
track, that the train had been running, tender first, engine
hind-part before, and everything topsy-turry, and that a mail
is hurt, you raise every presumption against the company;
and they are bound to show just what the court below said
they were. When you show an engineer running through
his whole route with a train stern foremost, the operation
followed by running on an ox, and this followed by a de.
* See 1 Smith's Leading Cases, note to Co-gs v. Bernard.

Dec. 1870.]

SHOEMAKER V.

KINGSBURY.

Opinion of the court.

raillement and injury to a passenger, you raise a question of
sobriety; for, primdfacie, no engineer if sober would so run.
The instruction was in exact conformity with the lawk, as decided by this court in Slokcs v. Sallonstall, cited on the other
side.
Reply: In Stokes v. Sallonstall-tbe case of an injury by
upsetting a stage coach-it was testified that the driver was
grossly intoxicated; and the instructing of the jury here, in
the language of that case, shows the danger of applying
what was said in one state of facts, to another state, that has
no resemblance to it.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
From the whole evidence in this case it is plain that the
defendants were not common carriers of passengers at the
time the accident occurred, which has led to the present
actiofi. They were merely contractors for building the
Eastern Division of the Union Pacific Railway, and were running a construction train to transport material for the road.
The entire train consisted, besides the engine and its tender,
of cars for such material and what is called in the testimony
a " caboose car." This latter car was intended solely for
the accommodation of the men connected with the train; it
contained their bunks and mattresses; they slept in it, and
deposited in it the lamps of the cars, and the tools they used.
It was not adapted for passengers, and, according to the testimony of the conductor, the defendants did not wish to
carry passengers, although when persons got on to ride the
defendants did not put them off, and sometimes, though not
always, fare was charged for their carriage.
The plaintiff, who was sheriff of a county in Kansas, and
deputy marshal of the district, desired to arrest a person ou
the line of the road, and, to enable him to accomplish this
purpose, he applied to the conductor for passage on the train
as far as Wilson's Creek, and requested that the train would
stop there until the arrest could be made. His wishes were
granted in both respects, and for the services rendered he

SHOEMAKER V.

]K[NGSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

paid at the time a portion of the fare charged, and the balance subsequently.
In the rendition of these services for the plaintiffl the defendants were simply private carriers for hire. As such
carriers, having only a construction train, they were not
under the same obligations and responsibilities which attach
to common carriers of passengers by railway. The latter
undertake, for hire, to carry all persons indifferently who
apply for passage; and the law, for the protection of travellers, subjects such carriers to a very strict responsibility.
It imposes upon them the duty of providing for the safe
conveyance of passengers, so far as that is practicable by
the exercise of human care and foresight. They are bound
to see that the road is in good order; that the engines are
properly constructed and furnished; that the cars are strong
and fitted for the accommodation of passengers, and that
the running gear is, so far as the closest scrutiny can detect,
perfect in its character. If any injury results from a defect
in any of these particulars they are liable.
They are also bound to provide careful and skilful servants, competent in every respect for the positions to which
they are assigned in the management and running of the
cars; and they are responsible for the consequences of any
negligence or want of skill on the part of such servants.
They are also bound to take all necessary precautions to
keep obstructions from the track of the road; and, although
it may not be obligatory upon them, in the absence of legislative enactment, to fence in the road so as to exclude cattle,
it is incumbent upon them to use all practical means to prevent the possibility of obstruction from the straying of cattle
on to the track as well as from any other cause. As said
by the Supreme Court of' Pennsylvania, in speaking of the
duty of railway companies in this particular:* "laving
undertaken to carry safely, and holding themselves out to
the world as able to do so, they are not to suffer cows to
endanger the life of a passenger any more than a defective
* Sullivan v. Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company, 80 Pennsylvania State, 284.

Dec. 1870.]

SHOEMAKER V.

KINGSBURY.

Opinion of the court.

rail or axle. Whether they maintain an armed police at
cross-roads, as is done by similar companies in Europe, or
fence, or place cattle-guards within the bed of their road, or
by any other contrivance exclude this risk, is for themselves
to consider and determine. We do not say they are bound
to do the one or the other, but if,by some means, they do
not exclude the risk, they are bound to respond in damages
when injury accrues."
It is evident that the defendants in this case were not
subject to any such stringent obligations and responsibilities as are here mentioned. They did not hold themselves
out as capable of carrying passengers safely; they had no
arrangements for passenger service, and they were not required to make provisions fbr the protection of the road
such as are usually adopted and exacted of railroad companies. They did not own the road, and had no interest in it
beyond its construction. It was no part of their duty to fence
it in or to cut away the bushes or weeds growing on its sides.
The plaintiff knew its c6ndition and the relation of the'
defetndants to it when he applied for passage. He had been
previously over it several times, and was well aware that
there were no turntables on a portion of the route; a fact,
which compelled the defendants to reverse the engine on
the return of tle train from Walker's Creek. He, therefore, took upon himself the risks incident to the mode of
conveyance used by the defendants when he entered their
cars. All that he could exact from them, under these circumstances, was the exercise of such care and skill in the
management and running of the train as prudent and cautious men, experienced in that business, are accustomed to
use under similar circumstances. Such care implies a watchful attention to the working of the engine, the movement
of the cars and their running gear, and a constant and vigilant lookout fbr the condition of the road in advance of the
train. If such care and skill were used by the defendants,
they discharged their entire duty to the plaintiff, and if an
accident, notwithstanding, occurred, by which he was injured, they were not liable. They were not insurers of his

SHOEMAKER

V. KINGSBURY.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

safety, nor responsible for the consequences of unavoidable
accident.
The question should have been put to the jury whether
the defendants did in fact exercise such care and skill in the
management and running of the train at the time the accident occurred. They were not responsible to the plaintiff,
unless the accident was directly attributable to their negligence or unskilfulness in that particular.
The evidence in the case shows that the accident was
occasioned by the tender and engine rqnning against a steer.
The train was proceeding at its usual rate of speed when
the steer suddenly, from a mass of high weeds or grass
growing on the sides of the road, leaped upon the track
directly in front of the advancing train, at a distance from
it of about twenty feet. This distance w,'s so short, and the
movement of the animal was so sudden, that it was impossible to arrest the train, and a collision followed which threw
the engine and tender from the track. The plaintiff, on the
happening of the collision, either leaped from the " caboose
car," in which he was at the time sitting, or was thrown
from it, it is immaterial which, and was injured.
The fifth instruction given by the court turned the attention of the jury from the simple question at issue for their
determination, and directed it to the skill, habits, and attainments for their business of the agents and servants of
the defendants, as well as to their conduct on the occasion
of the accident. It held proof that the agents and servants
were possessed of competent skill, of good habits, and in
every respect qualified and suitably prepared for the business in which they were engaged, as essential as proof that
they acted on the occasion with skill, prudence, and caution. And it made the occurrence of the accident presumptive evidence that they were destitute of such skill, habits,
and qualifications.
We are of opinion that the court erred in this instruction,
and that it misled the jury. On this ground the judgment
of the court below must be
REVERSED AND THE CAUSE REMANDED IFOR A NEW TRIAL.

