MAIL COMPANY

v.

FLANDERS.

.[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

MAIL COMPANY V. FLANDERS.
I. The Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction under the act
of 31arch 12th, 1863, commonly known as the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, where both parties are citizens of the same State.
2. Although when a court has no jurisdiction it is in general irregular to
make any order, except to dismiss the suit, that rule does not apply to
the action of the court in setting aside such orders as had been made
improperly before the want of jurisdiction was discovered, aiid restoring
things to the state in which they were before the improper orders were
made.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana; the case being this:
The act of March 12th, 1863,* known as the Abandoned
or Captured Property Act, directed that property abandoned
or captured within the region lately in insurrection, should
be turned over to agents of the Federal treasury, and by
them sold at auction, and the proceeds paid into the treasury
of the United States, &c. The act goes on to say:

"Any person claiming to have been the owner of any such
abandoned or captured property may prefer his claim to the
proceeds thereof in the Court of lains; and on proof to the
satisfaction of said court (1) of his ownership of said property,
(2) of his right to the proceeds thereof, and (3) that he has
never given any aid or comfort to the present rebellion, receive
the residue of such proceeds."
-"o special jurisdiction in the matter was given by this
statute to the Circuit Courts, which if they had jurisdiction
at all after the above-quoted provision from the statute, bad
it only under the Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives them
(ยง 11) jurisdiction vhere "the suit is between a citizen of
the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another
State."
With these statutes in force, the New Orleans Mail Com,pany, a corporation of Louisiana,filed a bill in the nature of
* 12 Stat. at Large, 820.

Dec. 1870.]

MAIL COMPANY V. FLANDERS.
Statement of the case.

a bill in equity, in the court below, against B. F. Flanders,
a treasury agent, and one Fernandez, an auctioneer, both defendants, as appeared on the face of the pleadings, being citizens
of Louisiana, setting forth that Flanders, pretending to proceed under the said Captured and Abandoned Property Act,
had seized two steamboats, the one named Laurel Hill, the
other Iberville, and that Fernandez, as auctioneer, was now
about to sell them; and praying an injunction against the
sale; praying also a writ of sequestration to the marshal,
commanding him to keep the boats until the further order
of the court. A preliminary injunction and a writ of sequestration were granted accordingly.
The defendant, Flanders, filed an "answer and plea to the
jurisdiction," setting up that the steamers were captured
property; that as such they had been delivered by the military authorities to him, as special agent of the treasury,
under the act of Congress; and that he held the boats, and
had advertised their sale, in his official capacity. He denied
that the Circuit Court had any jurisdiction .of the case made
in the petition, on the ground that, by the act of March 12th,
1863, the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, the entire
jurisdiction of that case was vested in the Court of Claims.
He therefore prayed that the petition be dismissed.
The court entered a judgment thus:
"For reasons orally assigned, it is ordered that the injunction herein sued out be made perpetual so far as the steanier
Iberville is concerned, and that said steamer be restored to the
plaintiffs.
"But as regards the steamer Laurel Hill, considering that the
court is without jurisdiction,it is further ordered that the injunction and sequestration be set aside and dismissed with costs, and
that said steamer be turned over to B. F. Flanders, agent of the
treasury department, as captured property."
As this judgment was rendered "for reasons orally assigned," the grounds of this discrimination between the
cases of the two vessels did not appear, nor the ground on
which the court supposed it had any jurisdiction whatever

MAIL COMPANY V. FLANDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

of the suit against the Iberville more than against the
other.
From the judgment, in respect to the Laurel Hill, the mail
company took this appeal. Of course, as the other vessel
was restored to them by the judgment of the court, they had
no ground of complaint against the decree in respect to her,
and the other side not appealing, there could be no question
as to the judgment given in respect to that vessel.
The case was submitted; Mr. Evarts declining to press the
ease for the appellant, as being a plain one against him.
31r. Boar, for the United States, represented here by the appellees.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Authority was conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury, by the act of the twelfth of March, 1863, to appoint
special agents to receive and collect abandoned or captured
property in any State or Territory designated as in insurrection, by the prodlamation of the President issued on the first
day of July in the preceding year. Such property, so received or collected, may be appropriated to public use on
due appraisement and certificate thereof, or may be forwarded for sale within the loyal States as the public interest
may require; and the further provision is that all sales of the
property shall be at auction to the highest bidder, and that
the proceeds thereof shall be paid into the treasury.*
Officers or privates in the army, and officers, sailors, or
marines in the navy, are required by the sixth section of the
act to turn over to an agent appointed under that act, all
property taken or received from persons in such insurrectionary districts, or which they have under their control;
and the same section also provides that the agent receiving
such property shall give a receipt for the same to the person
from whom it was received.t
Two steamboats, to wit, the Laurel Hill and the Iberville,
were captured by our military and naval forces at New Or* 12 Stat. at Large, 820.

t Ib. 821.

Dec. 1870.]

MAIL COMPANY V. FLANDEIRS.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

leans, in the month of May, 1862, shortly after our military
occupation of the city became complete. Carefully examined the proofs show that the Laurel Hill was captured oil
the eighth of May of that year, in Bayou Jacquot, a small
bayou connected with Bayou Plaquemines, situated in the
parish of Iberville, on the right bank of the river Mississippi,
one hundred miles above the city of New Orleans, and at that
time within the militiry lines of the Confederate army. Our
military occupation of the city became complete on the sixth
of May of that year, and the proofs show the Iberville was
captured on the twenty-second of the same month while
lying at Greenville, which is situated on the left bank of the
river, four and a half miles above the city, but below Camp
Parapet, and was at that time within our military lines.
Captured under the circumstances explained, the two
steamboats remained in the custody or subject to the control
of our military authorities until the twenty-first day of December, 1865, when the proper officer in charge of the same
turned the captured steamers over to the respondent, B. F.
Flanders, as the agent of the TreasurX Department appointed
under the first section of the before-mentioned act of Congress. Pursuant to authority conferred by the second seetion of the act, the respondent, Flanders, employed the other
respondent as an auctioneer to sell the steamboats, and the
latter, by virtue of his employment, advertised the same for
sale at public auction.
Based on these facts the complainants and appellants, on
the ninth of January, 1866, filed their bill of complaint in
the Circuit Court of the United States, and alleged that they
were the lawful owners of the respective steamboats; that
the respondents had no right, interest, or claim in the same,
and that a sale of the same as proposed would be a violation
of their rights as such owners. They brought the suit to
prevent the sale of the steamboats as proposed in the advertisement, and they accordingly prayed for an injunction to
that effect, and they also prayed for a writ of sequestration,
to be directed to the marshal, commanding him to take the
steamboats into his possession and to safely keep the same

MAIL CoMIPANY v. FLANDERS.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

until the further order of the court. Accompanying the
bill of complainant was an affidavit of merits, and the record
shows that both writs were granted as prayed, the complainants giving bond to the respondents to pay all such damages
as should be adjudged against them if the processes were
wrongly obtained.
Service having been made, the respondent, Flanders, appeared and filed'an answer. Ie alleged that the steamers
were captured by our military and naval fbrces, as before
explained, and that he held the same as special agent of the
Treasury Department. Besides pleading to the merits as
aforesaid, he denied the jurisdiction of the court, and also
prayed that the injunction might be dissolved and that the
bill of complaint might be dismissed. Testimony was taken,
but further reference to it is unnecessary, as all the facts
proved which are material in this investigation have already
been stated. None of the other proceedings in the suit are
of any importance in the present state of the controversy,
except the final decree, which was to the effect as follows:
(1) That the injunction in respect to the steamer Iberville
be made perpetual, and that the steamer be restored to the
complainants. (2) That the orders granting the writs of
injunction and sequestration in respect to the steamer Laurel
Hill be set aside, with costs, and that the steamer be restored
to the respondent, Flanders, as the special agent of the
Treasury Department.
Probably the decision in the matter of the steamer Iberville was placed upon the ground that the steamer was captured within our military lines subsequent to the publication
of the proclamation issued by the commanding general at
the headquarters of the army, announcing that " all the
rights of property, of whatever kind, will be held inviolate,
subject only to the laws of the United States."*
Much difficulty, to say the least, would have arisen in sustaining that part of the decree if the respondents had ap* The Venice, 2 Wallace, 276; The Circassian, 2 Id. 150.

Dec. 1870.]

MAIL COMPANY v. FLANDERS.
Opinion of the court.

pealed to this court, as the presiding justice held that the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case, but inasmuch
as that part of the decree was in favor of the appellants, and
the respondents did not appeal, the error, if it be one, cannot be corrected. Correction of the error is not sought by
the appellants, and it is well-settled law that no one but an
appellant can be heard in an appellate court for the reversal
of a decree rendered in the subordinate court.* Appellees
may be heard in support of the decree, but not for reversal,
as it is the privilege of both parties to appeal if they see fit
and comply with the conditions prescribed by law.t
Captured as the steamer Laurel Hill was, within the military lines of the Confederate army, the proclamation of our
commanding.general' before referred to, afforded no support
to that part of the claim of the complainants, but the presiding justice being of the opinion that the Circuit Court had
no jurisdiction of the case, did not examine the merits of the
controversy. Both parties, as appears on the face of the
pleadings, are citizens of the same State, and upon that
ground this court is of the opinion that the bill of complaint
was properly dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Where the Circuit Court is without jurisdiction it is in
general irregular to make any order in the cause except to
dismiss the suit, but that rule does not apply to the action
of the court in setting aside such orders as had been improperly made before the want of jurisdiction was discovered. Prior to that the court, on motion of the complainants,
had granted an injunction and issued a writ of sequestration, on which latter writ the marshal had taken possession
of the steamer and held it subject to the order of the court.
Evidently those writs were improvidently issued, and the
* The Mary Ford, 3 Dallas, 198.

f The William Bagalcy, 5 Wallace, 412; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Id.
196; Harrison v. Nixon, 9 Peters, 484; Stratton v Jarvis, 8 Id. 4; Buckingham v. McLean. 13 Howard, 150; Canter v. Am. Ins. Co., 3 Peters, 318.
: 1 Stat. at Large, 78; Sullivan v. Fulton Steamboat Co., 6 Wheaton, 450;
Piquignot v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 16 Howard, 104; Hornthall v. Collector, 9 Wallace, 560.

TnE

[Sup. Or.

EUTAW.

Statement of the case.

court having come to that conclusion set them aside and ordered the steamer restored to the custody in which it was
when the writ of sequestration was served.
DEOREE AFFIRMED.*

THE EUTAW.
'When a case is within the jurisdiction of the court, and there has been no
defect in removing it from the subordinate court to this, the court will
not dismiss the case on motion made out of the regular call of the docket.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal; the case being thus:

In March, 1867, Harris, Howell & Co. libelled the steamer
Eutaw, in the District Court at New York, for repairs, supplies, advances, and labor and services to the vessel, at Wilmington, N. C. The answer denied generally the allegations of the libel. A reference was made by consent to a
master to ascertain and report the aniount due; "the same
proof of the payment and propriety of payment of bills to be
made as if before the court." The master, after admissions
or proofs heard, found $4140.94; one item of this sum being
$1000 for "commissions at 2 - per cent.," and this item
being allowed on an allegation of a custom of maritime coun.
tries, and of which, as prevalent at Wilmington, specific
proofs were given or attempted, in the shape of affidavits from
commission merchants of that place, and otherwise in more
formal shape. This item, unlike most of the charges, was apparently not admilled, though it was not attempted specifically
to be dis-proved, it being left to be judged of on the record
and the law. The respondents not excepting, so far as the
record seemed to show, to this item of $1000, or to any other
item found in the report, nor moving any correction nor objecting to confirmation, the report was confirmed in May,
1868, by the District Court. From that decree the respondThis decree was made at the last term.

