POLISH ALLIANCE v. LABOR BOARD.

643

Opinion of the Court.

POLISH NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THE UNITED
STATES OF NORTH AMERICA v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 226. Argued January 11, 12, 1944.-Decided June 5, 1944.
1. In view of the activities of the petitioner in the conduct of its
insurance business (described in the opinion), the National Labor
Relations Board was justified in concluding that the practices in
which the petitioner was found to be and to have been engaged were,
within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act, unfair
labor practices "affecting commerce," which the Board was empowered by the Act to prevent. Pp. 644, 648.
2. The cultural and fraternal aspects of the petitioner's activities did
not except it from the operation of the National Labor Relations
Act. P. 648.
3. The application of the National Labor Relations Act to the activities of the petitioner, though in the business of insurance, was a
valid exercise of the power of Congress under the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution. P. 649.
136 F. 2d 175, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 725, to review a decree granting

enforcement of an order (as modified) of the National
Labor Relations Board, 42 N. L. R. B. 1375.
Mr. Ewart Harris,with whom Mr. CasimirE. Midowicz
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Attorney General Biddle, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Alvin J. Rockwell,
Frank Donner, and Miss Ruth Weyand were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The National Labor Relations Board, having found
that petitioner, in violation of the National Labor Rela-

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

tions Act, had engaged in unfair labor practices, issued
an order of cessation against it. 42 N. L. R. B. 1375. On
a petition for review and a cross-petition of the Board for
enforcement, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit sustained the order. °136 F. 2d 175. Of the
numerous issues before that court only two are open here,
the importance of which led us to grant certiorari. 320
U. S. 725. The questions are these: (1) In view of the
petitioner's activities, is the conduct found by the'Board
to constitute unfair labor practices within the scope of
the National Labor Relations Act; (2) if Congress has
proscribed such conduct, has it exceeded its power to
regulate commerce among the several States?
The Polish National Alliance is a fraternal benefit
society providing death, disability, and accident benefits
to its members and their beneficiaries. Incorporated
under the laws of Illinois, it is organized into 1,817 lodges
scattered through twenty-seven States, the District of
Columbia, and the Province of Manitoba, Canada. As
the "largest fraternal organization in the world of Americans of Polish descent," it had outstanding, in 1941,
272,897 insurance benefit certificates with a face value of
nearly $160,000,000. Over 76% of these certificates were
held by persons living outside of Illinois. At the end of
that year, petitioner's assets totalled about $30,000,000,
in cash, real estate in five States, United States Government bonds, foreign government bonds, bonds of various
States and their political subdivisions, railroad, public
utility, and industrial bonds, and stocks. From its organization in 1880 until the end of 1940, the Alliance spent
over $7,000,000 for charitable, educational, and fraternal
activities among itsmembers. During the same period, it
paid out over $38,000,000 in "mortuary claims."
Petitioner directs from its home office in Chicago a
staff of over 225 full and part-time organizers and field
agents in twenty-six States whose traveling expenses are

POLISH ALLIANCE v. LABOR BOARD.
643

645

Opinion of the Court.

borne by Alliance and who receive commissions for new
memberships. Since its 1939 convention, Alliance has
admitted no more "social members." Thereafter, all
applicants have been required to buy insurance certificates providing various types of life, endowment, and
term coverage. These policies contain the typical loan,
cash surrender value, optional settlement, and dividend
provisions. Petitioner spent over $10,000 for advertising
outside of Illinois during 1941. It employs a Georgia
credit company to report on the financial standing and
character of the applicants, and reinsures substandard
risks with an Indiana company.
Alliance lodges are organized into 190 councils, 160 of
which are outside the State of Illinois. The councils elect
delegates to the national convention, and it in turn elects
the executive and administrative officers. The Censor
of Alliance is its ranking officer and he appoints an editorial staff which publishes a weekly paper distributed to
members. Of the 6,857,556 copies published in 1941,
about 80% were mailed to persons living outside of
Illinois.
This summary of the activities of Alliance and of the
methods and facilities for their pursuit amply shows the
web of money-making transactions woven across many
state lines. An effective strike against such a business
enterprise, centered in Chicago but radiating from it all
over the country, would as a practical matter certainly
burden and obstruct the means of transmission and communication across these state lines. Stoppage or disription of the work in Chicago involves interruptions in the
steady stream, into and out of Illinois, of bills, notices,
and policies, the payments of commissions, the making of
loans on policies, the insertion and circulation of advertising material in newspapers, and its dissemination over
the radio. The effect of such interruptions on commerce
is unmistakable. The load of interstate communication

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

and transportation services is lessened, cash necessary for
interstate business becomes unavailable, the business, interstate, of newspapers and radio stations suffer. Nor is
this all. Alliance, it appears, plays a credit r6le in interstate industries, railroads, and other public utilities. In
1941, it acquired securities in an amount in excess of $11,000,000, and sold or redeemed securities costing more than
$7,500,000. Financial transactions of this magnitude cannot be impeded even temporarily without affecting to an
extent not negligible the interstate enterprises in which
the large assets of Alliance are invested. That such are
the substantial effects on interstate commerce of dislocating labor practices by, insurance companies, was
established before the Labor Board in at least thirteen
comparable situations.' The practical justification of
such a conclusion has not heretofore been challenged.
Considerations like these led the Board to find that petitioner's practices "have a close, intimate, and substantial relation to trade, traffic, and commerce among the
several States and tend to lead to labor disputes burdening and obstructing commerce," and were therefore
"unfair labor practices affecting commerce within the
Matter of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 26 N. L. R.B.
1024; Matter of Life Insurance Co. of Virginia, 29 N. L. R. B.
246; Matter of Life Insurance Co. of Virginia, 31 N. L. R. B. 674;
Matter of Supreme Liberty Life Insurance Co., 32 N. L. R. B. 94;
Matter of Life Insurance Co. of Virginia, 38 N. L. R. B. 20; Matter of Colonial Life Insurance Co. of America, 42 N: L. R. B. 1177;
Matter of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 43 N. L. R. B. 962;
Matter of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, 46 N. L. R. B. 430;
Matter of Northwestern Mutual Fire Association, 46 N. L. R. B. 825;
Matter of Peoples Life Insurance Co. of Washington, D. C., 46 N. L.
R. B. 1115; Matter of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, 47 N. L.
R. B. 1103; Matter of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, 49 N. L.
R. B. 450; Matter of Life and Casualty Insurance Co. of Tennessee,
53 N. L. R. B. 1196. See also Labor Board v. Bank of America, 130
F. 2d 624, 626.

POLISH ALLIANCE v. LABOR BOARD.
643

647

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of Section 2 (6) and (7)," and as such, prohibited
by § 10 of the Wagner Act.
By that Act, Congress in order to protect interstate commerce from adverse effects of labor disputes has undertaken to regulate all conduct having such consequences
that constitutionally it can regulate. Labor Board v.
Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 31; Labor Board v.
Fainblatt, 306 U. S. 601, 607. With negligible exceptions, Congress did not exercise its power to regulate commerce prior to its enactment in 1887 of the Interstate
Commerce Act. 24 Stat. 379, 49 U. S.C. § 1 et seq. Since
that time it has frequently chosen, as the Statutes at Large
abundantly prove, to regulate only part of what it constitutionally can regulate. Again, half a dozen enactments, other than the National Labor Relations Act, are
sufficient to illustrate that when it wants to bring aspects
of commerce within the full sweep of its constitutional authority, it manifests its purpose by regulating not only
"commerce" but also matters which "affect," "interrupt,"
or "promote" interstate commerce. See, for example, Act
of June 18, 1934, § 2, 48 Stat. 979, 18 U. S.C. § 420a; Bituminous Coal Act, § 4-A, 50 Stat. 72, 83, 15 U. S. C.
§ 834; Civil Aeronautics Act, § 1 (3), 52 Stat. 973, 977,
49 U. S. C. § 401 (3); Federal Employers' Liability Act,
§ 1, as amended, 53 Stat. (part 2) 1404, 45 U. S. C. § 51;
Transportation Act of 1920, § 307 (b) (3), 41 Stat. 456,
471; Tennessee Valley Authority Act, § 31, 49 Stat. 1075,
1080, 16 U. S. C. § 831dd. In so describing the range of
its control, Congress is not indulging stylistic preferences;
it is mediating between federal and state authorities, and
deciding what matters are to be taken over by the central
Government and what to be left to the States. United
States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100; Kirschbaum Co. v. Wal-.
ling, 316 U. S.517. And so in this Act, unlike some federal regulatory measures, see Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Bunte Bros., 312 U. S.349, 351; Kirschbaum Ca. v. Wal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ling, supra, at 522-523, Congress has explicitly regulated
not merely transactions or goods in interstate commerce
but activities which in isolation might be deemed to be
merely local but in the interlacings of business across state
lines adversely affect such commerce. By the Wagner
Act, Congress gave the Board authority to prevent practices "tending to lead to a labor dispute burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce." § 2 (7)
of the National Labor Relations Act (49 Stat. 449, 450,
29 U. S. C. § 152 (7)). Congress therefore left it to the
Board to ascertain whether proscribed practices would in
particular situations adversely affect commerce when
judged by the full reach of the constitutional power of
Congress. Whether or no practices may be deemed by
Congress to affect interstate commerce is not to be
determined by confining judgment to the quantitative
effect of the activities immediately before the Board. Appropriate for judgment is the fact that the immediate situation is representative of many others throughout the
country, the total incidence of which if left unchecked may
well become far-reaching in its harm to commerce. Labor
Board v. Fainblatt,supra, at 607-608.
We have said enough to indicate the ground for our
conclusion that the Board was not unjustified in finding
that the unfair labor practices found by it would affect
commerce. And the undoubted fact that Alliance promotes, among Americans of Polish descent, interest in, and
devotion to, the contributions that Poland has made to
civilization does not subordinate its business activities
to insignificance. Accordingly, the Board could find that
its cultural and fraternal activities do not withdraw Alliance from amenability to the Wagner Act.
In this aspect, the case we have before us presents a
wholly new problem of the relation of federal authority to
the business of insurance. The long series of insurance
cases that have come to this Court for more than seventy-

POLISH ALLIANCE v. LABOR BOARD.
643

Opinion of the Court.

five years, from Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, to New
York Life Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495,
have invariably involved some exercise of state power
resisted, in most instances, on the claim that it was impliedly forbidden by the Commerce Clause. Such was
the context in which this Court decided again and again
that the making of a contract of insurance is not interstate commerce and that, since the business of insurance
is in effect merely a congeries of contracts, the States may,
for taxing and diverse other purposes, regulate the making
of such contracts and the insurance business free from
the limitations imposed upon state action by the Commerce Clause. Constitutional questions that look alike
often are altogether different and call for different answers
because they bring into play different provisions of the
Constitution or different exertions of power under it.
Thus, federal regulation does not preclude state taxation
and state taxation does not preclude federal regulation.
Compare, for example, Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co.,
260 U. S. 245, with Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310
U. S. 381.
We have, therefore, now presented for the first time
not an exercise of state but of national power in relation
to the insurance business. And so the ultimate question
is whether, in view of the relation between the activities
of the insurance business before us and the operation of
economic forces across state lines, the Constitution denies
to Congress the power to say that the interplay of the
insurance business and those economic forces is such
that its power "to regulate Commerce . . . among the
several States" carries with it the power to regulate the
conduct here regulated by relevant legislation.
The process of adjusting the interacting areas of
national and state authority over commerce has been reflected in hundreds of cases from the very beginning of
our history. Precisely the same kind of issues has plagued
587770-45-----45

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

the two great English-speaking federations, the constitutions of which similarly distribute legislative power
over business between central and subordinate governments. See § 91 of the British North America Act, 1867,
30 & 31 Vict., c. 3, and Report of the (Canadian) Royal
Commission on Dominion-Provincial Relations, (1940)
Bk. II, c. IV; § 51 of the Australia Constitutional Act,
1900, 63 & 64 Vict., c. 12, and Report of the (Australian)
Royal Commission on the Constitution, (1929) c. XIV.
These are difficulties inherent in such a federal constitutional system.
The interpenetrations of modern society have not wiped
out state lines. It is not for us to make inroads upon
our federal system either by indifference to its maintenance or excessive regard for the unifying forces of modern technology. Scholastic reasoning may prove that no
activity is isolated within the boundaries of a single State,
but that cannot justify absorption of legislative power by
the United States over every activity. On the other hand,
the old admonition never becomes stale that this Court is
concerned with the bounds of legal power and not with
the bounds of wisdom in its exercise by Congress. When
the conduct of an enterprise affects commerce among the
States is a matter of practical judgment, not to be determined by abstract notions. The exercise of this practical
judgment the Constitution entrusts primarily and very
largely to the Congress, subject to the latter's control by
the electorate. Great power was thus given to the Congress: the power of legislation and thereby the power of
passing judgment upon the needs of a complex society.
Strictly confined though far-reaching power was given to
this Court: that of determining whether the Congress has
exceeded limits allowable in reason for the judgment
which it has exercised. To hold that Congress could not
deem the activities here in question to affect what men of
practical affairs would call commerce, and to deem them

POLISH ALLIANCE v. LABOR BOARD.
643

651

BLACK, J., concurring.

related to such commerce merely by gossamcr threads and
not by solid ties, would be to disrespect the judgment that
is open to men who have the constitutional power and
responsibility to legislate for the Nation.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or disposition of this case.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK, concurring:
The National Labor Relations Act does not vest courts
with power to review the evidence presented to the Labor
Board and make independent findings of fact. 29 U: S. C.
160 (e). Therefore the propriety of the Board's order in
this case must be considered on the basis of the facts the
Board found.
The Board did not exercise jurisdiction and enter its
order on a fact finding that petitioner's insurance activities merely affected commerce in types of interstate business other than its own. On this fact issue it made no
finding at all. Its finding was that the petitioner, being
"engaged in the insurance business," was "engaged in
commerce within the meaning of the Act." This ultimate
finding of fact rested on detailed subordinate findings
which revealed the widespread interstate activities of the
petitioner in carrying on its insurance business. As the
Court's opinion points out, these insurance activities involved a "steady stream, into and out of Illinois, of bills,
notices, and policies, the payments of commissions, the
making of loans on policies, the insertion and circulation
of advertising material in newspapers, and its dissemination over the radio." Only on the basis of the ultimate
finding that petitioner was itself "engaged in commerce"
did the Board make the essential further finding that petitioner's refusal to bargain collectively with its employees
had a "close, intimate, and substantial relation to com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAck, J., concurring.

322 U. S.

merce among the several States" and tended "to lead to
labor disputes burdening and obstructing commerce."
As a conclusion of law the Board stated that petitioner's
unfair labor practices constituted "unfair labor practices
affecting commerce, within the meaning of Section 2 (6)
and (7) of the Act." Section 2 (6) defines the term
"commerce" to mean "trade, traffic . . ."; and § 2 (7)
defines the term "affecting commerce" to mean either "in
commerce" or "burdening or obstructing commerce."
49 Stat. 449, 450; 29 U. S. C. 152 (6) and (7). From the
language of these definitions, and the Board's findings
above described, it is apparent that the Board's conclusion
of law that "commerce" was "affected" by petitioner's
unfair labor practices rested upon its previous conclusion
of fact that petitioner's insurance business was engaged in
commerce. The Board concluded that, since the insurance business itself was engaged in commerce, petitioner's
refusal to bargain, and the strike thereby provoked, would
affect commerce. Compare Associated Press v. Labor
Board, 301 U. S. 103, 128-130 with Consolidated Edison
Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 219-224.
The doctrine that Congress may provide for regulation
of activities not themselves interstate commerce, but
merely "affecting" such commerce, rests on the premise
that in certain fact situations the federal government may
find that regulation of purely local and intrastate commerce is "necessary and proper" to prevent injury to interstate commerce. Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 342; Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 46-47; and see Wickard v. Filburn,317
U. S. 111, 121. In applying this doctrine to particular
situations this Court properly has been cautious, and has
required clear findings before subjecting local business
to paramount federal regulation. City of Yonkers v.
United States, 320 U. S. 685, and cases therein cited. It
has insisted upon "suitable regard to the principle that

POLISH ALLIANCE v. LABOR BOARD.
643

653

BLAcK, J., concurring.

whenever the federal power is exerted within what would
otherwise be the domain of state power, the justification
of the exercise of the federal power must clearly appear."
Id.; Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 211-212; cf.
Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 196197; Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. Chenery Corp.,
318 U. S. 80, 92-95.
The Board not having found as a fact that petitioner's
life insurance business affected interstate activities of
other businesses, the first issue is whether the Board's
findings that petitioner's insurance activities were conducted across state lines are supported by evidence. I
think they are. This leads to the question, chiefly argued
by both parties, "Is the business of insurance commerce,
and, when conducted across state lines, subject to federal
regulation as such under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution?" For the reasons given in the Court's opinions
in this case and in United States v. South-Eastern Underwriters Association, 322 U. S.533, I agree that the business
of insurance is commerce, subject to federal regulation as
such when conducted across state lines, and that the
Board's order was proper.
MR.JusTiCFI DOUGLAS and MR. JusTIcF1 MURPHY join

in this opinion.

