HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 435
Syllabus.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. WISCONSIN DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION.
NO. 620.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
WISCONSIN.*

Argued April 27, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.

A statute of Wisconsin imposes a tax "for the privilege of declaring
and receiving dividends" out of corporate income derived from
property located and business transacted within the State, and requires corporations to deduct the tax from dividends distributed to
both resident and nonresident stockholders. As assessed to the appellants (foreign corporations doing business within the State) the
tax was measured by so much of their dividends as was derived
from the portion of the corporate surplus attributed by the tax
authorities to income earned in Wisconsin. Their dividends were
declared at directors' meetings held outside the State, and the dividend checks were drawn on bank accounts outside the State.
Held:
1. Appellants have standing to challenge the constitutionality
of the statute. P. 440.
Appellants can avoid payment of the tax from their own funds
only by deducting it from their stockholders' dividends. In the
latter case, they would remain liable, at least to the preferred stockholders, for the amounts of the deductions if not lawfully taken.
In either aspect, therefore, appellants are adversely affected by
obedience to the statute, and may challenge its constitutionality.
2. The tax is within the power of the State under the Federal
Constitution. P. 441.
(a) In determining whether a tax is within the State's constitutional power, this Court looks to the incidence of the tax and
its practical operation, and not its characterization by the state
courts. P. 441.
(b) So long as the earnings are actually derived from corporate
activity within the State, and their withdrawal from the State and
*Together with No. 621, Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co.
v. Wisconsin Department of Taxation, also on appeal from the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

322 U. S.

ultimate distribution, in whole or in part, to stockholders are subject to some state control, the conditions of state power to tax are
satisfied. P. 443.
(c) There is no constitutional obstacle either to the State's
distributing the burden of the tax ratably among the stockholders,
as the ultimate beneficiaries of the corporation's activities within
the State and of the State's relinquishment of control over the
Wisconsin earnings, so as to render the tax pro tanto one on the
stockholders' income; or to the State's imposing on the corporation
the duty of acting as its agent for the collection of the tax, by requiring deduction of the tax from earnings distributed as dividends.
P. 441.
(d) The power to tax the corporation's earnings within the
State includes the power to postpone the tax until the distribution
of those earnings, and to measure it by the amounts distributed.
P. 441.
(e) Residence of stockholders within the State is not essential to the constitutional levy of a tax taken out of so much of the
corporation's Wisconsin earnings as is distributed to them. P. 441.
(f) The constitutional validity of the tax is unaffected by the
fact that the power of the corporation to declare dividends was
created and exercised outside of the State. P. 443.
(g) Wisconsin's jurisdiction to impose the tax is unaffected
by the fact that the stockholders are not represented in the Wisconsin legislature. P. 443.
(h) Connecticut General Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 303 U. S. 77,
distinguished. P. 444.
(i) This Court is concerned not with the wisdom or fairness of
the tax but only with the power of the State to lay it. P. 444.
3. Though the dividends were paid in part from corporate surplus earned prior to the enactment of the tax statute, the taxable
event-distribution of dividends from Wisconsin earnings--occurred
subsequently, and hence no question of retroactive application is
involved. P. 445.
4. Whether the formula for assessing the tax was authorized by
the statute is a question the decision of which by the state court is
binding here. P. 445.
243 Wis. 198, 211, 10 N. W. 2d 169, 174, affirmed.

from the affirmance of judgments sustaining
assessments of state taxes.
APPEALS

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 437
435

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Ray M. Stroud and Edward R. Lewis, with
whom Mr. John A. Kratz was on the brief, for appellant
in No. 620; and Mr. G. Burgess Ela, with whom Mr. John
L. Connolly was on the brief, for appellant in No. 621.
Mr. Harold H. Persons,Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, with whom Mr. JohnE. Martin,Attorney General, and Mr. James Ward Rector, Deputy Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases come here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), from judgments of
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, reviewing and sustaining
assessments by appellee, the Wisconsin Department of
Taxation, of the Wisconsin Privilege Dividend Tax imposed with respect to appellants, which are foreign corporations doing business in Wisconsin. 243 Wis. 198, 211.
The appellants present again, but in a new aspect, the
substance of the question decided in Wisconsin v. J. C.
Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435. In that case we sustained the
constitutionality, under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Wisconsin Privilege Dividend
Tax, § 3 of Ch. 505 of Wisconsin Laws of 1935 as amended
by Ch. 552, Wisconsin Laws of 1935.1 The tax is imposed with respect to both foreign and domestic corporations doing business within the state "for the privilege
of declaring and receiving dividends" out of income derived from property located and business transacted in the
state. The payor corporation is required to deduct the
tax from the dividends payable to both resident and nonresident stockholders.
' The statute was re-enacted by § 3 of ch. 309 of Wis. Laws of 1937;
§ 1 of ch. 198 of Wis. Laws of 1939; § 3 of ch. 63 of Wis. Laws of 1941;
and § 2 of ch. 367 of Wis. Laws of 1943.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Appellants are respectively a New Jersey and a Delaware corporation doing business in Wisconsin. Appellee
has assessed the Privilege Dividend Tax with respect to
dividends declared and paid by appellant Harvester Company to its stockholders, including non-residents, between
December 2, 1935 and October 15, 1937, inclusive, and on
dividends similarly declared and paid by appellant
Minnesota Mining Company in the years 1936 to 1940, inclusive. In the case of each appellant the tax as assessed
was measured by so much of the dividends as were derived
from the portion of the corporate surplus attributed by
the tax authorities to income earned by the corporation in
Wisconsin. The dividends were declared at directors'
meetings held outside the state, and the dividend checks
were drawn on bank accounts outside the state.
In the Penney case we sustained the tax in the case of a
Delaware corporation doing business in Wisconsin, but
having its principal office in New York, holding its meetings and voting its dividends there, and drawing its dividend checks on New York bank accounts. In considering
the incidence of the tax in Wisconsin, which could afford
a basis for the taxation there although the declaration and
payment of the dividend took place outside the state, this
Court pointed out that the practical operation of the tax
is to impose an additional tax on corporate earnings within
Wisconsin, but to postpone the liability for payment of the
tax until such earnings are paid out in dividends, and we
added, 311 U. S. at p. 442: "In a word, by its general income
tax Wisconsin taxes corporate income that is taken in; by
the Privilege Dividend Tax of 1935 Wisconsin superimposed upon this income tax a tax on corporate income that
is paid out."
Since our decision in the Penney case, the Wisconsin
Supreme Court has said, in both the Penney case on remand, 238 Wis. 69, 72-73, and in the InternationalHarvester case below, 243 Wis. 198, 204-206, that under the

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 439
435

Opinion of the Court.

Wisconsin constitution, the state has no power to lay an
income tax on citizens of other states, who are not doing
business in Wisconsin, and that the tax is not on the income of the corporation. And in Wisconsin Gas Co. v.
Department of Taxation, 243 Wis. 216, 10 N. W. 2d 140;
cf. Blied v. Wisconsin Foundry Co., 243 Wis. 221, 10 N. W.
2d 142, the Court held that the burden of the tax is imposed upon the stockholders so that the corporation is not
entitled to deduct the privilege tax from gross income as
a business expense, in arriving at net taxable income
under the state's income tax law. In the Wisconsin Gas
Company case, supra, the Court said, at p. 220-1:
"We are certain of three things: (1) That the burden of
the tax is specifically laid upon the stockholder; (2) that
the corporation declaring the dividend must deduct the
tax from the dividend and may not under any circumstances treat the tax as a necessary expense of doing business [for state income tax purposes]; (3) that the power
to levy the tax so construed was authoritatively established in the Penney case."
From this, appellants argue that the state court has now
conclusively declared that the tax is not on income of the
corporation, but only on the stockholders' privilege of
receiving dividends, and that it must be deducted from the
dividends before their payment to the stockholders. Appellants renew the contentions urged in the Penney case
that since the declarations of the dividends here in question were made outside the state and the non-resident
stockholders received their dividends outside the state, the
taxing statute as applied in these cases infringes due process by imposing the tax on stockholders and on activities
and objects outside the territory of the State of Wisconsin,
and consequently outside its legislative jurisdiction.
Compare Connecticut General Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 303
U. S. 77. To this is added the further argument, not presented in the Penney case, that the tax violates the Four-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

teenth Amendment because retroactively applied to and
measured by Wisconsin income which was earned and
carried to appellants' surplus accounts before the enactment of the statute.
For present purposes we assume that the statute, by
directing deduction of the tax from declared dividends,
distributes the tax burden among the stockholders differently than if the corporation had merely paid the tax from
its treasury and that the tax is thus, in point of substance,
laid upon and paid by the stockholders, some of whom
might not bear the burden of the tax at all if, without
more, it were paid out of the corporate treasury. This is
obviously the case here with respect to the deductions
from dividends on appellant Harvester's preferred stock,
since normally the economic weight of taxes paid by the
corporation would be borne by its common stockholders.
If such is the nature of the tax, a question preliminary
to determining its validity is whether appellants have
standing to urge here the constitutional objections of
their stockholders, who are not parties to the present suits
and who alone may be affected adversely by the tax. For
appellants are permitted to reimburse themselves for the
amounts, which they must pay to the state, by appropriate
deductions from the dividends belonging to the stockholders. Appellants' failure in these cases to make the deductions was by their own choice and not by compulsion of
the statute. But as the only way by which appellants can
avoid the payment of the tax from their own funds is by
collecting it from their stockholders' dividends and as appellants would remain liable to the stockholders, certainly
to the preferred stockholders, for the amounts of the deductions if not lawfully taken, they are, in either aspect,
adversely affected by obedience to the statute, if it is unconstitutional. We therefore conclude that appellants
have standing to challenge the constitutionality of the
statute. Cf. Anderson National Bank v. Luckett, 321
U. S. 233, 242-3.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 441
435

Opinion of the Court.

For the reasons stated in the Penney case we do not
doubt that a state has constitutional power to make a levy
upon a corporation, measured by so much of its earnings
from within the state as it distributes in dividends, and to
make the taxable event the corporation's relinquishment
of the earnings to its stockholders. That power is not
diminished or altered by the fact that the state courts, for
purposes of their own, denominate the levy a tax on the
privilege of declaring and receiving dividends, or that they
decline to call t an income tax. In determining whether
a tax is within the state's constitutional power, we look to
the incidence of the tax and its practical operation, and
not its characterization by state courts. Shaffer v. Carter,
252 U. S. 37, 55 and cases cited; Lawrence v. State Tax
Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 280 and cases cited.
Nor do we perceive any constitutional obstacle, either
to the state's distributing the burden of the tax ratably
among the stockholders, as the ultimate beneficiaries of
the corporation's activities within the state, and of the
state's relinquishment of control over the Wisconsin earnings, so as to render the tax pro tanto one on the stockholders' income, or to the state's imposing on the corporation the duty of acting as its agent for the collection of
the tax, by requiring deduction of the tax from earnings
distributed as dividends.
. The power to tax the corporation's earnings includes
the power to postpone the tax until the distribution of
those earnings, and to measure it by the amounts distributed. Compare Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357, 370.
In taxing such distributions, Wisconsin may impose the
burden of the tax either upon the corporation or upon the
stockholders who derive the ultimate benefit from the
corporation's Wisconsin activities. Personal presence
within the state of the stockholder-taxpayers is not essential to the constitutional levy of a tax taken out of so
much of the corporation's Wisconsin earnings as is distributed to them. A state may tax such part of the income
587770°-45-32

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

of a non-resident as is fairly attributable either to property located in the state or to events or transactions which,
occurring there, axe subject to state regulation and which
axe within the protection of the state and entitled to the
numerous other benefits which jt confers. Compare
Shaffer v. Carter,supra, and Travis v. Yale & Toume Mfg.
Co., 252 U. S. 60, with Lawrence-v. State Tax Commission,
supra,and New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308.
And the privilege of receiving dividends derived from
corporate activities within the state can have no greater
immunity than the privilege of receiving any other
income from sources located there.
We think that Wisconsin may constitutionally tax the
Wisconsin earnings distributed as dividends to the stockholders. It has afforded protection and benefits to appellants' corporate activities and transactions within the
state. These activities have given rise to the dividend
income of appellants' stockholders and this income fairly
measures the benefits they have derived from these Wisconsin activities. There is no contention here that the
formula of apportionment does not fairly reflect the
proper proportion of appellants' earnings attributable to
their Wisconsin activities and transactions. Wisconsin
may impose a measure of control upon the corporation
there with respect to its withdrawal of its earnings from
the state, and also may, for the protection of the interests
of the state and of its citizens, regulate to some extent the
declaration and distribution of dividends by a foreign corporation, certainly with respect to its Wisconsin earnings.
See, e. g., Judge Cardozo in German-American Coffee Co.
v. Diehl, 216 N. Y. 57, 109 N. E. 875; New York Stock
Corporation Law, § 114. The earnings in Wisconsin,
their withdrawal from Wisconsin and their distribution in
the form of dividends have resulted in the receipt of income by the stockholder-taxpayers and it is Wisconsin's
relation to all which permits it to levy the tax. It may

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 443
435

Opinion of the Court.

condition the privilege of earning and disposing of the
Wisconsin earnings upon the payment of a tax measured
by and collected from the earnings to be distributed as
dividends. Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., supra.
The facts that Wisconsin cannot prevent the withdrawal of the earnings from the state or the declaration
of the dividends, if they be the facts, have no bearing on
its right to measure, in terms of taxes, both the benefits
which it has conferred on the stockholders in their relations with the state, and the activities or transactions
which are within the reach of its regulatory power.
EquitableLife Society v. Pennsylvania,238 U. S. 143, 147;
cf. Mr. Justice Holmes dissenting in Compaiiiade Tabacos
v. Collector,275 U. S. 87, 99, 100.
That the distribution of Wisconsin earnings was effected
by the exercise outside Wisconsin of the power to declare
dividends does not deprive it of its power to take toll from
the income earned there upon its distribution to the stockholders. See Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Curry v.
McCanless, supra,366-370 and cases cited; Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383; State Tax Commission v. Aldrich, 316
U. S. 174, 180. And the fact that the stockholder-taxpayers never enter Wisconsin and are not represented in the
Wisconsin legislature 2 cannot deprive it of its jurisdiction
to tax. It has never been thought that residence within a
state or county is a sine qua non of the power to tax. Cf.
Cook v. Tait, 265 U. S. 47. So long as the earnings actually
arise there, and their withdrawal from the state and ultimate distribution, in whole or in part, to stockholders are
2

The Wisconsin Privilege Dividend Tax does not discriminate

against non-residents or foreign corporations, or place an undue burden on them without a corresponding burden on residents or domestic corporations. Hence this is not a case where "legislative action
is not likely to be subjected to those political restraints which are normally exerted on legislation where it affects adversely some interests
within the state." See South Carolina Highway Dept. v. BarnweU
Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 184-5, n. 2 and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

subject to some state control, the conditions of state power
to' tax are satisfied, see Shaffer v. Carter,supra, 55; State
Tax Commission v. Aldrich, supra;compare McCulloch v.
M'aryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 429, even though some practically effective device be necessary in order to enable the
state to collect its tax-here by imposing on the corporation the duty to withhold the tax on so much of the earnings withdrawn from the state as may be distributed in
dividends. Imposition of this requirement on the corporation transgresses no constitutional limitations. Nelson v.
Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359, 364; Nelson v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 312 U. S. 373.
Appellants press with vigor, as controlling decision here,
the denial of the state's power to tax in Connecticut General Ins. Co. v. Johnson, supra. In that case California
sought to levy a tax on gross receipts derived from contracts made and to be performed in Connecticut by a Connecticut corporation doing other business in California.
But as we said of the Johnson case in the Penney case,
supra,446: "In the precise circumstances presented by the
record it was found that the tax neither in its measure nor
in its incidence was related to California transactions.
Here, on the contrary, the incidence of the tax as well as its
measure is tied to the earnings which the State of Wisconand both the earnings and
sin has made possible, . . .".
their disposition are subject to state control and hence its
power to tax.
It should be emphasized once again that the Fourteenth
Amendment does not in terms or in effect prohibit unwise
taxes, merely because they are unwise, or unfair or burdensome taxes, merely because they are unfair or burdensome. The wisdom or fairness of the tax before us are not
matters subject to our control or revision. We are only
concerned with the power of the state to lay the tax. The
power to tax "is an incident of sovereignty, and is coextensive with that to which it is an incident. All sub-

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 445
435

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

jects over which the sovereign power of a state extends,
are objects of taxation; . . ." McCulloch v. Maryland,
supra,429; Curry v. McCanless, supra, 366.
We conclude that appellants' stockholders can have no
constitutional objection to the withholding by Wisconsin
of a tax measured by their dividends distributed from Wisconsin earnings.
Appellants do not deny that the dividends are derived
from earnings from within the State of Wisconsin, but it
is urged that some of them at least were paid from corporate surplus earned and set aside in years before the taxing statute was enacted. But since the taxable event, the
distribution of dividends paid from earnings, and the deduction of the tax from them occurred subsequent to the
enactment of the taxing statute, no question of its retroactive application is involved.
The contention of appellant, the Harvester Company,
that the formula for assessing the tax is not one authorized
by the statute is not open to consideration here. The
State Supreme Court has construed and applied the statute and by its construction we are bound. Meyer v. Wells,
Fargo& Co., 223 U. S.298 and Davis v. Wallace, 257 U. S.
478, on which appellant relies, were cases coming here
from the lower federal courts, in which this Court was
required to place its own construction on a state statute
which had not been definitively construed by the state
courts.
Affirmed.
took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

MR. JUSTICe JACKSON, dissenting:

The facts of one of these cases will make clear the
grounds upon which I dissent.
The International Harvester Company is incorporated
under the laws of New Jersey. Its head business office

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

is in Chicago, Illinois. It has qualified and has been
admitted to do business in Wisconsin and in every state
in the Union except Nevada. It has sales branches and
manufacturing plants in Wisconsin, and in many other
states. Proceeds of sales and receipts from operations in
Wisconsin and in every other state are sent to the corporation treasury in Chicago and commingled in general funds
without segregation or earmarking as to state of origin.
More than 32,000 stockholders are owners of this enterprise. They are domiciled in every state of the Union, less
than 2 per cent of them in Wisconsin. Under the corporation's charter and the applicable law of New Jersey the
stockholders may be paid dividends only from its surplus
or net profits. Every corporate act connected with payment of dividends takes place in Chicago. There the
directors meet to declare them, there the checks are drawn
and mailed. They are paid out of the corporation's general funds on deposit in Chicago or New York.
In 1935 Wisconsin enacted a "Privilege Dividend Tax."
It provides, with exceptions not material:
"Section 3. Privilege Dividend Tax. (1) For the privilege of declaring and receiving dividends, out of income
derived from property located and business transacted in
this state, there is hereby imposed a tax equal to 3 per
cent of the amount of such dividends declared and paid
by all corporations (foreign and local). . . Such tax
shall be deducted and withheld from such dividends
payable to residents and nonresidents by the payor
corporation.
"(3) Every such corporation hereby made liable for
such tax, shall deduct the amount of such tax from the
dividends so declared.
"(4) In the case of corporations doing business within
and without the state of Wisconsin, such tax shall apply
only to dividends declared and paid out of income derived

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 447
435

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

from business transacted and property located within the
state of Wisconsin .... " Wis. Stat. (1941) § 71.60.
Under this last provision the State by formula not now
important apportions among the states the surplus from
which dividends may be paid and thus determines a proportion of the dividend attributable to earnings in Wisconsin. As applied and sustained in this case, the short
of the matter is this: Wisconsin says it may tax 32,000
stockholders, 98 per cent of whom reside in other states.
It taxes them when and because they receive a dividend
from a corporation not in its internal affairs subject to
its laws, by acts not one of which is performed within its
borders.
After the Supreme Court of Wisconsin held this tax
invalid it was reinstated by this Court. Wisconsin v. J. C.
Penney Co., 311 U. S.435. This was done on the theory
that the tax was not what Wisconsin called it but was in
substance an income tax on the corporation, deferred until
the income was distributed and measured by the amount
of the distribution. As so interpreted, it was the federal
undistributed profits tax in reverse; it was a distributed
profits tax. But the Wisconsin court has respectfully but
firmly insisted that it knows whom Wisconsin is taxing
and why. It says this is not an income tax, that it is no
tax on the corporation, but is a tax on the stockholder
when and because he receives a dividend.
I think the parties are entitled to have the constitutionality of this far-reaching tax decided on the assumption that it is just what the Wisconsin Legislature and
Supreme Court say it is. If we do, the question is
whether a state may tax nonresident stockholders for
receiving from a foreign corporation a dividend from its
surplus or undivided profits merely because some- time in
the past a portion of the surplus was earned in the
state.
We must put out of consideration entirely reasoning by
which we sustain state taxation of income of the corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JAcKsoN, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

tion. These dividends are not and cannot be regarded as
income of the corporation within any legal or accounting
definition. These surplus funds constituted income
once-at the moment of receipt-and may be counted as
income for any period which includes time of receipt.
But once received, they became capital funds in the sense
that earned surplus becomes capital. When they were
distributed they were not income of the corporation. They
were its surplus capital funds. Not even the power of this
Court can make income of outgo. To speak of "a tax on
corporate income that is paid out" is as self-contradictory
as to speak of round squares.
These dividends of course are income to the stockholder,
and any state with jurisdiction to tax him may tax them
as such. But I am unable to agree that having "afforded
protection and benefits" to a corporation gives jurisdiction to tax the incomes of all its stockholders. Nor do I
think that because the state has once permitted the corporation to do business and make earnings in the state its
taxing power follows those earnings into the hands of third
persons to whom they may be paid. A dividend- when
declared becomes a debt of the corporation, enforceable as
any other debt. If there is power in Wisconsin, because
funds were earned there, to tax the receipt of a dividend,
there is no reason why it should not also have power to tax
the recipients of corporate funds as wages, salaries, or as
payment of any other obligation.
Moreover, the Court itself apparently feels obliged to
abandon the income-tax-on-the-corporation theory in
order to avoid the objection of retroactivity. In considering this aspect of the tax it shifts to a "taxable event"
theory which places the event after the enactment of the
statute.
I also find it difficult to accept the statement that there
is no "constitutional obstacle either to the state's distributing the burden of the tax ratably among the stockhold-

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TAXATION. 449
435

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

ers . . . or to the state's imposing on the corporation the
duty of acting as its agent for the collection of the
tax ... ." The relations between different classes of
stockholders is fixed by the corporate charter. If this
is a tax on the corporation, it is clear that its burden falls
upon the equity stockholders and upon them alone. I do
not think the State of Wisconsin would have the power to
provide that the preferred stockholders of a New Jersey
corporation, despite provisions of its charter, should assume a part of the equity burden.
As supporting this tax, the opinion of the Court says
that Wisconsin may impose upon the corporation "a
measure of control . . .with respect to its withdrawal"
of these earnings, and that their "ultimate distribution . . . to stockholders" is "subject to some state control." I do not understand to what reference is made.
These earnings lawfully had been added to surplus of a
New Jersey corporation, they were represented by funds
lawfully transferred to Chicago or New York. From them
the corporation made the distribution. What control
Wisconsin had over these funds in these circumstances I
do not see.
The act in question does not purport to be one for
the protection of local creditors against the corporation's
illegal payment of dividends as was the act dealt with by
Judge Cardozo in German-American Coffee Co. v. Diehl,
216 N. Y. 57, 109 N. E. 875. This act alters the purely
internal relations of different classes of stockholders without in the least affecting their relation to creditors.
It is impossible to reconcile the taxable-event theory
with the benefit theory for supporting this tax. The
taxable event clearly is the payment of the dividend. The
right to make such payment is not derived from Wisconsin
law. The ability to do so does not depend on Wisconsin
earnings. The existence of earnings for the period, or
of an accumulated surplus, from Wisconsin earnings alone

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

would not authorize such a dividend. That would depend on net accumulations from all sources and surplus
from Wisconsin might be neutralized by losses from operations elsewhere. In such a case it is clear this statute
would not even purport to tax, although Wisconsin had
extended exactly the same protection to the operations
within the state as otherwise. Moreover, if earnings were
had in Wisconsin and there were net earnings overall but
the corporation should decide to accumulate them, the
statute would not purport to lay the Wisconsin tax.
These facts make clear that Wisconsin is doing what the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin said it was doing. It lays a
tax upon the stockholder's dividend. It does not tax the
income of the corporation.
I do not see that the way to tax the dividends of nonresident stockholders can be bridged by "some practically
effective device" necessary "in order to enable the state
to collect its tax-here by imposing on the corporation
the duty to withhold the tax." Do we mean that the
state may empower or obligate a foreign corporation to
collect for it taxes it is without power to collect itself?
The physical power to get the money does not seem to me a
test of the right to tax. Might does not make right even
in taxation. To hold that what the use of official authority may get the state may keep, and that if it cannot get
hold of a nonresident stockholder jt may hold the company as hostage for him, is strange constitutional doctrine
to me.
Whatever rights Wisconsin has to reach beyond its
borders and tax nonresidents every other state has also.
One who puts his savings to work in an enterprise of
national scope may be subjected to any number of state
taxes on his dividends up to forty-eight. Any number up
to forty-seven of them may be levied by states in which
he never lived, never went, did no individual business,

DE CASTRO v. BOARD OF COMM'RS.

451

Syllabus.

435

and has no vote. Representation is the ordinary guaranty
of fairness in taxation.
I do not think any fact in this case shows jurisdiction in
Wisconsin to lay a tax on a privilege she does not grant
and could not deny, which is exercised wholly outside of
her borders and by those who are not her citizens or her
corporate creatures. I see no foundation for the tax Wisconsin has laid and no better foundation for the substitute
tax this Court has laid. I would reverse the judgments
below.
DE CASTRO v. BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
SAN JUAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 349. Argued April 24, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.
1. On review by the federal courts, a decision of the Supreme Court
of Puerto Rico on a question of local law will be rejected only on a
clear showing that the rule applied by the insular court does
violence to recognized principles of local law or established practices
of the local community. Diaz v. Gonzalez, 261 U. S. 102, followed.

Pp. 455-456.
2. The ruling in Bonet v. Texas Company, 308 U. S. 463, that to
justify reversal of a decision of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico
on a matter of local law, "the error must be clear or manifest; the
interpretation must be inescapably wrong," does not warrant summary disposition of appeals from the insular court but imposes
on the Circuit Court of Appeals and on this Court the duty to
examine and appraise the local law in its setting, with the sympathetic disposition to safeguard in matters of local concern the
adaptability of the law to local practices and needs. P. 458.
3. The deference due by the federal courts on review of decisions
of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico to that court's understanding
of matters of local concern is due likewise by the federal district
court for Puerto Rico in cases there pending and by the federal
courts on appeals therefrom. P. 459.

