OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

322 U. S.

LYONS v. OKLAHOMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 433.

Argued April 26, 1944.-Decided June 5, 1944.

1. The instruction to the jury in this case fairly raised the question
whether the challenged confession was voluntary, and did not deny
to the defendant any right under the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 601.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment does not forbid the use, at a trial
of an accused from whom a confession was coerced, of a subsequent
voluntary confession. P. 603.
3. Where the evidence as to whether there was coercion is conflicting,
or where different inferences may fairly be drawn from the admitted
facts, the question whether a confession was voluntary is for the
triers of the facts. P. 602.
4. The evidence in this case warranted the inferences that the effects
of the coercion which vitiated an earlier confession by the accused
had been dissipated prior to his second confession and that the latter
was voluntary; and the conviction will not be set aside as violative of
due process. P. 604.
5. The Fourteenth Amendment protects against such conduct of criminal trials as amounts to a disregard of that fundamental fairness
essential to the very concept of justice and as necessarily prevents a
fair trial, but does not protect against mere error in jury verdicts.
P. 605.
138 P. 2d 142, affirmed.

320 U. S. 732, to review the affirmance of a
conviction for murder.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Thurgood Marshall, with whom Messrs. Amos T.
Hall, William H. Hastie, and Leon A. Ransom were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Sam H. Lattimore, Assistant Attorney General of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. Randell S. Cobb, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Morris L. Ernst filed a brief on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.

LYONS. v. OKLAHOMA.
596
MR. JUSTICE

Opinion of the Court.

REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This writ brings to this Court for review a conviction
obtained with the aid of a confession which furnished, if
voluntary, material evidence to support the conviction.
As the questioned confession followed a previous confession which was given on the same day and which was
admittedly involuntary,1 the issue is the voluntary character of the second confession under the circumstances
which existed at the time and place of its signature and,
particularly, because of the alleged continued influence of
the unlawful inducements which vitiated the prior
confession.
The petitioner was convicted in the state district court
of Choctaw County, Oklahoma, on an information charging him and another with the crime of murder. The jury
fixed his punishment at life imprisonment. The conviction was affirmed by the Criminal Court of Appeals, 77
Old. Cr. -, 138 P. 2d 142, rehearing 140 P. 2d 248, and
this Court granted certiorari, 320 U. S. 732, upon the petitioner's representation that there had been admitted
against him an involuntary confession procured under
circumstances which made its use in evidence a violation
of his rights under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.2
1Whether or not the other evidence in the record is sufficient to justify the general verdict of guilty is not necessary to consider. The
confession was introduced over defendant's objection. If such admission of this confession denied a constitutional right to defendant the
error requires reversal. Bram v. United States, 168 U. S. 532, 540-42.
Cf. Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359, 367, 368; Williams v. North
Carolina, 317 U. S. 287, 291, 292.
2In petitioner's brief a claim is made that Oklahoma denied to him
the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Apparently petitioner relies upon his undue detention without preliminary examination, which was in violation of the state
criminal procedure, as a denial by Oklahoma of equal protection of
the law. But the effect of the mere denial of a prompt examining

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Prior to Sunday, December 31, 1939, Elmer Rogers lived
with his wife and three small sons in a tenant house situated a short distance northwest of Fort Towson, Choctaw
County, Oklahoma. Late in the evening of that day Mr.
and Mrs. Rogers and a four-year-old son Elvie were murdered at their home and the house was burned to conceal
the crime.
Suspicion was directed toward the petitioner Lyons and
a confederate, Van Bizzell. On January 11, 1940, Lyons
was arrested by a special policeman and another officer
whose exact official status is not disclosed by the record.
The first formal charge that appears is at Lyons' hearing
before a magistrate on January 27, 1940. Immediately
after his arrest there was an interrogation of about two
hours at the jail. After he had been in jail eleven days
he was again questioned, this time in the county prosecutor's office. This interrogation began about six-thirty
in the evening, and on the following morning between two
and four produced a confession. This questioning is the
basis of the objection to the introduction as evidence of a
second confession which was obtained later in the day at
the state penitentiary at McAlester by Warden Jess Dunn
and introduced in evidence at the trial. There was also a
third confession, oral, which was admitted on the trial
without objection by petitioner. This was given to a
guard at the penitentiary two days after the second. Only
the petitioner, police, prosecuting and penitentiary officials were present at any of these interrogations, except
that a private citizen who drove the car that brought
Lyons to McAlester witnessed this second confession.
trial is a matter of state, not of federal, law. To refuse this is not a
denial of equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment although
it is a fact for consideration on an allegation that a confession used
at the trial was coerced. Cf. McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S.
332, 340; United States v. Mitchell, 322 U. S. 65.

LYONS v. OKLAHOMA.
596

Opinion of the Court.

Lyons is married and was 21 or 22 years of age at the
time of the arrest. The extent of his education or his
occupation does not appear. He signed the second confession. From the transcript of his evidence, there is no
indication of a subnormal intelligence. He had served
two terms in the penitentiary-one for chicken stealing
and one for burglary. Apparently he lived with various
relatives.
While petitioner was competently represented before
and at the trial, counsel was not supplied him until after
his preliminary examination, which was subsequent to the
confessions. His wife and family visited him between his
arrest and the first confession. There is testimony by
Lyons of physical abuse by the police officers at the time
of his arrest and first interrogation on January 11th. His
sister visited him in jail shortly afterwards and testified
as to marks of violence on his body and a blackened
eye. Lyons says that this violence was accompanied by
threats of further harm unless he confessed. This evidence was denied in toto by officers who were said to
have participated.
Eleven days later the second interrogation occurred.
Again the evidence of assault is conflicting. Eleven or
twelve officials were in and out of the prosecutor's small
office during the night. Lyons says that he again suffered
assault. Denials of violence were made by all the participants accused by Lyons except the county attorney, his
assistant, the jailer and a highway patrolman. Disinterested witnesses testified to statements by an investigator
which tended to implicate that officer in the use of force,
and the prosecutor in cross-examination used language
which gave color to defendant's charge. It is not disputed
that the inquiry continued until two-thirty in the morning before an oral confession was obtained and that a pan
of the victims' bones was placed in Lyons' lap by his

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

interrogators to bring about his confession. As the
confession obtained at this time was not offered in evidence, the only bearing these events have here is their
tendency to show that the later confession at McAlester
was involuntary.
After the oral confession in the early morning hours of
January 23, Lyons was taken to the scene of the crime and
subjected to further questioning about the instruments
which were used to commit the murders. He was returned
to the jail about eight-thirty A. M. and left there until
early afternoon. After that the prisoner was taken to a
nearby town of Antlers, Oklahoma. Later in the day a
deputy sheriff and a private citizen took the petitioner to
the penitentiary. There, sometime between eight and
eleven o'clock on that same evening, the petitioner signed
the second confession.
When the confession which was given at the penitentiary was offered, objection was made on the ground that
force was practiced to secure it and that, even if no force
was then practiced, the fear instilled by the prisoner's former treatment at Hugo on his first and second interrogations continued sufficiently coercive in its effect to require
the rejection of the second confession.
The judge, in accordance with Oklahoma practice and
after hearing evidence from the prosecution and the defense in the absence-of the jury, first passed favorably upon
its admissibility as a matter of law, Lyons v. State, 138 P.
2d 142, 163; cf. McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S. 332,
338, n. 5, and then, after witnesses testified before the
jury as to the voluntary character of the confession, submitted the guilt or innocence of the defendant to the jury
under a full instruction, approved by the Criminal Court
of Appeals, to the effect that voluntary confessions are admissible against the person making them but are to be
"carefully scrutinized and received with great caution"

LYONS v. OKLAHOMA.
Opinion of the Court.

596

by the jury and rejected if obtained by punishment, intimidation or threats. It was added that the mere fact
that a confession was made in answer to inquiries "while
under arrest or in custody" does not prevent consideration
of the evidence if made "freely and voluntarily." The instruction did not specifically cover the defendant's contention, embodied in a requested instruction, that the second confession sprang from the fear engendered by the
treatment he had received at Hugo.
The mere questioning of a suspect while in the custody
of police officers is not prohibited either as a matter of
common law or due process. Lisenba v. California,314
U. S. 219, 239-241; Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1, 14.
The question of how specific an instruction in a state court
must be upon the involuntary character of a confession is,
as a matter of procedure or practice, solely for the courts
of the state. When the state-approved instruction fairly
raises the question of whether or not the challenged confession was voluntary, as this instruction did, the requirements of due process, under the Fourteenth Amendment,
are satisfied and this Court will not require a modification
of local practice to meet views that it might have as to the
advantages of concreteness. The instruction given satisfies the legal requirements of the State of Oklahoma as
to the particularity with which issues must be presented
to its juries, Lyons v. State, 138 P. 2d 142, 164, and in
view of the scope of that instruction, it was sufficient
to preclude any claim of violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The federal question presented is whether the second
confession was given under such circumstances that its
use as evidence at the trial constitutes a violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which
requires that state criminal proceedings "shall be consistent with the fundamental principles of liberty and
587770*--45-

2

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

justice." Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 316;
Mooney v. Holohan,294 U. S. 103, 112; Buchalterv. New
York, 319 U. S. 427, 429.
No formula to determine this question by its application
to the facts of a given case can be devised. Hopt v. Utah,
110 U. S. 574, 583; Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455, 462.
Here improper methods were used to obtain a confession,
but that confession was not used at the trial. Later, in
another place and with different persons present, the accused again told the facts of the crime. Involuntary
confessions, of course, may be given either simultaneously
with or subsequently to unlawful pressures, force or
threats. The question of whether those confessions subsequently given are themselves voluntary depends on the
inferences as to the continuing effect of the coercive practices which may fairly be drawn from the surrounding circumstances. Lisenba v. Californ)ia, 314 U. S. 219, 240.
The voluntary or involuntary character of a confession is
determined by a conclusion as to whether the accused, at
the time he confesses, is in possession of "mental freedom"
to confess to or deny a suspected participation in a crime.
Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143, 154; Hysler v.
Florida,315 U. S.411, 413.
When conceded facts exist which are irreconcilable with
such mental freedom, regardless of the contrary conclusions of the triers of fact, whether judge or jury, this Court
cannot avoid responsibility for such injustice by leaving
the burden of adjudication solely in other hands. But
where there is a dispute as to whether the acts which are
charged to be coercive actually occurred, or where different
inferences may fairly be drawn from admitted facts, the
trial judge and the jury are not only in a better position
to appraise the truth or falsity of the defendant's assertions from the demeanor of the witnesses but the legal
duty is upon them to make the decision. Lisenba v.
California,supra,p. 238.

LYONS v. OKLAHOMA.
596

Opinion of the Court.

Review here deals with circumstances which require examination into the possibility as to whether the judge
and jury in the trial court could reasonably conclude that
the McAlester confession was voluntary. The fact that
there is evidence which would justify a contrary conclusion is immaterial. To triers of fact is left the determination of the truth or error of the testimony of prisoner and
official alike. It is beyond question that if the triers of
fact accepted as true the evidence of the immediate events
at McAlester, which were detailed by Warden Dunn and
the other witnesses, the verdict would be that the confession was voluntary, so that the petitioner's case rests
upon the theory that the MeAlester confession was the
unavoidable outgrowth of the events at Hugo.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not protect one who
has admitted his guilt because of forbidden inducements
against the use at trial of his subsequent confessions under
all possible circumstances. The admissibility of the later
confession depends upon the same test-is it voluntary.
Of course the fact that the earlier statement was obtained
from the prisoner by coercion is to be considered in appraising the character of the later confession. The effect
of earlier abuse may be so clear as to forbid any other
inference than that it dominated the mind of the accused
to such an extent that the later confession is involuntary.
If the relation between the earlier and later confession is
not so close that one must say the facts of one control the
character of the other, the inference is one for the triers of
fact and their conclusion, in such an uncertain situation,
that the confession should be admitted as voluntary, cannot be a denial of due process. Canty v. Alabama, 309
U. S. 629, cannot be said to go further than to hold that
the admission of confessions obtained by acts of oppression is sufficient to require a reversal of a state conviction
by this Court. Our judgment there relied solely upon
Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227. The Oklahoma

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Criminal Court of Appeals in the present case decided that
the evidence would justify a determination that the effect
of a prior coercion was dissipated before the second confession and we agree.
Petitioner suggests a presumption that earlier abuses
render subsequent confessions involuntary unless there is
clear and definite evidence to overcome the presumption.
We need not analyze this contention further than to say
that in this case there is evidence for the state which, if believed, would make it abundantly clear that the events at
Hugo did not bring about the confession at McAlester.
In our view, the earlier events at Hugo do not lead unescapably to the conclusion that the later McAlester confession was brought about by the earlier mistreatments.
The McAlester confession was separated from the early
morning statement by a full twelve hours. It followed the
prisoner's transfer from the control of the sheriff's force
to that of the warden. One person who had been present
during a part of the time while the Hugo interrogation
was in progress was present at McAlester, it is true, but
he was not among those charged with abusing Lyons during the questioning at Hugo. There was evidence from
others present that Lyons readily confessed without any
show of force or threats within a very short time of his
surrender to Warden Dunn and after being warned by
Dunn that anything he might say would be used against
him and that he should not "make a statement unless he
voluntarily wanted to." Lyons, as a former inmate of
the institution, was acquainted with the warden. The petitioner testified to nothing in the past that would indicate
any reason for him to fear mistreatment there. The fact
that Lyons, a few days later, frankly admitted the killings to a sergeant of the prison guard, a former acquaintance from his own locality, under circumstances free of coercion suggests strongly that the petitioner had concluded
that it was wise to make a clean breast of his guilt and that

LYONS v. OKLAHOMA.
596

MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

his confession to Dunn was voluntary. The answers to
the warden's questions, as transcribed by a prison stenographer, contain statements correcting and supplementing the questioner's information and do not appear to
be mere supine attempts to give the desired response to
leading questions.
The Fourteenth Amendment is a protection against
criminal trials in state courts conducted in such a manner
as amounts to a disregard of "that fundamental fairness
essential to the very concept of justice," and in a way that
"necessarily prevents a fair trial." Lisenba v. California,
314 U. S. 219, 236. A coerced confession is offensive to
basic standards of justice, not because the victim has a
legal grievance against the police, but because declarations
procured by torture are not premises from which a civilized
forum will infer guilt. The Fourteenth Amendment does
not provide review of mere error in jury verdicts, even
though the error concerns the voluntary character of a
confession. We cannot say that an inference of guilt based
in part upon Lyons' McAlester confession is so illogical and
unreasonable as to deny the petitioner a fair trial.
Affirmed.

MR. JusmcxC

DOUGLAS

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

MR. JUSTICE

dissents.

MuapHy, dissenting:

This flagrant abuse by a state of the rights of an American citizen accused of murder ought not to be approved.
The Fifth Amendment prohibits the federal government
from convicting a defendant on evidence that he was
compelled to give against himself. Brain v. United
States, 168 U. S. 532. Decisions of this Court in effect
have held that the Fourteenth Amendment makes this
prohibition applicable to the states. Chambers v. Florida,

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

309 U. S. 227; Canty v. Alabama, 309 U. S. 629; Lisenba
v. California,314 U. S. 219; Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322
U. S. 143. Cf. Green, "Liberty Under the Fourteenth
Amendment," 27 Wash. Univ. L. Q. 497, 533. It is
our duty to apply that constitutional prohibition in
this case.
Even though approximately twelve hours intervened
between the two confessions and even assuming that there
was no violence surrounding the second confession, it is
inconceivable under these circumstances that the second
confession was free from the coercive atmosphere that
admittedly impregnated the first one. The whole confession technique used here constituted one single, continuing transaction. To conclude that the brutality
inflicted at the time of the first confession suddenly lost
all of its effect in the short space of twelve hours is to close
one's eyes to the realities of human nature. An individual
does not that easily forget the type of torture that accompanied petitioner's previous refusal to confess, nor does
a person like petitioner so quickly recover from the gruesome effects of having had a pan of human bones placed
on his knees in order to force incriminating testimony
from him. Cf. State v. Ellis, 294 Mo. 269; Fisher v.
State, 145 Miss. 116, 110 So. 361; Reasonv. State, 94 Miss.
290, 48 So. 820; Whitley v. State, 78 Miss. 255; State v.
Wood, 122 La. 1014, 48 So. 438. Moreover, the trial judge
refused petitioner's request that the jury be charged that
the second confession was not free and voluntary if it was
obtained while petitioner was still suffering from the
inhuman treatment he had previously received. Thus it
cannot be said that we are confronted with a finding by
the trier of facts that the coercive effect of the prior brutality had completely worn off by the time the second
confession was signed.
Presumably, therefore, this decision means that state
officers axe free to force a confession from an individual

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
596

Syllabus.

by ruthless methods, knowing full well that they dare not
use such a confession at the trial, and then, as a part of
the same continuing transaction and before the effects of
the coercion can fairly be said to have completely worn off,
procure another confession without any immediate violence being inflicted. The admission of such a tainted
confession does not accord with the Fourteenth Amendment's command that a state shall not convict a defendant
on evidence that he was compelled to give against himself.
Chambers v. Florida, supra; Canty v. Alabama, supra;
Lisenba v. California, supra; Ashcraft v. Tennessee,
supra.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in this opinion.
ADDISON

v. HOLLY HILL FRUIT
PRODUCTS, INC.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 217. Argued January 10, 1944.-Decided June 5, 1944.

1. Section 13 (a) (10) of the Fair Labor Standards Act exempts from
the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Act persons
employed, "within the area of production (as defined by the Administrator)," in canning agricultural commodities for market.

The Administrator's definition of "area of production" brought
within the exemption employees of canneries which obtained "all"

of their farm products from within ten miles and had not more than
seven employees. Held:
(1) Judicial construction of "all" in the Administrator's definition as meaning "substantially all" was not permissible. P. 610.
(2) The Administrator's discrimination between canneries having seven or less employees and those having more was unauthorized and invalid. Pp. 611, 618.
2. A judgment of the District Court allowing recovery under the
minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act having been
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals on the ground that the

