MERCADO v. COMMINS.
451

Counsel for Parties.

tal . . . were appointed during good behavior" and that
the appointments "participate of the nature of a life
tenure." He also refers to correspondence of the first
City Manager which could be taken as supporting respondent's position as much as it does petitioner's. It
does not appear that these were called to the attention of
the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, but in any event they
do not, in our opinion, counterbalance the weight rightly
to be given to the decision of the insular Supreme Court
as the ultimate insular interpreter of the local law. We
have considered but do not find it necessary to discuss
other contentions of lesser moment, most of which were
dealt with in the opinion of the Court of Appeals below,
and none of which call for a conclusion different from that
which it reached.
Affirmed.

MARIO MERCADO E HIJOS v. COMMINS ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THID CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 497.

Argued April 24, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.

Although the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of this Court
to examine and appraise local law in cases brought for review from
the insular courts can not ordinarily be discharged summarily, full
argument in this case has not developed any issue of Puerto
Rican law, or any question of the deference rightly to be paid to
the decisions of the highest court of Puerto Rico, so substantial
as to preclude the summary judgment of affirmance entered by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 471.

Affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 758, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico.

Messrs. William Cattron Rigby and Pedro M. Porrata,
with whom Mr. Fred W. Llewellyn was on the brief, for
petitioner.

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Mr. Celestino Dominguez Rubio submitted for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Rule 39 (b) of the Court of Appeals for tho First Circuit, effective September 20, 1940, authorizes the summary
dismissal or affirmance of judgments appealed from the
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico involving only questions
of local law, unless it appears from the record and appellant's required "statement on appeal" that the judgment
appealed from "is 'inescapably wrong' or 'patently erroneous' (Sancho Bonet v. Texas Co., 308 U. S. 463 (1940))."
In this, as in the companion case, DeCastro v. Board of
Comm'rs of San Juan,ante, p. 451, we granted certiorari
on a petition raising important questions concerning the
appellate review by federal courts of decisions of the
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico in matters of local concern.
The petition here presents for decision the question
(1) whether the application of Rule 39 (b) involves an
abdication of the duty of the Court of Appeals to hear and
decide such appeals on the merits, on brief and argument,
as are other appeals; and (2) whether the decision of the
Insular Supreme Court of Puerto Rico is so manifestly
correct as to make any appeal from it necessarily frivolous
and thus warrant dismissal of the appeal Without a hearing, on mere inspection of the face of the record.
Petitioner, an agricultural partnership, by petition in
the insular District Court of Ponce, P. R., sought rescission of a sale of a plantation known as "Indios," made by
respondent Commins to others of the respondents, as in
violation and in fraud of an option to purchase the property given by respondent Commins to petitioner. After
a trial, the District Court made findings of fact on the
basis of which it gave judgment for respondents. The
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico confirmed the findings of

MERCADO v. COMMINS.
465

467

Opinion of the Court.

the District Court and affirmed the judgment. 60 D. P. R.
877 (Spanish edition). On appeal to the Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit, under 28 U. S. C. § 225 (a), that
court, on consideration of the typewritten record and appellant's statement on appeal, and without hearing argument and without an opinion, affirmed under its Rule
39 (b).
The District Court and the Supreme Court both found
the facts as follows: In 1932 respondent procured a loan
from petitioner of more than $40,000, for which respondent Commins gave petitioner four promissory notes
payable to "the holder, by endorsement," secured by a
mortgage, not -specifically naming any mortgagee, on
respondent Commins' undivided interest in two plantations, "Indios" and "Juanita," then owned jointly by her
and her sister. At that time petitioner was a tenant of
both plantations under lease, that of "Indios" expiring in
1937, that of "Juanita" in 1938. The mortgage contract
stipulated that Mrs. Commins upon three months' written
notice might at any time before maturity pay the mortgage credits. It also provided that "the debtor, as a part
of the consideration of this contract, agrees with the
partnership Mario Mercado e Hijos, so long as the mortgage credit herein constituted is not paid, to grant it
priority to purchase and sell or lease her undivided joint
interest in the estates 'Indios' and 'Juanita' upon the same
price and terms" as those on which she should be willing
to sell or lease to any other purchaser or lessee. It further
provided "to this effect, the debtor shall advise, unless
such mortgage credit is paid ....
of any offer of sale or
lease made to her."
The following year, 1933, petitioner sold the promissory
notes to the heirs of Jose Tous Soto, the transfer being
effected by delivery of the notes and by a deed executed
by petitioner which purported to assign to the heirs the
"mortgage credits" and guaranteed payment in monthly

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

installments of the stipulated interest of 9% due on the
notes less 3/% of 1%, which it was agreed petitioner should
retain for itself. No mention was made in the deed of the
option secured to petitioner by the mortgage contract but
both of the insular courts made findings which petitioner
contends establish that the option was not intended to be
assigned, but that the rights under it were to be retained
by petitioner. Three years later, in 1936, the interests
of the owners in the two estates were partitioned between
Mrs. Commins and her sister, Mrs. Commins receiving
the plantation "Indios" by the partition deed in which
petitioner joined for the purpose of consenting to the
partition. The trial court made findings which can be
interpreted as meaning that all the respondents were in
fact aware that it was the understanding of petitioner
and the transferees of the mortgage creditors that the
option was to remain the property of petitioner.
In February, 1937, Mrs. Commins gave a new short
term mortgage for $45,000 on "Indios" plantation to respondent Manuel Francisco Lluberas Passarell. The
proceeds, to the extent of $41,000, were by her direction
used to pay her mortgage indebtedness, with three months'
interest in advance, to the heirs of Jose Tous Soto, the
transferees of the mortgage credits, who, on receipt of
the payment, cancelled the mortgage. Immediately
following the cancellation Mrs. Commins sold and conveyed by deed the estate "Indios" to respondent Lluberas
Passarell and his sisters, who are also respondents. It is
this deed which petitioner seeks to cancel as in violation
of the option.
In affirming the judgment of the Ponce District Court
which denied the petition for cancellation of the conveyance, the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico rested its
decision on two independent grounds, either one of which,
if supportable, is sufficient to sustain it. Construing and
applying the relevant provisions of Art. 152 of the Puerto

MERCADO v. COMMINS.
465

Opinion of the Court.

Rico mortgage law and §§ 1418 and 1759 of the Civil
Code of Puerto Rico, 1930 edition,' it concluded that the
transfer by petitioner of the mortgage credits to the heirs
of Jose Tous Soto without reservation of the option to
purchase, "conveyed" to the heirs, petitioner's rights under
the option as an inseparable incident of the credits so
that after the transfer petitioner was not entitled to exercise the option. It also concluded that since the option
was for "so long as the mortgage credit here constituted is
not paid" it became "extinguished" by virtue of the payment of the mortgage and could not thereafter be exercised. It further held that petitioner had failed to prove
that the sale of "Indios" by respondent Commins, after
the assignment by petitioner of the mortgage credits, and
after the payment of the mortgage and the expiration of
the option, was in fraud of petitioner's rights under the
option.
'Article 152 of the Puerto Rico Mortgage Law provides:
"A mortgage credit may be conveyed or assigned to a third person
in whole or in part, provided it be effected by means of a public instrument, notice of which is given to the debtor, and that it be recorded
in the registry.
"The debtor shall not be bound by said contract to any further
extent than he was by his own.
"The assignee shall be subrogated to all the rights of the assignor."
Section 1418 of the Civil Code of Puerto Rico provides:
"The sale or assignment of a credit includes that of all the accessory
rights, such as the security, mortgage, pledge, or privilege."
Section 1759 of the Civil Code of Puerto Rico provides in part:
"The pledge and the mortgage are indivisible, even if the debt should
be divided among the legal representatives of the debtor or of the
creditor.
"Therefore, an heir of the debtor who may have paid a part of the
debt can not request that the pledge or mortgage be proportionately
extinguished as long as the debt has not been paid in full.
"Neither can the heir of the creditor, who received his part of the
debt, return the pledge nor cancel the mortgage to the prejudice of
the other heirs who have not been paid."

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

The court did not pass upon the contention that the
option to purchase was void as an agreement "enabling
the mortgagee to adjudicate to itself the mortgage property" comparable to agreements for collateral advantage
"clogging" the equity of redemption deemed unlawful in
Anglo-American mortgage law. Jenningsv. Ward, 2 Vern.
520; Samuel v. JarrahTimber & Wood Paving Corp., L. R.
[1904] A. C. 323; 21 Harv. L. Rev. 459. But assuming
the validity of the option, as did the Supreme Court of
Puerto Rico, its view that rights acquired by a mortgagee
as an incident to the mortgage debt passes to the transferee
of the debt by assignment, whether mentioned in the assignment or not, is not unknown to our law. Cf. Sheldon
v. Sill, 8 How. 441, 450; Batesville Institute v. Kauffman,
18 Wall. 151, 154; Jones on Mortgages, § 1033; and see
North British & Mercantile Ins. Co. v. Rose, 228 F. 290,
292. And it is a familiar rule of our law that, save in exceptional circumstances not present here, an option can
only be exercised in conformity to its terms and never after
the time fixed for its expiration. Waterman v. Banks, 144
U. S. 394, 401-3; Kelsey v. Crowther, 162 U. S. 404, 409;
Lord Ranelagh v. Melton, 2 Drewry & Smale 278.
Petitioner has furnished us with no persuasive evidence
that the law is otherwise in Puerto Rico. On the contrary the Puerto Rican Supreme Court's decision that the
option was necessarily assigned with the mortgage is not
without support in the statutory provisions which it cited,
and to which we have referred.2 Whether the option was
so transferred or not it is difficult to see upon what legal
theory any system of law could in the circumstances of
this case read into an option to purchase, a term prolong2 As the Puerto Rican Supreme Court pointed out, the option here
could properly be regarded as "an accessory right" or "privilege,"
within the meaning of § 1418 of the Civil Code, quoted supra note 1.
See Manresa, Commentaries on the Civil Code, Vol. 10, pp. 402-9.

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
465

Syllabus.

ing the period specified for its exercise. Petitioner has
advanced no such theory and cites no authority which
would support it.
As we have said in the DeCastro case, the duty of the

Court of Appeals and of this Court to examine and appraise local law in cases brought for review from the insular courts cannot ordinarily be discharged summarily.
But full argument in this case has not developed any issue
of Puerto Rican law, or any question of the deference
rightly to be paid to the decisions of the highest court of
Puerto Rico, so substantial as to preclude the summary
disposition made of this case by the Court of Appeals.
Affirmed.

UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS CO. v. GLOBE OIL &
REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 392.

Argued March 3, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.

1. In resolving a conflict between Circuit Courts of Appeals which,
as to the same patent and upon substantially the same facts, reached
conflicting conclusions as to infringement, this Court will reexamine concurrent findings of the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. P. 473.
2. Patent No. 1,392,629, to Dubbs, for a process for producing gasoline and other lighter oils from heavy crude oils, held not infringed
by a process which, in the step corresponding to the B tubes of
Dubbs, relies upon substantial vaporization. P. 484.
'Without substantial vaporization" as used in the Dubbs patent means that the generation and release of vapors in the B tubes
is to be avoided so that the charge will enter the C tubes for cracking as nearly as may be in the liquid phase. P. 482.
3. Egloff Patent No. 1,537,593, for an improvement on the Dubbs
process for producing lighter from heavier oils, held invalid for want
of invention. P. 486.
137 F. 2d 3, affirmed.

