KEEFE v. CLARK.
385

Syllabus.

That view is supported by another consideration. The
double jeopardy provision of the Fifth Amendment does
not bar a federal prosecution even though a conviction
based on the same acts has been obtained under state law.
Jerome v. United States, 318 U. S. 101, 105, and cases
cited. Therefore when it is urged that Congress has
created offenses which traditionally have been left for
state action and which duplicate state crimes, we should
be reluctant to expand the defined federal offenses "beyond the clear requirements of the terms of the statute."
Id. I know of no situation where that principle could be
more appropriately recognized than in the field of the elections where there is comprehensive state regulation.
KEEFE ET A.

v. CLARK, DRAIN COMMISSIONER

OF OAKLAND COUNTY,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 634.

Argued April 27, 28, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

1. Where the contract is between a political subdivision of a State and
private individuals, the obligation alleged to have been impaired in
violation of the Federal Constitution must be clearly and unequivocally expressed. P. 396.
2. The foregoing rule of construction applies with special force in the
present case, since the interpretation of the contract urged by appellants would result in a drastic limitation of the power of the State
to remedy a situation obviously inimical to the interests of municipal
creditors and the general public. P. 397.
3. The Michigan statute upon which the owners of special assessment drain bonds here rely, dealing with the levy of an additional
assessment in the event that the bonds are not paid in full at maturity, did not secure to the bond owners any right which was impaired by later statutes providing for sale by the State, free of all
encumbrances, of land for unpaid taxes; and the later statutes did
not impair the obligation of their contracts in violation of the
Federal Constitution. P. 397.
306 Mich. 503, 11 N. W. 2d 220, affirmed.
587770°-45-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

APPEAL from a judgment modifying and affirming a
declaratory judgment which, in a suit by special assessment bond owners against county officials, determined
the rights of the bond owners, appellants here.

Mr. Irvin Long, with whom Mr. Paul W. Voorhies was
on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Harry J. Merritt and William C. Hudson for
appellees.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Messrs. Wilber M.
Brucker and Robert C. Winter on behalf of Andrew Jergens, urging reversal; and by Messrs. Herbert J. Rushton,
Attorney General, and Daniel J. O'Hara,Assistant Attorney General, on behalf of the State of Michigan, urging
affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case appellants argue that certain provisions of
two Acts passed by the Michigan legislature in 1937 are
void in that, contrary to Art. I, § 10 of the United States
Constitution, they impair the obligation of special assessment drain bonds issued in 1927, some of which are owned
by appellants. The case is here on appeal from the Supreme Court of Michigan. 28 U. S. C. 344 (a)."
So far as here relevant, the two Acts 2 said to be unconstitutional provide that parcels of land subject to special
assessment for drain projects may be sold for unpaid taxes,
and also provide that the purchaser at such a sale shall be
I Appellees have moved to dismiss the appeal on the grounds that
a federal question was not properly raised in the state courts. The
record fails to sustain the motion and it is denied. See Whitney v.
California,274 U. S. 357, 360.
2 Act 114, Mich. Pub. Acts of 1937, as amended by Act 282, Mich.
Pub. Acts of 1939 and Act 234, Mich. Pub. Acts of 1941.
Act 155, Mich. Pub. Acts of 1937, as amended by Acts 29, 244, and
329 of Mich. Pub. Acts of 1939 and Act 363 of Mich. Pub. Acts of 1941.

KEEFE v. CLARK.
393

Opinion of the Court.

granted a title free of all encumbrances, including all assessments for drain projects already constructed. The
proceeds of each tax sale are applied towards payment of
the unpaid drain assessment on the particular parcel of
land, as well as towards payment of other delinquent taxes.
Pursuant to these Acts, the State of Michigan has sold tax
delinquent properties located in the drain district which
issued appellants' bonds. The deeds of sale purport to
release the properties from all encumbrances, including
all assessments on account of the 1927 drain project.
Appellants do not contend that the challenged Acts impair any term of the contract printed on the face of their
drain bonds. What they contend is that the Acts impair
a right secured to them by a statutory provision which
was the law of Michigan at the time their bonds were
issued and which, they say, became a part of the bond contract. See Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535,
550. The statutory provision upon which they rely
reads:
"If there is not sufficient money in the fund in a particular drain at the time of the maturity of the bonds last
to mature to pay all outstanding bonds with interest,
. t shall be the duty of the commissioner to at once
levy an additional assessment as hereinbefore provided in
such an amount as will make up the deficiency." Chapter
X, § 18, Act 316, Mich. Pub. Acts of 1923, as amended by
Act 331, Mich. Pub. Acts of 1927.
Appellants' argument is that this statute has given them
an indefeasible right to have a deficiency assessment levied
on each privately owned parcel of land in the drain district regardless of whether a particular parcel already has
been sold at a tax sale and the proceeds applied toward
payment of the drain bonds. In practical effect, they assert that by this statute lands subject to assessment for
their drain bonds are subject to be sold not just once, but
twice, for payment of the single benefit which the lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

received from the original drain project. Consequently,
their argument runs, the Michigan legislature was powerless to provide that purchasers of tax-delinquent property
in the drain district be exempt from a deficiency drain
assessment.
This argument the Supreme Court of Michigan refused
to accept. Emphasizing the serious consequences of such
a hobbling of the State's powers to meet pressing problems, the Court pointed out that the power of the State to
sell tax-delinquent lands free of the burden of assessments
for completed drain projects was essential not only to protect the bondholders themselves but to protect the public
interest. Without power in the State to offer an attractive title to prospective purchasers, the Court found, many
of such lands would remain tax-delinquent and thereby
be rendered valueless for all public revenue purposes, including drain assessments. The Court declined to read
into the statute relied upon by appellants any purpose to
permit drain districts to surrender the State's sovereign
power to provide for the sale of tax-delinquent property
free of encumbrances. It held that under the Michigan
law in effect when appellants' special assessment drain
bonds were issued the bondholders' "maximum security"
for payment of assessments against drain district lands
was the parcels of land themselves, and that when the
bondholders received their fair share of the proceeds derived from the tax sale of any particular parcel they had
received everything to which their bond contracts entitled
them. Keefe v. OaklandCounty DrainComm'r, 306 Mich.
503, 511-512, 11 N. W. 2d 220.
Before we can find impairment of a contract we must
find an obligation of the contract which has been impaired.
Since the contract here relied upon is one between a political subdivision of a state and private individuals, settled
principles of construction require that the obligation alleged to have been impaired be clearly and unequivocally

KEEFE v. CLARK.
393

Opinion of the Court.

expressed. This rule of construction applies with special
force in the case at bar, for the interpretation of the bond
contract urged by appellants would result in a drastic
limitation upon the power of Michigan to enact legislation
designed to remedy a situation obviously inimical to the
interests of both municipal creditors and the general public. 3 "The continued existence of a government would
be of no great value, if, by implications and presumptions,
it was disarmed of the powers necessary to accomplish the

ends of its creation."

Charles River Bridge v. Warren

Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 548; and see Gilman v. Sheboygan, 2

Black 510, 513; Fisherv. New Orleans, 218 U. S. 438.
We do not find in the provision of the drain statute relied upon by appellants a clear and unequivocal purpose

of Michigan to permit drain districts to bargain away the
State's power to sell tax-delinquent lands free of encumbrances. Long before the date when appellants' bonds

were issued, the Michigan Supreme Court had held that,
"The general rule is that a sale and a conveyance (by the
3

The Michigan Supreme Court has described vividly the intimate
relation between the power of the State to remove encumbrances from
tax-delinquent lands and the welfare of the public. Baker v. State
Land Office Board, 294 Mich. 587, 592-594, 293 N. W. 763. Land
speculation ran riot in Michigan in the 1920's, bringing with it construction of subdivisions, paving and drainage projects, etc. Inflated
land values produced their inevitable consequences. In the early
1930's a large part of Michigan lands had a market value far less than
the unpaid property and improvement taxes accumulated upon them.
Attempting to remedy the situation, the legislature tried tax collection
moratoriums, and for six years no tax sales were held, but still unpaid
taxes continued to amass. Property owners abandoned their heavily
encumbered real estate; the state and local governments could get no
revenue from the delinquent property; and municipal creditors could
get neither principal nor interest. All suffered alike. Finally in 1937,
upon the recommendation of legislative committees and planning commissions, Acts 114 and 155, supra,Note 1, together with Act 325, were
passed by the legislature in an attempt to collect unpaid taxes and to
free property of its accumulated tax burden.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

398

Syllabus.

322 U. S.

State) in due form for taxes extinguishes all prior liens,
whether for taxes or otherwise. This rule is one of necessity, growing out of the imperative nature of the demand
of the government for its revenues." Auditor General v.
Clifford, 143 Mich. 626,630, 107 N. W. 287; and see Municipal Investors Assn. v. Birmingham, 298 Mich. 314, 325326, 299 N. W. 90, and cases there cited. The provision
of the drain statute upon which appellants rest their case
does not expressly purport to alter this "rule of necessity."
On its face it deals only with the levy of an additional assessment in the event that drain bonds are not paid in full
at maturity, and does not assume to deal with the manner
of selling tax-delinquent properties in drain districts or
the kind of title that can be conveyed at such sales. "The
language falls far short of subjecting lots which have been
sold to pay tax or assessment liens to an additional assessment for the deficit. Such a construction would defeat
the remedy of tax sales as a means of realizing the assessment lien." Municipal Investors Assn. v. Birmingham,
316 U. S.153, 159.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
L. P. STEUART & BRO., INC. v. BOWLES, PRICE
ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 793.

Argued May 2, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

The power of the President under § 2 (a) (2) of Title III of the
Second War Powers Act to "allocate" materials includes the
power to issue suspension orders against retailers and to with-

