MORTENSEN v. UNITED STATES.
363

Counsel for Parties.

state court may be implied. Service of process therefore
might be had in the usual way (see Town of Okemah v.
United States, supra, p. 966) even in absence of the 1926

Act.
Reversed.
MORTENSEN ET UX. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 559.

Argued March 9, 10, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

1. In the exercise of its supervisory appellate power, this Court
treats the transcript of the evidence in this case as part of the
record before it and considers the case on its merits. P. 371.
2. Upon review of a conviction in a federal court, this Court may
examine the record to determine whether there was any competent and substantial evidence fairly tending to support the
verdict. P. 374.
3. Petitioners, man and wife, operated a house of prostitution in
Nebraska. They took with them on a trip to Utah, which was
planned and consummated purely as a vacation, two girli who
had been living at their house as prostitutes. Upon their return,
the girls resumed prostitution at petitioners' house. Held that
a conviction of the petitioners for transporting the girls from
Utah to Nebraska (the return trip) "for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery," in violation of § 2 of the Mann Act, was not
supported by any relevant evidence. Pp. 372, 376.
4. To punish those who transport inmates of a house of prostitution
on an innocent vacation trip in no way related to the practice of
their commercial vice is consistent neither with the purpose nor
the language of the Mann Act. P. 377.
139 F. 2d 967, reversed.

321 U. S. 757, to review the affirmance of
a conviction for violation of the Mann Act.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Eugene D. O'Sullivan, with whom Mr. Thomas
W. Laniganwas on the brief, for petitioners.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We granted certiorari in this case to review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the conviction of petitioners under § 2 of the White Slave Traffic
Act, popularly known as the Mann Act.1 139 F. 2d 967.
Following their conviction by the jury in the District
Court, petitioners filed a notice of appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. However, they failed to file a timely
bill of exceptions in the District Court. Thereafter they
applied to the Circuit Court of Apneals for an order granting them "the right to have a Bill of Exceptions" and for
additional time in which to settle and file it. This application was denied without opinion or explanation. When
the case subsequently came before another division of
judges of that court for argument on the merits, petitioners renewed their request for permission to file a bill.
This was, in effect, a motion for rehearing of the decision
of the first division of judges of the court. Counsel was
then allowed by the court to leave with it, but not to file,
a copy of the reporter's transcript of the evidence "in
order that we might assure ourselves that no fundamental
injustice had been done by the previous denial of an extension, and that we would not, because of the absence
of a bill of exceptions, be affirming a conviction which was
not properly an offense under the Act." 139 F. 2d at 969,
note 1. The court then treated the case as though the
transcript were properly before it and sustained petitioners' conviction on the merits. Having reached the
conclusion that there was no merit in petitioners' conten'Act of June 25, 1910, § 2, 36 Stat. 825, 18 U. S. C. § 398.

MORTENSEN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of the Court.

tions and that the result would have been the same had
a bill of exceptions been filed, the court refused to permit
the "purported" transcript to be filed. No other reason
was given for this refusal.
Petitioners have raised before us the propriety of the
action of the court below, claiming that they thereby have
been prevented from urging and arguing certain assignments of error which they wished to urge. It is clear from
Rule IV of the Criminal Appeals Rules 2 that the Circuit
Court of Appeals has the right to exercise sound judicial
discretion in supervising and controlling the proceedings
on appeal. Ray v. United States, 301 U. S. 158, 166-167;
Fortev. United States, 302 U. S. 220, 223; Kay v. United
States, 303 U. S. 1, 9-10; Miller v. United States, 317 U. S.
192, 199. This includes the right to grant or deny belated
applications for permission to file bills of exceptions.
And the court's action in the matter is not reviewable in
this Court absent a clear abuse of discretion.
But under the peculiar circumstances of this case it is
unnecessary to determine whether the court below abused
its discretion in refusing to allow a bill to be filed. When
that court examined the transcript of the evidence and
conclusively adjudicated the merits, it accomplished in
substance all that would have been achieved if the formality of filing the transcript had occurred and the court had
then passed upon the merits. In order that petitioners
shall not be unfairly deprived of the right to seek a review of that court's determination of the merits, we may
consider the court's action as in effect having approved
the filing of the transcript as a bill of exceptions. A copy
of the transcript has been lodged with the Clerk of this
Court and no question has been raised as to its correctness or completeness. In accordance with the Government's suggestion and in the exercise of our supervisory
2

292 U. S. 661, 663; 18 U. S. C. A. following § 688.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

appellate power, we shall treat the transcript as a part of
the record before us and consider the case on its merits.
The petitioners, man and wife, operated a house of
prostitution in Grand Island, Nebraska. In 1940 they
planned an automobile trip to Salt Lake City, Utah, in
order to visit Mrs. Mortensen's parents. Two girls who
were employed by petitioners as prostitutes asked to be
taken along for a vacation and the Mortensens agreed to
their request. They motored to Yellowstone National
Park and then on to Salt Lake City, where they all stayed
at a tourist camp for four or five days. They visited Mrs.
Mortensen's parents and, in addition, the girls "went to
shows and around in the parks" and saw various other
parts of the city. The four then returned in petitioners'
automobile to Grand Island; on arrival they drove immediately to petitioners' house of ill fame and retired to their
respective rooms. The following day one of the girls resumed her activities as a prostitute in petitioners' employ, while the other did not resume such activities for a
week or ten days because of illness. Both girls continued
to act as prostitutes for petitioners for a year or more after
their return from Salt Lake City.
It is undisputed that this was purely a vacation trip,
with the two girls paying their own living expenses and
petitioners bearing the expenses of transportation. One
of the girls had offered to help pay for the transportation,
but petitioners refused on the ground that the cost would
remain the same even if the girls did not accompany them.
No acts of prostitution or other immorality occurred during the two-week trip and there was no discussion of such
acts during the course of the journey. Both girls testified
that during the trip they gave no consideration to their
work as prostitutes and made no plans to abandon such
activities. There was also uncontradicted evidence that
the two girls were under no obligation or compulsion of
any kind to return to Grand Island to work for petition-

MORTENSEN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of the Court.

ers. They were free at any time before, during or after
the vacation excursion to leave petitioners' employ and
engage in their own pursuits. Both girls claimed that
Grand Island was their residence, one of them testifying
that she boarded her child with a family in that city.
Petitioners were charged in two counts with violating
§ 2 of the Mann Act in that they transported and caused
to be transported, and aided and assisted in obtaining
transportation for and in transporting, two girls in interstate commerce from Salt Lake City to Grand Island
for the purpose of prostitution and debauchery, and with
intent to induce, entice and compel the girls to give themselves up to debauchery and to engage in immoral practices. The jury was charged that purpose was an essential ingredient of the crime and that if the jury found that
the transportation from Salt Lake City to Grand Island
was planned with no immoral purpose, no crime was committed. The jury was also told that, to convict, it must
find that the Government had proved beyond a reasonable
doubt that petitioners transported the girls from Salt
Lake City to Grand Island for the purpose of prostitution and debauchery. The jury returned a verdict of
guilty on both counts. This conviction was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals under circumstances previously described.
The primary issue before us is whether there was any
evidence from which the jury could rightly find that petitioners transported the girls from Salt Lake City to Grand
Island for an immoral purpose in violation of the Mann
Act.
The penalties of § 2 of the Act are directed at those who
knowingly transport in interstate commerce "any woman
or girl for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery, or
for any other immoral purpose, or with the intent and purpose to induce, entice, or compel such woman or girl to
become a prostitute or to give herself up to debauchery,

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

or to engage in any other immoral practice." The statute thus aims to penalize only those who. use interstate
commerce with a view toward accomplishing the unlawful
purposes. To constitute a violation of the Act, it is essential that the interstate transportation have for its object or be the means of effecting or facilitating the proscribed activities. Hansenv. Haff, 291 U. S. 559, 563. An
intention that the women or girls shall engage in the conduct outlawed by § 2 must be found to exist before the
conclusion of the interstate journey and must be the dominant motive of such interstate movement. And the
transportation must be designed to bring about such result. Without that necessary intention and motivation,
immoral conduct during or following the journey is insufficient to subject the transporter to the penalties of
the Act.
Since the issue as to whether petitioners intended that
the two girls should resume their immoral conduct on their
return to Grand Island and transported them in interstate commerce for that purpose was submitted to the
jury with appropriate instructions we would normally be
precluded from reviewing or disturbing the inferences of
fact drawn from the evidence by the jury. But we have
never hesitated to examine a record to determine whether
there was any competent and substantial evidence fairly
tending to support the verdict. Cf. Abrams v. United
States, 250 U. S.616, 619. Our examination of the record in this case convinces us that there was a complete
lack of relevant evidence from which the jury could properly find or infer, beyond a reasonable doubt, that petitioners transported the girls in interstate commerce "for
the purpose of prostitution or debauchery" within the
meaning of the Mann Act.
It may be assumed that petitioners anticipated that the
two girls would resume their activities as prostitutes upon
their return to Grand Island. But we do not think it is

MORTENSEN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of the Court.

fair or permissible under the evidence adduced to infer
that this interstate vacation trip, or any part of it, was
undertaken by petitioners for the purpose of, or as a means
of effecting or facilitating, such activities. The sole purpose of the journey from beginning to end was to provide
innocent recreation and a holiday for petitioners and the
two girls. It was a complete break or interlude in the
operation of petitioners' house of ill fame and was entirely
disassociated therefrom. There was no evidence that any
immoral acts occurred on the journey or that petitioners
forced the girls against their will to return to Grand Island
for immoral purposes. What Congress has outlawed by
the Mann Act, however, is the use of interstate commerce
as a calculated means for effectuating sexual immorality.
In ordinary speech an interstate trip undertaken for an
innocent vacation purpose constitutes the use of interstate commerce for that innocent purpose. Such a trip
does not lose that meaning when viewed in light 'of a
criminal statute outlawing interstate trips for immoral
purposes.
The fact that the two girls actually resumed their immoral practices after their return to Grand Island does
not, standing alone, operate to inject a retroactive illegal
purpose into the return trip to Grand Island. Nor does it
justify an arbitrary splitting of the round trip into two
parts so as to permit an inference that the purpose of the
drive to Salt Lake City was innocent while the purpose of
the homeward journey to Grand Island was criminal. The
return journey under the circumstances of this case cannot
be considered apart from its integral relation with the
innocent round trip as a whole. There is no evidence of
any change in the purpose of the trip during its course. If
innocent when it began it remained so until it ended.
Guilt or innocence does not turn merely on the direction
of travel during part of a trip not undertaken for immoral
ends. If the return journey was illegal, so was the out-

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

going one since all intended, from the beginning, to end
the journey where it began, at Grand Island. The outward leg of the trip was interstate transportation. Yet
it was not charged, and could not well be, that proof of
this part of the trip was a violation of the Act. It differed
in no respect from the other part, except in the direction
of travel. That is not enough to make the first part innocent, the last part illegal. Criminal intent and purpose
must be grounded on something less ingenious than that
which is necessary to sustain a finding of such a purpose in
making the return interstate journey to Grand Island.
"People not of good moral character, like others, travel
from place to place and change their residence. But to say
that because they indulge in illegal or immoral acts, they
travel for that purpose, is to emphasize that which is
incidental and ignore what is of primary significance."
Hansen v. Haff, supra, 562-563. Cf. Ex parte Rocha, 30
F. 2d 823.
An artificial and unrealistic view of the nature and purpose of the return journey to Grand Island is necessary to
sustain this conviction. But we are unwilling to sanction
the application of the Mann Act in a manner that isso
manifestly unfair. Whatever their faults, petitioners are
entitled to have just and fair treatment under the law
and not to be punished for transporting girls in interstate
commerce for a purpose wholly different from any of the
purposes condemned by Congress.
We do not here question or reconsider any previous construction placed on the Act which may have led the federal government into areas of regulation not originally
contemplated by Congress. But experience with the administration of the law admonishes us against adding another chapter of statutory construction and application
which would have a similar effect and which would make
possible even further justification of the fear expressed
at the time of the adoption of the legislation that its broad
provisions "are liable to furnish boundless opportunity to

MORTENSEN v. UNITED STATES.
369

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

hold up and blackmail and make unnecessary trouble,
without any corresponding benefits to society."'
To punish those who transport inmates of a house of
prostitution on an innocent vacation trip in no way related to the practice of their commercial vice is consistent
neither with the purpose nor with the language of the Act.
Congress was attempting primarily to eliminate the "white
slave" business which uses interstate and foreign commerce as a means of procuring and distributing its victims
and "to prevent panderers and procurers from compelling
thousands of women and girls against their will and desire
to enter and continue in a life of prostitution." ' Such
clearly was not the situation revealed by the facts of this
case. To accomplish its purpose the statute enumerates
the prohibited acts in broad language capable of application beyond that intended by the legislative framers. But
even such broad language is conditioned upon the use of
interstate transportation for the purpose of, or as a means
of effecting or facilitating, the commission of the illegal
acts. Here the interstate round trip had no such purpose
and was in no way related to the subsequent immoralities
in Grand Island. In short, we perceive no statutory purpose or language which prohibits petitioners under these
circumstances from using interstate transportation for a
vacation or for any other innocent purpose.
The judgment of the court below is
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE

and I think the judgment should be affirmed.
Courts have no more concern with the policy and wisdom of the Mann Act than of the Labor Relations Act or
DOUGLAS

345 Cong. Rec. 1033.
4 H. Rep. No. 47, p. 10 (61st Cong., 2d Sess.). The same statement
appears in S. Rep. No. 886, p. 10 (61st Cong., 2d Sess.). See also 45
Cong. Ree. 805, 821, 1035, 1037.
587770--45-28

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

any other which Congress may constitutionally adopt.
Those are matters for Congress to determine, not the
courts. Congress, in enacting the Mann Act, declared in
unmistakable terms that any person who should transport
across state lines "any woman . . . for the purpose of
prostitution . . . or with the. intent and purpose to induce . . . such woman . . . to give herself up to de-

bauchery, or to engage in any other immoral practice;
. . . shall be deemed guilty of a felony."
The fact that petitioners, who were engaged in an established business of operating a house of prostitution in
Nebraska, took some of its women inmates on a transient
and innocent vacation trip to other states, is in no way incompatible with the conclusion that petitioners, in bringing them back to Nebraska, purposed and intended that
they should resume there the practice of commercial vice,
which in fact they did promptly resume in petitioners'
establishment. The record is without evidence that they
engaged or intended to engage in any other activities in
Nebraska, or that anything other than the practice of their
profession was the object of their return. For this reason the case is controlled by Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S.
78, rather than by Hansenv. Haff, 291 U. S. 559. The jury
was properly instructed, its verdict is supported by ample
evidence, and the two courts below rightly sustained it.

