198

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

federal interest. See Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226, 232;
New Brunswick v. UnitedStates, 276 U. S. 547. The rate
at which that interest was taxed is equally a matter for
Pennsylvania to determine. In view of the Dravo case,
supra, and Alabama v. King & Boozer, supra, there is not
before us a constitutionally immunized burden of the
Government. Insofar as the financial burden has been
directly assumed by the Government it has been so assumed by arrangements which the contracting officers of
the Government saw fit to make with Mesta.
In respect to the problem we are considering, the constitutional relation of the Dominion of Canada to its constituent Provinces is the same as that of the United States
to the States. A recent decision of the Supreme Court of
Canada is therefore pertinent. In City of Vancouver v.
Attorney-General of Canada, [1944] S. C. R. 23, that
Court denied the Dominion's claim to immunity in a
situation precisely like this, as I believe we should deny
the claim of the Government.

UNITED STATES

E.T A.

v. WABASH RAILROAD

CO. ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 453. Decided May 8, 1944.
Nothing in the record or in the petition for rehearing requires decision in the present proceeding of the contention that, as a result
of changed conditions after the case was submitted to the Commission, the spotting service as now performed is not in excess of the
carriers' obligation under their tariff rates, and that its performance by the carriers without charge is therefore not unlawful. The
petition for rehearing is denied without prejudice to appellees'
presentation of the question in any appropriate proceeding before
the Commission and the courts. P. 201.
Rehearing denied.

UNITED STATES v. WABASH R. CO.
198

Opinion of the Court.

PETITION for rehearing in the case of United States

v. Wabash R. Co., 321 U. S.403.
Messrs. C. C. Le Forgee, Luther M. Walter, Nuel D.
Betnap, and John S. Burchmore for the Staley Manufacturing Co., petitioner.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

In its petition for rehearing, appellee Staley Manufacturing Co. for the first time calls to our attention certain
alleged changes in the location and arrangement of tracks
on which are placed cars moving to and from the tracks
of the line-haul carriers from and to Staley's industrial
tracks. The changes are alleged to have occurred after
the submission of the case to the Interstate Commerce
Commission and are said to call for a different conclusion
than that reached by the Commission as to whether the
spotting service now performed by Staley is a part of the
service covered by the line-haul tariffs.
The Commission's report considered in detail the circumstances attending the placing of cars at what are
termed the Burwell tracks, which it found to be located
within the Staley plant area and to have been leased by
Staley to appellee Wabash Railroad Co. Its report states
that, in general, cars delivered to Staley were initially
placed by the carrier on the Burwell tracks and thence
switched to appropriate unloading points at the Staley
plant, while cars received from Staley were generally
placed on the Wabash Railroad's general or storage tracks,
but were also sometimes placed on the Burwell tracks.
The Commission found, on sufficient evidence then before
it, that "the movements between points of loading or unloading within the plant area of the Staley Company and
the Burwell yard, the storage yard, or the general yard
of the Wabash . . . in all instances are, and must be, co-

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ordinated with the industrial operations of the Staley
Company and conform to its convenience." And in its
second conclusion of law it stated that "all services between the Burwell yard or the storage or general yard of
the Wabash and points of loading or unloading within the
plant area of the Staley Company are plant services for
the Staley Company and not common-carrier services covered by the line-haul rates and charges of respondent
carriers."
By their petitions for rehearing addressed to the Commission, appellees alleged that since March 1, 1941, three
months after the case had been submitted to the Commission and about two months before it rendered its decision, the use of the Burwell tracks had been discontinued,
and that those tracks had thereafter been disconnected
and were being dismantled. They further alleged that
appellee Wabash Railroad was in course of constructing
new tracks on its own property "adjacent to its yard tracks
north of the Staley plant" and "immediately north of the
so-called Burwell yard" for use in the interchange of cars
with Staley and other shippers, and that meanwhile the
interchange was being performed from its general or
storage yards. Appellees moved respectively that the
Commission reconsider its decision "upon such further
proceedings as may be appropriate and necessary," and
that "the case be set down for a further hearing, and that
. . . the Commission reconsider its order." No evidence
was specified or tendered to prove before the Commission
the allegations of the petitions for rehearing, and no opportunity to introduce evidence was in terms requested.
The Commission denied the petitions for rehearing without opinion.
Before the District Court appellees set out the substance
of their petitions to the Commission for rehearing and
urged that the Commission erred in denying them. The

UNITED STATES v. WABASH R. CO.
198

Opinion of the Court.

United States in its answer admitted only that appellees
had alleged in those petitions for rehearing the matters
set forth; the truth of the matters alleged was not admitted by either appellant. No new evidence was taken
in the District Court. That court did not pass on this
question, and made no findings as to the extent or effect of
the alleged change of conditions.
Nothing in the petitions to the Commission for rehearing or in the petition here affords any basis for saying that
the alleged changes in conditions are of a character which
would require any modification of the Commission's order
or that appellees could not, with due diligence, have
brought the changes to the attention of the Commission
before it made its report. They were not referred to in
appellees' briefs in this Court. Compare rule 27, paragraphs 4 and 6; 1. T. S. Rubber Co. v. Essex Rubber Co.,
272 U. S. 429, 431-2; Flournoy v. Wiener, 321 U. S. 253,
260-61. Neither the Commission nor the District Court
have made findings with respect to them and they were
not considered by this Court or referred to in its opinion.
We find nothing in the record or in the petition before
us which calls on the Court in the present proceeding to
pass on the question now sought to be raised. Our decision is accordingly without prejudice to appellees' presentation in any appropriate proceeding before the Commission and the courts, of their contention that as a result
of changed conditions after the case was submitted to the
Commission, the spotting service as now performed is not
in excess of the carriers' obligation under their tariff rates,
and that its performance by the carriers without charge is
therefore not unlawful.
The petition for rehearing is denied.
587770--45----17

