OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

Nor does the practice seem conducive to good order in the
federal system. The power of Iowa to enforce collection
in other states is certainly very limited and the effort to
do so on any wide scale is unlikely either to be systematically pursued or successfully executed.
I recognize the pressure to uphold all manner of efforts
to collect tax moneys. But this decision, by which one
may not ship goods from anywhere in the United States to
a purchaser in Iowa without becoming a nonresident tax
collector, exceeds everything so far done by this Court.
In my opinion the statute is an effort to exert extraterritorial control beyond any which a state could exert if
there were no Constitution at all. I can think of nothing
in or out of the Constitution which warrants this effort to
reach beyond the State's own border to make out-of-state
merchants tax collectors because they engage in interstate
commerce with the State's citizens.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this opinion.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. ET AL. V.
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 355. Argued February 29, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.
1. An Indiana tax upon gross income, as applied to receipts from
the following classes of sales by a foreign corporation authorized to
do business in Indiana, was not precluded by the Commerce Clause

or the Fourteenth Amendment: (1) sales by out-of-State branches
to Indiana dealers and users, wherc delivery is taken at plants of
the corporation in Indiana; (2) sales to out-of-State buyers who
come to Indiana, take delivery there, and transport the goods to

another State; (3) sales in Indiana to Indiana buyers, where the
goods are shipped from out-of-State points to the buyer. Pp. 344346.
2. Neither the Commerce Clause nor the Fourteenth Amendment precludes the imposition of a state tax on receipts from an intrastate transaction, even though the total activities from which

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 341
340

Opinion of the Court.

the local transaction derives may have incidental interstate
attributes. P. 344.
3. A State constitutionally may tax gross receipts from interstate
transactions consummated within its borders where it treats wholly
local transactions similarly. P. 348.
221 Ind. 416, 47 N. E. 2d 150, affirmed.

from a judgment sustaining as to certain transactions of the appellants a state tax on gross receipts.
APPEAL

Messrs. Edward R. Lewis and Joseph J. Daniels for
appellants.
Messrs. Winslow Van Home and John J. McShane,
Deputy Attorneys General of Indiana, with whom Mr.
James A. Emmert, Attorney General, and Messrs. Joseph
W. Hutchinson and Fred C. McClurg, Deputy Attorneys
General, were on the brief, for appellees.
Mit. JusTiCE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case raises questions concerning the constitutionality of the Indiana Gross Income Tax Act of 1933 (L.
1933, p. 388, Burns Ind. Stats. Ann. § 64-2601) as construed and applied to certain business transactions of appellant companies. The suit was brought by appellants
to recover gross income taxes paid to Indiana during the
years 1935 and 1936. The Indiana Supreme Court sustained objections to the imposition of the tax on certain
sales but allowed the tax to be imposed on other types of
transactions. 221 nd. 416,47 N. E. 2d 150. The correctness of the latter ruling is challenged by the appeal which
brings the case here. Judicial Code § 237, 28 U. S. C.

§ 344 (a), 28 U. S. C. § 861 (a).
Appellants are corporations authorized to do business
in Indiana but incorporated under the laws of other States.
They manufacture farm implements and motor trucks
and sell those articles both at wholesale and retail. During the period here in question they maintained manu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

facturing plants at Richmond and Fort Wayne, Indiana
and selling branches at Indianapolis, Terre Haute, Fort
Wayne, and Evansville, Indiana. They also had manufacturing plants and sales branches in adjoining States
and elsewhere. Each branch had an assigned territory.
In some instances parts of Indiana were within the exclusive jurisdiction of branch offices which were located
outside the State. The transactions which Indiana says
may be taxed without infringement of the federal Constitution are described by the Indiana Supreme Court as
follows:
Class C: Sales by branches located outside Indiana
to dealers and users residing in Indiana. The orders
were solicited in Indiana and the customers took delivery to themselves at the factories in Indiana to
save time and expense of shipping.'
Class D: Sales by branches located in Indiana to
dealers and users residing outside of Indiana, in
which the customers carne to Indiana and accepted
delivery to themselves in this state.!
Class E: Sales by branches located in Indiana to
dealers and users residing in Indiana, in which the
1 The stipulation states that the "orders and contracts were accepted by branches outside Indiana" and payments "were received
by branches outside Indiana." The Class C sales were principally
sales of motor trucks manufactured at Fort Wayne and a small
amount of goods manufactured at Richmond. In case of wholesale
sales it is the custom for the dealer to notify the company at the
time he desires delivery that he wants to take delivery of the goods
himself at Fort Wayne or Richmond. In the case of retail sales in
Class C, "if the user desires to undertake transportation of the goods
to their destination and for that purpose to take delivery at the factory in Indiana, it is the business practice for the contract or order
so to state."
2 The stipulation states that the "orders or contracts were accepted
and the sales proceeds were received by the Branch Managers at the
branches located within Indiana." The business custom or practice
respecting deliveries in the State to dealers or retail purchasers was
the same as in case of the Class C sales.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 343
340

Opinion of the Court.

goods were shipped from points outside Indiana to
customers in Indiana, pursuant to contracts so
providing.8
The gross income tax 4 collected on those transactions
is the same one which was before this Court in Depart8 The stipulation states that the goods in this class were shipped
by the company from outside the State, the order or contract specifying that "shipment should be made from a point outside Indiana
to the purchaser in Indiana." In these cases, moreover, the orders
were "solicited from purchasers residing in Indiana by representatives
of Indiana branches, or the orders or contracts were received by mail
by Indiana branches. The orders and contracts were accepted by
the Branch Manager at branches located within Indiana. Payments of
the sales proceeds were received by branches in Indiana. The sales in
this class were of goods manufactured outside the State of Indiana."
There was no showing, moreover, that goods in this class were of
kind that could be obtained only outside Indiana. It seems to be
admitted that Class E sales arose when an Indiana branch received
orders for goods in quantities which could not be economically carried in stock or where a cheaper freight rate could be obtained by
direct shipments from outside Indiana. Cf. Bowman v. Continental
Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506.
4 Sec. 2 of the Act provided in part: "There is hereby imposed
a tax, measured by the amount or volume of gross income, and in
the amount to be determined by the application of rates on such
gross income as hereinafter provided. Such tax shall be levied upon
the entire gross income of all residents of the state of Indiana, and
upon the gross income derived from sources within the state of
Indiana, of all persons and/or companies, including banks, who are
not residents of the state of Indiana, but are engaged in business in
this state, or who derive gross income from sources within this state,
and shall be in addition to all other taxes now or hereafter imposed
with respect to particular occupations and/or activities." The language of this section was recast by L. 1937, c. 117, § 2, p. 611.
Sec. ,6 (a) of the Act exempted "so much of such gross income as
is derived from business conducted in commerce between this state
and other states of the United States, or between this state and foreign countries, to the extent to which the state of Indiana is prohibited from taxing under the Constitution of the United States of
America." And see L. 1937, c. 117, § 6, p. 615.

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ment of Treasuryv. Wood Preserving Corp., 313 U. S. 62,
and Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307. The tax
was described in the Storen case as "a privilege tax upon
the receipt of gross income." 304 U. S. p. 311. In that
case an Indiana corporation which manufactured products and maintained its home office, principal place of
business, and factory in Indiana sold those products to
customers in other States and foreign countries upon
orders taken subject to approval at the home office. It
was held that the Commerce Clause (Art. I, § 8 of the
Constitution) was a barrier to the imposition of the tax
on the gross receipts from such sales. But as we held in
the Wood Preserving Corp. case, neither the Commerce
Clause nor the Fourteenth Amendment prevents the imposition of the tax on receipts from an intrastate transaction even though the total activities from which the
local transaction derives may have incidental interstate
attributes.
The objections under the Commerce Clause and the
Fourteenth Amendment to the tax on the receipts from
the three classes of sales involved here are equally without merit.
In the Wood PreservingCorp. case contracts were made
outside Indiana for the sale of railroad ties. The respondent-seller, a Delaware corporation with its principal
place of business in Pennsylvania, obtained the ties from
producers in Indiana and delivered them to the buyer
(Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.) in Indiana who immediately loaded them on cars and shipped them out of the
State. Payments for the ties were made to the seller in
Pennsylvania. We held that Indiana did not exceed its
constitutional authority when it laid the tax on the
receipts from those sales.
We see no difference between the sales in the Wood
PreservingCorp. case and the Class C sales in the present
one which is translatable into a difference in Indiana's

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 345
340

Opinion of the Court.

power to tax. The fact that the sales in Class C are made
by an out-of-state seller and that the contracts were made
outside the State is not controlling. Here as in the Wood
Preserving Corp. case, delivery of the goods in Indiana
is an adequate taxable event. When Indiana lays hold
of that transaction and levies a tax on the receipts which
accrue from it, Indiana is asserting authority over the
fruits of a transaction consummated within its borders.
These sales, moreover, are sales of Indiana goods to Indiana purchasers. While the contracts were made outside
the State, the goods were neither just completing nor just
starting an interstate journey. It could hardly be maintained that Indiana could not impose a sales tax or a use
tax on these transactions. But, as we shall see, if that is
the case, there is no constitutional objection to the imposition of a gross receipts tax by the State of the buyer.
The Class D sales are sales by an Indiana seller of Indiana goods to an out-of-state buyer who comes to Indiana,
takes delivery there and transports the goods to another
State. The Wood PreservingCorp. case indicates that it
is immaterial to the present issue that the goods are to be
transported out of Indiana immediately on delivery.
Moreover, both the agreement to sell and the delivery
took place in Indiana. Those events would be adequate
to sustain a sales tax by Indiana. In McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S.33, we had before us a question
of the constitutionality of a New York City sales tax as
applied to purchases from out-of-state sellers. The tax
was "laid upon the buyer, for consumption, of tangible
personal property, and measured by the sales price." Id.,
p. 43. And it was "conditioned upon events occurring"
within New York, i. e., the "transfer of title or possession
of the purchased property." Id., pp. 43-44. Under the
principle of that case, a buyer who accepted delivery in
New York would not be exempt from the sales tax because
he came from without the State and intended to return to
587770--45-26

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

his home with the goods. The present tax, to be sure, is
on the seller. But in each a local transaction is made the
taxable event and that event is separate and distinct from
the transportation or intercourse which is interstate commerce. In neither does the tax aim at or discriminate
against interstate commerce. The operation of the tax
and its effect on interstate commerce seem no more severe
in the one case than in the other. Indeed, if we are to remain concerned with the practical operation of these state
taxes rather than with their descriptive labels (Nelson v.
Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359, 363), we must acknowledge that the sales tax sustained in the BerwindWhite case "was, in form, imposed upon the gross receipts
from an interstate sale." Lockhart, Gross Receipts Taxes
on Interstate Transportation and Communication, 57
Harv. L. Rev. 40, 87. But that case did no more than to
hold that those in interstate trade could not complain if
interstate commerce carried its share of the burdens of local government which helped sustain it. And there was
no showing that more than that was being exacted.
The sales in Class E embrace those by an Indiana seller
to an Indiana buyer where the goods are shipped from
points outside the State to the buyer. The validity of
the tax on receipts from such sales would seem to follow
a fortiorifrom our recent affirmance per curiam (318 U. S.
740) of Department of Treasury v. Allied Mills, 220 Ind.
340, 42 N. E. 2d 34. In that case an Indiana corporation
had one factory in Indiana and two in Illinois. Each
factory was given a specified part of Indiana to servicea method of distribution adopted to take advantage of
favorable freight rates, not to evade taxes. The issue in
the case was whether the Indiana gross income tax could
be applied to receipts from sales to resident customers in
Indiana to whom deliveries were made from the plants in
Illinois pursuant to orders taken in Indiana and accepted
in Illinois. The Indiana Supreme Court sustained the

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 347
340

Opinion of the Court.

imposition of the tax. We affirmed that judgment on
the authority of Felt & Tarrant Co. v. Gallagher, 306
U. S. 62, and McGoldrick v. Felt & Tarrant Co., 309
U.S. 70.
In the latter cases the Felt & Tarrant Co. was an Illinois
seller who had agents soliciting orders in California and
New York. All orders were forwarded to the Illinois
office for approval. If accepted, the orders were filled by
shipping the products to the local agent who delivered to
the purchaser. At times shipments would be made direct
to the buyers. Remittances were made by the customers
direct to the Illinois office. In the first of these cases the
Court sustained the collection from the seller of the
California use tax. In the second we upheld on the authority of McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra, the
imposition by New York City of its sales tax on those
purchases.
We do not see how these cases can stand if the Class E
sales are to be exempt on constitutional grounds from the
present tax. Indeed the transactions in Class E have
fewer interstate attributes than those in the Felt & Tarrant Co. cases since the agreements to sell were made in
Indiana, both buyer and seller were in Indiana, and payments were made in Indiana. It is of course true that in
the Felt & TarrantCo. cases taxes of different names were
involved. But we are dealing in this field with matters
of substance, not with dialectics. Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., supra. In this case as in the foregoing sales
tax cases the taxable transaction is at the final stage of
an interstate movement and the tax is on the gross receipts from an interstate transaction. In form the use
tax is different since it is levied on intrastate use after
the completion of an interstate sale. But we recognized
in the Berwind-White case that in that setting the New
York sales tax and the California use tax had "no different
effect upon interstate commerce." 309 U. S. p. 49. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

see Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., supra. The same is
true of this Indiana tax as applied to the Class E sales.
There is the same practical equivalence whether the tax
is on the selling or the buying phase of the transaction.
See Powell, New Light On Gross Receipts Taxes, 53 Harv.
L. Rev. 909, 929. Each is in substance an imposition of a
tax on the transfer of property. In light of our recent
decisions it could hardly be held that Indiana lacked constitutional authority to impose a sales tax or a use tax on
these transactions. But if that is true, a constitutional
difference is not apparent when a "gross receipts" tax is
utilized instead.
Here as in case of the other classes of sales there is no
discrimination against interstate commerce. The consummation of the transaction was an event within the
borders of Indiana which gave it authority to levy the
tax on the gross receipts from the sales. And that event
was distinct from the interstate movement of the goods
and took place after the interstate journey ended.
Much is said, however, of double taxation, particularly
with reference to the Class D sales. It is argued that appellants will in all probability be subjected to the Illinois
Retailers' Occupation Tax for some of those sales, since
that tax is said to be exacted from those doing a retail
business in Illinois even though orders for the sales are accepted outside of Illinois and the property is transferred
in another State.' But it will be time to cross that bridge
when we come to it. For example, in the Wood Preserving Corp. case the State to which the purchaser took the
ties might also have sought to tax the transaction by levying a use tax. But we did not withhold the hand of Indiana's tax collector on that account. Nor is the problem
like that of an attempted tax on the gross proceeds of an
interstate sale by both the State of the buyer and the
State of the seller. Cf. Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, supra.
. See L. Ill.
1943, p. 1121, § 1 b, amending L. Il. 1933, p. 924.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 349
340

RUTLEDGE, J.

We only hold that where a State seeks to tax gross receipts from interstate transactions consummated within
its borders its power to do so cannot be withheld on constitutional grounds where it treats wholly local transactions the same way. Such "local activities or privileges"
(McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra, p. 58) are as
adequate to support this tax as they would be to support a
sales tax. To deny Indiana this power would be to make
local industry suffer a competitive disadvantage.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JAcKsoN

MR. JusTicE ROBERTS

dissents.

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, concurring in No. 355 (this
case) and No. 441, ante, p. 335, and dissenting in No. 311,
ante, p. 327:
These three cases present in various applications the
question of the power of a state to tax transactions having
a close connection with interstate commerce.
In No. 311, McLeod v. J. E. Dilworth Co., ante, p. 327,
Arkansas has construed its tax to be a sales tax, but has
held this cannot be applied where a Tennessee corporation,
having its home office and place of business in Memphis,
solicits orders in Arkansas, by mail, telephone or sending
solicitors regularly from Tennessee, accepts the orders in
Memphis, and delivers the goods there to the carrier for
shipment to the purchaser in Arkansas. This Court holds
the tax invalid, because "the sale-the transfer of ownership-was made in Tennessee. For Arkansas to impose
a tax on such transaction would be to project its powers
beyond its boundaries and to tax an interstate transaction." Though an Arkansas "use tax" might be sustained in the same situation, "we are not dealing with
matters of nomenclature even though they be matters of
nicety." And the case is thought to be different from the

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE, J.

322 U. S.

Berwind-White case, 309 U. S. 33, where New York City
levied the tax, because, in the Arkansas court's language,
"the corporation maintained its sales office in New York
City, took its contracts in New York City and made actual
delivery in New York City ...
On the other hand, in No. 441, General Trading Co. v.
State Tax Commission, ante, p. 335, Iowa applies its "use
tax" to a transaction in which a Minnesota corporation
ships goods from Minnesota, its only place of business, to
Iowa purchasers on orders solicited in Iowa by salesmen
sent there regularly from Minnesota for that purpose, the
orders being accepted in Minnesota. This tax the Court
sustains. While "no State can tax the privilege of doing
interstate business, . . . the mere fact that property is

used for interstate commerce or has come into an owner's
possession as a result of interstate commerce does not
diminish the protection which it may draw from a State
to the upkeep of which it may be asked to bear its fair
share. But a fair share precludes legislation obviously
hostile or practically discriminatory toward interstate
commerce. . . . None of these infirmities affects the tax
in this case. . . ." And the foreign or nonresident seller

who does no more than solicit orders in Iowa, as the Tennessee seller does in Arkansas, may be made the state's tax
collector.
In No. 355, International Harvester Co. v. Dept. of
Treasury, ante, p. 340, the state applies its gross income
tax, among other situations, to one (Class D) where a
foreign corporation authorized to do and doing business
in Indiana sells and delivers its product in Indiana to
out-of-state customers who come into the state for the
transaction. The Court sustains the tax as applied.
I.
For constitutional purposes, I see no difference but one
of words and possibly one of the scope of coverage between
the Arkansas tax in No. 311 and the Iowa tax in No. 441.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 351
340

RUTLEDGE,

J.

This is true whether the issue is one of due process or
one of undue burden on interstate commerce. Each tax is
imposed by the consuming state. On the records here,
each has a due process connection with the transaction in
that fact and in the regular, continuous solicitation there.
Neither lays a greater burden on the interstate business
involved than it does on wholly intrastate business of the
same sort. Neither segregates the interstate transaction
for separate or special treatment. In each instance
therefore interstate and intrastate business reach these
markets on identical terms, so far as the effects of the state
taxes are concerned.
And in my opinion they do so under identical material
circumstances. In both cases the sellers are "nonresidents" of the taxing state, foreign corporations. Neither
seller maintains an office or a place of business there. Each
has these facilities solely in the state of origin. In both
cases the orders are taken by solicitors sent regularly to
the taxing state for that purpose. In both the orders are
accepted at the home office in the state of origin. And in
both the goods are shipped by delivery to the carrier or
the post in the state of origin for carriage across the state
line and delivery by it to the purchaser in his taxing
state.
In the face of such identities in connections and effects,
it is hard to see how one tax can be upheld and the other
voided. Surely the state's power to tax is not to turn on
the technical legal effect, relevant for other purposes but
not for this, that "title passes" on delivery to the carrier
in Memphis and may or may not so pass, so far as the
record shows, when the Minnesota shipment is made to
Iowa. In the absence of other and more substantial difference, that irrelevant technical consideration should not
control. However it may be determined for locating the
incidence of loss in transit or other questions arising among
buyer, seller and carrier, for purposes of taxation that

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE, J.

322 U. S.

factor alone is a will-o'-the-wisp, insufficient to crux a due
process connection from selling to consuming state and
incapable of increasing or reducing any burden the tax
may place upon the interstate transaction.
The only other difference, is in the terms used by Iowa
and Arkansas, respectively, to describe their taxes. For
reasons of her own Arkansas describes her tax as a "sales
tax." Iowa calls hers a "use tax." This court now is committed to the validity of "use" taxes: Henneford v. Silas
Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577; Felt & TarrantManufacturing
Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 62; Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck &
Co., 312 U. S. 359; Nelson v. Montgomery Ward & Co.,
312 U. S. 373. Similarly, "sales taxes" on "interstate
sales" have been sustained. In McGoldrick v. BerwindWhite Coal Mining Co., 309 U. S. 33, such a tax applied by
the state of the market was upheld. Compare Banker
Brothers Co. v. Pennsylvania,222 U. S. 210; Wiloil Corp.
v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 169. Other things being the
same, constitutionality should not turn on whether one
name or the other is applied by the state. Wisconsin v.
J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435. The difference may be
important for the scope of the statute's application, that
is, whether it is intended to apply to some transactions but
not to others that are within reach of the state's taxing power. It hardly can determine whether the power
exists.
II.
The Court's different treatment of the two taxes does
not result from any substantial difference in the facts
under which they are levied or the effects they may have
on interstate trade. It arises rather from applying different constitutional provisions to the substantially identical taxes, in the one case to invalidate that of Arkansas,
in the other to sustain that of Iowa. Due process destroys
the former. Absence of undue burden upon interstate
commerce sustains the latter.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 353
340

RUTLEDGE, J.

It would seem obvious that neither tax of its own force
can impose a greater burden upon the interstate transaction to which it applies than it places upon the wholly
local trade of the same character with which that transaction competes. By paying the Arkansas tax the Tennessee seller will pay no more than an Arkansas seller of
the same goods to the same Arkansas buyer; and the latter
will pay no more to the Tennessee seller than to an Arkansas vendor, on account of the tax, in absorbing its burden.
The same thing is true of the Iowa tax in its incidence upon
the sale by the Minnesota vendor. The cases are not different in the burden the two taxes place upon the interstate transactions. Nor in my opinion are they different
in the existence of due process to sustain the taxes.
"Due process" and "commerce clause" conceptions are
not always sharply separable in dealing with these problems. Cf. e. g., Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 1. To some extent they overlap. If there is a
want of due process to sustain the tax, by that fact alone
any burden the tax imposes on the commerce among the
states becomes "undue." But, though overlapping, the
two conceptions are not identical. There may be more
than sufficient factual connections, with economic and
legal effects, between the transaction and the taxing state
to sustain the tax as against due process objections. Yet
it may fall because of its burdening effect upon the commerce. And, although the two notions cannot always be
separated, clarity of consideration and of decision would
be promoted if the two issues are approached, where they
are presented, at least tentatively as if they were separate
and distinct, not intermingled ones.
Thus, in the case from Arkansas no more than in that
from Iowa should there be difficulty in finding due process
connections with the taxing state sufficient to sustain the
tax. As in the Iowa case, the goods are sold and shipped
to Arkansas buyers. Arkansas is the consuming state,

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J.

322 U. S.

the market these goods seek and find. They find it by
virtue of a continuous course of solicitation there by the
Tennessee seller. The old notion that "mere solicitation" is not "doing business" when it is regular, continuous and persistent is fast losing its force. In the General
Trading case it loses force altogether, for the Iowa statute
defines this process in terms as "a retailer maintaining a
place of business in this state."' The Iowa Supreme
Court sustains the definition and this Court gives effect
to its decision in upholding the tax. Fiction the definition may be; but it is fiction with substance because, for
every relevant constitutional consideration affecting taxation of transactions, regular, continuous, persistent solicitation has the same economic, and should have the
same legal, consequences as does maintaining an office for
soliciting and even contracting purposes or maintaining a
place of business, where the goods actually are shipped
into the state from without for delivery to the particular
buyer. There is no difference between the Iowa and the
Arkansas situations in this respect. Both involve continuous, regular, and not intermittent or casual courses of
solicitation. Both involve the shipment of goods from
without to a buyer within the state. Both involve taxation by the state of the market. And if these substantial
connections are sufficient to underpin the tax with due
process in the one case, they are also in the other.
That is true, if labels are not to control, unless something which happens or may happen outside the taxing
state operates in the one case to defeat the jurisdiction,
but does not defeat it in the other.
As I read the Court's opinion, though it does not explicitly so state, the Arkansas tax falls because Tennessee
could tax the transaction and, as between the two states,
has exclusive power to do so. This is because "the salethe transfer of ownership-was made in Tennessee."
I Cf. Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., 134 F. 2d 511 (App. D. C.).

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 355
340

RUTLEDGE,

J.

Arkansas- relation to the transaction is constitutionally
different from that of New York in the Berwind-White
case, though both are the state of the market, because the
Berwind-White Company "maintained its sales office in
New York City, took its contracts in New York City
and made actual delivery in New York City." This "constituted a sale in New York and accordingly we sustained
a retail sales tax by New York." So here the company's
"offices are maintained in Tennessee, the sale is made in
Tennessee, and the delivery is consummated either in
Tennessee or in interstate commerce. . . ." The inevitable conclusion, it seems to me, is that the Court is deciding not only that Arkansas cannot tax the transaction,
but that Tennessee can tax it and is the only state which
can do so. To put the matter shortly, Arkansas cannot
levy the tax because Tennessee can levy it. Hence "for
Arkansas to impose a tax on such transaction would be
to project its powers beyond its boundaries and to tax an
interstate transaction."
This statement of the matter appears to be a composite
of due process and commerce clause ideas. If so, it is hard
to see why the same considerations do not nullify Iowa's
power to levy her tax in the identical circumstances and
vest exclusive jurisdiction in Minnesota to tax these transactions. For in the Iowa case the selling corporation
maintains its office and place of business in Minnesota, accepts the orders there, and the delivery, which is to carrier
or post, is consummated, so far as the record shows, exactly
in the manner it is made in the Tennessee-Arkansas
transaction. If these facts nullify Arkansas' power to tax
the transaction by vesting exclusive jurisdiction in Tennessee, it would seem a fortiori they would nullify Iowa's
power and give Minnesota exclusive jurisdiction to tax
the transactions there involved. Unless the sheer difference in the terms "sale" and "use," and whatever difference these might make as a matter of legislative selec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J.

322 U. S.

tion of the transactions which are to bear the tax, are to
control upon the existence of the power to tax, the result
should be the same in both cases.
Merely as a matter of due process, it is hard to see why
any of the four states cannot tax the transactions these
cases involve. Each has substantial relations and connections with the transaction, the state of market not less
in either case than the state of origin. It "sounds better"
for the state of origin to call its tax a "sales tax" and the
state of market to name its tax a "use tax." But in the
Berwind-White case the latter's "sales tax" was sustained,
where it is true more of the incidents of sale conjoined
with the location of the place of market than do in either
No. 311 or No. 441. If this is the distinguishing factor, as
it might be for selecting one of the two connected jurisdictions for exclusive taxing power, it is not one which applies
to either of these transactions. The identity is not between the Dilworthcase and Berwind-White. It is rather
between Dilworth and General Trading, with BerwindWhite differing from both. And, so far as due process
alone is concerned, it should make no difference whether
the tax in the one case is laid by Arkansas or Tennessee
and in the other by Iowa or Minnesota. Each state has
a sufficiently substantial and close connection with the
transaction, whether by virtue of tax benefits conferred
in general police protection and otherwise or on account
of ideas of territorial sovereignty concerning occurrence of
"taxable incidents" within its borders, to furnish the due
process foundation necessary to sustain the exercise of
its taxing power. Whether it exerts this by selecting for
"impingement" of the tax some feature or incident of the
transaction which it denominates "sale" or "use" is both
illusory and unimportant in any bearing upon its constitutional authority as a matter of due process. If this has
any substantive effect, it is merely one of legislative intent in selecting the transactions to bear the tax and thus

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 357
340

RUTLEDGE, J.

fixing the scope of its coverage, not one of constitutional
power. "Use" may cover more transactions with which
a state has due process connections than "sale." But
whenever sale occurs and is taxed the tax bears equally,
in final incidence of burden, upon the use which follows
immediately upon it.
The great difficulty in allocating taxing power as a
matter of due process between the state of origin and the
state of market arises from the fact that each state, considered without reference to the other, always has a sufficiently substantial relation in fact and in tax benefit conferred to the interstate transaction to sustain an exertion
of its taxing power, a fact not always recognized. And
from this failure, as well as from the terms in which statutes not directed specifically to reaching these transactions
are cast, comes the search for some "taxable incident taking place within the state's boundaries" as a hook for hanging constitutionality under due process ideas. "Taxable
incident" there must be. But to take what is in essence
and totality an interstate transaction between a state of
origin and one of market and hang the taxing power of
either state upon some segmented incident of the whole
and declare that this does or does not "tax an interstate
transaction" is to do two things. It is first to ignore that
any tax hung on such an incident is levied on an interstate
transaction. For the part cannot be separated from the
whole. It is also to ignore the fact that each state, whether
of origin or of market, has by that one fact alone a relation to the whole transaction so substantial as to nullify
any due process prohibition. Whether the tax is levied
on the "sale" or on the "use," by the one state or by the
other, it is in fact and effect a tax levied on an interstate
transaction. Nothing in due process requirements prohibits either state to levy either sort of tax on such transactions. That Tennessee therefore may tax this transaction by a sales tax does not, in any proper conception of
due process, deprive Arkansas of the same power.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J.

322 U. S.

III.

When, however, the issue is turned from due process to
the prohibitive effect of the commerce clause, more substantial considerations arise from the fact that both the
state of origin and that of market exert or may exert their
taxing powers upon the interstate transaction. The. long
history of this problem boils down in general statement to
the formula that the states, by virtue of the force of the
commerce clause, may not unduly burden interstate commerce. This resolves itself into various corollary formulations. One is that a state may not single out interstate
commerce for special tax burden. McGoldrick v. BerwindWhite Coal Mining Co., 309 U. S. 33, 55-56. Nor may it
discriminate against interstate commerce and in favor of
its local trade. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. at 275; Guy
v. Baltimore,100 U. S. 434; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62.
Again, the state may not impose cumulative burdens upon
interstate trade or commerce. Gwin, White & Prince v.
Henneford, 305 U. S. 434; Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304

U. S. 307. Thus, the state may not impose certain taxes
on interstate commerce, its incidents or instrumentalities,
which are no more in amount or burden than it places on
its local business, not because this of itself is discriminatory, cumulative or special or would violate due process,
but because other states also may have the right constitutionally, apart from the commerce clause, to tax the same
thing and either the actuality or the risk of their doing so
makes the total burden cumulative, discriminatory or
special.2
In these interstate transactions cases involving taxation
by the state of origin or that of market, the trouble arises,
under the commerce clause, not from any danger that
either tax taken alone, whether characterized as "sales" or
2

Cf.

the opinion of the Chief Justice in Northwest Airlines v. Min-

nesota, ante, p. 308.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 359
340

RUTLEDGE,

J.

"use" tax, will put interstate trade at a disadvantage
which will burden unduly its competition with the local
trade. So long as only one tax is applied and at the same
rate as to wholly local transactions, no unduly discriminatory clog actually attaches to the interstate transaction of
business.
The real danger arises most obviously when both stabes
levy the tax. Thus, if in the instant cases it were shown
that, on the one hand, Arkansas and Iowa actually were
applying a "use" tax and Tennessee and Minnesota a
"sales" tax, so that in each case the interstate transaction
were taxed at both ends, the heavier cumulative burden
thus borne by the interstate business in comparison with
the local trade in either state would be obvious. If in each
case the state of origin were shown to impose a sales tax
of three per cent and the state of market a use tax of the
same amount, interstate transactions between the two
obviously would bear double the local tax burden borne
by local trade in each state. This is a difference of substance, not merely one of names, relevant to the problem
created by the commerce clause, though not to that of
"jurisdiction" under due process conceptions. And the
difference would be no less substantial if the taxes levied
by both the state of origin and that of market were called
"sales" taxes or if, indeed, both were called "use" taxes.
The Iowa tax in No. 441 avoids this problem by allowing
credit for any sales tax shown to be levied upon the transaction whether in Iowa or elsewhere. Clearly therefore
that tax cannot in fact put the interstate transaction at
a tax disadvantage with local trade done in Iowa or
elsewhere.'
However, the Arkansas tax in No. 311 provides for no
such credit. But in that case there is no showing that
Tennessee actually imposes any tax upon the transaction.
8Cf. text infra at note 4 et aeq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J.

322 U. S.

If there is a burden or clog on commerce, therefore, it arises
from the fact that Tennessee has power constitutionally to
impose a tax, may exercise it, and when this occurs the
cumulative effect of both taxes will be discriminatorily
burdensome, though neither tax singles out the transaction or bears upon it more heavily than upon the local
trade to which it applies. In short, the risk of multiple
taxation creates the unconstitutional burden which actual
taxation by both states would impose in fact.
In my opinion this is the real question and the only one
presented in No. 311. And in my judgment it is determined the wrong way, not on commerce clause grounds
but upon an unsustainable application of the due process
prohibition.
Where the cumulative effect of two taxes, by whatever
name called, one imposed by the state of origin, the other
by the state of market, actually bears in practical effect
upon such an interstate transaction, there is no escape
under the doctrine of undue burden from one of two possible alternatives. Either one tax must fall or, what is
the same thing, be required to give way to the other by
allowing credit as the Iowa tax does, or there must be
apportionment. Either solution presents an awkward alternative. But one or the other must be accepted unless
that doctrine is to be discarded and one of two extreme
positions taken, namely, that neither state can tax the
interstate transaction or that both may do so until Congress intervenes to give its solution for the problem. It is
too late to accept the former extreme, too early even if it
were clearly desirable or permissible to follow the latter.
As between apportionment and requiring one tax to
fall or allow credit, the latter perhaps would be the preferable solution. And in my opinion it is the one which the
Court in effect, though not in specific statement, adopts.

HARVESTER CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY. 361
340

RUTLEDGE, J.

That the decision is cast more largely in terms of due process than in those of the commerce clause does not nullify
that effect.
If in this case it were necessary to choose between the
state of origin and that of market for the exercise of exclusive power to tax, or for requiring allowance of credit
in order to avoid the cumulative burden, in my opinion
the choice should lie in favor of the state of market rather
than the state of origin.' The former is the state where
the goods must come in competition with those sold
locally. It is the one where the burden of the tax necessarily will fall equally on both classes of trade. To choose
the tax of the state of origin presents at least some possibilities that the burden it imposes on its local trade, with
which the interstate traffic does not compete, at any rate
directly, will be heavier than that placed by the consuming
state on its local business of the same character. If therefore choice has to be made, whether as a matter of exclusive power to tax or as one of allowing credit, it should be
in favor of the state of market or consumption as the one
most certain to place the same tax load on both the interstate and competing local business. Hence, if the risk of
taxation by both states may be said to have the same constitutional consequences, under the commerce clause, as
taxation in actuality by both, the Arkansas tax, rather
than the power of Tennessee to tax, should stand.
It may be that the mere risk of double taxation would
not have the same consequences, given always of course a
sufficient due process connection with the taxing states,
that actual double taxation has, or may have, for applica4

Cf. Powell, New Light on Gross Receipts Taxes (1940) 53 Harv.
L. Rev. 909; Lockhart, The Sales Tax in Interstate Commerce (1939)
52 Harv. L. Rev. 617; compare Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford,
305 U. S. 434; Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307.
587770.-45-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J.

322 U. S.

tion of the commerce clause prohibition. Risk of course
is not irrelevant to burden or to the clogging effect the rule

against undue burden is intended to prevent. But in these
situations it may be doubted, on entirely practical
grounds, that the mere risk Tennessee may apply its taxing
power to these transactions will have any substantial
effect in restraining the commerce such as the actual application of that power would have. In any event,
whether or not the choice must be made now or, as I think,
has been made, it should go in favor of Arkansas, not
Tennessee.
For all practical purposes Indiana's gross income tax in
No. 355 may be regarded as either a sales tax or a use tax
laid in the state of market, comparable in all respects
(except in words) to the Arkansas tax laid in No. 311 and
to the Iowa tax imposed in No. 441, except that here the
seller as well as the buyer does business and concludes the
transaction in Indiana, the state of the market. This is
clearly true of Classes C and E. It is true also of Class D,
in my opinion, although the buyer there resided in Illinois
but went to Indiana to enter into the transaction and take
delivery of the goods. That he at once removed them, on
completion of the transaction there, to Illinois, intended
to do this from the beginning and this fact may have been
known to the seller, does not take from the transaction
its character as one entered into and completed in Indiana.
Whether or not Illinois, in these circumstances, could impose a use tax or some other as a property tax is not presented and need not be determined. If the Arkansas and
Iowa taxes stand, or either does, a fortiori the Indiana tax
stands in these applications.
Accordingly, I concur in the decisions in Nos. 441 and
355, but dissent from the decision in No. 311.

