OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

UNION BROKERAGE CO. v. JENSEN

322 U. S.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 291.

Argued February 1, 1944.-Decided May 8, 1944.

A statute of Minnesota denying to all foreign corporations the right
to maintain any action in the courts of the State unless they have
previously obtained a certificate of authority to do business within
the State, for which a filing fee of $5.00 plus an initial license fee of
$50.00 is exacted-held valid as applied to a federally licensed cus-

tomhouse broker whose business was localized in the State; and not in
conflict with existing federal laws and regulations relating to customhouse brokers or with the commerce clause of the Constitution.
Pp. 207, 212.
215 Minn. 207, 9 N. W. 2d 721, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 724, to review a judgment which,

reversing a judgment of the trial court, ordered dismissal
of a suit brought by a foreign corporation.
Mr. Leonard Eriksson for petitioner.
Mr. Ordner T. Bundlie for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought in one of the lower courts of
Minnesota by the Union Brokerage Company against
Jensen and Rime for breach of fiduciary obligations in
relation to Union's business, that of customhouse brokerage. The only defense to the suit with which we are concerned is the alleged disability of Union to resort to
Minnesota's courts for want of compliance with her laws
governing the transaction of business in the State as a
foreign corporation. Minn. L. 1935, c. 200, Minn. Stat.
1941, c. 303. The Supreme Court of Minnesota sustained
this defense, reversed the judgment in favor of the peti-

UNION BROKERAGE CO. v. JENSEN.
202

203

Opinion of the Court.

tioner, and ordered the suit dismissed. 215 Minn. 207,
9 N. W. 2d 721. We brought the case here to determine
the important question whether enforcement of the
Minnesota Foreign Corporation Act in this situation
runs counter to federal law pertaining to customhouse
brokers or is barred by the Commerce Clause. 320
U. S. 724.
Another claim that state authority must yield to controlling federal authority over interstate and foreign
It becomes necessary
commerce is thus presented.
therefore to ascertain precisely what demand the State
has here made, in relation to what transactions or activity it is making such demand, in what way federal
authority has regulated such transactions or activity,
and, finally, whether the Commerce Clause by its own
force, in case federal law has not actually taken control,
excludes the State from the exercise of the power it has
here asserted.
For many years the petitioner, a North Dakota corporation, conducted a customhouse brokerage business at
Portal, North Dakota, a port of entry from Canada by way
of the Canadian Pacific Railway. In July, 1940, the Canadian Pacific re-routed most of its shipments whereby they
no longer entered the United States through Portal but
came through Noyes, Minnesota, with the result that
more than 90% of Union's business was diverted from
Portal. After November, 1940, at which time respondent
Jensen resigned as officer of Union under circumstanccs
giving rise to this suit, Union began to do business at
Noyes and was doing business in Minnesota when it
brought this suit. We shall outline the nature of this
customhouse brokerage business only so far as is relevant
to a consideration of our problem.
On goods shipped from Canada into this country the
consignee of imported merchandise must "make entry" of

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

them at the office of the collector of customs at Noyes
either in person or by an authorized agent, and this must
be done within forty-eight hours of the report of the
vehicle which carried the goods unless the collector extends the time. Tariff Act of 1930, 46 Stat. 590, 722, 52
Stat. 1083, 19U. S. C. § 1484 (a). To make entry, the contents and value of the shipment must be declared and the
tariff estimated, and the production of a certified invoice
and a bill of lading is generally required. 19 U. S. C.
§ 1484 (b) (c) (e) (g). Speed in making entry is vital,
because goods cannot proceed to their ultimate destination until its completion. Apart from the fact that
importers cannot always or even often make entries in person, the procedure makes demands upon skill and experience. The specialist in these services is the customhouse
broker. In addition, he advances the duty in order that
the goods may be cleared. 19 U. S. C. § 1505. The
competence of the broker also bears on the efficient collection of customs duties in that the likelihood of additional
assessment or refund after final determination of the duty
is greatly lessened by accuracy in the tentative computation. But since errors and differences of opinion are inevitable, to insure collection of deficiencies the Government requires a bond prior to release. 19 U. S. C. § 1499;
19 Code Fed. Reg. § 6.27.
The business of customhouse brokers, it is apparent,
demands a sense of responsibility and skill. To protect
importers as well as the Treasury, Congress has authorized
the Secretary of the Treasury to "prescribe rules and regulations governing the licensing as customhouse brokers
of citizens of the United States of good moral character,
and of corporations, associations, and partnerships, and
may require as a condition to the granting of any license,
the showing of such facts as he may deem advisable as to
the qualifications of the applicant to render valuable serv-

UNION BROKERAGE CO. v. JENSEN.
202

205

Opinion of the Court.

ice to imp6rters and exporters." 46 Stat. 759, 19 U. S. C.
§ 1641 (a). Elaborate regulations define the investigation
to be made of the character and reputation of the applicant and his experience in customs matters. 31A
Code Fed. Reg. § 11.3 (b). The applicant is then directed
to appear before an examining subcommittee which determines the "applicant's knowledge of customs law and procedure and his fitness to render valuable service to importers and exporters." 31A Code Fed. Reg. § 11.3 (e) (f).
On approval of a favorable report of the subcommittee by
the Committee on Enrollment and Disbarment of the
Treasury Department, a license issues. 31A Code Fed.
Reg. §§ 11.3 (f) (g), 11.4. "A licensed customhouse
broker requires no further enrollment under the regulations in this part for the transaction, within the customs
districts in which he is licensed, of any business relating
specifically to the importation or exportation of merchandise under customs or internal-revenue laws." 31A
Code Fed. Reg. § 11.5.
Union's license authorizes it to do business in District
No. 34 which embraces both Portal, North Dakota, and
Noyes, Minnesota. 19 Code Fed. Reg. § 1.2. The regulations require it to keep records of its financial transactions
as customhouse broker, and its books and papers must be
kept on file available for at least five years. 31A Code
Fed. Reg. § 11.8. Business relations with those who have
been denied a license because of moral turpitude or those
whose license has been revoked are prohibited, and the
licensee is under a duty not to promote evasion of obligations to the Government. Prompt payment and accounting of funds due to the Government or his client axe required of the broker, and responsible and ethical conduct is
generally enjoined. 31A Code Fed. Reg. § 11.9.
Does this scheme of federal regulation of the business of
customhouse brokers preclude the requirement of Minne-

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

sota legislation which the Supreme Court of that State
has enforced against Union? This brings us to a consideration of the precise demand against which Union protests.
Minnesota has not singled out the customhouse brokerage
business for legislation nor has she made requirements of
foreign corporations doing customhouse brokerage business. What is in controversy is the applicability of a general law of Minnesota dealing with all foreign corporations.
More specifically, § 20 of the Minnesota Foreign Corporation Act requires a certificate of any foreign corporation
doing business in the State as a prerequisite for maintaining an action in a court of that State. In addition a filing
fee of five dollars and initial license fee of fifty dollars is
exacted on making application for a certificate of authority. §§ 21 (a) (1), 6. Such an application must contain
the name of the corporation, its home state or country, the
address of its principal office and that of its proposed registered office in Minnesota, the names and addresses of its
directors and officers, a statement of its aggregate number
of authorized shares and kindred information. § 5. The
applicant must furthermore consent to the service of process upon it and appoint an agent upon whom service can
be made, and in lieu of such appointment or if the agent
cannot be found, service may be made upon the Secretary
of State. §§ 5 (6), 13 (a) (2). A foreign corporation
doing business in Minnesota without a certificate of authority is subject to a penalty not exceeding $1,000 and
"an additional penalty not exceeding $100.00 for each
month or fraction thereof during which it shall continue to
transact business in this state without a certificate of authority therefor." § 20 (c). Having obtained such a certificate, the corporation is required to file annual reports
on the basis of which an annual fee is assessed. The measure of the fee is substantially the same as that set for
domestic corporations but in its computation the property

UNION BROKERAGE CO. v. JENSEN.
202

207

Opinion of the Court.

and gross receipts of a foreign corporation are allocated
between those derived from within and those derived
from without Minnesota and credit is given for the latter.
§ 15; cf. Minn. L. 1935, c. 230, § 2.
We have before us only one narrow aspect of this Minnesota legislation, namely the power of Minnesota to
deny to Union access to its courts because it has not obtained a certificate required of all foreign corporations
doing business in the State. We have not before us the
taxing power of Minnesota over such a business as that of
Union, for *we do not know the extent or nature of the
power to tax that Minnesota would claim against Union.
Of course Minnesota could not deny access to its courts
to Union merely because it is engaged in the customs
brokerage business. See Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1, and Douglas v. New York, N. H. & H.
R. Co., 279 U. S. 377. But the limited and defined control which federal authority has thus far seen fit to assert
over customhouse brokers does not deny to Minnesota
the power to subject Union to the same demand which
it makes of all other foreign corporations seeking the
facilities of Minnesota's courts. The federal requirements and this state requirement can move freely within
the orbits of their respective purposes without impinging
upon one another. The federal regulations are concerned
solely with the relations of the customhouse broker to
the United States and to the importer and exporter. The
limited federal supervision of the financial activities of
Union is restricted to these federal interests. Such supervision does not touch the interest of the State in the protection of those who have other dealings with Union, and
therefore does not preempt appropriate means for their
protection.
In a situation like the present, where an enterprise
touches different and not common interests between Na-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

tion and State, our task is that of harmonizing these interests without sacrificing either. The proper attitude of
mind for making such an accommodation is illustrated by
FederalCompress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17. The Tariff
Act of 1930 in this case, as the Warehousing Act in that
case, confers upon licensees certain privileges, and secures
to the Federal Government by means of these licensing
provisions a measure of control over those engaged in the
customhouse brokerage business. But such circumscribed control by the Federal Government does not imply immunity from control by the State within the sphere
of its special interests. "The government exercises that
control in the furtherance of a governmental purpose to
secure fair and uniform business practices. But the appellant, in the enjoyment of the privilege, is engaged in
its own behalf, not the government's, in the conduct of a
private business for profit." Federal Compress Co. v.
McLean, supra at 22-23. The state and federal regulations here applicable have their separate spheres of operation. The Federal Government has dealt with the manner
in which customhouse brokerage is carried on. Minnesota, however, is legitimately concerned with safeguarding the interests of its own people in business dealings
with corporations not of its own chartering but who do
business within its borders. Union's business is localized
in Minnesota., it buys materials and services from people
in that State, it enters into business relationships, as this
case, a suit against its former president, illustrates, wholly
outside of the arrangements it makes with importers or
exporters. To safeguard responsibility in all such dealings, dealings quite outside transactions immediately
connected with import and export, Minnesota has
made the same exactions of Union as of every other foreign corporation engaged in similar transactions. The
Federal Government has recognized that there is such a

UNION BROKERAGE CO. v. JENSEN.
202

209

Opinion of the Court.

proper field for state regulation complementary to federal regulation, for the Treasury has provided that "a
licensee having a license in force in one district may on
application to the Committee be granted a license to
transact business n another district without further examination, provided it appears on investigation that the
licensee is authorized to do business in the State or States
in which such other district is situated." 31A Code Fed.
Reg. § 11.6. Those who are responsible for protecting
the interests of the revenue as well as of commerce have
thus given emphatic indication that a State has a legitimate interest jn the regulation of those engaged in the
brokerage business within its borders. Where the Government has provided for collaboration the courts should
not find conflict. See Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, and
Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1.
This brings us to the final question. Does the Minnesota legislation do that which the Commerce Clause was
designed to prevent-does it express hostility toward
those engaged in foreign commerce or practically obstruct
its conduct? What we have said makes it abundantly
clear that the business of Union is related to the process
of foreign commerce. As the trial court found, the customhouse broker in clearing the shipments, "aids in the
collection of customs duties and facilitates the free flow
of commerce between a foreign country and the United
States." The fees exacted by customhouse brokers "are
charges upon the commerce itself"; they are charges for
services afforded in the movement of goods beyond the
boundaries of a State. See Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578, 591-2; Wickard v. Filburn, 317 U. S. 111,
122.
But the Commerce Clause does not cut the States off
from all legislative relation to foreign and interstate commerce. South CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros.,

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

303 U. S. 177; Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S.
250. Such commerce interpenetrates the States, and no
undisputed generality about the freedom of commerce
from state encroachment can delimit in advance the interacting areas of state and national power when Congress
has not by legislation foreclosed state action. The incidence of the particular state enactment must determine
whether it has transgressed the power left to the States to
protect their special state interests although it is related
to a phase of a more extensive commercial process.
The information here sought of all foreign corporations by Minnesota as a basis for granting them certificates to do business within her borders is a conventional
means of assuring responsibility and fair dealing on the
part of foreign corporations coming into a State. Apart
from any question of interference with foreign commerce
such a requirement is plainly within the regulatory power
of a State. But, as we have noted, while the business of
Union is that of a customhouse broker, its activities are
not confined to its services at the port of entry. It has
localized its business, and to function effectively it must
have a wide variety of dealings with the people in the
community. The same considerations that justify the
particular regulatory measure alone before us, namely the
requirement of a certificate of authority in the case of
foreign corporations carrying on business other than
customhouse brokerage, apply to the carrying on of
Union's business in Minnesota. The burden, such as it
is, falls on foreign businesses that commingle with Minnesota people, and the burden, a fee of fifty dollars, is sufficiently small fairly to represent the cost of governmental
supervision of foreign business enterprises coming into
Minnesota. In short, it is a supervisory and not a fiscal
measure. As such it imposes costs upon the State which

UNION BROKERAGE CO. v. JENSEN.
202

211

Opinion of the Court.

those who are supervised must, as is often the case, themselves pay. See Clyde Mallory Lines v. Alabama, 296
U. S. 261, 267.
We have considered literally scores of cases in which
the States have exerted authority over foreign corporations and in doing so have dealt with aspects of interstate
and foreign commerce. Whatever may be the generalities
to which these cases gave utterance and about which there
has been, on the whole, relatively little disagreement, the
fate of state legislation in these cases has not been determined by these generalities but by the weight of the circumstances and the practical and experienced judgment
in applying these generalities to the particular instances.
To review them to any extent would be writing the history of the adjudicatory process in relation to the Commerce Clause. Suffice it to say that we have not here a
case of a foreign corporation merely coming into Minnesota
to contribute to or to conclude a unitary interstate transaction, see InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.282, nor
of the State's withholding "the right to sue even in a
single instance until the corporation renders itself amenable to suit in all the courts of the State by whosoever
chooses to sue it there." Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235
U. S. 197, 205. The business of Union, we have seen, is
localized in Minnesota, and Minnesota, in the requirement
before us, merely seeks to regularize its conduct. Nor is
there here an attempt to tax property or gross receipts
earned outside the State, as was the case in Looney v.
Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178. In the absence of applicable
federal regulation, a State may impose non-discriminatory
regulations on those engaged in foreign commerce "for the
purpose of insuring the public safety and convenience;
a license fee no larger in amount than is reasonably

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U.S.

required to defray the expense of administering the regulations may be demanded." Sprout v. South Bend, 277
U. S. 163, 169.
The Commerce Clause does not deprive Minnesota of
the power to protect the special interest that has been
brought into play by Union's localized pursuit of its share
in the comprehensive process of foreign commerce. To
deny the States the power to protect such special interests
when Congress has not seen fit to exert its own legislative
power would be to give an immunity to detached aspects
of commerce unrelated to the objectives of the Commerce
Clause. By its own force that Clause does not imply
relief to those engaged in interstate or foreign commerce
from the duty of paying an appropriate share for the
maintenance of the various state governments. Nor does
it preclude a State from giving needful protection to its
citizens in the course of their contacts with businesses conducted by outsiders when the legislation by which this is
accomplished is general in its scope, is not aimed at interstate or foreign commerce, and involves merely burdens
incident to effective administration. And so we conclude
that in denying Union the right to go to her courts because
Union did not obtain a certificate to carry on its business
as required by the Foreign Corporation Act, Minnesota
offended neither federal legislation nor the Commerce
Clause.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

dissent.

and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

