UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
465

Syllabus.

ing the period specified for its exercise. Petitioner has
advanced no such theory and cites no authority which
would support it.
As we have said in the DeCastro case, the duty of the

Court of Appeals and of this Court to examine and appraise local law in cases brought for review from the insular courts cannot ordinarily be discharged summarily.
But full argument in this case has not developed any issue
of Puerto Rican law, or any question of the deference
rightly to be paid to the decisions of the highest court of
Puerto Rico, so substantial as to preclude the summary
disposition made of this case by the Court of Appeals.
Affirmed.

UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS CO. v. GLOBE OIL &
REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 392.

Argued March 3, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.

1. In resolving a conflict between Circuit Courts of Appeals which,
as to the same patent and upon substantially the same facts, reached
conflicting conclusions as to infringement, this Court will reexamine concurrent findings of the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. P. 473.
2. Patent No. 1,392,629, to Dubbs, for a process for producing gasoline and other lighter oils from heavy crude oils, held not infringed
by a process which, in the step corresponding to the B tubes of
Dubbs, relies upon substantial vaporization. P. 484.
'Without substantial vaporization" as used in the Dubbs patent means that the generation and release of vapors in the B tubes
is to be avoided so that the charge will enter the C tubes for cracking as nearly as may be in the liquid phase. P. 482.
3. Egloff Patent No. 1,537,593, for an improvement on the Dubbs
process for producing lighter from heavier oils, held invalid for want
of invention. P. 486.
137 F. 2d 3, affirmed.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

322 U. S.

320 U. S. 730, to review a judgment which,

on appeal from a judgment of the District Court, 40
F. Supp. 575, in a suit for infringement of patents, held
the patents not infringed.
Messrs. William Dwight Whitney and Charles M.
Thomas, with whom Messrs. William F. Hall and Frederick W. P. Lorenzen were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Thorley von Holst and J. BernhardThiess, with
whom Messrs. Sidney Neuman and Robert W. Poore were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner sued the respondent for infringement of
United States Patents No. 1,392,629, dated October 4,
1921, and No. 1,537,593, dated May 12, 1925. The former
was issued to Carbon P. Dubbs; the latter, to Gustav Egloff. These patents cover the Dubbs process for converting heavy crude oils to lighter oils, especially gasoline.
The claimed infringement arises from the respondent's use
for the purpose of such conversion of the "Winkler Koch
process" in apparatus designed and installed by the Winkler Koch Engineering Company. The district court dismissed the bill on findings of fact to the effect that Patent
No. 1,392,629 was valid but not infringed, and that Patent
No. 1,537,593 was invalid, without findings on the issue
of infringement.' The majority of the Circuit Court of
Appeals found both patents not infringed and did not pass
on their validity; Judge Lindley was of opinion that the
Dubbs patent was infringed but that both patents were
invalid.2 The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
1Universal Oil Products Co. v. Globe Oil & Refining Co., 40 F.
Supp. 575.
2 Universal Oil Products Co..v. Globe Oil & Refining Co., 137 F.
2d 3.

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

Opinion of the Court.

found the same patents to be valid and infringed by the
use of a process substantially similar to respondent's in
Root Refining Co. v. Universal Oil Products Co., 78 F.
2d 991. To resolve the conflict thus presented we granted
certiorari, 320 U. S. 730.
Where the questions presented by the contested claims
of infringement and validity are purely factual, this Court
ordinarily accepts the concurrent conclusions of the district court and Circuit Court of Appeals in these cases.
Goodyear Co. v. Ray-O-Vac Co., 321 U. S. 275. But in resolving conflicting views of two Circuit Courts of Appeals
as to a single patent, we are obliged to undertake an independent reexamination of the factual questions. Sanitary
RefrigeratorCo. v. Winters, 280 U. S. 30, 35-6.
The patents and the allegedly infringing process concern commercial methods for converting petroleum, as it
is found in nature, into the gasoline in everyday use as
motor fuel. The experts who testified in the district court
have stated some of the theoretical background of the
processes used, and a brief summary of this material may
facilitate understanding of the process involved.
Layman and chemist alike are of course familiar with
the conception of the atoms of "chemical elements" as the
basic building blocks of ordinary chemical compounds.'
The atoms of the "elements" have the capacity to combine
with the atoms of other elements to form the molecules
of "chemical compounds," whose properties seem to depend directly upon the nature of the molecule. In the
field of oil chemistry, the outstanding fact is the extraordinary ability of carbon and hydrogen to combine with
each other into molecules containing widely varying numbers of carbon atoms with different proportions of hydrogen atoms in an almost unlimited number of different
s This case does not require consideration of any theory as to the
internal character of the atom.
587770--45-34

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

structural arrangements. These combinations, generically termed hydrocarbons, are present in great variety
in crude oil.
The hydrocarbons differ widely from one another in
their physical properties, particularly in the property of
volatility, which is of prime importance in motor fuels. As
one might expect, the hydrocarbons composed of large
molecules with many carbon atoms are heavy, sluggish
liquids with relatively high boiling points; they are not
suitable for use as gasoline. Those with smaller molecules
are much more volatile-indeed, the very smallest are
gases at ordinary temperatures.
The initial step in the preparation of gasoline from
crude oil involves no molecular change; it consists merely
in separating the light hydrocarbons in the natural mixture from the heavy hydrocarbons. This step is accomplished by heating the oil until it vaporizes and then carrying the vapors through a device familiar to industrial
chemistry under the name of a fractionating tower. Such
a tower is in effect a series of condensers in which the vapor
mixture is cooled and the liquid condensate drawn off in
separate steps. First the high boiling point constituents,
reaching a liquid phase after relatively little cooling, are
condensed and withdrawn; this process is repeated on the
remaining constituents in successive steps as the vapors
cool, until there remain only those low boiling point hydrocarbons suitable for use as gasoline.
By fractional distillation alone, a typical sample of MidContinent crude oil might yield approximately 25% gasoline, 5-7% kerosene, 30% gas oil, and a balance of
38-40% fuel oil. The fraction remaining after the distillation of gasoline or gasoline and kerosene is termed
"topped crude."
For many years the commercial petroleum industry
carried the production of gasoline from crude oil no farther
than this initial step of separating it from the mixture.

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

475.

Opinion of the Court.

But with the introduction of the automobile, the demand
for gasoline increased rapidly, and it became necessary to
develop commercial apparatus for the conversion of heavy
hydrocarbon molecules to light hydrocarbon molecules
by the chemical process known as "cracking." ' Chemists
had long known that by heating the heavier hydrocarbons
to temperatures of the order of 750-900' Fahrenheit, it
was possible to decompose the heavy molecules into
lighter molecules with fewer carbon atoms, with the maximum decomposition resulting from fairly prolonged application of heat.' The breakdown of the heavy molecules
into lighter ones was accompanied, however, by a concurrent phenomenon-namely, the formation of even
heavier hydrocarbons and the deposit of solid matter
called "coke" or "carbon." Likewise, at the temperatures
used the oil boiled, and if the vapors were not released
(and they could not be if heat was to be applied for a
long period of time), high pressures developed in the still.
And as the cracking operation yielded products of increasing volatility, this pressure would, apparently, rise
as the reaction progressed.
The engineering problems involved in the reduction of
the laboratory knowledge of cracking to commercial practice were formidable, since the pressures and temperatures
employed carried severe risks of fire and explosion. The
first commercial process was introduced about 1913--the
so-called Burton process. Burton heated the charge-gas
oil-in a simple tank, or shell still. The tank was not
continuously fed; a charge of 8,250 gallons was pumped
into it and brought to a temperature of 700-750' over a
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 167.
'See
5
1t has been stated, however, that cracking is an almost instantaneous reaction in the vapor phase processes carried out at temperatures above 9500 F. See de Florez, Profits from Cracking in Vapor
Phase, XIX National Petroleum News No. 49 (Dec. 7, 1927), pp. 32,

33.

,476

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

period of some 12 hours under autogenous gas pressure of
75 pounds. The cracking operation was then continued
for 24 hours. The vapors liberated in the still were conducted through an inclined line to an aerial condenser,
where the heavier and less volatile vapors were liquefied
and drained back into the still through the same vapor
line, there to be mixed with the unvaporized residue and
subjected to further cracking. This first fraction of the
vapors was called "reflux condensate"; the unliquefied
vapors were carried to a second condenser and liquefied
as "pressure distillate," a liquid convertible by further
refining operations, not here relevant, to commercial
gasoline.
The coke deposited during cracking tended to cause uneven heating of the shell still, with resultant formation of
weak spots and danger of explosion. Consequently, it was
necessary to shut down the still after about 24 hours of
cracking to permit the coke to be cleaned out. The cleaning and pre-heating processes consumed about half the
operating time; the gasoline yield ranged only about
25-28% of the gas oil charge; and the menace of explosion
was serious. The Burton process was modified and improved somewhat in 1915 by the introduction of the Burton-Clark process, which differed in that it did not apply
heat directly to the shell still, but instead circulated the oil
in the still by convection through a separate heating coil.
This improvement increased the yield to some 30-32%.
The Burton-Clark process constituted the general industrial practice at the time of Dubbs' patent.
Chemical engineers in the refining industry were engaged in continuous research looking to the solution of
the coking problem and the development of a process
which might operate continuously, without wasteful
periodic shut-downs of expensive plant equipment. The
processes in suit are among the results of their efforts.
Dubbs Patent No. 1,392,629, the alleged infringement of
which forms the basis of this action, covers a process first

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

Opinion of the Court.

demonstrated in a pilot plant at Independence, Kansas, in
1919. The oil charge is fed through a nest of heated
tubes--called "B tubes"-about four inches in diametera heating process not unlike that used in Burton-Clark.
The heated oil is then delivered to tubes of about ten
inches diameter-"C tubes"-which are only partly filled
with liquid oil. The C tubes are insulated, but unheated
or only lightly heated to prevent the escape of heat by
radiation. Here the vapor generated as the result of heating and cracking passes from the liquid oil and is carried
to vapor line condensers of the same general kind used in
the Burton system. The first vapors to condense-that
is, the reflux condensate--are returned to the B tubes for
further heating and cracking; the lighter vapors are carried
to a second condenser to become gasoline. The unvaporized residue of liquids and suspended solid particles in the
C tubes is continuously withdrawn from the system; thus
only the light oils of the reflux condensate, which have but
a limited tendency to form coke, are recycled through the
B tubes. Such deposit of coke in the lightly heated C
tubes as occurs involves no marked danger of explosion,
and it precludes clogging of the smaller superheated B
tubes. Gas oil subjected to the Dubbs process has been
made to yield 40-50% gasoline, and continuous runs of
from ten to twenty days are usual.
In the commercial practice of the Dubbs patent, a
simple vapor separation tank usually takes the place of the
C tubes.
The points of similarity and dissimilarity to the BurtonClark process are worth noting. Burton-Clark subjected
to prolonged heating the unvaporized hydrocarbons as well
as the light reflux condensate. Since these heavy hydrocarbons have the greatest tendency to form still heavier
oils and to deposit carbon, their withdrawal from the apparatus was an important advance. The continuous feed
system of the Dubbs apparatus was also regarded as an

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

improvement on Burton's batch process. Burton-Clark
circulated through the heating tubes the heavy oils formed
during cracking; Dubbs permitted only a mixture of fresh
oil and reflux condensate to pass through, his furnace
coil.
The Egloff patent covers an improvement on the Dubbs
process.
As we pointed out at p. 474, supra, the initial step in
the separation of gasoline from crude oil is fractional distillation; then gas oil, -the fraction next below gasoline
and kerosene, is subjected to cracking in a special apparatus. The fuel oil fraction has such a strong tendency to
form very heavy hydrocarbons and coke that it is undesirable as a charge for the high-temperature heating coil in
the cracking systems.' What Egloff proposed was a relatively mild heating of the heavy oils in a separate furnace-thus fuel oil or topped crude might be used as a
charge. The temperature and pressure would be sufficient
to occasion a mild cracking; the vapors might then be
delivered to the same vapor separation tank used with the
high-temperature heating tubes, and the reflux condensate
from these vapors might be used as the charge for the hightemperature tubes. The substantial effect is to subject
fuel oil or topped crude, from which the charge for a Dubbs
plant was often separated by separate distillation, to a
distillation and mild cracking operation, using the vapor
separating tank and the condenser apparatus of the Dubbs
plant instead of using separate apparatus to prepare the
Dubbs charge.
The apparatus of respondent's Winkler-Koch process
closely resembles the apparatus of the Dubbs-Egloff system. Oil is heated in either the high-temperature or lowtemperature furnace, depending on the kind of oil used;
4
Fuel oil can be directly charged to a Dubbs system, but the run
must be greatly shortened.

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

Opinion of the Court.

the heated oil is delivered to a vapor separation tank; the
reflux condensate flows back to the high-temperature coil
for further cracking.
The differences between the processes, as distinguished
from the apparatus, are more marked. Dubbs taught the
heating of the oil charge in the B tubes "without substantial vaporization." Thus the illustrative run in the patent suggests the heating of oil to a temperature of 750' to
860' F., With a pressure of about 100 pounds to the square
inch, resulting from vaporization, maintained in both B
and C tubes. In the respondent's process, oil enters the
heating coils at a temperature of 5900 and leaves at a temperature of 940'; a pressure of 500 pounds to the square
inch is maintained in the heating coil. Some 85% of the
oil by weight and 95% by volume reaches a vapor phase
in the heating coils. The oil in mixed liquid and vapor
phase enters the vapor separation tank through a pressure
reduction valve, so that the pressure in the tank is 26
pounds as compared to the 500 pounds of the heating
coil.
The courts below believed that these differences were
sufficient to prevent the respondent's process from infringing the claims of the Dubbs patent. A typical claim
is Claim 5, as follows:
"5. A continuous process for cracking hydrocarbons
consisting in passing the same in a stream in an advancing
direction from an inlet point to a discharge point separated
and entirely disassociated from the inlet point, subjecting
the material in the first stage of its travel to a cracking
temperature while preventing substantial vaporization,
affording a vaporization space above the stream during the second stage of the travel thereof to said discharge point, taking off the vapors from said vapor space
and subjecting them to a condensing action, discharging
into the stream at a point remote from that where vaporization occurs a portion of the condensates and maintain-

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ing a vapor pressure on the material under treatment
during distillation and condensation."
It is apparent that the issue of infringement of the
Dubbs patent turns on the construction to be given the
words, "without substantial vaporization," as they are
used in the claim. The petitioner argues that what is
claimed is that there is no release of vapors from the liquid
in the B tubes; the respondent argues that it is meant
that no liquid oil passes into a vapor phase in the B tubes,
that is, that there is no vapor generation in the B tubes.
Either construction would be consistent with the operation of a cracking process. By applying sufficient pressure,
it is possible to prevent the generation of vapor from oil
even at the relatively high cracking temperatures. The
gasoline yielded by cracking oil in liquid phase is chemically different from that yielded by vapor phase cracking,
and at the date of the patent, the liquid phase product
was preferred. The yield of vapor cracking was a
malodorous yellow mixture requiring additional refining operations to make it marketable; however, since
1919 gasoline formed by vapor cracking has become more
highly regarded because of its superior antiknock
characteristics.
The parties are wholly at odds as to the nature of the
process taught by Dubbs in his patent specifications. The
petitioner contends that cracking takes place in the B
tubes with resultant generation of vapor, and that in the
C tubes the vapor is merely set free from the liquid oil.
The respondent argues that the only function of the B
tubes is to furnish enough heat to cause cracking, and
that the oil actually cracks while it is in the C tubes. The
cracking process, it will be remembered, requires that the
oil be kept at a high temperature for some time if substantial gasoline is to be formed, and the respondent compares the process taught by Dubbs to the familiar fireless
cooker, in which a vessel with heat-keeping qualities is

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

Opinion of the Court.

first heated and then removed from the flame while cooking goes on with the heat first supplied.
The patent several times refers to the B tubes as "cracking tubes" or as the "cracking zone." In its relevant parts,
the patent describes the process in the following terms:
"Describing the operation of the process, the material
to be treated is drawn from any suitable source by means
of the pump J and discharged therefrom through line J
into and through tubes B and during the time they (sic)
are passing through said tubes, they (sic) are subjected
to sufficient heat to cause the desired amount of cracking.
Said oil is then passed into the tubes C which are only partially filled with the oil and as the oil passes through these
tubes, there is a liberation of vapors from same and which
vapors pass up through the vapor tubes D, E ...
"A light fire may be maintained under the tubes C as
shown in the drawings or said tubes may be heavily insulated . . . to prevent loss of heat by radiation and
thereby dispense with the fire under the tubes C....
The per cent. of vapors generated from the oil as it passes
through the tubes C will depend on the amount of heat
acquired by said oil while passing through the 4" coils."
The petitioner refers, also, to Claim 5, which specifies
"a vaporization space above the stream" in the C tubes.
These words, we are told, must necessarily refer to a space
in which vapors are released, not generated. This does
not advance petitioner's argument, however, as the space
referred to, as shown by the subsequent words of Claim 5,
is simply space to hold released vapor, that is, "vapor
space." Neither vapor separation nor vapor generation
takes place in the space above the stream.
Respondent too supports its argument that not even
generation of vapors was envisaged by the Dubbs patent
limitation against "substantial vaporization" by reference
to the patent. It points out that as the patent does not
define "vaporization," the word is used in the accepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

sense of chemical nomenclature. The use of the word
"vaporization" in the patent to show what takes place
in the C coils is stressed by respondent as indicative of
the meaning with which the word was used by Dubbs.7
The respondent says this means generation as well as release of vapors because the patent says, "The per cent of
vapors generated from the oil as it passes through the tubes
C will depend on the amount of heat acquired by said oil
while passing through the 4" [B] coils." It is said that
the patent consistently describes the charge in the B tubes
as "oil," and never as vapor or mixed oil and vapor or
foam.
The petitioner argues that the reading of the patent
which respondent asks would result in an inoperative
process under the conditions of the illustrative run. It
seems to be conceded that oil heated to 750' at 100 pounds
pressure would not vaporize, but in order for cracking to
take place in the C tubes, it would be necessary to furnish
some additional heat to replace that consumed in the
cracking reaction. At the higher temperatures suggested
in the illustrative run, much higher pressures than the
100 pounds called for become necessary to preclude vaporization, although the heated oil would, in cooling from the
higher temperatures, provide the heat necessary for the
cracking reaction in the C tubes. But even though experimentation at low pressures would show generation of
vapor in the B tubes, this will not control the language
of the claim.
We agree with respondent's position as to the teaching
of the patent. We are of the view that "without substantial vaporization" as used in the patent means that
the generation and release of vapors in the B tubes is to
be avoided so that the charge will enter the C tubes for
7 "The heated oil then passes to the 10 inch C coils which are maintained about half full of oil and wherein vaporization takes place."

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

Opinion of the Court.

cracking as nearly as may be in the liquid phase. It
clearly appears from the history of Dubbs' application in
the Patent Office that the use of the phrase was purposeful. It was inserted after the Patent Office had disallowed claims without the phrase and it was evidently
added to clarify the description of the steps of the process
and the claims of novelty. Cf. Exhibit Supply Co. v.
Ace Corp., 315 U. S. 126, 136. The importance is evident
from the history of the trade since, as pointed out above,
at the time of Dubbs' application gasoline obtained by
cracking the charge in liquid phase was more desirable
than the gasoline obtained from vapor phase cracking.'
The distinction made by the controverted phrase is of
practical importance. Dubbs patented a process for converting hydrocarbons through cracking. The difficulty in
the prior art was carbon deposit or coking. If in this
process the cracking operation is pressed to substantial
completion in the B tubes, the patent seems to fail to
teach a method of preventing coking in those tubes. Coke
there will certainly be as a result of the cracking; what
would prevent its deposit? It may be possible to prevent
the deposit of carbon by maintaining a rapid turbulent
flow; indeed, we are told that this is the device used in
the commercial application of both parties' processes, and
Behimer, another engineer working in the cracking field,
attributed the failure of a similar apparatus (see Patent
No. 1,883,850) to the want of a pump of sufficiently high
pressure to maintain the necessary velocity of flow. But
the patent, while it calls for a pump to inject the charge
into the B tubes, does not point out the need of using rapid
flow for this purpose; the pressure within the apparatus is
expressly referred solely to vaporization. One building
a device according to Dubbs' teaching might, if he read
8 But see Universal Oil Products Co. v. Globe Oil & Refining Co., 40
F. Supp. 575; 137 F. 2d 3.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

the patent as teaching that cracking was to occur in the
B tubes, content himself with using relatively short B
tubes and a correspondingly slow flow to furnish cracking
time. That procedure would presumably lead to coking;
the patent, however, does not describe how that result
may be avoided.
There is a reason of controlling importance why the
protection of the Dubbs patent must be limited to a
process in which cracking takes place largely in the C
tubes.
As a reward for inventions and to encourage their disclosure, the United States offers a seventeen-year monopoly to an inventor who refrains from keeping his invention
a trade secret. But the quid pro quo is disclosure of a process or device in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in
the art to practice the invention once the period of the
monopoly has expired; and the same precision of disclosure is likewise essential to warn the industry concerned of
the precise scope of the monopoly asserted. Bgng v. Jeantet, 129 U. S. 683, 685-86; General Electric Co. v. Wabash
Corp., 304 U. S. 364, 368.
In a process patent in the refining of oil, preciseness of
description is essential. It is a crowded art. Hope for
success for new patented processes with slight variations
from those in use caused large expenditures in testing
their efficiency by important companies with staffs of
specialists who were skilled in the art. Among the processes cited to us as prior art advances on Burton-Clark,
those of Hall Patent No. 1,175,910, Alexander Patent No.
1,407,619, and Behimer Patent No. 1,883,850 were
embodied in experimental plants, and the testimony is
replete with references to such other contemporary experimental or working cracking systems as the HolmesManley, Fleming, and Cross processes. The claim is the
measure of the grant. Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1, 11.
The claim is required to be specific for the very purpose

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. GLOBE CO.
471

485

Opinion of the Court.

of protecting the public against extension of-the scope of
the patent. White v. Dunbar,119 U. S. 47, 52; Minerals
Separationv. Butte Mining Co., 250 U. S. 336, 347; Knick
v. Bowes "Seal Fast" Corp., 25 F. 2d 442, 443. The applicants for the patent thought the phrase "without substantial vaporization" in the B tubes important. While
varying the details of a process does not avoid infringement, Tilghman v. Proctor,102 U. S. 707, when the accused
process does not substantially follow the mode taught in
the patent, there is no infringment. In view of the importance of the direction as to the non-generation of vapors
in the B tubes, as hereinbefore pointed out, we do not
think a process which relies on vaporization in the B tubes
can be said to infringe the patented process.
The Egloff patent does not require extended consideration. It may fairly be said that the Egloff patent, described above at p. 478, was an improvement on the
Dubbs system. The improvement consisted in providing
a clean charging stock for the B tubes by heating crude or
fuel oil in coils which are contained in a separate heating
apparatus from the one used to heat the cleaned stock,
and discharging it in a liquid phase into an expansion
chamber. The unvaporized oil is withdrawn from the
expansion chamber and does not reenter the system. The
vapor is liquefied in a partial condenser or dephlegmator,
and the reflux condensate is pumped as a charge into the
B tubes or apparatus substantially similar in form and
operation to the Dubbs patent. The reflux condensate
after passing through the B coils reenters the same expansion chamber that is used for its preparation.' Noth9 A typical claim (5) reads as follows:
"5. A process of oil conversion, consisting in maintaining a body of
heated hydrocarbons in an enlarged zone where substantial vaporization occurs, in subjecting the vapors to reflux condensation to
condense the heavier vapors, in passing the reflux condensate in an
advancing stream through a heating zone where it is subjected to

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ing is said iri
the Egloff patent as to vaporization in the
B tubes.
It seems obvious that the Dubbs patent anticipated all
the steps of the process except the separate treatment of
the heavy oil. The clean charge of the reflux condensate
was brought about by the withdrawal of the residue of
unvaporized oil, and this withdrawal was old in the art."0
As there is nothing in the claims or specification to show
any reliance upon where vaporization, whether by generation or liberation, takes place, such difference as there may
be between this patent and Dubbs as to that phenomenon
is not significant. But we see nothing in the addition of
the extra still that involves invention. In retrospect, it
appears almost inevitable that once a satisfactory continuous feed cracking apparatus was developed, chemical
engineers would promptly design equipment for integrating the initial distillation of crude or fuel oil, with whatever cracking might be practicable, with the gas oil cracking process to form a continuous operation. Retrospective
simplicity is often a misleading test of invention where it
appears that the patentee's conception in fact solved a
recognized problem that had baffled the contemporary
art; but in this case Egloff advanced his improvement
shortly after Dubbs disclosed the underlying process and
before Dubbs' system had had wide commercial use; hence
contemporary workers had no occasion to deal with whatcracking conditions of temperature and pressure, in delivering heated
condensate to said enlarged zone, and simultaneously heating an independent stream of charging oil for delivery to said enlarged zone
to a temperature sufficient to cause a substantial vaporization thereof
in said zone, in introducing said heated charging oil to the enlarged
zone, and in withdrawing unvaporized oil from said enlarged zone
without permitting the same to again enter either of said oil streams."
' 0 Egloff was not the first patentee to realize the advisability of

withdrawing the heavier oils; Dubbs certainly anticipated him, as
did Behimer, No. 1,883,850; Greenstreet, No. 1,740,691; Alexander,
No. 1,407,619; and Hall, No. 1,175,910.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
471

Opinion of the Court.

ever engineering problems might have been involved. We
have, therefore, a conception which is on its face too obvious to constitute patentable invention, and which was
advanced shortly after any need of it arose. We think
the district court was right in finding the Egloff patent
invalid.
Affirmed.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 193.

Argued December 17, 1943.-Decided May 29, 1944.

The Fifth Amendment does not forbid the use in evidence against
a defendant in a criminal case in a federal court of self-incriminating
testimony theretofore compelled-under a state immunity statute
and without participation by federal officers--in proceedings in a
state court. P. 492.
136 F. 2d 394, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of a
conviction, under ยง 215 of the Criminal Code, for using
the mails to defraud.

Mr. Seymour M. Klein, with whom Mr. James Marshall
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Chester T. Lane, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and
Mr. Edward G. Jennings were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an indictment under Section 215 of the Criminal
Code, 18 U. S. C. ยง 338, for using the mails to further a
fraudulent scheme. Petitioner's conviction was affirmed

