OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

322 U. S.

limited situations only. Indeed the statute makes any
such stipulation "conclusive and binding upon all parties,"
thereby foreclosing the Government's right to object to
its own failure to insist upon liquidated damages in other

situations. Since we are not justified in rewriting the
clear provisions of the contract to include what might
well have been but was not inserted, the judgment below
mustbe
Affirmed.
CLIFFORD F. MAcEVOY CO. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF CALVIN
TOMKINS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 483.

Argued March 7, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.

1. Where A sold materials to B who merely sold them to a contractor
for use on a Government project, A is not entitled to recover upon
a payment bond furnished by the contractor pursuant to the Miller

Act. P. 104.
2. The term "subcontractor" in the proviso of § 2 (a) of the Miller
Act-"any person having direct contractual relationship with a sub-

contractor but no contractual relationship express or implied with
the contractor furnishing said payment bond shall have a right
of action upon said payment bond--does not include a materialman
who merely sells materials to the contractor. P. 108.
3. The salutary policy of the Miller Act to protect those whose labor
and materials go into public projects does not warrant disregard
of the plain words of limitation in the proviso of § 2 (a) of the Act.
P. 107.
137 F. 2d 565, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 733, to review the reversal of a

judgment, 49 F. Supp. 81, dismissing the complaint in a
suit against a Government contractor and surety upon a
payment bond.

MAcEVOY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
102

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edward F. Clark, with whom Messrs. Elmer 0.
Goodwin and John A. Shorten were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Benjamin P. DeWitt for respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Shea, and Messrs. Valentine Brookes and Melvin Richter
filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The United States entered into a contract with the petitioner Clifford F. MacEvoy Company whereby the latter agreed to furnish the materials and to perform the
work necessary for the construction of dwelling units of
a Defense Housing Project near Linden, New Jersey, on
a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis. Pursuant to the Miller Act,1
MacEvoy as principal and the petitioner Aetna Casualty
and Surety Company as surety executed a payment bond
in the amount of $1,000,000, conditioned on the prompt
payment by MacEvoy "to all persons supplying labor and
material in the prosecution of the work provided for in
said contract." The bond was duly accepted by the
United States.
MacEvoy thereupon purchased from James H. Miller
& Company certain building materials for use in the prosecution of the work provided for in MacEvoy's contract
with the Government. Miller in turn purchased these
materials from the respondent, Calvin Tomkins Company.
Miller failed to pay Tomkins a balance of $12,033.49.
There is no allegation that Miller agreed to perform or did
perform any part of the work on the construction project.
Act of August 24, 1935, c. 642, 49 Stat. 793; 40 U. S. C. § 270a
et seq.

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Nor is it disputed that MacEvoy paid Miller in full for
the materials.
Within ninety days from the date on which Tomkins
furnished the last of the materials to Miller, Tomkins
gave written notice to MacEvoy and the surety of the
existence and amount of Tomkins' claim for materials
furnished to Miller. Tomkins as use-plaintiff then instituted this action against MacEvoy and the surety on the
payment bond. The District Court granted petitioners'
motion to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a
claim against them. 49 F. Supp. 81. The Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed the judgment. 137 F. 2d 565. We
granted certiorari because of a novel and important question presented under the Miller Act. 320 U. S. 733.
Specifically the issue is whether under the Miller Act
a person supplying materials to a materialman of a Government contractor and to whom an unpaid balance is due
from the materialman can recover on the payment bond
executed by the contractor. We hold that he cannot.
The Heard Act,' which was the predecessor of the Miller
Act, required Government contractors to execute penal
bonds for the benefit of "all persons supplying him or them
with labor and materials in the prosecution of the work
provided for in such contract." We consistently applied
a liberal construction to that statute, noting that it was
remedial in nature and that it clearly evidenced "the intention of Congress to protect those whose labor or material has contributed to the prosecution of the work."
United States v. American Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, 204.
See also Mankin v. United States, 215 U. S. 533; U. S.
Fidelity& GuarantyCo. v. Bartlett,231 U. S. 237; Brogan
v. National Surety Co., 246 U. S. 257; Fleischmann Construction Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 349; Standard
2 Act

of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, as amended by Act of

February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811; 40 U. S. C. § 270.

MAcEVOY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
102

Opinion of the Court.

Accident Insurance Co. v. United States, 302 U. S. 442.
We accordingly held that the phrase "all persons supplying [the contractor] . . . with labor and materials" included not only those furnishing labor and materials
directly to the prime contractor but also covered those
who contributed labor and materials to subcontractors.
United States v. American Surety Co., supra,204; Mankin
v. United States, supra, 539; Illinois Surety Co. v. John
Davis Co., 244 U. S. 376, 380. We had no occasion, however, to determine under that Act whether those who
merely sold materials to materialmen, who in turn sold
them to the prime contractors, were included within the
phrase and hence entitled to recover on the penal bond.'
The Miller Act, while it repealed the Heard Act, reinstated its basic provisions and was designed primarily
to eliminate certain procedural limitations on its beneficiaries.' There was no expressed purpose in the legis3

In United States v. American Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, 204, we
said, "There is no language in the statute nor in the bond which is
therein authorized limiting the right of recovery to those who furnish
material or labor directly to the contractor, but all persons supplying
the contractor with labor or materials in the prosecution of the work
provided for in the contract are to be protected. The source of the
labor or material is not indicated or circumscribed. It is only required to be 'supplied' to the contractor in the prosecution of the work
provided for." This broad language, which went beyond that required by the facts and the holding in that case, might seem to justify
recovery by persons supplying materials to materialmen. Such was
the holding in Utah Construction Co. v. United States, 15 F. 2d 21.
Our denial of certiorari in that case, 273 U. S. 745, was not a determination by us of the issue, however. Compare Continental Casualty Co.
v. North American Cement Corp., 91 F. 2d 307, expressing the opposite
opinion under an identical District of Columbia statute.
4 Under the Heard Act, a single bond was required to protect both
the Government and the suppliers of labor and materials. The Government was given the sole right to sue on the bond for six months
after completion of the work and final settlement. Other claimants
could sue only thereafter and had to join in a single action. Serious
587770'-45----11

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

lative history to restrict in any way the coverage of the
Heard Act; the intent rather was to remove the procedural
difficulties found to exist under the earlier measure and
thereby make it easier for unpaid creditors to realize the
benefits of the bond. Section 1 (a) (2) of the Miller Act
requires every Government contractor, where the amount
of the contract exceeds $2,000, to furnish to the United
States a payment bond with a surety "for the protection
of all persons supplying labor and material in the prosecution of the work provided for in said contract for the use
of each such person." Section 2 (a) further provides
that "every person who has furnished labor or material
in the proseaution of the work provided for in such contract" and who has not been paid in full therefor within
ninety days after the last labor was performed or material
supplied may bring suit on the payment bond for the
unpaid balance. A proviso then states:
"Provided,however, That any person having direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor but no contractual relationship express or implied with the contractor
furnishing said payment bond shall have a right Of action
upon the said payment bond upon giving written notice
to said contractor within ninety days from the date on
which such person did or performed the last of the labor
inconveniences and delays resulted. The claimants, often in need of
immediate funds, were compelled to settle meritorious claims for less
than the full amount. The Miller Act was designed to meet these
difficulties by requiring that the prime contractor execute two bondsa performance bond to protect the Government and a payment bond
to protect the creditors. Creditors can sue on the latter bond without
waiting for the Government and even without waiting for completion
of the project. Each creditor may sue separately ninety days after
the labor is completely performed or materials fully supplied. Hearings on H. R. 2068, et al., Bonds of Contractors on Public Works,
House Committee on the Judiciary, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.; 79 Cong.
JRec. 11702, 13382; H. Rep. No. 1263 and S. Rep. No. 1238 (74th
Cong., 1st Sess.).

MAcEVOY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
102

Opinion of the Court.

or furnished or supplied the last of the material for which
such claim is made ....
The Miller Act, like the Heard Act, is highly remedial
in nature. It is entitled to a liberal construction and
application in order properly to effectuate the Congressional intent to protect those whose labor and materials
go into public projects. Fleisher Engineering Co. v.
United States, 311 U. S. 15, 17, 18; cf. United States v.
Irwin, 316 U. S. 23, 29, 30. But such a salutary policy
does not justify ignoring plain words of limitation and imposing wholesale liability on payment bonds. Ostensibly
the payment bond is for the protection of "all persons
supplying labor and material in the prosecution of the
work" and "every person who has furnished labor or material in the prosecution of the work" is given the right
to sue on such payment bond. Whether this statutory
language is broad enough to include persons supplying
material to materialmen as well as those in more remote
relationships we need not decide. Even if it did include
such persons we cannot disregard the limitations on liability which Congress intended to impose and did impose
in the proviso of § 2 (a). However inclusive may be the
general language of a statute, it "will not be held to apply
to a matter specifically dealt with in another part of the
same enactment. . . .Specific terms prevail over the general in the same or another statute which otherwise might
be controlling." Ginsberg & Sons v. Popkin, 285 U. S.
204,208.
The proviso of § 2 (a), which had no counterpart in the
Heard Act, makes clear that the right to bring suit on a
payment bond is limited to (1) those materialmen, laborers and subcontractors who deal directly with the prime
contractor and (2) those materialmen, laborers and subsubcontractors who, lacking express or implied contractual
relationship with the prime contractor, have direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor and who give

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

the statutory notice of their claims to the prime contractor.
To allow those in more remote relationships to recover on
the bond would be contrary to the clear language of the
proviso and to the expressed will of the framers of the
Act.5 Moreover, it would lead to the absurd result of
requiring notice from persons in direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor but not from more remote
claimants.
The ultimate question in this case, therefore, is whether
Miller, the materialman to whom Tomkins sold the goods
and who in turn supplied them to MacEvoy, was a subcontractor within the meaning of the proviso. If he was,
Tomkins' direct contractual relationship with him enables
Tomkins to recover on MacEvoy's payment bond. If
Miller was not a subcontractor, Tomkins stands in too
remote a relationship to secure the benefits of the bond.
The Miller Act itself makes no attempt to define the
word "subcontractor." We are thus forced to utilize ordinary judicial tools of definition. Whether the word includes laborers and materialmen is not subject to easy solution, for the word has no single exact meaning.6 In a
broad, generic sense a subcontractor includes anyone who
has a contract to furnish labor or material to the prime contractor. In that sense Miller was a subcontractor. But
under the more technical meaning, as established by usage
1 "A sub-subcontractor may avail himself of the protection of the
bond by giving written notice to the contractor, but that is as far
as the bill goes.

It is not felt that more remote relationships ought

to come within the purview of the bond." H. Rep. No. 1263 (74th
Cong., 1st Sess.), p. 3.
6 In analogous situations, state and lower federal courts have expressed divergent opinions as to whether the word "subcontractor"
includes laborers and materialmen. See annotation in 141 A. L. R.
321 for a summary of the conflicting cases. We have not heretofore
had occasion to define the word in this connection. Any loose, interchangeable use of "subcontractor" and "materialman" in any prior
decision of ours is without significance.

MAcEVOY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
102

Opinion of the Cotirt.

in the building trades, a subcontractor is one who performs
for and takes from the prime contractor a specific part of
the labor or material requirements of the original contract,
thus excluding ordinary laborers, and materialmen. To
determine which meaning Congress attached to the word
in the Miller Act, we must look to the Congressional history
of the statute as well as to the practical considerations
underlying the Act.
It is apparent from the hearings before the subcommittee of the House Committee on the Judiciary leading to
the adoption of the Miller Act that the participants had
in mind a clear distinction between subcontractors and
materialmen. In opening the hearings, Representative
Miller, the sponsor of the bill that became the Miller Act,
stated in connection with the various proposed bills that
"we would like to have the reaction and opinion of members in reference to those bills that deal with the general
subject of requiring a bond for the benefit of laborers and
materialmen who deal with subcontractors on public
works." 7 And the authoritative committee report 8 made
numerous references to and distinguished among "laborers,
materialnen and subcontractors." Similar uncontradicted statements were made in both houses of Congress
when the Act was pend:ng before them. The fact that
7 Hearings on H. R. 2068, et al.,
Bonds of Contractors on Public
Works, House Committee on the Judiciary, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1.
See also statements by Rep. Miller, id., pp. 18, 26, 60, 67, 74; Rep.
Robsion, p. 30; Rep. McLaughlin, p. 73; Rep. Dockweiler, pp. 1222;8 Rep. Celler, pp. 83, 84, 89; Edward H. Cushman, pp. 23-31, 85.
H. Rep. No. 1263 (74th Cong., 1st Sess.), pp. 1, 2.
9Rep. Miller stated in the House that "This bill merely provides
that in the construction of public buildings and other public works
there shall be two bonds, one for the performance of the contract
with the Government, and the other a payment bond for the protection of subcontractors and those furnishing the labor and material.
Under the present law we have but one bond, with a dual obligation,
but it is not satisfactory in that it does not afford protection to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

subcontractors were so consistently distinguished from
materialmen and laborers in the course of the formation of
the Act is persuasive evidence that the word "subcontractor" was used in the proviso of § 2 (a) in its technical
sense so as to exclude materialmen and laborers0
Practical considerations underlying the Act likewise
support this conclusion. Congress cannot be presumed,
in the absence of express statutory language, to have
intended to impose liability on the payment bond in
situations where it is difficult or impossible for the prime
contractor to protect himself. The relatively few subcontractors who perform part of the original contract represent in a sense the prime contractor and are well known
to him. It is easy for the prime contractor to secure himself against loss by requiring the subcontractors to give
security by bond, or otherwise, for the payment of those
who contract directly with the subcontractors. United
States v. American Surety Co., supra, 204; Mankin v.
United States, supra,540. But this method of protection
is generally inadequate to cope with remote and undeterminable liabilities incurred by an ordinary materialman,
who may be a manufacturer, a wholesaler or a retailer.1
Many such materialmen are usually involved in large
subcontractors, materialmen, and laborers. This merely provides for
two bonds, one for the protection of the Government's interests, and

the other for the protection of the rights of labor, the subcontractors,
and material furnishers." 79 Cong. Rec. 11702.
Sen. Burke said in the Senate that "This bill would amend that law
by requiring an additional bond, a payment bond, for the protection
of materialmen and laborers, subcontractors, and all who put forth
their labor or furnish materials or incur expenditures in connection
with the work." 79 Cong. Rec. 13382.
10
See, in general, Campbell, "The Protection of Laborers and
Materialmen Under Construction Bonds," 3 Univ. of Chicago L. Rev.
1; Annotation, 77 A. L. R. 21.
1 See Note, "The Widening Scope of Protection of Statutory Construction Bonds," 45 Harvard L. Rev. 1236.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
102

111

Syllabus.

projects; they deal in turn with innumerable sub-materialmen and laborers. To impose unlimited liability
under the payment bond to those sub-materialmen and
laborers is to create d precarious and perilous risk on the
prime contractor and his surety. To sanction such a risk
requires clear language in the statute and in the bond so
as to leave no alternative.12 Here the proviso of § 2 (a)
of the Act forbids the imposition of such a risk, thereby
foreclosing Tomkins' right to sue on the payment bond.
The judgment of the court below is
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. HEARST
PUBLICATIONS, INC.
NO. 3 3 6.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 8, 9, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.
1. The meaning of the term "employee" in the National Labor Relations Act is to be determined not exclusively by reference to common-law standards, local law, or legal classifications made for other
purposes, but with regard also to the history, context and purposes
12 Congress has shown its ability in other statutes to make clear
an intent to include materialmen within the meaning of the word
"subcontractor." See § 301 (a) (3) of the Act of Dec. 2, 1942, 56
Stat. 1035, 42 U. S. C. Supp. II, § 1651 (a) (3), providing that the
provisions of the Act shall not apply to employees of a "subcontractor
who is engaged exclusively in furnishing materials or supplies." In
other statutes, Congress has clearly used the term "subcontractor" in
contrast to "materialman." See 40 U. S. C. § 407 (b); 41 U. S. C.
§ 10b (a) and (b); 41 U. S. C. § 28.
* Together with No. 337, National Labor Relations Board v. Stockholders Publishing Co., Inc., No. 338, National Labor Relations Board
v. Hearst Publications, Inc., and No. 339, National Labor Relations
Board v. Times-Mirror Co., also on writs of certiorari to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

