78

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

322 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 472. Argued March 3, 6, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.
Upon an indictment charging use of the mails to defraud, and conspiracy so to do, respondents were convicted in the District Court.
The indictment charged a scheme to defraud through representations-involving respondents' religious doctrines or beliefs-which
were alleged to be false and known by the respondents to be false.
Holding that the District Court had restricted the jury to the issue
-of respondents' good faith and that this was error, the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed and granted a new trial. Held:
1. The only issue submitted to the jury by the District Court was
whether respondents believed the representations to be true. P. 84.
2. Respondents did not acquiesce in the withdrawal from the
jury of the issue of the truth of their religious doctrines or beliefs,
and are not barred by the rule of Johnson v. United States, 318 U. S.
189, from reasserting here that no part of the indictment should have
been submitted to the jury. P. 85.
3. The District Court properly withheld from the jury all questions concerning the truth or falsity of respondents' religious beliefs or doctrines. This course was required by the First Amendment's guarantee of religious freedom. P. 86.
The preferred position given freedom of religion by the First
Amendment is not limited to any particular religious group or to
any particular type of religion but applies to all. P. 87.
4. Respondents may urge in support of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals points which that court reserved, but since
these were not fully presented here either in the briefs or oral argument, they may more appropriately be considered by that court
upon remand. P. 88.
138 F. 2d 540, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 733, to review the reversal of con-

victions f6r using the mails to defraud and conspiracy.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Tom C. Clark, Mr. Robert S. Erdahl, and Miss

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

Opinion of the Court.

Beatrice Rosenberg were on the brief, for the United
States.
Messrs. Roland Rich Woolley and Joseph F. Rank, with
whom Mr. Ralph C. Curren was on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondents were indicted and convicted for using, and
conspiring to use, the mails to defraud. ยง 215 Criminal
Code, 18 U. S. C. ยง 338; ยง 37 Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. ยง 88.
The indictment was in twelve counts. It charged a
scheme to defraud by organizing and promoting the I Am
movement through the use of the mails. The charge was
that certain designated corporations were formed, literature distributed and sold, funds solicited, and memberships in the I Am movement sought "by means of false and
fraudulent representations, pretenses and promises." The
false representations charged were eighteen in number.
It is sufficient at this point to say that they covered respondents' alleged religious doctrines or beliefs. They
were all set forth in the first count. The following are
representative:
that Guy W. Ballard, now deceased, alias Saint Germain, Jesus, George Washington, and Godfre Ray
King, had been selected and thereby designated by the
alleged "ascertained masters," Saint Germain, as a
divine messenger; and that the words of "ascended
masters" and the words of the alleged divine entity,
Saint Germain, would be transmitted to mankind
through the medium of the said Guy W. Ballard;
that Guy W. Ballard, during his lifetime, and Edna
W. Ballard, and Donald Ballard, by reason of their
alleged high spiritual attainments and righteous conduct, had been selected as divine messengers through
which the words of the alleged "ascended masters," in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

eluding the alleged Saint Germain, would be communicated to mankind under the teachings commonly
known as the "I Am" movement;
that Guy W. Ballard, during his lifetime, and Edna W.
Ballard and Donald Ballard had, by reason of supernatural attainments, the power to heal persons of ailments and diseases and to make well persons afflicted
with any diseases, injuries, or ailments, and did falsely
represent to persons intended to be defrauded that
the three designated persons had the ability and
power to cure persons of those diseases normally classified as curable and also of diseases which are ordinarily classified by the medical profession as being
incurable diseases; and did further represent that the
three designated persons had in fact cured either by
the activity of one, either, or all of said persons,
hundreds of persons afflicted with diseases and
ailments;
Each of the representations enumerated in the indictment was followed by the charge that respondents "well
knew" it was false. After enumerating the eighteen misrepresentations the indictment also alleged:
At the time of making all of the afore-alleged representations by the defendants, and each of them, the
defendants, and each of them, well knew that all of
said aforementioned representations were false and
untrue and were made with the intention on the part
of the defendants, and each of them, to cheat, wrong,
and defraud persons intended to be defrauded, and
to obtain from persons intended to be defrauded by
the defendants, money, property, and other things of
value and to convert the same to the use and the
benefit of the defendants, and each of them;
The indictment contained twelve counts, one of which
charged a conspiracy to defraud. The first count set forth
all of the eighteen representations, as we have said. Each
of the other counts incorporated and realleged all of them
and added no additional ones. There was a demurrer and
a motion to quash, each of which asserted, among other
things, that the indictment attacked the religious beliefs

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

Opinion of the Court.

of respondents and sought to restrict the free exercise of
their religion in violation of the Constitution of the United
States. These motions were denied by the District Court.
Early in the trial, however, objections were raised to the
admission of certain evidence concerning respondents' religious beliefs. The court conferred with counsel in absence of the jury and with the acquiescence of counsel for
the United States and for respondents confined the issues
on this phase of the case to the question of the good faith
of respondents. At the request of counsel for both sides
the court advised the jury of that action in the following
language:
Now, gentlemen, here is the issue in this case:
First, the defendants in this case made certain representations of belief in a divinity and in a supernatural power. Some of the teachings of the defendants,
representations, might seem extremely improbable to
a great many people. For instance, the appearance
of Jesus to dictate some of the works that we have
had introduced in evidence, as testified to here at the
opening transcription, or shaking hands with Jesus,
to some people that might seem highly improbable.
I point that out as one of the many statements.
Whether that is true or not is not the concern of
this Court and is not the concern of the jury-and
they are going to be told so in their instructions. As
far as this Court sees the issue, it is immaterial what
these defendants preached or wrote or taught in their
classes. They are not going to be permitted to speculate on the actuality of the happening of those incidents. Now, I think I have made that as clear as I
can. Therefore, the religious beliefs of these defendants cannot be an issue in this court.
The issue is: Did these defendants honestly and in
good faith believe those things? If they did, they
should be acquitted. I cannot make it any clearer
than that.
If these defendants did not believe those things,
they did not believe that Jesus came down and dic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

tated, or that Saint Germain came down and dictated,
did not believe the things that they wrote, the things
that they preached, but used the mail for the purpose
of getting money, the jury should find them guilty.
Therefore, gentlemen, religion cannot come into this
case.

The District Court reiterated that admonition in the
charge to the jury and made it abundantly clear. The
following portion of the charge is typical:
The question of the defendants' good faith is the
cardinal question in this case. You are not to be
concerned with the religious belief of the defendants,
or any of them. The jury will be called upon to pass
on the question of whether or not the defendants honestly and in good faith believed the representations
which are set forth in the indictment, and honestly
and in good faith believed that the benefits which
they represented would flow from their belief to those
who embraced and followed their teachings, or
whether these representations were mere pretenses
without honest belief on the part of the defendants
or any of them, and, were the representations made
for the purpose of procuring money, and were the
mails used for this purpose.
As we have said, counsel for the defense acquiesced in this
treatment of the matter, made no objection to it during
the trial, and indeed treated it without protest as the law
of the case throughout the proceedings prior to the verdict.
Respondents did not change their position before the District Court after verdict and contend that the truth or
verity of their religious doctrines or beliefs should have
been submitted to the jury. In their motion for new
trial they did contend, however, that the withdrawal of
these issues from the jury was error because it was in
effect an amendment of the indictment. That was also
one of their specifications of errors on appeal. And other
errors urged on appeal included the overruling of the demurrer to the indictment and the motion to quash, and the

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

Opinion of the Court.

disallowance of proof of the truth of respondents' religious
doctrines or beliefs.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment
of conviction and granted a new trial, one judge dissenting. 138 F. 2d 540. In its view the restriction of the
issue in question to that of good faith was error. Its
reason was that the scheme to defraud alleged in the indictment was that respondents made the eighteen alleged
false representations; and that to prove that defendants
devised the scheme described in the indictment "it was
necessary to prove that they schemed to make some, at
least, of the (eighteen) representations . . . and that
some, at least, of the representations which they schemed
to make were false." 138 F. 2d 545. One judge thought
that the ruling of the District Court was also error because
it was "as prejudicial to the issue of honest belief as to the
issue of purposeful misrepresentation." Id., p. 546.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
which we granted because of the importance of the question presented.
The United States contends that the District Court
withdrew from the jury's consideration only the truth or
falsity of those representations which related to religious
concepts or beliefs and that there were representations
charged in the indictment which fell within a different
category.' The argument is that this latter group of
I Petitioner has placed three representations in this group: (1) A
portion of the scheme as to healing which we have already quoted
and which alleged that respondents "had in fact cured either by the

activity of one, either, or all of said persons, hundreds of persons
afflicted with diseases and ailments"; (2) The portion of the scheme
relating to certain religious experiences described in certain books
(Unveiled Mysteries and The Magic Presence) and concerning which
the indictment alleged "that the defendants represented that Guy W.
Ballard, Edna W. Ballard, and Donald Ballard actually encountered
the experiences pertaining to each of their said names as related and

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

representations was submitted to the jury, that they were
adequate to constitute an offense under the Act, and that
they were supported by the requisite evidence. It is thus
sought to bring the case within the rule of Hall v. United
States, 168 U. S. 632, 639-640, which held that where an
indictment contained "all the necessary averments to constitute an offense created by the statute," a conviction
would not be set aside because a "totally immaterial fact"
was averred but not proved. We do not stop to ascertain
the relevancy of that rule to this case, for we are of the
view that all of the representations charged in the indictment which related at least in part to the religious doctrines or beliefs of respondents were withheld from the
jury. The trial judge did not differentiate them. He referred in the charge to the "religious beliefs" and "doctrines taught by the defendants" as matters withheld from
the jury. And in stating that the issue of good faith was
the "cardinal question" in the case he charged, as already
noted, that "The jury will be called upon to pass on the
question of whether or not the defendants honestly and
in good faith believed the representations which are set
forth in the indictment." Nowhere in the charge were
any of the separate representations submitted to the jury.
A careful reading of the whole charge leads us to agree
with the Circuit Court of Appeals on this phase of the
case that the only issue submitted to the jury was the
question as stated by the District Court, of respondents'
"belief in their representations and promises."
The United States contends that respondents acquiesced
in the withdrawal from the jury of the truth of their reliset forth in said books, whereas in truth and in fact none of said persons did encounter the experiences"; (3) The part of the scheme concerning phonograph records sold by respondents on representations

that they would bestow on purchasers "great blessings and rewards
in their aim to achieve salvation" whereas respondents "well knew that
said . .. records were man-made and had no ability to aid in achieving

salvation."

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

Opinion of the Court.

gious doctrines or beliefs and that their consent bars them
from insisting on a different course once that one turned
out to be unsuccessful. Reliance for that position is
sought in Johnson v. United States, 318 U. S. 189. That
case stands for the proposition that, apart from situations
involving an unfair trial, an appellate court will not grant
a new trial to a defendant on the ground of improper introduction of evidence or improper comment by the prosecutor, where the defendant acquiesced in that course and
made no objection to it. In fairness to respondents that
principle cannot be applied here. The real objection of respondents is not that the truth of their religious doctrines
or beliefs should have been submitted to the jury. Their
demurrer and motion to quash made clear their position
that that issue should be withheld from the jury on the
basis of the First Amendment. Moreover, their position
at all times was and still is that the court should have gone
the whole way and withheld from the jury both that issue
and the issue of their good faith. Their demurrer and
motion to quash asked for dismissal of the entire indictment. Their argument that the truth of their religious
doctrines or beliefs should have gone to the jury when the
question of their good faith was submitted was and is
merely an alternative argument. They never forsook
their position that the indictment should have been dismissed and that none of it was good. Moreover, respondents' motion for new trial challenged the propriety of the
action of the District Court in withdrawing from the jury
the issue of the truth of their religious doctrines or beliefs
without also withdrawing the question of their good faith.
So we conclude that the rule of Johnson v. United States,
supra, does not prevent respondents from reasserting now
that no part of the indictment should have been submitted
to the jury.
As we have noted, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
the question of the truth of the representations concerning

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

respondents' religious doctrines or beliefs should have been
submitted to the jury. And it remanded the case for a
new trial. It may be that the Circuit Court of Appeals
took that action because it did not think that the indictment could be properly construed as charging a scheme
to defraud by means other than misrepresentations of respondents' religious doctrines or beliefs. Or that court

may have concluded that the withdrawal of the issue of the
truth of those religious doctrines or beliefs was unwarranted because it resulted in a substantial change in the
character of the crime charged. But on whichever basis
that court rested its action, we do not agree that the truth
or verity of respondents' religious doctrines or beliefs
should have been submitted to the jury. Whatever this
particular indictment might require, the First Amendment
precludes such a course, as the United States seems to concede. "The law knows no heresy, and is committed to the
support of no dogma, the establishment of no sect." Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679, 728. The First Amendment has
a dual aspect. It not only "forestalls compulsion by law of
the acceptance of any creed or the practice of any form of
worship" but also "safeguards the free exercise of the
chosen form of religion." Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310

U. S. 296, 303. "Thus the Amendment embraces two concepts,-freedom to believe and freedom to act. The first
is absolute but, in the nature of things, the second cannot
be." Id., pp. 303-304. Freedom of thought, which includes freedom of religious belief, is basic in a society of
free men. Board of Educationv. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624.
It embraces the right to maintain theories of life and of
death and of the hereafter which are rank heresy to followers of the orthodox faiths. Heresy trials are foreign to
our Constitution. Men may believe what they cannot
prove. They may not be put to the proof of their religious
doctrines or beliefs. Religious experiences which are as
real as life to some may be incomprehensible to others.

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

Opinion of the Court.

Yet the fact that they may be beyond the ken of mortals
does not mean that they can be made suspect before the
law. Many take their gospel from the New Testament.
But it would hardly be supposed that they could be tried
before a jury charged with the duty of determining
whether those teachings contained false representations.
The miracles of the New Testament, the Divinity of
Christ, life after death, the power of prayer are deep in the
religious convictions of many. If one could be sent to jail
because a jury in a hostile environment found those teachings false, little indeed would be left of religious freedom.
The Fathers of the Constitution were not unaware of the
varied and extreme views of religious sects, of the violence
of disagreement among them, and of the lack of any one religious creed on which all men would agree. They fashioned a charter of government which envisaged the widest
possible toleration of conflicting views. Man's relation to
his God was made no concern of the state. He was granted
the right to worship as he pleased and to answer to no man
for the verity of his religious views. The religious views
espoused by respondents might seem incredible, if not
preposterous, to most people. But if those doctrines are
subject to trial before a jury charged with finding their
truth or falsity, then the same can be done with the religious beliefs of any sect. When the triers of fact undertake that task, they enter a forbidden domain. The First
Amendment does not select any one group or any one type
of religion for preferred treatment. It puts them all in
that position. Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105.
As stated in Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333, 342, 'With
man's relations to his Maker and the obligations he may
think they impose, and the manner in which an expression
shall be made by him of his belief on those subjects, no interference can be permitted, provided always the laws of
society, designed to secure its peace and prosperity, and the
morals of its people, are not interfered with." See Prince

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

v. Massachusetts,321 U. S. 158. So we conclude that the
District Court ruled properly when it withheld from the
jury all questions concerning the truth or falsity of the
religious beliefs or doctrines of respondents.
Respondents maintain that the reversal of the judgment
of conviction was justified on other distinct grounds. The
Circuit Court of Appeals did not reach those questions.
Respondents may, of course, urge them here in support
of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Langnes
v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 538-539; Story Parchment Co. v.
PatersonCo., 282 U. S. 555, 560, 567-568. But since attention was centered on the issues which we have discussed, the remaining questions were not fully presented
to this Court either in the briefs or oral argument. In
view of these circumstances we deem it more appropriate
to remand the cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals so
that it may pass on the questions reserved. Lutcher &
Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267-268;
Brown v. Fletcher,237 U. S. 583. If any questions of importance survive and are presented here, we will then
have the benefit of the views of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Until that additional consideration is had, we cannot be sure that it will be necessary to pass on any of the
other constitutional issues which respondents claim to
have reserved.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE, dissenting:

I am not prepared to say that the constitutional guaranty of freedom of religion affords immunity from crimminal prosecution for the fraudulent procurement of
money by false statements as to one's religious experiences,

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

more than it renders polygamy or libel immune from criminal prosecution. Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333;, see
Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 572; cf.
Pattersonv. Colorado,205 U. S. 454, 462; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 715. I cannot say that freedom of
thought and worship includes freedom to procure money
by making knowingly false statements about one's religious experiences. To go no further, if it were shown
that a defendant in this case had asserted as a part of
the alleged fraudulent scheme, that he had physically
shaken hands with St. Germain in San Francisco
on a day named, or that, as the indictment here alleges,
by the exertion of his spiritual power he "had in
fact cured . . . hundreds of persons afflicted with diseases and ailments," I should not doubt that it would be
open to the Government to submit to the jury proof that
he had never been in San Francisco and that no such cures
had ever been effected. In any event I see no occasion
for making any pronouncement on this subject in the
present case.
The indictment charges respondents' use of the mails
to defraud and a conspiracy to commit that offense by false
statements of their religious experiences which had not
in fact occurred. But it also charged that the representations were "falsely and fraudulently" made, that respondents "well knew" that these representations were untrue,
and that they were made by respondents with the intent
to cheat and defraud those to whom they were made.
With the assent of. the prosecution and the defense the
trial judge withdrew from the consideration of the jury
the question whether the alleged religious experiences
had in fact occurred, but submitted to the jury the single
issue whether petitioners honestly believed that they had
occurred, with the instruction that if the jury did not so
find, then it should return a verdict of guilty. On this
587770"-45--10

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

issue the jury, on ample evidence that respondents were
without belief in the statements which they had made
to their victims, found a verdict of guilty. The state of
one's mind is a fact as capable of fraudulent misrepresentation as is one's physical condition or the state of his
bodily health. See Seven Casesv. United States, 239 U. S.
510, 517; cf. Durlandv. United States, 161 U. S. 306, 313.
There are no exceptions to the charge and no contention
that the trial court rejected any relevant evidence which
petitioners sought to offer. Since the indictment and the
evidence support the conviction, it is irrelevant whether
the religious experiences alleged did or did not in fact
occur or whether that issue could or could not, for constitutional reasons, have been rightly submitted to the
jury. Certainly none of respondents' constitutional rights
are violated if they are prosecuted for the fraudulent procurement of money by false representations as to their
beliefs, religious or otherwise.
Obviously if the question whether the religious experiences in fact occurred could not constitutionally have
been submitted to the jury the court rightly withdrew it.
If it could have been submitted I know of no reason why
the parties could not, with the advice of counsel, assent
to its withdrawal from the jury. And where, as here, the
indictment charges two sets of false statements, each independently sufficient to sustain the conviction, I cannot accept respondents' contention that the withdrawal
of one set and the submission of the other to the jury
amounted to an amendment of the indictment.
An indictment is amended when it is so altered as to
charge a different offense from that found by the grand
jury. Ex parteBain, 121 U. S. 1. But here there was no
alteration of the indictment, Salinger v. United States,
272 U. S. 542, 549, nor did the court's action, in effect, add
anything to it by submitting to the jury matters which

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

it did not charge. United States v. Norris, 281 U. S. 619,
622. In Salinger v. United States, supra, 548-9, we explicitly held that where an indictment charges several
offenses, or the commission of one offense in several ways,
the withdrawal from the jury's consideration of one offense or one alleged method of committing it does not
constitute a forbidden amendment of the indictment. See
also Goto v. Lane, 265 U. S. 393, 402-3; Ford v. United
States, 273 U. S. 593, 602. Were the rule otherwise the
common practice of withdrawing from the jury's consideration one count of an indictment while submitting others
for its verdict, sustained in Dealy v. United States, 152
U. S. 539,542, would be a fatal error.
We may assume that under some circumstances the
submission to the jury of part only of the matters alleged
in the indictment might result in such surprise to the
defendant as to amount to the denial of a fair trial. But,
as in the analogous case of a variance between pleading
and proof, a conviction can be reversed only upon a showing of injury to the "substantial rights" of the accused.
Berger v. United States, 295 U. S. 78, 82. Here no claim
of surprise has been or could be made. The indictment
plainly charged both falsity of, and lack of good faith
belief in the representations made, and it was agreed at
the outset of the trial, without objection from the defendants, that only the issue of respondents' good faith belief
in the representations of religious experiences would be
submitted to the jury. Respondents, who were represented by counsel, at no time in the course of the trial
offered any objection to this limitation of the issues, or
any contention that it would result in a prohibited amendment of the indictment. So far as appears from the record
before us the point was raised for the first time in the
specifications of errors in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is asserted that it was argued to the District Court on

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment. If so,
there was still no surprise by a ruling to which, as we have
said, respondents' counsel assented when it was made.
On the issue submitted to the jury in this case it properly rendered a verdict of guilty. As no legally sufficient
reason for disturbing it appears, I think the judgment
below should be reversed and that of the District Court
reinstated.
MR. JusTic, ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE
join in this opinion.

FRANKFURTER

MR. JUSTICE JACKsON, dissenting:
I should say the defendants have done just that for
which they are indicted. If I might agree to their conviction without creating a precedent, I cheerfully would do
so. I can see in their teachings nothing but humbug, untainted by any trace of truth. But that does not dispose
of the constitutional question whether misrepresentation
of religious experience or belief is prosecutable; it rather
emphasizes the danger of such prosecutions.
The Ballard family claimed miraculous communication
with the spirit world and supernatural power to heal the
sick. They were brought to trial for mail fraud on an
indictment which charged that their representations were
false and that they "well knew" they were false. The trial
judge, obviously troubled, ruled that the court could not
try whether the statements were untrue, but could inquire
whether the defendants knew them to be untrue; and,
if so, they could be convicted.
I find it difficult to reconcile this conclusion with our
traditional religious freedoms.
In the first place, as a matter of either practice or philosophy I do not see how we can separate an issue as to
what is believed from considerations as to what is believable. The most convincing proof that one believes his
statements is to show that they have been true in his expe-

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

rience. Likewise, that one knowingly falsified is best
proved by showing that what he said happened never did
happen. How can the Government prove these persons
knew something to be false which it cannot prove to be
false? If we try religious sincerity severed from religious
verity, we isolate the dispute from the very considerations
which in common experience provide its most reliable
answer.
In the second place, any inquiry into intellectual honesty in religion raises profound psychological problems.
William James, who wrote on these matters as a scientist,
reminds us that it is not theology and ceremonies which
keep religion going. Its vitality is in the religious experiences of many people. "If you ask what these experiences
are, they are conversations with the unseen, voices and
visions, responses to prayer, changes of heart, deliverances
from fear, inflowings of help, assurances of support, whenever certain persons set their own internal attitude in
certain appropriate ways."' If religious liberty includes,
as it must, the right to communicate such experiences to
others, it seems to me an impossible task for juries to
separate fancied ones from real ones, dreams from happenings, and hallucinations from true clairvoyance. Such
experiences, like some tones and colors, have existence for
one, but none at all for another. They cannot be verified
to the minds of those whose field of consciousness does not
include religious insight. When one comes to trial which
turns on any aspect of religious belief or representation,
unbelievers among his judges are likely not to understand
and are almost certain not to believe him.
And then I do not know what degree of skepticism or
disbelief in a religious representation amounts to actionable fraud. James points out that "Faith means belief
'William

James, Collected Essays and Reviews, pp. 427-8; see

generally his Varieties of Religious Experience and The Will to Believe.
See also Burton, Heyday of a Wizard.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

in something concerning which doubt is still theoretically
possible." 2 Belief in what one may demonstrate to the
senses is not faith. All schools of religious thought make
enormous assumptions, generally on the basis of revelations authenticated by some sign or miracle. The appeal
in such matters is to a very different plane of credulity
than is invoked by representations of secular fact in commerce. Some who profess belief in the Bible read literally
what others read as allegory or metaphor, as they read
Aesop's fables. Religious symbolism is even used by some
with the same mental reservations one has in teaching of
Santa Claus or Uncle Sam or Easter bunnies or dispassionate judges. It is hard in matters so mystical to say
how literally one is bound to believe the doctrine he
teaches and even more difficult to say how far it is reliance
upon a teacher's literal belief which induces followers to
give him money.
There appear to be persons-let us hope not manywho find refreshment and courage in the teachings of the
"I Am" cult. If the members of the sect get comfort from
the celestial guidance of their "Saint Germain," however
doubtful it seems to me, it is hard to say that they do not
get what they pay for. Scores of sects flourish in this
country by teaching what to me are queer notions. It is
plain that there is wide variety in American religious
taste. The Ballards are not alone in catering to it with a
pretty dubious product.
The chief wrong which false prophets do to their following is not financial. The collections aggregate a tempting
total, but individual payments are not ruinous. I doubt
if the vigilance of the law is equal to making money stick
by over-credulous people. But the real harm is on the
mental and spiritual plane. There are those who hunger
and thirst after higher values which they feel wanting in
2 William James, The Will to Believe, p. 90.

UNITED STATES v. BALLARD.
78

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

their humdrum lives. They live in mental confusion or
moral anarchy and seek vaguely for truth and beauty and
moral support. When they are deluded and then disillusioned, cynicism and confusion follow. The wrong of
these things, as I see it, is not in the money the victims
part with half so much as in the mental and spiritual
poison they get. But that is precisely the thing the Constitution put beyond the reach of the prosecutor, for the
price of freedom of religion or of speech or of the press is
that we must put up with, and even pay for, a good deal
of rubbish.
Prosecutions of this character easily could degenerate
into religious persecution. I do not doubt that religious
leaders may be convicted of fraud for making false representations on matters other than faith or experience, as for
example if one represents that funds are being used to
construct a church when in fact they are being used for
personal purposes. But that is not this case, which
reaches into wholly dangerous ground. When does less
than full belief in a professed credo become actionable
fraud if one is soliciting-gifts or legacies? Such inquiries
may discomfort orthodox as well as unconventional religious teachers, for even the most regular of them are sometimes accused of taking their orthodoxy with a grain of
salt.
I would dismiss the indictment and have done with this
business of judicially examining other people's faiths.

