UNITED STATES v. SAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

379

Morgenthau,307 U. S. 171, 174; Phillipsv. United States,
312 U. S. 246, 254.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JusTIcE JACKSON took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. SAYLOR ET AL.
NO. 716.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.*
Argued April 28, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.
Section 19 of the Criminal Code, which penalizes conspiracy "to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the
Constitution. or laws of the United States," embraces the right of a
voter in a Congressional election to have his vote honestly counted,
and is violated by a conspiracy of election officials to stuff a ballot
box in such an election. P. 389.
Reversed.
APPEALS under the Criminal Appeals Act from judgments in two cases sustaining demurrers to indictments
for violation of § 19 of the Criminal Code.

Mr. PaulA. Freundargued the cause, and SolicitorGeneral Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and
Messrs. Chester T. Lane and Edward G. Jennings were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Harry B. Miller for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases come here under the Criminal Appeals Act.
The District Court sustained demurrers to indictments
*Together with No. 717, United States v. Poer et al., also on appeal
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Kentucky.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

for conspiracies forbidden by § 19 of the Criminal Code.'
The section provides: "If two or more persons conspire
to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in
the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, . . ." they shall be punished.

As the cases present identical questions it will suffice
to state No. 716. The indictment charged that a general
election was held November 3, 1942, in Harlan County,
Kentucky, for the purpose of electing a Senator of the
United States, at which election the defendants served
as the duly qualified officers of election; that they conspired to injure and oppress divers citizens of the United
States who were legally entitled to vote at the polling
places where the defendants officiated, in the free exercise
and enjoyment of the rights and privileges guaranteed to
the citizens by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, namely, the right and privilege to express by their
votes their choice of a candidate for Senator and their
right to have their expressions of choice given full value
and effect by not having their votes impaired, lessened,
diminished, diluted and destroyed by fictitious ballots
fraudulently cast and counted, recorded, returned, and
certified. The indictment charged that the defendants,
pursuant to their plan, tore from the official ballot book
and stub book furnished them, blank unvoted ballots and
marked, forged, and voted the same for the candidate of
a given party, opposing the candidate for whom the injured voters had voted, in order to deprive the latter of
their rights to have their votes cast, counted, certified and
recorded and given full value and effect; that the defendants inserted the false ballots they had so prepared into
the ballot box, and returned them, together with the other
ballots lawfully cast, so as to create a false and fictitious
return respecting the votes lawfully cast.
118U. S. C. § 51.

UNITED STATES v. SAYLOR.
385

Opinion of the Court.

The appellees demurred to the indictment, as failing to
state facts sufficient to constitute a crime against- the
United States. The demurrer attacked the indictment on
other grounds raising questions which, if decided, would
not be reviewable here under the Criminal Appeals Act.
The District Court decided only that the indictment
charged no offense against the laws of the United States.
This ruling presents the question for decision.
The appellees do not deny the power of Congress to
punish the conspiracy described in the indictment. In
the light of our decisions, they could not well advance
such a contention.2 The inquiry is whether the provision
of § 19 embraces a conspiracy by election officers to stuff
a ballot box in an election at which a member of the Congress of the United States is to be elected.
In United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383, this court reversed a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment which charged a conspiracy of election officers to
render false returns by disregarding certain precinct returns and thus falsifying the count of the vote cast. After
stating that § 19 is constitutional and validly extends
"some protection at least to the right to vote for Members of Congress," the court added: "We regard it as
equally unquestionable that the right to have one's vote
counted is as open to protection by Congress as the right
to put a ballot in a box." The court then traced the history of § 19 from its origin as one section of the Enforcement Act of May 31, 1870,' which contained other sections more specifically aimed at election frauds, and the
survival of § 19 as a statute of the United States notwithstanding the repeal of those other sections. The conclusion was that § 19 protected personal rights of a citizen
including the right to cast his ballot, and held that to re2

Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 657, 658, 661, 663; United
States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 314, 315.
8c. 114, 16 Stat. 140, as amended by c. 99, 16 Stat. 433.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

fuse to count and return the vote as cast was as much an
infringement of that personal right as to exclude the voter
from the polling place. The case affirms that the elector's
right intended to be protected is not only that to cast his
ballot but that to have it honestly counted.
The decision was not reached without a strong dissent,
which emphasized the probability that Congress did not
intend to cover by § 6 of the Act (now § 19) the right to
cast a ballot and to have it counted, but to deal with those
rights in other sections of the act. And it was thought
this view was strengthened by the repeal, February 8,
1894,' of the sections which dealt with bribery and other
election frauds, including § 4, which, to some extent, overlapped § 6, if the latter were construed to comprehend
the right to cast a ballot and to have it counted. Notwithstanding that dissent, the Mosley case has stood as
authority to the present time.'
The court below thought the present cases controlled by
United States v. Bathgate, 246 U. S. 220. That case involved an indictment charging persons with conspiring to
deprive a candidate for office of rights secured to him by
the Constitution and laws of the United States, in violation of § 19, and to deprive other voters of their rights,
by the bribery of voters who participated in an election at
which members of Congress were candidates. This court
affirmed a decision of the district court sustaining a demurrer to the indictment, and distinguished the Mosley
case on several grounds: first, that, in the Enforcement
Act, bribery of voters had been specifically made a criminal
offense but the section so providing had been repealed;
secondly, that the ground on which the Mosley case went
c. 25, 28 Stat. 36.
United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476; In re Roberts, 244 U. S.

650; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 527; United States v. Classic,
supra,321.

UNITED STATES v. SAYLOR.
385

Opinion of the Court.

was that the conspiracy there was directed at the personal right of the elector to cast his own vote and to
have it honestly counted, a right not involved in the
Bathgate case.
If the voters' rights protected by § 19 are those defined
by the Mosley case, the frustration charged to have been
intended by the defendants in the present cases violates
them. For election officers knowingly to prepare false
ballots, place them in the box, and return them, is certainly to prevent an honest count by the return board
of the votes lawfully cast. The mathematical result may
not be the same as would ensue throwing out or frustrating the count of votes lawfully cast. But the action
pursuant to the conspiracy here charged constitutes the
rendering of a return which, to some extent, falsifies the
count of votes legally cast. We are unable to distinguish
a conspiracy so to act from that which was held a violation of § 19 in the Mosley case.
It is urged that any attempted distinction between the
conduct described in the Bathgate case and that referred
to in the Mosley case is illogical and insubstantial; that
bribery of voters as badly distorts the result of an election and as effectively denies a free and fair choice by the
voters as does ballot box stuffing or refusal to return or
count the ballots. Much is to be said for this view. The
legislative history does not clearly disclose the Congressional purpose in the repeal of the other sections of the Enforcement Act, while leaving § 6 (now § 19) in force. Section 19 can hardly have been inadvertently left on the
statute books. Perhaps Congress thought it had an application other than that given it by this court in the Mosley
case. On the other hand, Congress may have intended the
result this court reached in the Mosley decision. We think
it unprofitable to speculate upon the matter for Congress
has not spoken since the decisions in question were an-

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

nounced, and the distinction taken by those decisions has
stood for over a quarter of a century. Observance of that
distinction places the instant case within the ruling jn
the Mosley case and outside that in the Bathgate case.
Our conclusion is contrary to that of the court below
and requires that the judgments be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JusTIcE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE REED concur, dissenting:

The question is not whether stuffing of the ballot box
should be punished. Kentucky has made that reprehensible practice a crime. See Ky. Rev. Stat. 1942, § 124.220;
Commonwealth v. Anderson, 151 Ky. 537, 152 S.W. 552;
Tackett v. Commonwealth, 285 Ky. 83, 146 S.W. 2d 937.
Cf. Ky. Rev. Stat. 1942, § 124.180 (8). And it is a crime
under Kentucky law whether it occurs in an election for
state officials or for United States Senator. Id., § 124.280
(2). The question here is whether the general language
of § 19 of the Criminal Code should be construed to superimpose a federal crime on this state crime.
Under § 19 of the Enforcement Act of May'31, 1870 (16
Stat. 144) the stuffing of this ballot box would have been a
federal offense.' That provision was a part of the compreI That section provided:

"That if at any election for representative or delegate in the Congress of the United States any person shall knowingly personate and

vote, or attempt to vote, in the name of any other person, whether
living, dead, or fictitious; or vote more than once at the same election for any candidate for the same office; or vote at a place where he
may not be lawfully entitled to vote; or vote without having a lawful

right to vote; or do any unlawful act to secure a right or an opportunity to vote for himself or any other person; or by force, threat,
menace, intimidation, bribery, reward, or offer, or promise thereof,
or otherwise unlawfully prevent any qualified voter of any State of
the United States of America, or of any Territory thereof, from

UNITED STATES v. SAYLOR.
385

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

hensive "reconstruction" legislation passed after the Civil
War. It was repealed by the Act of February 8, 1894, 28
Stat. 36--an Act which was designed to restore control of
election frauds to the States. The Committee Report
(H. Rep. No. 18, 53d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 7) which sponsored the repeal stated:
"Let every trace of the reconstruction measures be
wiped from the statute books; let the States of this great
Union understand that the elections are in their own
hands, and if there be fraud, coercion, or force used they
will be the first to feel it. Responding to a universal sentiment throughout the country for greater purity in elections many of our States have enacted laws to protect the
voter and to purify the ballot. These, under the guidance
of State officers, have worked efficiently, satisfactorily, and
beneficently; and if these Federal statutes are repealed

that sentiment will receive an impetus which, if the cause
freely exercising the right of suffrage, or by any such means induce
any voter to refuse to exercise such right; or compel or induce by any
such means, or otherwise, any officer of an election in any such State
or Territory to receive a vote from a person not legally qualified or
entitled to vote; or interfere in any manner with any officer of said
elections in the discharge of his duties; or by any of such means, or
other unlawful means, induce any officer of an election, or officer
whose duty it is to ascertain, announce, or declare the result of any
such election, or give or make any certificate, document, or evidence in
relation thereto, to violate or refuse to comply with his duty, or any
law regulating the same; or knowingly and wilfully receive the vote
of any person not entitled to vote, or refuse to receive the vote of any
person entitled to vote; or aid, counsel, procure, or advise any such
voter, person, or officer to do any act hereby made a crime, or to
omit to do any duty the omission of which is hereby made a crime,
or attempt to do so, every such person shall be deemed guilty of a
crime, and shall for such crime be liable to prosecution in any court
of the United States of competent jurisdiction, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars,
or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or both, in
the discretion of the court, and shall pay the coats of prosecution."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

still exists, will carry such enactments in every State in the
Union."
This Court now writes into the law what Congress
struck out 50 years ago. The Court now restores federal
control in a domain where Congress decided the States
should have exclusive jurisdiction. I think if such an
intrusion on historic states' rights is to be made, it should
be done by the legislative branch of government. I cannot believe that Congress intended to preserve by the
general language of § 19 the same detailed federal controls
over elections which were contained in the much despised
"reconstruction" legislation.
The Court, of course, does not go quite that far. It
recognizes that bribery of voters is not a federal offense.
United States v. Bathgate, 246 U. S. 220. But he who
bribes voters and purchases their votes corrupts the electoral process and dilutes my vote as much as he who stuffs
the ballot box. If one is a federal crime under § 19, I fail
to see why the other is not also.
Congress has ample power to legislate in this field and
to protect the election of its members from fraud and corruption. United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299. I would
leave to Congress any extension of federal control over
elections. I would restrict § 19 to those cases where a voter
is deprived of his right to cast a ballot or to have his ballot
counted. UnitedStates v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383. That is
the "right or privilege" the "free exercise" of which is
protected by § 19. If it is said that that distinction is not a
logical one, my answer is that it is nevertheless a practical
one. Once we go beyond that point, logic would require us
to construe § 19 so as to make federal offenses out of all
frauds which corrupt the electoral process, distort the
count, or dilute the honest vote. The vast interests involved in that proposal emphasize the legislative quality
of an expansive construction of § 19. We should leave
that expansion to Congress.

KEEFE v. CLARK.
385

Syllabus.

That view is supported by another consideration. The
double jeopardy provision of the Fifth Amendment does
not bar a federal prosecution even though a conviction
based on the same acts has been obtained under state law.
Jerome v. United States, 318 U. S. 101, 105, and cases
cited. Therefore when it is urged that Congress has
created offenses which traditionally have been left for
state action and which duplicate state crimes, we should
be reluctant to expand the defined federal offenses "beyond the clear requirements of the terms of the statute."
Id. I know of no situation where that principle could be
more appropriately recognized than in the field of the elections where there is comprehensive state regulation.
KEEFE ET A.

v. CLARK, DRAIN COMMISSIONER

OF OAKLAND COUNTY,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 634.

Argued April 27, 28, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

1. Where the contract is between a political subdivision of a State and
private individuals, the obligation alleged to have been impaired in
violation of the Federal Constitution must be clearly and unequivocally expressed. P. 396.
2. The foregoing rule of construction applies with special force in the
present case, since the interpretation of the contract urged by appellants would result in a drastic limitation of the power of the State
to remedy a situation obviously inimical to the interests of municipal
creditors and the general public. P. 397.
3. The Michigan statute upon which the owners of special assessment drain bonds here rely, dealing with the levy of an additional
assessment in the event that the bonds are not paid in full at maturity, did not secure to the bond owners any right which was impaired by later statutes providing for sale by the State, free of all
encumbrances, of land for unpaid taxes; and the later statutes did
not impair the obligation of their contracts in violation of the
Federal Constitution. P. 397.
306 Mich. 503, 11 N. W. 2d 220, affirmed.
587770°-45-29

