ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
596

Syllabus.

by ruthless methods, knowing full well that they dare not
use such a confession at the trial, and then, as a part of
the same continuing transaction and before the effects of
the coercion can fairly be said to have completely worn off,
procure another confession without any immediate violence being inflicted. The admission of such a tainted
confession does not accord with the Fourteenth Amendment's command that a state shall not convict a defendant
on evidence that he was compelled to give against himself.
Chambers v. Florida, supra; Canty v. Alabama, supra;
Lisenba v. California, supra; Ashcraft v. Tennessee,
supra.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in this opinion.
ADDISON

v. HOLLY HILL FRUIT
PRODUCTS, INC.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 217. Argued January 10, 1944.-Decided June 5, 1944.

1. Section 13 (a) (10) of the Fair Labor Standards Act exempts from
the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Act persons
employed, "within the area of production (as defined by the Administrator)," in canning agricultural commodities for market.

The Administrator's definition of "area of production" brought
within the exemption employees of canneries which obtained "all"

of their farm products from within ten miles and had not more than
seven employees. Held:
(1) Judicial construction of "all" in the Administrator's definition as meaning "substantially all" was not permissible. P. 610.
(2) The Administrator's discrimination between canneries having seven or less employees and those having more was unauthorized and invalid. Pp. 611, 618.
2. A judgment of the District Court allowing recovery under the
minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act having been
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals on the ground that the

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Administrator's discrimination based on number of employees was
invalid and that the cannery in question was exempt under the remainder of the Administrator's definition, the cause on review here
is remanded to the District Court with directions to retain jurisdiction until the Administrator, by making with reasonable promptness a valid definition, acts within the authority granted him by
Congress. P. 619.
136 F. 2d 323, remanded.

CERTioRARI, 320 U. S. 725, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the complainants in a suit to recover minimum wages, overtime compensation, and liquidated damages under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Messrs. George Palmer Garrett and Ellis F. Davis for
petitioners.
Mr. G. L. Reeves, with whom Messrs. R. B. Huffaker
and C. 0. Andrews, Jr. were on the brief, for respondent.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Douglas B. Maggs, with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Archibald Cox and
James H. Shelton, and Miss Bessie Margolin were on the
brief, for the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by employees of Holly Hill Fruit
Products, Inc. for wage payments under the Fair Labor
Standards Act. 52 Stat. 1060, 29U. S. C. §§ 201 et seq. A
judgment for the employees, the petitioners here, was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held that
Holly Hill's employees were by virtue of § 13 (a) (10) of
the Act exempted from its scope, in that they were "within
the area of production (as defined by the Administrator),
engaged in . . . canning of agricultural . . . commodities for market . . ." The court below reached this con-

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

clusion by holding that a portion of the definition of "area
of production" made by the Administrator of the Wage
and Hour Division was invalid and that the remaining
portion afforded exemption. 136 F. 2d 323. We brought
the case here, 320 U. S. 725, to settle a much litigated
question of importance in the administration of the Fair
Labor Standards Act.
Holly Hill, a citrus fruit cannery employing some two
hundred workers, is located in Davenport, Florida, a town
with a population of about 650 people. During the two
seasons in controversy-November 14, 1938 to May 26,
1939, and November 16, 1939 to March 30, 1940-the
Administrator promulgated three regulations based on
the scope he gave to his authority under § 13 (a) (10) to
define "area of production." The validity of aspects of
these regulations is the crucial issue.
By regulation of October 20, 1938, the Administrator
defined "area of production" as used in § 13 (a) (10) to
include an individual engaged in canning "if the agricultural or horticultural commodities are obtained by the
establishment where he is employed from farms in the
immediate locality and the number of employees in such
establishment does not exceed seven." 29 Code Fed. Reg.
(Supp. 1938) § 536.2 (b). Effective April 20, 1939, an
alternative definition, applicable to perishable or seasonal
fresh fruits and vegetables, brought workers into the "area
of production" if employed "in an establishment which is
located in the open country or in a rural community and
which obtains all of its products from farms in its immediate locality." It was provided that "'open country'
or 'rural community' shall not include any city or town
of 2,500 or greater population according to the 15th
United States Census, 1930, and 'immediate locality' shall
not include any distance of more than ten miles." 29
Code Fed. Reg. (Supp. 1939) § 536.2 (e), pp. 2239-40.
Finally, this alternative definition, no longer limited to

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

fruits and vegetables, was in substance incorporated into
the regulations effective June 17, 1939, but in addition
it was provided that an individual might also be within
the "area of production" "if he performs those [canning]
operations on materials all of which come from farms in
the general vicinity of the establishment where he is employed and the number of employees engaged in those
operations in that establishment does not exceed seven."
29 Code Fed. Reg. (Supp. 1939) § 536.2 (a) (d), p. 2240.
Before coming to the main question, that of the validity
of adding a limitation on the allowable number of employees in one canning establishment within the exempted
geographic bounds, we shall dispose of the applicability
of the Administrator's other exempting definitions to
Holly Hill's employees.
The definitions which contain no employee limitation
impose two essential conditions on an exemption sought
under § 13 (a) (10): the establishment must be located in
a city or town having a population smaller than 2,500,1
and all of its products must be obtained from within ten
miles of the establishment. Since Davenport contains
less than 2,500 persons, the first condition is met and we
need not pass on its validity.2 As to the second condition, the only evidence introduced indicates that during
the 1938-1939 season, about 2% of the fruit used came
from beyond ten air miles of the plant, and that for the
1939-1940 season, about 3.75% came from groves more
than ten air miles from Holly Hill. Since all of the fruit
did not come from within ten miles, Holly Hill did not
1The fact that Davenport is within four miles of Haines City, with
a population greater than 2,500, led the district court to conclude that
Holly Hill was not located in the "open country" or a "rural community." This appears to be a plain solecism. 29 Code Fed. Reg.
(Supp. 1939) § 536.2 (e), pp. 2239-40, and § 536.2 (d), p. 2240.
2 It is conceded that a specific ruling on the population criterion is
unnecessary.

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

satisfy this condition of the Administrator's definitions.
There can be no doubt that this conclusion is justified by
a literal reading of the regulations, and the court below,
in holding that the Administrator's requirement that all
the goods come from within ten miles must be construed
to mean "substantially all," entered the Administrator's
domain. What was said in another connection is relevant here. "Looked at by itself without regard to the
necessity behind it the line or point seems arbitrary. It
might as well or nearly as well be a little more to one
side or the other. But when it is seen that a line or
point there must be, and that there is no mathematical
or logical way of fixing it precisely, the decision of the
[Administrator] must be accepted unless we can say that
it is very wide of any reasonable mark." Mr. Justice
Holmes, dissenting, in Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277
U. S. 32, 41.
We come then to the validity of the October 20, 1938,
regulation and that of the alternative in the June 17,
1939, regulation which provide in substance that an individual is employed within the "area of production" ifan establishment obtains the commodities from the "immediate locality" (1938) or all the materials come from
the "general vicinity" (1939), and in addition the number of employees in the establishment "does not exceed
seven." In short, when Congress exempted "any individual employed within the area of production (as defined
by the Administrator)" (§ 13 (a) (10)), did it authorize
the Administrator not only to designate territorial bounds
for the purposes of exemption but also to except establishments from such exemption according to the number
of workers employed.
3 Holly Hill here attacked the finding of the district court that all of
the fruit did not come from within ten miles, but we see no reason
to disturb it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Congress provided for eleven exemptions from the controlling provisions relating to minimum wages or maximum hours of the Fair Labor Standards Act.' Employment in agriculture is probably the most far-reaching
exemption. Closely related to it is the exemption which
is our immediate concern-those workers engaged in
processes necessary for the marketing of agricultural products and employed "within the area of production" of
4"SEc. 13 (a) The provisions of sections 6 and 7 shall not apply
with respect to (1) any employee employed in a bona fide executive,
administrative, professional, or local retailing capacity, or in the
capacity of outside salesman (as such terms are defined and delimited
by regulations of the Administrator); or (2) any employee engaged
in any retail or service establishment the greater part of whose selling
or servicing is in intrastate commerce; or (3) any employee employed
as a seaman; or (4) any employee of a carrier by air subject to the
provisions of title II of the Railway Labor Act; or (5) any employee employed in the catching, taking, harvesting, cultivating, or
farming of any kind of fish, shellfish, crustacea, sponges, seaweeds, or
other aquatic forms of animal and vegetable life, including the going to
and returning from work and including employment in the loading, unloading, or packing of such products for shipment or in propagating,
processing, marketing, freezing, canning, curing, storing, or distributing
the above products or byproducts thereof; or (6) any employee employed in agriculture; or (7) any employee to the extent that such
employee is exempted by regulations or orders of the Administrator
issued under section 14; or (8) any employee employed in connection
with the publication of any weekly or semiweekly newspaper with a
circulation of less than three thousand the major part of which circulation is within the county where printed and published; or (9) any
employee of a street, suburban, or interurban electric railway, or local
trolley or motor bus carrier, not included in other exemptions contained in this section; or (10) to any individual employed within the
area of production (as defined by the Administrator), engaged in
handling, packing, storing, ginning, compressing, pasteurizing, drying,
preparing in their raw or natural state, or canning of agricultural or
horticultural commodities for market, or in making cheese or butter or
other dairy products; or (11) any switchboard operator employed in
a public telephone exchange which has less than five hundred stations."
52 Stat. 1067, as amended, 53 Stat. 1266.

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

such commodities. Such was the phrase and such its conjunction with the exemption for agriculture of which it
formed an integral part as the bill 1assed both Houses,
except that the enumerated exempted employments subsidiary to agriculture varied in the two bills.' The parenthetical qualification "(as defined by the Administrator)" emerged from the conference committee of the
two Houses.'

The textual meaning of "area of production" is thus
reinforced by its context: "area" calls for delimitation of
5 The exemptions provided in § 13 (a) (10) did not appear in the bill
as reported to the Senate, but in the debate on the floor of that body
an effort was made to extend the exemption accorded to agricultural
workers, and as passed by the Senate the bill provided that "The term
'person employed in agriculture', as used in this act, insofar as it shall
refer to fresh fruits and vegetables, shall include persons employed
within the area of production engaged in preparing, packing, or storing
such fresh fruits or vegetables in their raw or natural state." 81 Cong.
Rec. 7876, 7949, 7957. This provision, varied somewhat by extending
its coverage to all "agricultural commodities" (82 Cong. Rec. 17831784), remained as part of the definition of "Employee employed in
agriculture" (H. Rep. No. 2182, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 2) until
shortly before the bill was finally adopted by the House, at which time
the so-called Biermann amendment included within the definition of
employees engaged in agriculture "individuals employed within the
area of production, engaged in the handling, packing, storing, ginning,
compressing, pasteurizing, drying, or canning of farm products and in
making cheese and butter." 83 Cong. Rec. 7401, 7407. At the conference on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses, the "area of production" provision was given the form in which it was finally enacted,
and there the parenthetical phrase "as defined by the Administrator"
was inserted after "area of production." 83 Cong. Rec. 9249.
6Compare this provision with § 13 (a) (1) exempting employees in
"a bona fide executive, administrative, professional, or local retailing
capacity, or in the capacity of outside salesman (as such terms are
defined and delimited by regulations of the Administrator)." For
this class, the Administrator is given the authority to define and
delimit the "terms" used. But in the same section, subdivision 10
grants authority to define not the term "area," but to define the

"area.3

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

territory in relation to the complicated economic factors that operate between agricultural labor conditions
and the labor market of enterprises concerned with agricultural commodities and more or less near their production. The phrase is the most apt designation of a zone
within which economic influences may be deemed to operate and outside of which they lose their force. In view,
however, of the variety of agricultural conditions and industries throughout the country, the bounds of these areas
could not be defined by Congress itself. Neither was it
deemed wise to leave such economic determination to the
contingencies and inevitable diversities of litigation. And
so Congress left the boundary-making to the experienced
and informed judgment of the Administrator. Thereby
Congress gave the Administrator appropriate discretion
to assess all the factors relevant to the subject matter, that
is, the fixing of minimum wages and maximum hours.
In delimiting the area the Administrator may properly
weigh and synthesize all such factors. So long as he does
that and no more, judgment belongs to him and not to
the courts. For Congress has cast upon him the authority
and the duty to define the "area of production" of agricultural commodities with reference to which exemption
in subsidiary employments may operate. But if Congress
intended to allow the Administrator to discriminate between smaller and bigger establishments within the zone
of agricultural production, Congress wholly failed to
express its purpose. Where Congress wanted to make exemption depend on size, as it did in two or three instances
not here relevant, it did so by appropriate language.'
Congress referred to quantity when it desired to legislate
on the basis of quantity.
7

See §§ 13 (a) (2) (8) (11) dealing respectively with retail or
service establishments, weekly or semi-weekly newspapers and public telephone exchanges.

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

Congressional purpose as manifested by text and context is not rendered doubtful by legislative history.
Meagre as that is, it confirms what Congress has formally
said. The only extrinsic light cast on Congressional purpose regarding "area of production" is that cast by the
sponsors of this provision for enlarging the range of agricultural exemptions. Senator Schwellenbach frankly
stated that the largest apple packing plant in the world
would be exempt if the "work done in that plant is as described in the amendment." 81 Cong. Rec. 7877. And
in the House, Representative Biermann, while explaining
his amendment in somewhat Delphic terms, did indicate
plainly enough that he had in mind not differences
between establishments within the same territory but between rural communities and urban centers: "may I say
that all over this country it has been recognized that there
should be a labor differential between the large city and
the little town." 83 Cong. Rec. 7401.8
From such light as Congress gave us beyond its words,
it would appear that in giving exemption to an "area of
production," without differentiating as between establishments within such area, Congress might well have
considered that a large plant within an area should not
be given an advantage over small plants in competing for
labor within the same locality, while at the same time it
8 Representative Biermann was asked whether his amendment
"would apply to a packing house located in Iowa and Illinois in the
area of production, which employs two or three hundred men." This
was his complete answer: "Speaking frankly, I think that is something that would have to be worked out. There are some packing
houses in the State of Iowa that this amendment would apply to
perhaps; but may I say that all over this country it has been recognized that there should be a labor differential between the large
city and the little town." Certainly Mr. Biermann did not give the
remotest intimation that "area of production" was meant to convey
any idea other than that which area usually conveys.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

gave the Administrator ample power, in defining the area,
to take due account of the appropriate economic factors
in drawing the geographic lines. In any event, Congress
did not leave it to the Administrator to decide whether
within geographic bounds defined by him the Act further
permits discrimination between establishment and establishment based upon the number of employees. The determination of the extent of authority given to a delegated
agency by Congress is not left for the decision of him in
whom authority is vested.
The wider a delegation is made by Congress to an
administrative agency the more incomplete is a statute
and the ampler the scope for filling in, as it is called, its
details. But when Congress wants to give wide discretion
it uses broad language. Thus, in the Interstate Commerce Act, Congress prohibited a lower rate for a longer
than a shorter haul, but it gave an authority to the Interstate Commerce Commission, undefined except as the
general purposes of that Act implied the basis for affording exemption, to grant relief from this prohibition.
IntermountainRate Cases, 234 U. S. 476. Again in the
National Labor Relations Act, Congress gave the Board
authority to take such action "as will effectuate the
policies of this Act." § 10 (c), 49 Stat. 449, 454, 29
U. S. C. § 160 (c). The "policies" of the Act were so
broadly defined by Congress that the determination of
"the relation of remedy to policy is peculiarly a matter
for administrative competence." Phelps Dodge Corp. v.
LaborBoard,313 U. S. 177, 194. In the Fair Labor Standards Act, Congress legislated very differently in relation
to the problem before us. To be sure, the Fair Labor
Standards Act, like the National Labor Relations Act, was
based on findings and a declaration of broad policy. But
Congress did not prescribe or proscribe generally and then
give broad discretion for administrative relief as in the
Interstate Commerce Act or for remedies as in the

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

National Labor Relations Act. Congress did otherwise.
It dealt with exemptions in detail and with particularity,
enumerating not less than eleven exempted classes based
on different industries, on different occupations within
the same industry (the classification in some instances
to be defined by the Administrator, in some made by
Congress itself, in others subject to definition by other
legislation), on size and on areas. In short the Administrator was not left at large. A new national policy was
here formulated with exceptions, catalogued with particularity and not left within the broad dispensing power
of the Administrator. Exemptions made in such detail
preclude their enlargement by implication.
We should of course be faithful to the meaning of a
statute. But after all Congress expresses its meaning by
words. If legislative policy is couched in vague language,
easily susceptible of one meaning as well as another in
the common speech of men, we should not stifle a policy by
a pedantic or grudging process of construction. To let
general words draw nourishment from their purpose is one
thing. To draw on some unexpressed spirit outside the
bounds of the normal meaning of words is quite another.
For we are here not dealing with the broad terms of the
Constitution "as a continuing instrument of government"
but with part of a legislative code "subject to continuous revision with the changing course of events." United
States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 316.
Legislation introducing a new system is at best empirical, and not infrequently administration reveals gaps or
inadequacies of one sort or another that may call for
amendatory legislation. But it is no warrant for extending a statute that experience may disclose that it should
have been made more comprehensive. "The natural
meaning of words cannot be displaced by reference to
difficulties in administration." Commonwealth v. Grunseit (1943) 67 C. L. R. 58, 80. For the ultimate question
587770--45-

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

is what has Congress commanded, when it has given no
clue to its intentions except familiar English words and
no hint by the draftsmen of the words that they meant
to use them in any but an ordinary sense. The idea which
is now sought to be read into the grant by Congress to the
Administrator to define "the area of production" beyond
the plain geographic implications of that phrase is not so
complicated nor is English speech so poor that words were
not easily available to express the idea or at least to suggest it. After all, legislation when not expressed in technical terms is addressed to the common run of men and is
therefore to be understood according to the sense of the
thing, as the ordinary man has a right to rely on ordinary
words addressed to him.
The details with which the exemptions in this Act have
been made preclude their enlargement by implication.
While the judicial function in construing legislation is
not a mechanical process from which judgment is excluded, it is nevertheless very different from the legislative function. Construction is not legislation and must
avoid "that retrospective expansion of meaning which
properly deserves the stigma of judicial legislation."
Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 522. To blur
the distinctive functions of the legislative and judicial
processes is not conducive to responsible legislation.
We agree therefore with the Circuit Court of Appeals
in holding invalid the limitations as to the number of
employees within a defined area. But we cannot follow
that Court in deleting this part of the administrative
regulation and, by applying what remains of the definition, exempting Holly Hill's employees from the requirements of the Act. Since the provision as to the number
of employees was not authorized, the entire definition of
which that limitation was a part must fall. We can
hardly assume that the Administrator would have defined
"area of production" merely by deleting the employee pro-

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

vision, had he known of its invalidity. It would be the
sheerest guesswork to believe that elimination of an important factor in the Administrator's equation would
have left his equation unaffected even if he did not here
insist upon its importance. It is not for us to write a
definition. That is the Administrator's duty.
Concluding, then, that when Congress granted exemptions for workers within the "area of production (as defined by the Administrator)" it restricted the Administrator to the drawing of geographic lines, even though he
may take into account all relevant economic factors in
the choice of areas open to him, the regulations which
made discriminations within the area defined by applying
the exemption only to plants with less than seven employees are ultravires. But that leaves the difficult problem of the proper disposition of the case. It is our view
that the case should be remanded to the district court with
instructions to hold it until the Administrator, by making
a valid determination of the area with all deliberate
speed, acts within the authority given him by Congress.
Such a disposition is most consonant with justice to all
interests in retracing the erroneous course that has been
taken. Neither law nor logic dictates an "either-or" conclusion-that is, a conclusion that the employment in
these industries is entirely exempt because the Administrator misconceived the bounds of his regulatory powers
although plainly enough he meant to exercise them so as
not to withdraw all these employments from the requirements of the Act, or that employment in these industries
issubject to the Act because no exception excludes it.
The two opposing alternatives do violence to the law as
Congress wrote it. To hold that all individuals "engaged
in handling, packing, storing, ginning, compressing, pasteurizing, drying, preparing in their raw or natural state,
or canning of agricultural or horticultural commodities for
market, or in making cheese or butter or other dairy

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

products" are exempt from the operation of the Act is
obviously to fly in the face of Congressional purpose.
The Act exempts some but not all of the employees engaged in these industries, and it is not for us now to say
that all are exempt. So to hold would postpone the operation of the Act in the enumerated instances for at least
six years beyond the date fixed by Congress. Equally
offending to the purposes of Congress and therefore to
fairness in this situation is the suggestion that if the exemption falls all employees engaged in the designated
industries are covered by the Act.
The accommodation that we are making assumes, what
we must assume, that the Administrator will retrospectively act as conscientiously within the bounds of the
power given him by Congress as he would have done
initially had he limited himself to his authority. To be
sure this will be a retrospective judgment, and law should
avoid retroactivity as much as possible. But other possible dispositions likewise involve retroactivity, with the
added mischief of producing a result contrary to the
statutory design.
Such an adaptation of court procedure to a remolding
of the situation as nearly as may be to what it should have
been initially is not unprecedented. Such was essentially
the procedure which was devised to unravel the skein in
United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S.183. The Court did
not feel itself balked by the kind of considerations that
seemed controlling to a Baron Parke. The creative
analogies of the law were drawn upon by which great
equity judges, exercising imaginative resourcefulness,
have always escaped the imprisonment of reason and fairness within mechanical concepts of the common law. See,
e. g., Atlantic Coast Line v. Florida,295 U. S. 301; Inland
Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153; and for some
examples of this approach see Graf v. Hope Building
Corp., 254 N. Y. 1, 7 (Cardozo, Ch. J., dissenting). That

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Opinion of the Court.

such were the large considerations that guided decision in
the Morgan case the opinion makes clear:
".. . in construing a statute setting up an administrative agency and providing for judicial review of its action,
court and agency are not to be regarded as wholly independent and unrelated instrumentalities of justice, each
acting in the performance of its prescribed statutory duty
without regard to the appropriate function of the other in
securing the plainly indicated objects of the statute.
Court and agency are the means adopted to attain the
prescribed end, and so far as their duties are defined by
the words of the statute, those words should be construed
so as to attain that end through coordinated action.
Neither body should repeat in this day the mistake made
by the courts of law when equity was struggling for recognition as an ameliorating system of justice; neither can
rightly be regarded by the other as an alien intruder, to
be tolerated if must be, but never to be encouraged or
aided by the other in the attainment of the common aim."
307 U. S. at 191.
If it be said that in the Morgan case the Court was
dealing with a fund in court-irrelevant though that be
to the governing principles of that decision-no such constriction can be made of the import of our decision in
General American Tank Car Corp. v. Terminal Co., 308
UJ. S. 422. That, like this, was an action at law and not a
suit in equity involving a res. The respondent was seeking to recover a sum admittedly due under a car-leasing
agreement with petitioner. The Interstate Commerce
Commission urged that since the Commission had not, as
the law required, passed upon the validity of the practice involved in the agreement, the district court was
without jurisdiction. And so, technically speaking, the
district court was. But this Court remanded the case to
the district court with instructions to hold the cause
"pending the conclusion of an appropriate administra-

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U.S.

tive proceeding." The petition for rehearing claimed that
our decision involved retroactivity. 309 U. S. 694. So
it did. But as against retroactivity we balanced the considerations that made retroactivity seem the lesser evil.
In short, the judicial process is not without the resources of flexibility in shaping its remedies, though courts
from time to time fail to avail themselves of them. The
interplay between law and equity in the evolution of more
just results than the hardened common law afforded, has
properly been drawn upon in working out accommodating
relationships between the judiciary and administrative
agencies. And certainly in specific cases, such as those
already referred to and in this, it is consonant with judicial administration and fairness not to be balked by the
undesirability of retroactive action any more than courts
have found it difficult to sanction legislative ratification
of acts originally unlawful, United States v. Heinszen &
Co., 206 U. S.370; Tiaco v. Forbes, 228 U. S.549; Graham & Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U. S.409; Hirabayashiv.
United States, 320 U. S.81, 91, or retroactively to give
prior legislation new scope. Paramino Lumber Co. v.
Marshall, 309 U. S.370. And in habeas corpus proceedings, even though a petitioner was unlawfully in custody,
this Court has allowed continued retention of custody
until a valid order could be made. Mahler v. Eby, 264
U. S. 32; Todv. Waldman, 266 U. S. 113.
Finally, there is no difficulty upon such a remand in requiring the Administrator to promulgate his definition.
This Court has on several occasions required the Interstate
Commerce Commission to take jurisdiction when it declined to do so or to discharge a duty laid upon the Commission by statute. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Humboldt Steamship Co., 224 U. S.474; Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 246 U. S.
638. See also Kansas City Southern Ry.Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 252 U. S.178. The district court

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

ROBERTS, J..

would not be telling the Administrator how to exercise
his discretion but would merely require him to exercise it.
It is a remedy against inaction.
Holly Hill also contended that if it is not entirely exempt from paying the overtime rates here awarded, it is
entitled to the advantage of the partial seasonal exempttions afforded by §§ 7 (b) (3) and 7 (c). The district
court ruled adversely to Holly Hill on these claims, but
the Circuit Court of Appeals did not reach them. It will
be time enough to reach them if they survive the disposition now made of this case.
Accordingly, the case is remanded to the district court
to proceed in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS:

I agree with the opinion of this court and with the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the Administrator was without power (if "area of production" is to
have any sensible meaning) to exclude from the area and
from the operation of the exemption workers in a processing plant clearly within the area on the ground that a
certain number of employes worked in the plant. If
Congress, when it said that the area of production should
be defined by the Administrator, meant that that official
should have a roving commission to create exemptions
from the Act, the entire provision must fall as an unconstitutional attempt to delegate legislative power. We
should never, however, construe an Act in a sense which
would render it unconstitutional if a different and permissible construction will save it.
The legislative history makes it clear enough that
Congress wished to exempt plants processing agricultural
commodities in the locality of the farms which produced
the commodities. Realizing that the ascertainment of the
facts in particular cases would be essential to definition or

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBmrTS, J.

322 U. S.

delimitation of the area served, Congress, by the phrase
"as defined by the Administrator," meant to permit him
to draw lines in delimitation of areas appropriately to
correspond to the facts. I construe the word "define,"
in this context, to mean "ascertain the facts and announce
the result of such ascertainment." The opinions of the
court below elaborate this view.
I think the Administrator's order may well be allowed
to stand with the illegal and unauthorized feature of it
deleted. This is what the Circuit Court of Appeals decided and I believe it was right. Other features of the
order were not, and are not, attacked and if, for the future,
the Administrator desires, in other aspects, to amend his
order, there is nothing to prevent. This would lead to
affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and, if I could make my vote effective to that end,
I should vote for affirmance. The other members of the
court, however, are for reversal, but are divided on the
question whether the judgment of the District Court
should be affirmed or the case held in that court pending
amendment of the order by the Administrator. Entertaining the views which I do, I cannot vote to affirm the
judgment of the District Court, but that will be the effect
of my action if I vote simply to reverse the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals. While I think none of the
authorities cited in the opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER justify the procedure there outlined, I am constrained to vote in accordance with his opinion.
I am clear that, if the Administrator is to be permitted
to amend his order, or to enter a new order effective from
the date of the one under attack, he may not resort to
gerrymandering or to any other device to accomplish by
indirection what the decision holds he cannot do directly.
I personally believe the scope of his discretion is more
limited than some of my colleagues think and I do not
wish my concurrence in the remand of the case to the

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

RUTLEmG,

J., dissenting.

District Court, to be there held pending the promulgation of an amended order, or a new order, to be taken as
approving in advance the views expressed as to the extent
of the Administrator's discretion.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

with whom MR. JUSTICE

BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting:
In my opinion the Administrator has defined "area of
production" in a valid manner, and therefore the employee petitioners should prevail. But if, as the majority
hold, his definition is not valid, then the exemption is not
operative, and for that reason the petitioners likewise
should prevail. I dissent, therefore, from the Court's conclusion that the definition is void. I dissent equally from
the wholly novel disposition it makes of the cause on that
hypothesis, in remanding it to await the Administrator's
retroactive redetermination of the parties' rights.
I.
The basic issue, as the case was presented, is whether
the Administrator can include in the definition not only
spacial limits but also a limit upon the number of employees in exempted establishments. The Administrator
included this factor in his first definition; ' later reexamined it in extensive hearings; 2 concluded on the record
thus made that no purely geographical definition could
be conformed to the major legislative policies announced
in the statute; I has retained it in each of several later
' Promulgated October 20, 1938, effective four days later. 3 Fed.
Reg.2536.
2 See Hearings on Proposed Amendment of Section 536.2 (area of
production) of Regulations issued under the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938, Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor Ref.
Nos. 54; 73; 162a; 162b; 162c.
8
Tests proposed and considered included: the mapping of producing territories; a flat mileage-population definition; a "first concentration point" criterion; a standard which would include only estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuTLm)EI,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

definitions, varying in other details, framed after extensive hearing; " and now earnestly insists it, or an equivalent limitation on size of the plant, must be included,
unless any definition he may make is to work havoc with
some major policy of the Act, either by exempting large
numbers of industrial employees ' or by creating disturbances of competitive situations, both for farmers and for
canners and packers,' which the statute expressly sought
to avoid.
The Administrator's task is highly complex. It involves defining exemptions for employees throughout the
nation engaged in "handling, packing, storing, ginning,
compressing, pasteurizing, drying, preparing in their raw
or natural state, or canning of agricultural or horticultural
commodities for market, or in making cheese or butter. or
other dairy products." § 13 (a) (10). All these operations follow immediately upon harvest and removal from
the field or milking. All can be done on the farm and
frequently are done there, but may be done elsewhere,
often in factories. All consist in the first stages of preparation for market.
lishments which handled and prepared for the account of the farmer
commodities to which he retained title. All these and others were
rejected by successive administrators, after being urged and opposed
by industry representatives, as presenting insuperable obstacles to
carrying out the statute's major policies.
4 Compare the definition promulgated October 20, 1938, 3 Fed. Reg.
2536, with the amendments of April 20, 1939, 4 Fed. Reg. 1655; June
17, 1939, 4 Fed. Reg. 2436; October 1, 1940, 5 Fed. Reg. 2647; and
April 1, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 1476.
1 Cf. Department of Labor Release R.-226, March 18, 1939; G.-.60,
July 24, 1940.
6A flat mileage definition was in force during part of the time material in this case, but was abandoned after its effects, by way of creating serious unfair discrimination between competing establishments
and narrowing grocers' outlets, became evident. Cf. Department of
Labor Release G.-60, July 24, 1940.

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Ruriux,

J., dissenting.

But whether the specified operations will be done on
the farm, as part of the farm work or away from it, and in
either small neighborhood establishments or in larger industrial plants, will depend upon a variety of factors as
great as that which comprehends the whole vast process of
starting the nation's crops, over 300,' on their respective
marketing courses. The initial steps in marketing such
widely different products as cotton and apples; tobacco
and milk; potatoes and citrus fruits; legume crops, wheat,
corn and other grains, on the one hand, and tomatoes,
strawberries, truck garden products, etc., on the other, are
within the delegation.
The mere enumeration of these instances indicates some
of the variables involved. Others add to the difficulty.
Highly perishable crops, as fruits and vegetables, require
immediate action in these stages of handling. Cotton,
grains, root crops, etc., less perishable, may wait longer on
the farm, some for months, before these processes become necessary. Some crops are highly concentrated for
production in a few regions, such as citrus fruits in Florida, Southern Texas, and Southern California, but are
marketed on a nation-wide scale. Others have regional
areas of production, like cotton in the South, celery in
Michigan, tobacco in the border states and a few northern regions, yet depend on the national market. Still
others have regions of greater or less concentration, but
are grown all over the nation, like wheat and other grains,
apples, potatoes, etc.
Obviously, "area of production," in the sense of where
the commodity is produced for purposes of commercial
marketing, will vary from the whole nation, in the case
of the more common grains, fruit crops and root crops,
down to a few highly concentrated regions or areas in
7 Cf. Farm and Ranch Schedules, U. S. Census of Agriculture, 16th
Census of the United States, 1940.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

the case of others more dependent upon special climatic
and soil combinations. And between the extremes of
nation-wide and highly localized production are all ranges
of sectional and regional production areas.'
Respondent regards the "area of production" as the
whole region where a commodity is grown, and therefore
says the Administrator has no more to do than locate the
existing limits of these areas. By this criterion the South,
perhaps including California, would be the unalterable
"area of production" for cotton, the whole nation for eggs,
wheat, corn, etc. This conception would nullify the delegation, making of the Administrator merely a surveyor
in the wrong place. Congress clearly was not making
him only a finder of fact, namely, of the geographical
limits surrounding regions where 300 different commodi8As

the legislative history shows, cf. text infra at notes 13-16, there

was fairly general agreement that some part of the work specified
in § 13 (a) (10) should be exempt, whether or not it was done on
the farm. But beyond this, a great variety of opinion existed both
as to how far the exemption should go and as to the economic basis
for it. Among the latter were views that the exemption should be
made because the farmer bore the cost of the work, cf. 81 Cong. Rec.
7656, 7877, 7880; or because many farmers in fact performed it on
their farms and as part of their operations, cf. § 3 (f), 52 Stat. 1060;
81 Cong. Rec. 7657-7659; or because others who had to resort to
independent contractors to have it done would be discriminated
against unless the work were exempt; cf. 81 Cong. Rec. 7656, 76587660, 7876. Some legislators were concerned to have the exemption
apply whether the work were done in large or small plants; others
to limit it to small ones only; and still others to secure it completely
for particular crops. Numerous amendments were tendered, but for
the most part defeated. It was not until the Conference Committee's report was framed that the problem was solved by referring it
to definition by the Administrator. But even proponents of the
amendments which were adopted recognized that the problem was
one which "the board .

.

. would have to decide," 81 Cong. Rec.

7878, "something that would have to be worked out," 83 Cong. Rec.
7401.

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

ties are produced.

RUTLEDGS, J., dissenting.

Such a view would exempt all em-

ployees engaged in the operations specified in § 13 (a)

(10).
The same objections forbid regarding the "area of production" as the region from which the particular plant
purchases its raw material. The only substantial difference would be to make the Administrator's fact-finding
task a more impossible one. A definition would be required for every plant engaging in any of the specified
operations for each of the more than 300 agricultural and
horticultural commodities produced annually in the
United States. Congress hardly could have intended to
load upon the Administrator a task of these infinite proportions. Nor did it intend the employer to define its
own exemption, or to make that exemption automatic.
Congress intended the Administrator to define the area
of production. It did not at the same time intend to
overwhelm him with making myriads of particular and
highly variable definitions for each operating unit, or to
make him merely a runner of courses and distances,
whether large or small. It rather intended him to make
practical, workable and therefore generic and stable
definitions.
It follows necessarily that the Administrator's power
is discretionary and the important questions are to what
extent and in what manner may his discretion work.
Neither subdivision (a) (10) nor § 13 as a whole supplies
these answers. The section itself does not supply all the
standards necessary for definition of the term. At most
it affords direction to exempt some but not other employees engaged in the specified activities and that those
exempted must be within the "area of production." This
necessarily includes some region where the commodity is
produced. But since that region is an unknown quantity
and so also is the question what employees within it are to
be exempted, solutions must be found either in other

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RmuTLMG, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

provisions of the statute or in the legislative history,
unless the delegation is to fall for want of standards.
The statute itself furnishes clear guides for directing the
Administrator. He is confined, as has been noted, by
subsection (a) (10) to employees engaged in the specified
initial operations of marketing. They must work within
some producing region. Apart from the exemption they
are within the Act's coverage, but close to the major line
it draws between farm workers, who are excluded from,
and industrial labor, which is within its coverage. Depending, not upon what they do, but upon where and
how they do this work, they would fall on one side or the
other of this line and within or without the incidence of
the evils the Act sought to eradicate. These were "the
existence, in industries . . . of labor conditions detrimental to the maintenance of the minimum standard of
living necessary for health, efficiency, and general wellbeing of workers. . . ." ' Congress exercised its authority
over commerce, "to correct and as rapidly as practicable to
eliminate the conditions above referred to in such industries without substantially curtailing employment or
earning power." § 2 (a), (b). (Emphasis added.)
The broad line between farming and industry runs
throughout the Act.'0 It is the statute's basic line of
9 Section 2 (a). These conditions Congress found burden commerce,
lead to labor disputes obstructing it, interfere with fair and orderly
marketing, and spread themselves by causing the channels of commerce to be used for marketing among the several states the goods
produced under them. Ibid.
10" 'Industry' means a trade, business, industry ...

in which in-

dividuals are gainfully employed." § 3 (h). "'Agriculture' includes
farming in all its branches ... and any practices (including any
forestry or lumbering operations) performed by a farmer or on a
farm as an incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations,
including preparation for market, delivery to storage or to market
or to carriers for transportation to market." § 3 (f). Section 5 pro-

vides for industry committees and their functioning, to which the

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Ru'i)GE, J., dissenting.

policy between coverage and noncoverage. The line not
only is pertinent to each of the statute's provisions but,
where the contrary is not clearly and unambiguously
stated, it is controlling. There can be no assumption that
Congress intended employees in one group to be transferred to or treated as being in the other where no such
clear mandate can be found.
In determining what Congress intended by the delegation, it is crucial to keep in mind that, whatever decision the Administrator may make and by whatever
criteria, the effect of his action must be to put some employees on one side of this line and others on the opposite
side. That consequence he cannot escape. And, because
he cannot avoid it, the line is pertinent and material to
his choice, as it is to all others he must make in perform,
ing his duties. It is the statute's lodestar. The distinction between farming and industry is the essence of his
determination. An "area of production" determined
without reference to this distinction would contradict, not
enforce, the statute's basic policy. And this appears, not
solely from the policy itself and the effects of failure to
take it into account, but from a consideration of other determinations the Act confides to the Administrator and of
the manner in which it requires him to make them.
Thus, in issuing minimum wage orders and industry
classifications, he and the industry committees must have
"due regard to economic and competitive conditions," and
act so as not to "substantially curtail employment" or
"give a competitive advantage to any group." And there
is a specific prohibition against fixing wages or classifications "solely on a regional basis." Rather the governing
criteria are to be competitive conditions, wages for comAdministrator submits data and from which he receives recommendations and reports which he must approve before making them effective
in the form of minimum wage rates and industry classifications.
Cf. §8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RunmGE, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

parable work fixed by collective bargaining or by voluntary minimum wage plans. § 8 (b), (c), (d). The statute's primary design was to bring industrial workers under
its protections and to eliminate as rapidly as possible the
substandard conditions of such labor. But this was to be
done with an eye also to two other matters: one, that by
too rapid advance employment be not curtailed; and, two,
that competitive conditions in the affected industries be
not unduly disturbed or competitive advantages created.

Cf. § 2.
These purposes were inescapably pertinent to the problems of exemption arising under § 13 (a) (10). They
were likewise pertinent to other exemptions, cf. § 7 (c)
and compare § 7 (b), and to still other delegations the
statute confided to the Administrator. That Congress did
not burden the books with "an itemized catalogue" " of
standards in each instance of delegation, gives no basis
for believing that what permeated all else found these
parts insulated. The Administrator clearly had power,
and more, the duty, to take account of these factors.
If so, he could not escape the question of size. And
indeed the Court does not deny this. Size certainly is not
irrelevant to distinguish within any group which may do
essentially the same work in two different ways, one the
farming way, the other the industrial one. It is not irrelevant to economic dislocations or to curtailments of
employment. And it is relevant to these things as much
within as without an area of production.'
"National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 190, 219.

12 Respondent, however, consistently with its "fact-finder" or
"surveyor" theory of the Administrator's function, says the purpose
was not to distinguish, within the specified activities, between farmers
and industrial workers; it was rather to go a step further and exempt
the latter as well, provided only they were within an area of production as respondent conceives it. That the Administrator may exempt
some, or perhaps many, who are in fact industrial workers, because

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

RuTmFG,

J., dissenting.

The legislative history discloses one object of the exemption as originally proposed was to protect small farmers, who are unable to perform these operations at the
farm and therefore are dependent upon whatever nearby
establishments may exist, whether large or small. Various members of the Senate and of the House sponsored
amendments for this purpose." As the bills went to conference each contained flat exemptions, substantially covering the activities now specified in § 13 (a) (10). But
the debates in both houses show that even the sponsors
of the various amendments differed or were doubtful
concerning whether the amendments would give exemption to large plants." There was general agreement that
they are doing these activities under factory conditions and methods,
may be conceded. That he must exempt all of them, or some larger
number than his judgment, formed after considering the facts, the
statute's policies, and the effects of what he may do, finds proper, cannot be accepted. Respondent claims an exemption fixed by the Act.
The statute has given it one only when, in the Administrator's judgment, not arbitrarily formed, it meets the conditions which he finds
will execute the legislative policy.
13 The Senate's first suggestion of "area of production" came from
Senator Copeland, 81 Cong. Rec. 7656, although Senator Schwellenbach became the chief proponent of the concept there. Senator Black,
sponsor of the bill, was concerned with the scope of "area" and sought
a more accurate term for limiting its effect so as not to exempt workers
in large plants, cf. 81 Cong. Rec. 7656-7660, 7876-7878, and others
expressed opinions that large operators should not be exempted. For
portions of the discussion on the Senate floor see also 81 Cong. Rec.
7648--7673, 7876-7888, 7927-7929, 7947-7949.
In the House of Representatives, the sponsor of the bill was Representative Norton. Chief proponent of the amendment involving "area
of production" was Representative Biermann. Cf. 83 Cong. Rec.
7325-7326, 7401-7408.
"4Responding to inquiry whether packing houses in Iowa and Illinois
would be exempted by his amendment, Representative Biermann said:
"Speaking frankly, I think that is something that would have to be
worked out." 83 Cong. Rec. 7401. Senator Schwellenbach clearly
recognized his amendment would exempt large as well as small packing
587770.-45-44

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuTLmEGE,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

small ones should be relieved from coverage."5 Senator
Reynolds went further and proposed several amendments
to relieve all small plants from the Act's provisions, not
merely those engaged in the limited operations specified
in the bills or § 13 (a) (10). These were defeated."6 And
there was vigorous demand, from the sponsor of the bill in
the Senate and others,"' for restricting the scope of the
amending exemptions to small plants. These differences
were not settled on the floor of either house. But when the
bills came to conference, they were resolved by changing
the flat exemptions into discretionary ones to be defined
by the Administrator.
Since the delegation feature did not appear until the
conference report and there is little in that report or in
and similar plants, 81 Cong. Rec. 7877, 7878, but expressed the opinion
there would not be "any large or enormous plants" in the specified
operations. In response to Senator Black's inquiry concerning the
indefinite effect of "area" without further definition, he said: "I gave
considerable thought to that. I do not believe it is possible, and that
is something which the board, which has been accused of receiving too
much power, would have to decide. It would have to provide a definition of 'immediate production area.'" Cf. 81 Cong. Rec. 7876-7878.
' See the discussions cited in notes 8, 13 and 14.
16 Cf. 81 Cong. Rec. 7948. Respondent argues from this that the intent of Congress was shown not to authorize the Administrator, by
the later conference amendment, to distinguish among plants within
the "area of production" on the basis of size. The argument, however,
ignores the fact that the amendments proposed by Senator Reynolds
were drawn and intended to exempt from the statute's operation aul
plants having fewer than the number of employees (the amendments
varied from five to ten in this respect), not merely plants engaged in
the particular marginal operations specified in the various forms the
Schwellenbach Amendment took during the debate. The conclusion to
be drawn from the rejection of the Reynolds Amendments is not that
the Senate intended to exempt all plants, large and small, covered by
the Schwellenbach Amendment or by the form taken by § 13 (a) (10)
in conference, but rather that the Senate was unwilling to except even
all plants having as few as five employees from the statute's coverage.
17 Cf. notes 13 and 14, supra,and the cited discussions.

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

RUTE,

J., dissenting.

the debates upon it to add light, the previous discussions
are wholly inconclusive, except in one respect. This was
to show that there was great variety and complexity of
opinion, and that this revolved around the question of
size. That question continued unresolved: up to conference and was resolved there, not by decision either
way, but by reference to the Administrator. It must be
taken therefore that the purpose was to give him discretion to make the necessary choices between the conflicting viewpoints as the facts of particular situations
would give occasion for doing. And, it would seem, the
preponderance of sentiment in favor of exempting small
plants, but not large ones, except in occasional instances
where this would be necessary to protect the small farmer,
well could be taken as his guiding light. The legislative
history, therefore, in so far as it sheds light at all, clearly
is not inconsistent with what the Administrator has done,
but on the contrary supports it.
. The Court does not find the Administrator acted improperly by taking these considerations into account. He
only must not state them in his definition. And this
matter of mere formulation is the crux of the case. The
definition must be made "in relation to the complicated
economic factors that operate between agriculturallabor
conditions and the labor market of enterprises concerned
with agricultural commodities and more or less near their
(Emphasis added.) The Administrator
production."
is given "appropriate discretion to assess all the factors
relevant to the subject matter," which is essentially one
of "economic determination," too complex for litigation
to solve. He "may properly weigh and synthesize all such
factors."
In making his economic synthesis, however, the Administrator must state his results only in surveyor's
terms. Congress, when it granted the exemption, "restricted the Administrator to the drawing of geographic

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUrLDGE, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

lines, even though he may take into account all relevant
economic factors. . . ." The "zone within which eco-

nomic influences may be deemed to operate and outside of
which they lose their force" cannot be defined directly
and purposively to draw the line between the zone of
farming and the zone of industry. This must be done
only indirectly, in an awkward, roundabout way.
Nothing prevents the Administrator from drawing the
lines as he thinks best, unless the suggestion of the specially concurring opinion is followed that they must be
drawn in regular circles or squares. The courts have no
business to tell him where to put them. He can define
distance by air lines or by road lines to market. He can
run the lines around big towns, but not around big factories. Baltimore could be excluded, but not Martin's
bomber plant or one like it, in size and methods, for processing or canning fruits and vegetables. Towns may go
out, though surrounded by truck farms, but not commercial canneries. Residences, apparently, must surround
the cannery. In short, the Administrator can draw what-'
ever map lines he thinks will achieve the appropriate economic adjustments, except one which leaves out perhaps
the biggest canning factory of all, and no court can interfere. I do not believe that Congress, when it gave
the Administrator his complicated task and authorized
him to consider all the relevant and complex economic
factors, not only denied him the power to execute those
considerations in his action, but compelled him to frustrate them in defining "area of production." The Court
does not deny the Administrator may consider the size
of the plant, and make this even the crucial factor in his
decision. Yet it would only impede or defeat his judgment, formed on proper considerations, as well as the statute's purposes, to require him to state the exemption, not
simply in the terms best chosen to express his meaning
clearly and definitely, but in others couched in pure
though tortured geography. According to his experience

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

and confirmed judgment, shared by successive administrators and never reversed or modified, to require the latter method of formulation would make his task well nigh
impossible or, if not that, incapable of being discharged
without doing violence to the Act's major purposes and
standards.18
So much of authority and power to defeat the statute's
intended operation cannot be given to mere verbalism,
more especially to one word, torn in context, function and
purpose from the remainder of the Act. "Area," it is
true, means area. But "area of production" means more.
"The notion that because the words of a statute are plain,
its meaning is also plain, is merely pernicious oversimplification. It is a wooden English doctrine of rather recent
vintage . . . to which lip service has on occasion been

given here, but which since the days of Marshall this
Court has rejected, especially in practice. .

.

. A statute,

like other living organisms, derives significance and sustenance from its environment, from which it cannot be
severed without being mutilated." 1 And so does a section in a statute. "Area of production" as used in § 13
(a) (10) means an exemption, limited to persons performing the specified operations within a producing
region, but selected from all so situated by an exercise of
the Administrator's judgment in accordance with the
statute's prime objects and chief limitations, among
which necessarily is the size of the plant. If that is so,
I see no good reason for forbidding the Administrator to
say so.
It follows the Administrator has not improperly exercised his function, the definitions are valid, and respondent's employees were not exempt from the statute's
provisions.
Cf. notes 1-6, supra, and text.
United States v. Monia, 317 U. S. 424, dissenting opinion at
431-432.
18

19

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Rum

ui, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

II.

But if the definitions were invalid, as the Court holds,
I could not agree to the extremely novel disposition it
makes of the case. We are dealing with an exemption,
not with the statute's primary coverage. Concededly the
respondent employer was liable to petitioners for the minimum wages, overtime pay and statutory penalties under
§ 16 (b), if they were not exempt under § 13 (a) (10) or
some other exemption. Ordinarily exemptions are not
favored. Coverage, not exemption, is preferred. If the
exemption is dubious, it is not given effect. If ambiguous,
it is resolved strictly in favor of the statute's application.
Spokane & Inland Empire R. Co. v. -United States, 241
U. S. 344; Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 286 U. S. 299, 311-312;. McDon-

ald v. Thompson, 305 U. S. 263. In this case, if the exemption does not apply, the petitioners are within the
statute and respondent is liable on their claims.
To escape liability, respondent has the burden of showing the exemption does apply. But to do this it cannot
merely show the definition of the Administrator is invalid. That would only leave itself and the petitioning
employees subject to the Act's provisions, which require
the payment of the claims. Respondent's dilemma therefore is both sharp and real. If the definition is valid, it
does not cover these employees and respondent is liable
to them. If the definition is invalid, clearly it exempts
no one, petitioners are covered by the Act, and the respondent must pay. This is true whether the reason dictating invalidity is want of standards, application of the
wrong ones, or merely formulating the result in the wrong
way. This dilemma presents the alternative which respondent, the Court of Appeals and this Court have
attempted to avoid in order, so it is said, to escape an
"either-or" conclusion, which is the kind the law almost
always must make. It is one from which there is no

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

RuTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

escape without exercise of inventive genius beyond the
right of either court to apply and which, as applied here,
makes the cure worse than the disease.
Respondent's invention, and likewise the Court of Appeals', was to strike the limitation on the number of
employees and apply the remainder of the definition. This
but emasculates it. Hence all here, but one, are agreed
such liberty cannot be taken with the Administrator's
function. This Court's invention, however, does it equal
or greater violence, first, as I think, in emasculating it;
second, and lacking even more in justification, in requiring it to be exercised with backward-reaching effect.
If the Court had sought its escape in finding that there
were no standards to control the Administrator's discretion or that he had applied the wrong standards, one
might understand its refusal to sustain the definition.
But that too would mean that petitioners would recover.
The Court does neither. There is no claim, except a semblance of suggestion in a separate opinion, that the
statute supplies no standards and therefore gives the
Administrator "a roving commission to create exemptions." Nor is there one that the wrong standards were
used. The invention is called forth only to correct a mode
of statement.
If that were all, there would not be much room to complain. But, in addition to compelling the Administrator
to make the definition in a manner which frustrates his
function and the statute's objectives, or only partly fulfills them, the decision opens the door to a general
expansion of the novel, and I think unauthorized, practice
of retroactive administrative determination of private
rights. That is true, unless these petitioners are to be
specially treated, although less than a majority of the
Court agree that the authorities cited to sustain it justify
the procedure outlined, But if the procedure is justified
in this case, it is in any other where an administrator

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuTumED,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

mistakenly includes in a regulation a factor later held
to make it invalid. No reason stated makes this case a
special one. And there is none. It cannot be taken that
these parties are to be singled out for unique treatment,
merely in order to avoid the normal legal consequences
of invalidating administrative action. Hence, every interest affected by such action now must take two risks
in place of one: first, the normal, inescapable risk that the
governing regulation may be held invalid; second, in that
event, the novel one that some future regulation, a wholly
unknown quantity, will relate back over an indefinite time
to create entirely new or different and unexpected rights
and liabilities.
Of course there must be room for creative analogies in
the law to give the desired escape from mechanical concepts and permit shaping its remedies. But we are as
often told that Congress should perform the creative act
in Congress' field. This should be most true where what
we are called upon to recreate is Congress' own handiwork. If Congress intended the Administrator to act
retroactively, Congress wholly failed to express this
purpose.
Moreover, it is not remedies but rights which are thus
refashioned. And not equity but law remolds them.
Who knows, before the redefinition, what persons may be
included in its coverage? Or whether it may not have
to be made again? The same persons cannot be included.
Otherwise there would be no point to this decision. If
the Administrator can rephrase the same coverage in
wholly geographic terms, apart from delay the only result will be to have criticized his language. If he cannot
do this some persons, and no one can tell in advance how
many, will be deprived altogether of rights, others given
them who had none. So with liabilities.
The innovation would be serious if confined to this case
or this Act. It is beyond prediction what the conse-

ADDISON v. HOLLY HILL CO.
607

Rumw-F,

J., dissenting.

quences may be, of uncertainty, or hardship, of injustice
in deprivation of rights, in windfalls of right to others,
in laying on new and wholly unexpected liabilities and in
relieving from anticipated ones, if retroactive administrative refashioning becomes the general practice. The alternative, either to sustain or to hold void the regulation,
and fix the rights accordingly, is not only the accepted
and established one. It is the only one by which men can
know the risks they assume at the time they become
subject to them.
Retroactivity is not favored in law. For this there are
sound reasons, in some cases constitutional ones. Cf.
Forbes PioneerBoat Line v. Board of Commissioners, 258
U. S. 338; Ochoa v. Hernandez y Morales, 230 U. S. 139.
There are few occasions when retroactivity does not work
more unfairly than fairly. Congress, the state legislatures
and the courts apply the principle sparingly, even where
they may. Cf. Graham & Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U. S.
409; United States v. Heinszen & Co., 206 U. S. 370.
Seldom if ever therefore may administrative or executive
authority to apply it be inferred from legislation not expressly giving it. Compare Arizona Grocery Co. v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 284 U. S. 370; Helvering v.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 306 U. S. 110. But, in any
event, whatever corrective needs may prompt and vindicate a grant of such authority in other circumstances
are not present in this application. Yet, if this decision
is to mark the beginning of a general pattern, such. authority now bids fair to become a common characteristic
of administrative action.
The administrative process has increasingly important
functions in our legal system. Ordinarily it does enough
if it takes care of today and tomorrow. When it begins to
add yesterday, without clear congressional mandate, the
burden may become too great. In any event, that has not
heretofore generally been considered its task. If that task

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuTDGE, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

is to be added, the addition should be made by the body
whence administrative power is derived, not by this
Court's imaginative resourcefulness.
Finally, respondent has not asked for this retroactive
"relief." And this may be for entirely good reasons of its
own. What respondent sought in the District Court, what
it secured in the Court of Appeals, and what it has sought
here, but clearly is not entitled to have, is a judicial declaration that, as a matter of law, its employees would have
been exempt under any valid definition the Administrator
might have adopted. In effect, this is a claim of exemption by the statute itself, one which would nullify the
Administrator's power. Relief not sought should not be
forced on respondent by an exercise of this Court's inventive genius. More especially should this not be done on
the Court's own motion, without any of the parties having had an opportunity to consider or discuss it in the
briefs or in argument. Under such a policy, generally
followed, a litigant never can know with what kind of gift
horse he may come out, even if successful. And in this
case the parties have faced the double uncertainty,
wholly unanticipated, of creation here and re-creation by
the Administrator, when the latter undertakes relieving
the District Court of the duty to await his further
action.20
The judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed and the cause should be remanded to that court for
determination of the other issues in the case.'
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS joins in that part of this dissent
which would hold that the Administrator has defined
"area of production" in a valid manner.
20
The Administrator is not a party to this suit, but has appeared
and participated here as amicus curiae.
In view of its disposition of the case, the Court of Appeals did
not consider respondent's defenses under §§ 7 (b) and 7 (c) of the
Act, on both of which the District Court held for petitioners.

