BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
102

111

Syllabus.

projects; they deal in turn with innumerable sub-materialmen and laborers. To impose unlimited liability
under the payment bond to those sub-materialmen and
laborers is to create d precarious and perilous risk on the
prime contractor and his surety. To sanction such a risk
requires clear language in the statute and in the bond so
as to leave no alternative.12 Here the proviso of § 2 (a)
of the Act forbids the imposition of such a risk, thereby
foreclosing Tomkins' right to sue on the payment bond.
The judgment of the court below is
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. HEARST
PUBLICATIONS, INC.
NO. 3 3 6.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 8, 9, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.
1. The meaning of the term "employee" in the National Labor Relations Act is to be determined not exclusively by reference to common-law standards, local law, or legal classifications made for other
purposes, but with regard also to the history, context and purposes
12 Congress has shown its ability in other statutes to make clear
an intent to include materialmen within the meaning of the word
"subcontractor." See § 301 (a) (3) of the Act of Dec. 2, 1942, 56
Stat. 1035, 42 U. S. C. Supp. II, § 1651 (a) (3), providing that the
provisions of the Act shall not apply to employees of a "subcontractor
who is engaged exclusively in furnishing materials or supplies." In
other statutes, Congress has clearly used the term "subcontractor" in
contrast to "materialman." See 40 U. S. C. § 407 (b); 41 U. S. C.
§ 10b (a) and (b); 41 U. S. C. § 28.
* Together with No. 337, National Labor Relations Board v. Stockholders Publishing Co., Inc., No. 338, National Labor Relations Board
v. Hearst Publications, Inc., and No. 339, National Labor Relations
Board v. Times-Mirror Co., also on writs of certiorari to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

322 U. S.

of the Act and to the economic facts of the particular relationship.
Pp. 120, 129.
2. The determination of the National Labor Relations Board that, ifi
the circumstances of the case, a person is an "employee" under the
National Labor Relations Act, may not be set aside on review if it
has warrant in the record and a reasonable basis in law. P. 130.
3. The conclusion of the National Labor Relations Board that
"newsboys" distributing respondents' papers on the streets of the
city were employees under the National Labor Relations Act is
supported by the findings and the evidence and has ample basis in
the law. P. 131.
The Board found that the "newsboys" work continuously and
regularly, rely upon their earnings for the support of themselves
and their families, and have their total wages influenced in large
measure by the publishers (respondents) who dictate their buying
and selling prices, fix their markets and control their supply of
papers; that their hours of work and their efforts on the job are
supervised and to some extent prescribed by the publishers or the
publishers' agents; and that a substantial part of their sales equipment and advertising materials is furnished by the publishers with
the intention that it be used for the publishers' benefit.
4. The Board's designation of the collective bargaining units in this
case- (1) full-time newsboys and "checkmen," engaged to sell papers
within the city, and excluding bootjackers, temporary, casual, and
part-time newsboys; and (2) newsboys selling at established spots
in the city, four or more hours per day, five or more days per week,
except temporary newsboys-was within its discretion and is sustained. P. 132.
(a) That the Board's selection of the collective bargaining units
emphasizes difference in tenure rather than in function was, on the
record in this case, not an abuse of discretion. P. 133.
(b) The Board's exclusion of suburban newsboys from the collective bargaining units, on the ground that they were not organized
by the union, was, on the record in this case, not an abuse of discretion. P. 133.
136 F. 2d 608, reversed.

CFRTIoRARI, 320 U. S. 728, to review decrees denying enforcement of orders of the National Labor Relations Board
(39 N. L. R. B. 1245, 1256) and setting aside the orders.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

113

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Frank Donner, and
Miss Ruth Weyand were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John M. Hall, with whom Mr. Oscar Lawler was
on
the brief; Mr. Lewis B. Binford, with whom Mr. Thomas
S. Tobin was on the brief; Mr. Edward L. Compton, with
whom Mr. H. S. Mac Kay, Jr., was on the brief; and Mr.
T. B. Cosgrove, with whom Mr. John N. Cramer was on
the brief,-for respondents in Nos. 336, 337, 338, and 339,
respectively.
Mr. Arthur W. A. Cowan filed a brief on behalf of the
International Printing Pressmen & Assistants' Union, as
amicus curiae, in support of petitioner.
MR. JusTic, RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases arise from the refusal of respondents, publishers of four Los Angeles daily newspapers, to bargain
collectively with a union representing newsboys who distribute their papers on the streets of that city. Respondents' contention that they were not required to bargain
because the newsboys are not their "employees" within
the meaning of that term in the National Labor Relations
Act, 49 Stat. 450, 29 U. S. C. § 152,' presents the important
question which we granted certiorari 2 to resolve.
1 Section

2 (3) of the Act provides that "The term 'employee' shall

include any employee, and shall not be limited to the employees of a
particular employer, unless the Act explicitly states otherwise, and shall
include any individual whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or

in connection with, any current labor dispute or because of any unfair
labor practice, and who has not obtained any other regular and sub-

stantially equivalent employment, but shall not include any individual

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

The proceedings before the National Labor Relations
Board were begun with the filing of four petitions for investigation and certification" by Los Angeles Newsboys
Local Industrial Union No. 75. Hearings were held in a
consolidated proceeding 4 after which the Board made findings of fact and concluded that the regular full-time newsboys selling each paper were employees within the Act
and that questions affecting commerce concerning the
representation of employees had arisen. It designated
appropriate units and ordered elections. 28 N. L. R. B.
1006.' At these the union was selected as their representative by majorities of the eligible newsboys. After the
union was appropriately certified, 33 N. L. R. B. 941, 36
N. L. R. B. 285, the respondents refused to bargain with
it. Thereupon proceedings under § 10, 49 Stat. 453-455,
29 U. S. C. § 160, were instituted, a hearing ' was held
and respondents were found to have violated §§ 8 (1) and
8 (5) of the Act, 49 Stat. 452-453, 29 U. S. C. "§158 (1),
(5). They were ordered to cease and desist from such
violations and to bargain collectively with the union upon
request. 39 N. L. R. B. 1245, 1256.
Upon respondents' petitions for review and the Board's
petitions for enforcement, the Circuit Court of Appeals,
one judge dissenting, set aside the Board's orders. Reemployed as an agricultural -laborer, or in the domestic service of any
family or person at his home, or any individual employed by his parent
or spouse."
2 320 U. S. 728.
3 Pursuant to § 9 (b) and (c) of the Act; 49 Stat. 453, 29 U. S. C.
§ 159 (b) and (c).
4 Although it treated the four representation petitions in one consolidated proceeding and disposed of them in one opinion, the Board
did not consider evidence with respect to one publisher as applicable
to any of the others.
Subsequently those orders were amended in various details. 29
N. L. R. B. 94, 95; 30 N. L. R. B. 696, 697; 31 N. L. R. B. 697.
8 The record in the representation proceeding was in effect incorporated in the complaint proceeding.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

115

Opinion of the Court.

jecting the Board's analysis, the court independently
examined the question whether the newsboys are employees within the Act, decided that the statute imports common-law standards to determine that question, and held
the newsboys are not employees. 136 F. 2d 608.
The findings of the Board disclose that the Los Angeles
Times and the Los Angeles Examiner, published daily and
Sunday," are morning papers. Each publishes several
editions which are distributed on the streets during the
evening before their dateline, between about 6:00 or 6:30
p. m. and 1:00 a. m., and other editions distributedduring
the following morning until about 10:00 o'clock. The Los
Angeles Evening Herald and Express, published every day
but Sunday, is an evening paper, which has six editions on
the presses between 9:00 a. m. and 5:30 p. m. The News,
also published every day but Sunday, is a twenty-four
hour paper with ten editions.'
The papers are distributed to the ultimate consumer
through a variety of channels, including independent
dealers and newsstands often attached to drug, grocery
or confectionery stores, carriers who make home deliveries,
and newsboys who sell on the streets of the city and its
suburbs. Only the last of these are involved in this case.
The newsboys work under varying terms and conditions.
They may be "bootjackers," selling to the general public
at places other than established corners, or they may sell
7 The Times' daily circulation is about 220,000 and its Sunday circulation is about 368,000. The Examiner's daily circulation is about
214,000 and its Sunday circulation is about 566,000.
8The Herald has a circulation of about 243,000. Both it and the
Examiner are owned by Hearst Publications, Inc.
9 The News has a circulation of about 195,000. Its first three and
seventh editions are consigned for the most part to route delivery or
suburban dealers. Its fourth edition, which goes to press at 2:45
a. m., is sold in the city during the mornings. The remaining editions,
which go to press at regular intervals between 9:50 a. m. and 5:00
p. m., are sold in the city during the afternoons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

at fixed "spots." They may sell only casually or parttime, or full-time; and they may be employed regularly
and continuously or only temporarily. The units which
the Board determined to be appropriate are composed of
those who sell full-time at established spots. Those vendors, misnamed boys, are generally mature men, dependent upon the proceeds of their sales for their sustenance,
and frequently supporters of families. Working thus as
news vendors on a regular basis, often for a number of
years, they form a stable group with relatively little turnover, in contrast to schoolboys and others who sell as
bootjackers, temporary and casual distributors.
Over-all circulation and distribution of the papers are
under the general supervision of circulation managers.
But for purposes of street distribution each paper has
divided metropolitan Los Angeles into geographic districts. Each district is under the direct and close supervision of a district manager. His function in the mechanics of distribution is to supply the newsboys in his district
with papers which he obtains from the publisher and to
turn over to the publisher the receipts which he collects
from their sales, either directly or with the assistance of
"checkmen" or "main spot" boys."0 The latter, stationed
at the important corners or "spots" in the district, are
newsboys who, among other things, receive delivery of
the papers, redistribute them to other newsboys stationed
at less important corners, and collect receipts from their
sales."l For that service, which occupies a minor portion
10 The Examiner, the Herald, and the News all employ "main
spot" boys or checkmen; the Times does not.
-The Times district managers deliver the papers directly to the
newsboys and collect directly from them. On the other papers district managers may deliver bundles of papers to the checkmen or
directly to the newsboys themselves. The Times customarily transports its newsboys to their "spots" from the Times building, where
they first report and pick up their papers. The other respondents
offer similar transportation to those of their newsboys who desire it.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

117

Opinion of the Court.

of their working day, the checkmen receive a small salary
from the publisher.1 2 The bulk of their day, however,
they spend in hawking papers at their "spots" like other
full-time newsboys. A large part of the appropriate units
selected by the Board for the News and the Herald are
checkmen who, in that capacity, clearly are employees of
those papers.
The newsboys' compensation consists in the difference
between the prices at which they sell the papers and the
prices they pay for them. The former are fixed by the
publishers and the latter are fixed either by the publishers
or, in the case of the News, by the district manager." In
practice the newsboys receive their papers on credit.
They pay for those sold either sometime during or after
the close of their selling day, returning for credit all unsold
papers. 4 Lost or otherwise unreturned papers, however,
must be paid for as though sold. Not only is the "profit"
per paper thus effectively fixed by the publisher, but substantial control of the newsboys' total "take home" can be
effected through the ability to designate their sales areas
and the power to determine the number of papers allocated
to each. While as a practical matter this power is not
exercised fully, the newsboys' "right" to decide how many
papers they will take is also not absolute. In practice, the
Board found, they cannot determine the size of their established order without the cooperation of the district manager. And often the number of papers they must take is
determined unilaterally by the district managers.
In addition to effectively fixing the compensation, respondents in a variety of ways prescribe, if not the
12In the case of the Examiner these "main spot" boys, although
performing services similar to those of checkmen, are less closely knit
to the publisher and sometimes receive no compensation for their

services.
1 See infra, note 15.
14 Newsboys selling the Herald in one residential area do not receive credit for all unsold papers.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

minutiae of daily activities, at least the broad terms and
conditions of work. This is accomplished largely through
the supervisory efforts of the district managers, who serve
as the nexus between the publishers and the newsboys. 5
The district managers assign "spots" or corners to which
the newsboys are expected to confine their selling activities."0 Transfers from one "spot" to another may be
ordered by the district manager for reasons of discipline
or efficiency or other cause. Transportation to the spots
from the newspaper building is offered by each of respondents. Hours of work on the spots are determined
not simply by the impersonal pressures of the market, but
to a real extent by explicit instructions from the district
managers. Adherence to the prescribed hours is observed
closely by the district managers or other supervisory
agents of the publishers. Sanctions, varying in severity
15 Admittedly the Times, Examiner, and Herald district managers
are employees of their respective papers. While the News urged
earnestly that its managers are not its employees, the Board found
otherwise. They do not operate on a formal salary basis but they
receive guaranteed minimum payments which the Board found are
"no more than a fixed salary bearing another label." And while they,
rather than the publisher, fix the price of the paper to the newsboy,
the Board found, on substantial evidence, that they function for the
News in specified districts, distribute racks, aprons, advertising
placards from the News to the newsboys, give instructions as to their
use, supervise the redistributing activities of the checkmen (themselves clearly employees of the News), and hand out News checks
to the checkmen for their services. On this and other evidence suggesting that however different may be their formal arrangements,
News district managers bear substantially the same relation to the
publisher on one hand and the newsboys on the other as do the other
district managers, the Board concluded that they were employees of
the paper.
16 Although from time to time these "spots" are bought and sold
among the vendors themselves, without objection by district managers and publishers, this in no way negates the need for the district
managers' implicit approval of a spotholder or their authority to
remove vendors from their "spots" for reasons of discipline or efficiency.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
III

Opinion of the Court.

from reprimand to dismissal, are visited on the tardy and
the delinquent. By similar supervisory controls minimum standards of diligence and good conduct while at
work are sought to be enforced. However wide may be the
latitude for individual initiative beyond those standards,
district managers' instructions in what the publishers
apparently regard as helpful sales technique are expected
to be followed. Such varied items as the manner of displaying the paper, of emphasizing current features- and
headlines, and of placing advertising placards, or the advantages of soliciting customers at specific stores or in
the traffic lanes are among the subjects of this instruction. Moreover, newsboys are furnished with sales equipment, such as racks, boxes and change aprons, and advertising placards by the publishers. In this pattern of employment the Board found that the newsboys are an
integral part of the publishers' distribution system and circulation organization. And the record discloses that the
newsboys and checkmen feel they are employees of the
papers; and respondents' supervisory employees, if not
respondents themselves, regard them as such.
In addition to questioning the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain these findings, respondents point to a
number of other attributes characterizing their relationship with the newsboys 17 and urge that on the entire
E. g., that there is either no evidence in the record to show, or
the record explicitly negatives, that respondents carry the newsboys
on their payrolls, pay "salaries" to them, keep records of their sales
or locations, or register them as "employees" with the Social Security
Board, or that the newsboys are covered by workmen's compensation
insurance or the California Compensation Act. Furthermore, it is
urged the record shows that the newsboys all sell newspapers, periodicals and other items not furnished to them by their respective
publishers, assume the risk for papers lost, stolen or destroyed, purchase and sell their "spots," hire assistants and relief men and make
arrangements among themselves for the sale of competing or leftover papers.
17

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

record the latter cannot be considered their employees.
They base this conclusion on the argument that by
common-law standards the extent of their control and
direction of the newsboys' working activities creates no
more than an "independent contractor" relationship and
that common-law standards determine the "employee"
relationship under the Act. They further urge that the
Board's selection of a collective bargaining unit is neither
appropriate nor supported by substantial evidence. 8
I.
The principal question is whether the newsboys are
"employees." Because Congress did not explicitly define
the term, respondents say its meaning must be determined
by reference to common-law standards. In their view
"common-law standards" are those the courts have applied in distinguishing between "employees" and "independent contractors" when working out various problems
unrelated to the Wagner Act's purposes and provisions.
The argument assumes that there is some simple, uniform and easily applicable test which the courts have
used, in dealing with such problems, to determine whether
persons doing work for others fall in one class or the other.
Unfortunately this is not true. Only by a long and tortuous history was the simple formulation worked out which
has been stated most frequently as "the test" for deciding
whether one who hires another is responsible in tort for
his wrongdoing. 19 But this formula has been by no means
18 They have abandoned here the contention, made in the circuit
court, that the Act does not reach their controversies with the newsboys because they do not affect commerce.
19 The so-called "control test" with which common-law judges have
wrestled to secure precise and ready applications did not escape the
difficulties encountered in borderland cases by its reformulation in
the Restatement of the Law of Agency § 220. That even at the common law the control test and the complex of incidents evolved in

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

Opinion of the Court.

exclusively controlling in the solution of other problems.
And its simplicity has been illusory because it is more
largely simplicity of formulation than of application.
Few problems in the law have given greater variety of
application and conflict in results than the cases arising
in the borderland between what is clearly an employeremployee relationship and what is clearly one of independent, entrepreneurial dealing. ° This is true within the
limited field of determining vicarious liability in tort. It
becomes more so when the field is expanded to include all
of the possible applications of the distinction.
It is hardly necessary to stress particular instances of
these variations or to emphasize that they have arisen
principally, first, in the struggle of the courts to work out
common-law liabilities where the legislature has given
no guides for judgment,21 more recently also under statutes
which have posed the same problem for solution in the
light of the enactment's particular terms and purposes.applying it to distinguish an "employee" from an "independent contractor," for purposes of vicarious liability in tort, did not necessarily have the same significance in other contexts, compare Lumley v.
Gye [1853] El. & B1. 216, and see also the cases collected in 21
A. L. R. 1229 et seq.; 23 A. L. R. 984 et seq.
20
See, e. g., Stevens, The Test of the Employment Relation (1939)
38 Mich. L. Rev. 188; Steffen, Independent Contractor and the
Good Life (1935) 2 U. of Chi. L. Rev. 501; Leidy, Salesmen as Independent Contractors (1938) 28 Mich. L. Rev. 365; N. Y. Law
Revision Commission Report, 1939 (1939) Legislative Document No.
65 (K).
21
See note 20 supra.
- Compare, e. g., McKinley v. Payne Lumber Co., 200 Ark. 1114,
143 S. W. 2d 38; Industrial Comm'n v. Northwestern Ins. Co., 103
Colo. 550, 88 P. 2d 560; Schomp v. Fuller Brush Co., 124 N. J. L.
487, 12 A. 2d 702; 126 N. J. L. 368, 19 A. 2d 780; Unemployment Compensation Comm'n v. Jefferson Ins. Co., 215 N. C. 479, 2 S. E. 2d 584;
Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Unemployment Compensation Comm'n,
167 Ore. 142, 103 P. 2d 708, with McCain v. Crossett Lumber Co.,
174 S. W. 2d 114 (Ark.); Hill Hotel Co. v. Kinney, 138 Neb. 760, 295
587770--45------12

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

It is enough to point out that, with reference to an identical problem, results may be contrary over a very considerable region of doubt in applying the distinction,
depending upon the state or jurisdiction vhere the determination is made;" and that within a single jurisdiction

a person who, for instance, is held to be an "independent
contractor" for the purpose of imposing vicarious liability
in tort may be an "employee" for the purposes of particular legislation, such as unemployment compensation.
See, e. g., Globe Grain& Milling Co. v. IndustrialComm'n,
98 Utah 36, 91 P. 2d 512. In short, the assumed simplicity and uniformity, resulting from application of
"common-law standards," does not exist.
Mere reference to these possible variations as characterizing the application of the Wagner Act in the
treatment of persons identically situated in the facts surrounding their employment and in the influences tending
to disrupt it, would be enough to require pause before
accepting a thesis which would introduce them into its
administration. This would be true, even if the statute
itself had indicated less clearly than it does the intent they
should not apply.
Two possible consequences could follow. One would
be to refer the decision of who are employees to local state
law. The alternative would be to make it turn on a sort
of pervading general essence distilled from state law.
Congress obviously did not intend the former result. It
N. W. 397; Washington Recorder Co. v. Ernst, 199 Wash. 176, 91
P. 2d 718; Wisconsin Bridge Co. v. Industrial Comm'n, 233 Wis. 467,
290 N. W. 199. See generally Wolfe, Determination of EmployerEmployee Relationships in Social Legislation (1941) 41 Col. L. Rev.
1015. And see note 23 infra.
23
Compare Stockwell v. Morris, 46 Wyo. 1, with Auer v. Sinclair
Refining Co., 103 N. J. L. 372; Schomp v. Fuller Brush Co., 124
N. J. L. 487, 126 N. J. L. 368, with Fuller Brush Co. v. Industrial
Comm'n, 99 Utah 97; Stover Bedding Co. v. Industrial Comm'n, 99
Utah 423, with Maltz v. Jackoway-Katz Cap Co., 336 Mo. 1000.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

Opinion of the Court.

would introduce variations into the statute's operation as
wide as the differences the forty-eight states and other
local jurisdictions make in applying the distinction for
wholly different purposes. Persons who might be "employees" in one state would be "independent contractors"
in another. They would be within or without the statute's protection depending not on whether their situation
falls factually within the ambit Congress had in mind,
but upon the accidents of the location of their work and
the attitude of the particular local jurisdiction in casting
doubtful cases one way or the other. Persons working
across state lines might fall in one class or the other, possibly both, depending on whether the Board and the courts
would be required to give effect to the law of one state or
of the adjoining one, or to that of each in relation to the
portion of the work done within its borders.
Both the terms and the purposes of the statute, as well
as the legislative history, show that Congress had in mind
no such patchwork plan for securing freedom of employees' organization and of collective bargaining. The
Wagner Act is federal legislation, administered by a national agency, intended to solve a national problem on a
national scale. Cf. e. g., Sen. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess. 2-4. It is an Act, therefore, in reference to
which it is not only proper but necessary for us to assume,
"in the absence of a plain indication to the contrary, that
Congress . . . is not making the application of the federal
act dependent on state law." Jerome v. United States,
318 U. S. 101, 104. Nothing in the statute's background,
history, terms or purposes indicates its scope is to be
limited by such varying local conceptions, either statutory
or judicial, or that it is to be administered in accordance
with whatever different standards the respective states
may see fit to adopt for the disposition of unrelated, local
problems. Consequently, so far as the meaning of "employee" in this statute is concerned, "the federal law must
prevail no matter what name is given to the interest or

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

124

Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

right by state law." Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S.
78, 81; cf. Labor Board v. Blount, 131 F. 2d 585

(C. C. A.).
II.
Whether, given the intended national uniformity, the
term "employee" includes such workers as these newsboys
must be answered primarily from the history, terms and
purposes of the legislation. The word "is not treated by
Congress as a word of art having a definite meaning ... "
Rather "it takes color from its surroundings . . . [in]
the statute where it appears," United States v. American
Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534, 545, and derives meaning
from the context of that statute, which "must be read in
the light of the mischief to be corrected and the end to be
attained." South Chicago Coal & Dock Co. v. Bassett, 309
U. S. 251, 259; cf. New Negro Alliance v. Sanitary Grocery
Co., 303 U. S. 552; Drivers' Union v. Lake Valley Co., 311
U.S. 91.
Congress, on the one hand, was not thinking solely of the
immediate technical relation of employer and employee.
It had in mind at least some other persons than those
standing in the proximate legal relation of employee to
the particular employer involved in the labor dispute. 4 It
cannot be taken, however, that the purpose was to include
all other persons who may perform service for another or
was to ignore entirely legal classifications made for other
purposes. Congress had in mind a wider field than the
narrow technical legal relation of "master and servant," as
the common law had worked this out in all its variations,
and at the same time a narrower one than the entire
area of rendering service to others. The question comes
down therefore to how much was included of the inter24

Cf. notes 28-30 infra and text.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

Opinion of the Court.

mediate region between what is clearly and unequivocally
"employment," by any appropriate test, and what is as
clearly entrepreneurial enterprise and not employment.
It will not do, for deciding this question as one of uniform national application, to import wholesale the traditional common-law conceptions or some distilled essence
of their local variations as exclusively controlling limitations upon the scope of the statute's effectiveness. To do
this would be merely to select some of the local, hairline
variations for nation-wide application and thus to reject
others for coverage under the Act. That result hardly
would be consistent with the statute's broad terms and
purposes.
Congress was not seeking to solve the nationally harassing problems with which the statute deals by solutions only
partially effective. It rather sought to find a broad solution, one that would bring industrial peace by substituting,
so far as its power could reach, the rights of workers to selforganization and collective bargaining for the industrial
strife which prevails where these rights are not effectively
established. Yet only partial solutions would be provided
if large segments of workers about whose technical legal
position such local differences exist should be wholly excluded from coverage by reason of such differences. Yet
that result could not be avoided, if choice must be made
among them and controlled by them in deciding who are
"employees" within the Act's meaning. Enmeshed in
such distinctions, the administration of the statute soon
might become encumbered by the same sort of technical
legal refinement as has characterized the long evolution of
the employee - independent contractor dichotomy in the
courts for other purposes. The consequences would be
ultimately to defeat, in part at least, the achievement of
the statute's objectives. Congress no more intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

import this mass of technicality as a controlling "standard" for uniform national application than to refer decision of the question outright to the local law.
The Act, as its first section states, was designed to avert
the "substantial obstructions to the free flow of commerce"
which result from "strikes and other forms of industrial
strife or unrest" by eliminating the causes of that unrest.
It is premised on explicit findings that strikes and industrial strife themselves result in large measure from the
refusal of employers to bargain collectively and the inability of individual workers to bargain successfully
for improvements in their "wages, hours or other working
conditions" with employers who are "organized in the corporate or other forms of ownership association." Hence
the avowed and interrelated purposes of the Act are to
encourage collective bargaining and to remedy the individual worker's inequality of bargaining power by "protecting the exercise . . . of full freedom of association,
self-organization, and designation of representatives of
their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the
terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual
aid or protection." 49 Stat. 449, 450.
The mischief at which the Act is aimed and the remedies
it offers are not confined exclusively to "employees" within the traditional legal distinctions separating them from
"independent contractors." Myriad forms of service relationship, with infinite and subtle variations in the terms
of employment, blanket the nation's economy. Some are
within this Act, others beyond its coverage. Large numbers will fall clearly on one side or on the other, by whatever test may be applied. But intermediate there will be
many, the incidents of whose employment partake in part
of the one group, in part of the other, in varying proportions of weight. And consequently the legal pendulum,
for purposes of applying the statute, may swing one way

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

127

Opinion of the Court.

or the other, depending upon the weight of this balance
and its relation to the special purpose at hand.
Unless the common-law tests are to be imported and
made exclusively controlling, without regard to the
statute's purposes, it cannot be irrelevant that the particular workers in these cases are subject, as a matter of
economic fact, to the evils the statute was designed to
eradicate and that the remedies it affords are appropriate
for preventing them or curing their harmful effects in
the special situation. Interruption of commerce through
strikes and unrest may stem as well from labor disputes
between some who, for other purposes, are technically "independent contractors" and their employers as from disputes between persons who, for those purposes, are "employees" and their employers. Cf. Drivers' Union v. Lake
Valley Co., 311 U. S. 91. Inequality of bargaining power
in controversies over wages, hours and working conditions may as well characterize the status of the one group
as of the other. The former, when acting alone, may be
as "helpless in dealing with an employer," as "dependent . . . on his daily wage" and as "unable to leave the
employ and to resist arbitrary and unfair treatment" as the
latter. For each, "union . . . [may be] essential to
give . . . opportunity to deal on equality with their employer." 5 And for each, collective bargaining may be
appropriate and effective for the "friendly adjustment of
industrial disputes arising out of differences as to wages,
hours, or other working conditions." 1 49 Stat. 449. In
25

American Steel Foundries Co. v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S.
184, 209, cited in H. R. Rep. No. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 10;
ef. Bakery & Pastry Drivers v. Wohl, 315 U. S. 769.
26
The practice of self-organization and collective bargaining to resolve labor disputes has for some time been common among such
varied types of "independent contractors" as musicians (How Collective Bargaining Works (20th Century Fund, 1942) 848-866; Proceedings of the 47th Annual Convention of the American Federation

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

short, when the particular situation of employment combines these characteristics, so that the economic facts of
the relation make it more nearly one of employment than
of independent business enterprise with respect to the
ends sought to be accomplished by the legislation, those
characteristics may outweigh technical legal classification
for purposes unrelated to the statute's objectives and bring
the relation within its protections.
To eliminate the causes of labor disputes and industrial
strife, Congress thought it necessary to create a balance of
forces in certain types of economic relationships. These
do not embrace simply employment associations in which
controversies could be limited to disputes over proper
"physical conduct in the performance of the service."2 7
On the contrary, Congress recognized those economic relationships cannot be fitted neatly into the containers designated "employee" and "employer" which an earlier law
had shaped for different purposes. Its Reports on the
bill disclose clearly the understanding that "employers
and employees not in proximate relationship may be drawn
into common controversies by economic forces," 28 and
that the very disputes sought to be avoided might involve
of Musicians (1942)), actors (see, e. g., Collective Bargaining by Actors
(1926) Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bulletin No. 402; Harding, The
Revolt of the Actors (1929); Ross, Stars and Strikes (1941)), and
writers (see, e. g., Rosten, Hollywood (1941); Ross, Stars and Strikes
(1941) 48-63), and such atypical "employees" as insurance agents,
artists, architects and engineers (see, e. g., Proceedings of the 2d
Convention of the UOPWA, C. I. 0. (1938); Proceedings of the 3d
Convention of the UOPWA, C. I. 0. (1940); Handbook of American
Trade Unions (1936), Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 618, 291293; Constitution and By-Laws of the IFTEAD of the A. F. L.,
1942).
27 Control of "physical conduct in the performance of the service"
is the traditional test of the "employee relationship" at common law.
Cf., e. g., Restatement of the Law of Agency § 220 (1).
28 Sen. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 7.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

Opinion of the Court.

"employees [who] are at times brought into an economic
relationship with employers who are not their employers." " In this light, the broad language of the Act's definitions, which in terms reject conventional limitations on
such conceptions as "employee," "employer," and "labor
dispute," 10 leaves no doubt that its applicability is to be
determined broadly, in doubtful situations, by underlying
economic facts rather than technically and exclusively by
previously established legal classifications. Cf. Labor
Board v. Blount, supra.
Hence "technical concepts pertinent to an employer's
legal responsibility to third persons for acts of his servants" have been rejected in various applications of this
Act both here (InternationalAssociation of Machinists v.
Labor Board, 311 U. S'72, 80-81; H. J. Heinz Co. v. Labor
Board,311 U. S.514,520-521) " and in other federal courts
(Labor Board v. Condenser Corp., 128 F. 2d 67 (C. C. A.);
North Whittier Heights Citrus Assn. v. Labor Board, 109
F. 2d 76, 82 (C. C. A.).; Labor Board v. Blount, supra).
There is no good reason for invoking them to restrict the
scope of the term "employee" sought to be done in this
case. That term, like other provisions, must be understood with reference to the purpose of the Act and the facts
involved in the economic relationship.2 "Where all the
conditions of the relation require protection, protection
ought to be given." 33
29

Sen. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 6.
Cf. Phelps-Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177; and compare Drivers' Union v. Lake Valley Co., 311 U. S. 91, with Sen. Rep.
No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 7.
81Compare Labor Board v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 309 U. S.206;
Phelps-DodgeCorp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.177.
s2Cf. South Chicago Coal & Dock Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S.251;
Lehigh
Valley Coal Co. v. Yensavage, 218 F. 547, 552 (C. C. A.).
8
3Lehigh Valley Coal- Co. v. Yensavage, 218 F. 547, 552 (C. C. A.).
80

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

It is not necessary in this case to make a completely definitive limitation around the term "employee." That
task has been assigned primarily to the agency created by
Congress to administer the Act. Determination of "where
all the conditions of the relation require protection" involves inquiries for the Board charged with this duty.
Everyday experience in the administration of the statute
gives it familiarity with the circumstances and backgrounds of employment relationships in various industries, with the abilities and needs of the workers for selforganization and collective action, and with the adaptability of collective bargaining for the peaceful settlement of
their disputes with their employers. The experience thus
acquired must be brought frequently to bear on the question who is an employee under the Act. Resolving that
question, like determining whether unfair labor practices
have been committed, "belongs to the usual administrative routine" of the Board." Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402,
411. Cf. Labor Board v. StandardOil Co., 138 F. 2d 885,
887-888.
In making that body's determinations as to the facts in
these matters conclusive, if supported by evidence, Congress entrusted to it primarily the decision whether the
evidence establishes the material facts. Hence in reviewing the Board's ultimate conclusions, it is not the court's
function to substitute its own inferences of fact for the
Board's, when the latter have support in the record,
Labor Board v. Nevada Copper Corp., 316 U. S. 105; cf.
Walker v. Altmeyer, 137 F. 2d 531 (C. C. A.). Undoubtedly questions of statutory interpretation, especially when
arising in the first instance in judicial proceedings, are for
4

E. g., Matter of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, 7 N. L. R. B.
662, 686-690; Matter of KMOX Broadcasting Station, 10 N. L. R. B.
479; Matter of Interstate Granite Corp., 11 N. L. R. B. 1046; Matter
of Sun Life Ins. Co., 15 N. L. R. B. 817; Matter of Kelly Co., 34
N. L. R. B. 325; Matter of John Yasek, 37 N. L. R. B. 156.
8

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

131

Opinion of the Court.

the courts to resolve, giving appropriate weight to the
judgment of those whose special duty is to administer the
questioned statute. Norwegian-NitrogenProducts Co. v.
United States, 288 U. S.294; United States v. American
Trucking Assns., 310 U.S.534. But where the question is
one of specific application of a broad statutory term in a
proceeding in which the agency administering the statute
must determine it initially, the reviewing court's function
is limited. Like the commissioner's determination under
the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Act,' that a man
is not a "member of a crew" (South Chicago Coal & Dock
Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S.251) or that he was injured "in the
course of employment" (Parkerv. Motor Boat Sales, 314
U. S.244) and the Federal Communications Commission's
determination 0 that one company is under the "control"
of another (Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States,
307 U. S.125), the Board's determination that specified
persons are "employees" under this Act is to be accepted if
it has "warrant in the record" and a reasonable basis in
law.
In this case the Board found that the designated newsboys work continuously and regularly, rely upon their
earnings for the support of themselves and their families,
and have their total wages influenced in large measure by
the publishers, who dictate their buying and selling
prices, fix their markets and control their supply of papers.
Their hours of work and their efforts on the job are supervised and to some extent prescribed by the publishers or
their agents. Much of their sales equipment and advertising materials is furnished by the publishers with the intention that it be used for the publisher's benefit. Stating that "the primary consideration in the determination
of the applicability of the statutory definition is whether
35 44 Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C. § 901 et seq.
"6Under § 2 (b) of the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat.
1064, 1065, 47 U. S. C. § 152 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

effectuation of the declared policy and purposes of the Act
comprehend securing to the individual the rights guaranteed and protection afforded by the Act," the Board concluded that the newsboys are employees. The record
sustains the Board's findings and there is ample basis in
the law for its conclusion.
III.
The Board's selection of the collective bargaining units
also must be upheld. The units chosen for the News and
the Herald consist of all full-time " newsboys and checkmen engaged to sell the papers in Los Angeles. Bootjackers, temporary, casual and part-time 8 newsboys are
excluded. The units designated for the Times and the
Examiner consist of newsboys selling at established
spots 39 in Los Angeles 9four or more hours per day five or
more days per week, except temporary newsboys. 41
The Board predicated its designations in part upon the
finding that the units included, in general, men who were
responsible workers, continuously and regularly employed
as vendors and dependent upon their sales for their liveli37
, Full-time

newsboys for the Herald includes those who regularly

sell to the public five or more editions five or more days per week.
Full-time newsboys for the News includes those who regularly sell to
the general public the fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth and tenth, or the
sixth, eighth, ninth and tenth editions five or more days per week, or
the fourth and earlier editions for at least four hours daily between
4:00 a. m. and 10:00 a. m. five days per week.
38Part-time newsboys for the Herald means those selling less than
five editions daily or for less than five days per week.
39 Established spots are corners at which newsboys sold those papers
for at least five or more days per week during at least six consecutive

months.
40 Glendale is included in the Times unit.
41Temporary

newsboys are those selling for less than thirty-one

consecutive days.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

Opinion of the Court.

hood, while schoolboys and transient or casual workers
were excluded. The discretion which Congress vested in
the Board to determine an appropriate unit is hardly overstepped by the choice of a unit based on a distinction so
clearly consistent with the need for responsible bargaining.
That the Board's selection emphasizes difference in tenure rather than function is, on this record certainly, no
abuse of discretion.
Nor is there substance in the objection that the Board's
designations on the one hand fail to embrace all workers
who in fact come within the responsible or stable fulltime category generically stated, and on the other hand
fail to exclude all who in fact come within the schoolboy
or more volatile part-time category. The record does not
suggest that the units designated, at least so far as Los
Angeles newsboys are concerned, do not substantially
effectuate the Board's theory or embrace a large portion
of those who would make up a stable bargaining group
based on responsible tenure and full-time work. In these
matters the Board cannot be held to mathematical precision. If it chooses to couch its orders in terms which for
good reasons it regards effective to accomplish its stated
ends, peripheral or hypothetical deviations will not defeat
an otherwise appropriate order.
Another objection urged by the Times, the Herald and
the Examiner is to the Board's exclusion of suburban
newsboys 42 from the units on the ground they were not
organized by the union. The Board found that although
all vendors in metropolitan Los Angeles were eligible for
membership, the union had not been extended to the
suburban groups generally and that no other labor organization was seeking to represent respondents' employees.
There is no suggestion either that the union deliberately
42

Except newsboys selling the Times in Glendale.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

excluded suburban newsboys who sought admission or
that suburban newsboys have displayed any interest in
collective bargaining or self-organization.
Wide variations in the forms of employee self-organization and the complexities of modern industrial organization make difficult the use of inflexible rules as the test
of an appropriate unit. Congress was informed of the
need for flexibility in shaping the unit to the particular
case 43 and accordingly gave the Board wide discretion in
the matter. Its choice of a unit is limited specifically only
by the requirement that it be an "employer unit, craft
unit, plant unit, or subdivision thereof" and that the selection be made so as "to insure to employees the full benefit
of their right to self-organization and to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate the policies of the
Act." Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. v. Labor Board, 313
U. S. 146. The flexibility which Congress thus permitted
has characterized the Board's administration of the section
and has led it to resort to a wide variety of factors in
case-to-case determination of the appropriate unit."
Among the considerations to which it has given weight is
the extent of organization of the union requesting certification or collective bargaining. This is done on the expressed theory that it is desirable in the determination of
an appropriate unit to render collective bargaining of the
company's employees an immediate possibility. 5 No
43Hearings before Committee on Education and Labor on S. 1958,
74th Cong., 1st Sess. 83.
"E. g., see First Annual Report of the National Labor Relations
Board 112-120; Second Annual Report of the National Labor Relations Board 122-140; Third Annual Report of the National Labor
Relations Board 156-197; Fourth Annual Report of the National
Labor Relations Board 82-97; Fifth Annual Report of the National
Labor Relations Board 63-72; Sixth Annual Report of the National
Labor Relations Board 63-71.
45 Matter of Gulf Oil Corp., 4 N. L. R. B. 133.

BOARD v. HEARST PUBLICATIONS.
111

ROBERTS,

135

J., dissenting.

plausible reason is suggested for withholding the benefits
of the Act from those here seeking it until a group of
geographically separated employees becomes interested
in collective bargaining. In the circumstances disclosed
by this record we cannot say the Board's conclusions are
lacking in a "rational basis."
The judgments are reversed and the causes are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MI. JUSTICE REED concurs in the result. He is of the
opinion that the test of coverage for employees is that
announced by the Board in the matter of Stockholders
Publishing Company, Inc., and Los Angeles Newsboys
Local Industrial Union No. 75, C. I. 0., and other similar
cases, decided January 9, 1941, 28 N. L. R. B. 1006,
1022-23.
MR. JusTicE ROBERTS:

I think the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
should be affirmed. The opinion of that court reported
in 136 F. 2d 608, seems to me adequately to state the controlling facts and correctly to deal with the question of
law presented for decision. I should not add anything
were it not for certain arguments presented here and apparently accepted by the court.
I think it plain that newsboys are not "employees" of
the respondents within the meaning and intent of the
National Labor Relations Act. When Congress, in § 2
(3), said "The term 'employee' shall include any employee,

. .

." it stated as clearly as language could do it

that the provisions of the Act were to extend to those who,
as a result of decades of tradition which had become part
of the common understanding of our people, bear the
named relationship. Clearly also Congress did not dele-

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U.S.

gate to the National Labor Relations Board the function
of defining the relationship of employment so as to promote what the Board understood to be the underlying
purpose of the statute. The question who is an employee,
so as to make the statute applicable to him, is a question
of the meaning of the Act and, therefore, is a judicial and
not an administrative question.
I do not think that the court below suggested that the
federal courts sitting in the various states must determine
whether a given person is an employee by application of
either the local statutes or local state decisions. Quite
the contrary. As a result of common law development,
many prescriptions of federal statutes take on meaning
which is uniformly ascribed to them by the federal courts,
irrespective of local variance. Funk v. United States, 290
U. S. 371. This court has repeatedly resorted to just such
considerations in defining the very term "employee" as
used in other federal statutes, as the opinion of the court
below shows. There is a general and prevailing rule
throughout the Union as to the indicia of employment and
the criteria of one's status as employee. Unquestionably
it was to this common, general, and prevailing understanding that Congress referred in the statute and, according to that understanding, the facts stated in the opinion
below, and in that of this court, in my judgment, demonstrate that the newsboys were not employees of the
newspapers.
It is urged that the Act uses the term in some loose and
unusual sense such as justifies the Board's decision because Congress added to the definition of employee above
quoted these further words: "and shall not be limited to
the employees of a particular employer, unless the Act
explicitly states otherwise, . . ."

The suggestion seems

to be that Congress intended that the term employee
should mean those who were not in fact employees, but it

ALLEN CO. v. CASH REGISTER CO.
Syllabus.

111

is perfectly evident, not only from the provisions of the
Act as a whole but from the Senate Committee's Report,
that this phrase was added to prevent any misconception
of the provisions whereby employees were to be allowed
freely to combine and to be represented in collective bargaining by the representatives of their union. Congress
intended to make it clear that employee organizations

did not have to be organizations of the employees of any
single employer. But that qualifying phrase means no
more than this and was never intended to permit the
Board to designate as employees those who, in traditional
understanding, have no such status.
ALLEN CALCULATORS, INC. v. NATIONAL CASH

REGISTER CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 592. Argued March 28, 1944.Decided May 1, 1944.
Pursuant to the provisions of an earlier decree of injunction in a suit
by the United States against a defendant under the antitrust laws,
the defendant petitioned for and was granted leave on certain conditions to acquire stock of a competitor. The proceeding was adversary throughout and neither party appealed. The appellant here
had sought but was denied leave to intervene. Held:
1. Under Rule 24 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, appellant
was not entitled to intervene as of right. P. 140.
(a) No statute of the United States conferred an "unconditional right" to intervene. Clayton Act, § 16; R. C. P. 24 (a) (1).
P. 140.
(b) The appellant would not-be bound by any judgment in the
action. R. C. P. 24 (a) (2). P. 141.
(c) Appellant had no interest in "a distribution or other disposition of property in the custody of the court." R. C. P. 24 (a) (3).
P. 141.
(d) Missouri-KansasPipe Line Co. v. United States, 312 U. S.
502, distinguished. P. 141.
587770°-45-

13

