OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

694

Syllabus.

322 U. S.

to obstruct enlistment and recruiting and to cause insubordination and disloyalty in the military service of the
United States."
On these facts we would intrude on the historic function
of the jury in criminal trials to say that the requisite
intent "to cause insubordination, disloyalty, or refusal
of duty, in the military or naval forces" was lacking. The
right of free speech is vital. But the necessity of finding
beyond a reasonable doubt the intent to produce the prohibited result affords abundant protection to those whose
criticism is directed to legitimate ends.

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 366.

Argued March 6, 1944.-Decided June 12, 1944.

1.The constitutional privilege against self-incrimination is essentially
a personal one, applying only to natural individuals. P. 698.
2. The papers and effects which the privilege protects must be the
private property of the person claiming the privilege, or at least
in his possession in a purely personal capacity. P. 699.
3. An officer of an unincorporated labor union has no right, under the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments of the Federal Constitution, to refuse
to produce books and records of the union-which are in his possession and which a federal court by a subpoena duces tecum has
required to be produced--on the ground that they might tend to
incriminate the union or himself as an officer thereof and individually. P. 704.
The test of the applicability of the privilege is whether one can
fairly say under all the circumstances that a particular type of
organization has a character so impersonal in the scope of its membership and activities that it can not be said to embody or represent
the purely private or personal interests of its constituents, but rather
to embody their common or group interests only. If so, the privilege
can not be invoked on behalf of the organization or its representatives
in their official capacity. P. 701.

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
694

Opinion of the Court.

4. Whether the person asserting the privilege in such case is a member
of the union, and whether the union was subject to the provisions
of the statute in relation to which the investigation was being made,
are immaterial. P. 704.
137 F. 2d 24, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 729, to review the reversal of a
judgment sentencing the respondent for contempt.

Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, with whom
Solicitor General Fahy, and Messrs. Chester T. Lane,
PhilipMarcus, Jesse Climenko, Malcolm A. Hoffman, and
George M. Fay were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Robert J. Fitzsimmons for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
During the course of a grand jury investigation into
alleged irregularities in the construction of the Mechanicsburg Naval Supply Depot, the District Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Pennsylvania
issued a subpoena duces tecum directed to "Local No.
542, International Union of Operating Engineers." This
subpoena required the union to produce before the grand
jury on January 11, 1943, copies of its constitution and
by-laws and specifically enumerated union records showing its collections of work-permit fees, including the
amounts paid therefor and the identity of the payors from
January 1, 1942, to the date of the issuance of the
subpoena, December 28, 1942.
The United States marshal served the subpoena on the
president of the union. On January 11, 1943, respondent
appeared before the grand jury, describing himself as
"assistant supervisor" of the union. Although he was not
shown to be the authorized custodian of the union's books,
he had the demanded documents in his possession. He

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

had not been subpoenaed personally to testify nor personally directed by the subpoena duces tecum to produce
the union's records. Moreover, there was no effort or
indicated intention to examine him personally as a witness. Nevertheless he declined to produce the demanded
documents "upon the ground that they might tend to
incriminate Local Union 542, International Union of
Operating Engineers, myself as an officer thereof, or individually." He reiterated his refusal after consulting
counsel.
He was immediately cited for contempt of court and
during the hearing on the contempt repeated his refusal
once again. He based his refusal on the opinion of his
counsel that "great uncertainty exists today as to what
may or may not constitute a violation of Section 276 (b),
Title 40, of the United States Code." 1 He made no effort,
although he apparently was willing, to tender the records
for the judge's inspection in support of his assertion that
their contents would tend to incriminate him or the union.
The District Court held his refusal inexcusable, adjudged
him guilty of contempt of court and sentenced him to
thirty days in prison.
The court below reversed the District Court's judgment
by a divided vote. 137 F. 2d 24. The majority held that
the records of an unincorporated labor union were the
property of all its members and that, if respondent were a
1 This was a reference to the so-called "Kickback" Act, which was
before us in United States v. Laudani,320 U. S. 543. Section 1 of the
Act provides that whoever shall induce any person employed in the
construction, prosecution or completion of any public building or work
financed in whole or in part by the United States, or in the repair
thereof, to give up part of his compensation by force, intimidation,
threat of procuring dismissal from employment, or by any other
manner whatsoever shall be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned
not more than five years, or both. Act of June 13, 1934, c. 482, 48
Stat. 948,40 U. S. C. § 276 (b).

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
694

697.

Opinion of the Court.

union member and if the books and records would have
tended to incriminate him, he properly could refuse to
produce them before the grand jury. The court below
accordingly remanded the case to the District Court with
directions to sustain the claim of privilege if after further
inquiry it should determine that respondent was in fact
a member of the union and that the documents would tend
to incriminate him as an individual. We granted certiorari, 320 U. S. 729, because of the novel and important
question of constitutional law which is presented.2
The only issue in this case relates to the nature and
scope of the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination. We are not concerned here with a complete
delineation of the legal status of unincorporated labor
unions. We express no opinion as to the legality or desirability of incorporating such unions or as to the necessity of considering them as separate entities apart from
their members for purposes other than the one posed by
the narrow issue in this case. Nor do we question the
obvious fact that business corporations, by virtue of their
creation by the state and because of the nature and purpose of their activities, differ in many significant respects
from unions, religious bodies, trade associations, social
clubs and other types of organizations, and accordingly
owe different obligations to the federal and state gov2

In its petition for a writ of certiorari in this case, the Government

claimed that respondent had taken his appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals by filing a notice of appeal pursuant to the Criminal Appeals
Rules rather than by application for appeal as required by § 8 (c) of

the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 940, 28 U. S. C. § 230.
See Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33, 43-44. It appears, however,
that at the contempt hearing an extensive colloquy took place between
the district judge and counsel with respect to the perfecting of the
appeal and respondent at that time made in effect an oral application
for appeal which was allowed by the court within the meaning of the
Act of February 13, 1925.
587770--45---48

698

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ernments. Our attention is directed solely to the right of
an officer of a union to claim the privilege against selfincrimination under the circumstances here presented.
Respondent contends that an officer of an unincorporated labor union possesses a constitutional right to
refuse to produce, in compliance with a subpoena duces
tecum, records of the union which are in his custody and
which might tend to incriminate him. He relies upon
the "unreasonable search and seizure" clause of the Fourth
Amendment and the explicit guarantee of the Fifth
Amendment that no person shall be compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself. We hold,
however, that neither the Fourth nor the Fifth Amendment, both of which are directed primarily to the protection of individual and personal rights, requires the
recognition of a privilege against self-incrimination under
the circumstances of this case.
The constitutional privilege against self-incrimination
is essentially a personal one, applying only to natural individuals. It grows out of the high sentiment and regard
of our jurisprudence for conducting criminal trials and
investigatory proceedings upon a plane of dignity, humanity and impartiality. It is designed to prevent the use of
legal process to force from the lips of the accused individual the evidence necessary to convict him or to force
him to produce and authenticate any personal documents
or effects that might incriminate him. Physical torture
and other less violent but equally reprehensible modes of
compelling the production of incriminating evidence are
thereby avoided. The prosecutors are forced to search
for independent evidence instead of relying upon proof
extracted from individuals by force of law. The immediate and potential evils of compulsory self-disclosure
transcend any difficulties that the exercise of the privilege
may impose on society in the detection and prosecution
of crime. While the privilege is subject to abuse and mis-

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
694

Opinion of the Court.

use, it is firmly embedded in our constitutional and legal
frameworks as a bulwark against iniquitous methods of
prosecution. It protects the individual from any disclosure, in the form of oral testimony, documents or chattels, sought by legal process against him as a witness.
Since the privilege against self-incrimination is a purely
personal one, it cannot be utilized by or on behalf of any
organization, such as a corporation. Hale v. Henkel, 201
U. S. 43; Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361; Essgee
Co. v. UnitedStates, 262 U. S. 151. See also UnitedStates
v. Invader Oil Corp., 5 F. 2d 715. Moreover, the papers
and effects which the privilege protects must be the private property of the person claiming the privilege, or at
least in his possession in a purely personal capacity. Boyd
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616. But individuals, when
acting as representatives of a collective group, cannot be
said to be exercising their personal rights and duties nor
to be entitled to their purely personal privileges. Rather
they assume the rights, duties and privileges of the artificial entity or association of which they are agents or
officers and they are bound by its obligations. In their
official capacity, therefore, they have no privilege against
self-incrimination. And the official records and documents of the organization that are held by them in a representative rather than in a personal capacity cannot be
the subject of the personal privilege against self-incrimination, even though production of the papers might tend
to incriminate them personally. Wilson v. United States,
supra; Dreier v. United States, 221 U. S. 394; Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221
U. S. 612; Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478; Grant
v. United States,227 U. S. 74; Essgee Co. v. United States,
supra. Such records and papers are not the private records of the individual members or officers of the organization. Usually, if not always, they are open to inspection
by the members and this right may be enforced on ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

propriate occasions by available legal procedures. See
Guthrie v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148, 153. They therefore
embody no element of personal privacy and carry with
them no claim of personal privilege.
The reason underlying the restriction of this constitutional privilege to natural individuals acting in their own
private capacity is clear. The scope and nature of the
economic activities of incorporated and unincorporated
organizations and their representatives demand that the
constitutional power of the federal and state governments
to regulate those activities be correspondingly effective.
The greater portion of evidence of wrongdoing by an organization or its representatives is usually to be found
in the official records and documents of that organization. Were the cloak of the privilege to be thrown around
these impersonal records and documents, effective enforcement of many federal and state laws would be impossible. See Hale v. Henkel, supra, 70, 74; 8 Wigmore
on Evidence (3d ed.) § 2259a. The framers of the constitutional guarantee against compulsory self-disclosure,
who were interested primarily in protecting individual
civil liberties, cannot be said to have intended the privilege to be available to protect economic or other interests of such organizations so as to nullify appropriate
governmental regulations.
The fact that the state charters corporations and has
visitorial powers over them provides a convenient vehicle
for justification of governmental investigation of corporate books and records. Hale v. Henkel, supra; Wilson v.
United States, supra. But the absence of that fact as to
a particular type of organization does not lessen the public
necessity for making reasonable regulations of its activities
effective, nor does it confer upon such an organization
the purely personal privilege against self-incrimination. Basically, the power to compel the production
of the records of any organization, whether it be incor-

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
694

Opinion of the Court.

porated or not, arises out of the inherent and necessary
power of the federal and state governments to enforce
their laws, with the privilege against self-incrimination
being limited to its historic function of protecting only
the natural individual from compulsory incrimination
through his own testimony or personal records.
It follows that labor unions, as well as their officers and
agents acting in their official capacity, cannot invoke this
personal privilege. This conclusion is not reached by any
mechanical comparison of unions with corporations or
With other entities nor by any determination of whether
unions technically may be regarded as legal personalities
for any or all purposes. The test, rather, is whether one
can fairly say under all the circumstances that a particular
type of organization has a character so impersonal in the
scope of its membership and activities that it cannot be
said to embody or represent the purely private or personal
interests of its constituents, but rather to embody their
common or group interests only. If so, the privilege cannot be invoked on behalf of the organization or its representatives in their official capacity. Labor unions-national or local, incorporated or unincorporated-clearly
meet that test.
Structurally and functionally, a labor union is an institution which involves more than the private or personal
interests of its members. It represents organized, institutional activity as contrasted with wholly individual
activity. This difference is as well defined as that existing
between individual members of the union. The union's
existence in fact, and for some purposes in law, is as perpetual as that of any corporation, not being dependent
upon the life of any member. It normally operates under
its own constitution, rules and by-laws which, in controversies between member and union, are often enforced
by the courts. The union engages in a multitude of business and other official concerted activities, none of which

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

can be said to be the private undertakings of the members.' Duly elected union officers have no authority to
do or sanction anything other than that which the union
may lawfully do; nor have they authority to act for the
members in matters affecting only the individual rights
of such members. The union owns separate real and
personal property, even though the title may nominally
be in the names of its members or trustees.' The official
union books and records are distinct from the personal
books and records of the individuals, in the same manner
as the union treasury exists apart from the private and
personal funds of the members. See United States v.
B. Goedde & Co., 40 F. Supp. 523, 534. And no member
or officer has the right to use them for criminal purposes
or for his purely private affairs. The actions of one individual member no more bind the union than they bind
another individual member unless there is proof that the
union authorized or ratified the acts in question. At the
same time, the members are not subject to either criminal
or civil liability for the acts of the union or its officers as
such unless it is shown that they personally authorized
or participated in the particular acts. See Lawlor v.
8In United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, 385,
this Court described the union there involved in the following terms:
"The membership of the union has reached 450,000. The dues received from them for the national and district organizations make a
very large annual total, and the obligations assumed in travelling expenses, holding of conventions, and general overhead cost, but most
of all in strikes, are so heavy that an extensive financial business is
carried on, money is borrowed, notes are given to banks, and in every
way the union acts as a business entity, distinct from its members. No
organized corporation has greater unity of action, and in none is more

power centered in the governing executive bodies."
4 Lloyd, The Law Relating to Unincorporated Associations (1938)
165 ff.; Wrightington, The Law of Unincorporated Associations (2d ed.

1923) 336 ff.

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
694

Opinion of the Court.

Loewe, 235 U. S. 522; Eagle Glass & Mfg. Co. v. Rowe,
245 U. S. 275.
Moreover, this Court in United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, held that labor unions might
be made parties defendant in suits for damages under the
Sherman Act by service of process on their officers.
Both common law rules and legislative enactments have
granted many substantive rights to labor unions as separate functioning institutions. In United Mine Workers
v. Coronado Coal Co., supra, 385-386, this Court pointed
out that "the growth and necessities of these great labor
organizations have brought affirmative legal recognition
of their existence and usefulness and provisions for their
protection, which their members have found necessary.
Their right to maintain strikes, when they do not violate law or the rights of others, has been declared. The
embezzlement of funds by their officers has been especially
denounced as a crime. The so-called union label, which is
a quasi trademark to indicate the origin of manufactured
product in union labor, has been protected against pirating and deceptive use by the statutes of most of the states,
and in many states authority to sue to enjoin its use has
been conferred on unions. They have been given distinct and separate representation and the right to appear
to represent union interests in statutory arbitrations, and
before official labor boards." Even greater substantive
rights have been granted labor unions by federal and state
legislation subsequent to the statutes enumerated in the
opinion in that case.5
1 Outstanding examples of federal legislation enacted subsequent
to the Coronado case giving recognition to union personality are the
National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. § 151, the
Railway Labor Act, 44 Stat. 577, 45 U. S. C. § 151, and the NorrisLaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C. § 101. The Anti-Racketeering Act, 48 Stat. 979, 18 U. S. C. § 420a-e, excepts certain types of

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U.S.

These various considerations compel the conclusion that
respondent could not claim the personal privilege against
self-incrimination under these circumstances. The subpoena duces tecum was directed to the union and demanded the production only of its official documents and
records. Respondent could not claim the privilege on behalf of the union because the union did not itself possess
such a privilege. Moreover, the privilege is personal to
the individual called as a witness, making it impossible
for him to set up the privilege of a third person as an excuse for a refusal to answer or to produce documents.
Hence respondent could not rely upon any possible privilege that the union might have. Hale v. Henkel, supra,
69-70; McAlister v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 90. Nor could respondent claim the privilege on behalf of himself as an
officer of the union or as an individual. The documents
he sought to place under the protective shield of the privilege were official union documents held by him in his
capacity as a representative of the union. No valid claim
was made that any part of them constituted his own private papers. He thus could not object that the union's
books and records might incriminate him as an officer or
as an individual.
It is unnecessary to determine whether or not respondent was a member of the union in question, for in either
event he could not invoke the privilege against self-incrimination under these facts. It is likewise immaterial
whether the union was subject to the provisions of the
statute in relation to which the grand jury was making
activity by labor unions, thereby recognizing them as entities capable of violating the Act. The War Labor Disputes Act, 57 Stat.
163, 50 U. S. C. App. § 1501, evidences a similar recognition. See, in
general, 1 & 2 Teller, Labor Disputes and Collective Bargaining
(1940), Part V. For references to and discussions of recent state
labor legislation, see id., Part VI; Smith and DeLancey, "The State
Legislatures and Unionism," 38 Michigan Law Rev. 987.

UNITED STATES v. WHITE.
694

Opinion of the Court.

its investigation. The exclusion of the union from the
benefits of the purely personal privilege does not depend
upon the nature of the particular investigation or proceeding. The union does not acquire the privilege by reason of the fact that it is not charged with a crime or that
it may not be subject to liability under the statute in
question. The union and its officers acting in their official capacity lack the privilege at all times of insulating
the union's books and records against reasonable demands
of governmental authorities.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concur in the result.

and

