UNITED STATES v. HELLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. HELLARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 648.

Argued April 28, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

Full-blood Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes may not be divested
of title to restricted land by a sale pursuant to a judgment of a
state court in a partition proceeding to which the United States
was not a party. Construing Act of June 14, 1918; Act of April
12, 1926. P. 368.
138 F. 2d 985, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 758, to review the affirmance of
a judgment which, in a suit removed from a state court to
the federal court and in which the United States intervened, quieted title to lands in the respondent here.

Mr. Marvin J. Sonosky, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Littell, and Messrs.
Valentine Brookes and Norman MacDonald were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. George H. Jennings for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is whether full-blood Indians
of the Five Civilized Tribes may be divested of title to restricted land by a sale in partition proceedings to which
the United States is not a party.
A full-blood Creek Indian died leaving heirs of the full
blood. They inherited certain lands from her, lands which
were subject to restrictions on alienation both in her hands
and in the hands of the heirs.1 By § 2 of the Act of June
And see
Parker v. Richard, 250 U. S. 235; Harrisv. Bell, 254 U. S. 103; Stew135 Stat. 312; 44 Stat. 239; 45 Stat. 495; 47 Stat. 777.

art v. Keyes, 295 U. S. 403.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

14, 1918 (25 U. S. C. § 355,40 Stat. 606) Congress declared
that such lands were "made subject to the laws of the
State of Oklahoma, providing for the partition of real estate." 2 By § 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926 (44 Stat. 239)
Congress provided for the service upon the Superintendent for the Five Civilized Tribes of a prescribed written
notice of the pendency of any suit to which a restricted
member of the Tribes in Oklahoma or the restricted
heirs or grantees are parties and which involves claims
to "lands allotted to a citizen of the Five Civilized
Tribes or the proceeds, issues, rents, and profits derived
from the same." By that Act the United States is given
an opportunity to appear in the cause and is bound by the
judgment which is entered.
The heirs instituted partition proceedings in the District Court for Creek County, Oklahoma in March 1940.
The United States was not named as a party nor was notice
of the suit served on the Superintendent. A judgment of
partition was entered, pursuant to which the land was sold
and a sheriff's deed in partition issued to respondent. In
"That the lands of full-blood members of any of the Five Civilized
Tribes are hereby made subject to the laws of the State of Oklahoma,
providing for the partition of real estate. Any land allotted in such
proceedings to a full-blood Indian, or conveyed to him upon his election to take the same at the appraisement, shall remain subject to
all restrictions upon alienation and taxation obtaining prior to such
partition. In case of a sale under any decree, or partition, the conveyance thereunder shall operate to relieve the land described of all
restrictions of every character."
Sec. 1 of this Act (25 U. S. C. § 375) provides in part: "That a determination of the question of fact as to who are the heirs of any
deceased citizen allottee of the Five Civilized Tribes of Indians who
may die or may have heretofore died, leaving restricted heirs, by the
probate court of the State of Oklahoma having jurisdiction to settle
the estate of said deceased, conducted in the manner provided by the
laws of said State for the determination of heirship in closing up the
estates of deceased persons, shall be conclusive of said question."

UNITED STATES v. HELLARD.
363

365

Opinion of the Court.

1941 respondent instituted in the same court the present
action against the Indian heirs to quiet his title. Notice
was served on the Superintendent. The heirs answered
disclaiming any interest. At the instance of the United
States the cause was removed to the federal District Court
as authorized by § 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926. The
United States then answered, alleging that the partition
proceedings were void for lack of the United States as a
party and for want of service on the Superintendent under
§ 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926. It prayed that the deed
in partition be set aside and title quieted in the heirs. The
District Court held that the partition proceedings were
valid and quieted title in respondent. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. 138 F. 2d 985. The case is here on
a petition for a writ of certiorari which we'granted because
of the importance in the administration of Indian affairs
of the question presented.
It seems clear from the language of the Act of June 14,
1918 and its legislative history (S. Rep. No. 330, 65th
Cong., 2d Sess.) that Congress vested in the Oklahoma
state courts jurisdiction to determine heirship in these
restricted lands (§ 1) and jurisdiction to partition them.
§ 2. See Salmon v. Johnson, 78 Okla. 182, 189 P. 537;
United States v. Bond, 108 F. 2d 504. The authority of
Congress to select state tribunals to perform such functions
is clear. Parkerv. Richard, 250 U. S. 235; Harrisv. Bell,
254 U. S. 103; Stewart v. Keyes, 295 U. S. 403. But a
grant of jurisdiction to a particular court without more
does not determine what parties are indispensable to the
proceedings in question. Petitioner concedes that the
United States is not a necessary party to proceedings to
determine heirship under § 1 of the Act of June 14, 1918.
Since restrictions on alienation do not prevent inheritance,
no governmental interest is at least directly involved in
such a determination. It may likewise be inferred from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

language, nature, and purpose of Acts of Congress which
vest jurisdiction over specified Indian affairs in a designated court that Congress not only has made that tribunal
the exclusive agency to effectuate the federal policy but
also has dispensed with any requirement that the United
States be a party to the proceedings. See Hy-Yu-TseMil-Kin v. Smith, 194 U. S. 401, 413-414; Winton v.
Amos, 255 U. S. 373, 392. But we do not think that Congress did more by those provisions of the Act of June 14,
1918 with which we are presently concerned than to grant
the Oklahoma state courts jurisdiction over partition
proceedings.
Restricted Indian land is property in which the United
States has an interest. "This national interest is not to be
expressed in terms of property, or to be limited to the assertion of rights incident to the ownership of a reversion
or to the holding of a technical title in trust." Heckman
v. UnitedStates, 224 U. S. 413, 437. Though the Indian's
interest is alienated by judicial decree, the United States
may sue to cancel the judgment and set the conveyance
aside where it was not a party to the action. Bowling &
Miami Investment Co. v. United States, 233 U. S. 528;
Privett v. United States, 256 U. S. 201; Sunderland v.
United States, 266 U. S. 226. Under § 2 of the Act of
June 14, 1918 lands partitioned in kind to full-bloods remain restricted. Only if the land is sold at partition sale
are the restrictions removed. The governmental interest
throughout the partition proceedings is as clear as it would
be if the fee were in the United States. Minnesota v.
United States, 305 U. S. 382, 387-388; Town of Okemah
v. United States, 140 F. 2d 963. The United States as
guardian of the Indians is necessarily interested either in
obtaining partition in kind where that course conforms to
its policy of preserving restricted land for the Indians or
in seeing that the best possible price is obtained where a
sale is desirable. Where, as here, the lands are both tax-

UNITED STATES v. HELLARD.
363

367

Opinion of the Court.

exempt and restricted, the United States is concerned with
the reinvestment of the proceeds in other lands likewise
tax-exempt and restricted as provided in the Act of June
30, 1932, 47 Stat. 474, 25 U. S. C. § 409a.' The United
States is also interested in protecting the preferential right
of the Secretary of the Interior to purchase the land at the
sale for another Indian, as provided in § 2 of the Act of
June 26, 1936, 49 Stat. 1967.' These are important governmental interests. Since the power of Congress over
Indian affairs is plenary, it may waive or withdraw these
duties of guardianship or entrust them to such agencystate or federal-as it chooses. But we do not find any
indication that when Congress came to deal with these partition proceedings it substituted the Oklahoma state court
for the Secretary of the Interior in the performance of the
8"That whenever any nontaxable land of a restricted Indian of the
Five Civilized Tribes or of any other Indian tribe is sold to any State,
county, or municipality for public-improvement purposes, or is acquired, under existing law, by any State, county, or municipality by
condemnation or other proceedings for such public purposes, or is sold
under existing law to any other person or corporation for other purposes, the money received for said land may, in the discretion and
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, be reinvested in
other lands selected by said Indian, and such land so selected and purchased shall be restricted as to alienation, lease, or incumbrance, and
nontaxable in the same quantity and upon the same terms and conditions as the nontaxable lands from which the reinvested funds were
derived, and such restrictions shall appear in the conveyance."
4"Whenever any restricted Indian land or interests in land, other
than sales or leases of oil, gas, or other minerals therein, are offered
for sale, pursuant to the terms of this or any other Act of Congress,
the Secretary of the Interior shall have a preference right, in his discretion, to purchase the same for or in behalf of any other Indian or
Indians of the same or any other tribe, at a fair valuation to be fixed
by the appraisement satisfactory to the Indian owner or owners, or if
offered for sale at auction said Secretary shall have a preference
right, in his discretion, to purchase the same for or in behalf of any
other Indian or Indians by meeting the highest bid otherwise offered
therefor."

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

functions which we have enumerated. That alone would
not be fatal to respondent's position if it could be inferred
that those governmental interests were to be protected by
means other than making the United States a party. But,
as we have said, the Act in question purports to be no more
than a jurisdictional statute. It fails to say that the
United States is not a necessary party; nor does it suggest
that the United States or its officers are confined to a limited role in the proceedings. Cf. United States v. Candelaria,271 U. S. 432, 444. We must read the Act in light of
the history of restricted lands. That history shows that
the United States has long been considered a necessary
party to such proceedings in view of the large governmental interests which are at stake. We will not infer from
a mere grant of jurisdiction to a state or federal court to
adjudicate claims to restricted lands and to order their sale
or other distribution that Congress dispensed with that
long-standing requirement. The purpose to effectuate
such a major change in policy must be clear.
Much stress is laid on the point that if § 2 of the Act of
June 14, 1918 is so construed, it was meaningless until the
Act of April 12, 1926 was passed which provided a statutory method for making the United States a party. The
argument is that prior to the latter Act there was no way
of joining the United States as a party to such an action.
But as stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis speaking for the
Court in Minnesotav. United States, supra,p. 388, authorization to bring an action involving restricted lands "confers by implication permission to sue the United States." "
The suit in that case failed because no jurisdiction was
granted to the state courts to condemn the lands in question.' But since the state court in the present case was
given jurisdiction to partition, consent to be sued in the
6

6

And see UnitedStates v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 519-521.
See Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law (1942), p. 381.

MORTENSEN v. UNITED STATES.
363

Counsel for Parties.

state court may be implied. Service of process therefore
might be had in the usual way (see Town of Okemah v.
United States, supra, p. 966) even in absence of the 1926

Act.
Reversed.
MORTENSEN ET UX. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 559.

Argued March 9, 10, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

1. In the exercise of its supervisory appellate power, this Court
treats the transcript of the evidence in this case as part of the
record before it and considers the case on its merits. P. 371.
2. Upon review of a conviction in a federal court, this Court may
examine the record to determine whether there was any competent and substantial evidence fairly tending to support the
verdict. P. 374.
3. Petitioners, man and wife, operated a house of prostitution in
Nebraska. They took with them on a trip to Utah, which was
planned and consummated purely as a vacation, two girli who
had been living at their house as prostitutes. Upon their return,
the girls resumed prostitution at petitioners' house. Held that
a conviction of the petitioners for transporting the girls from
Utah to Nebraska (the return trip) "for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery," in violation of § 2 of the Mann Act, was not
supported by any relevant evidence. Pp. 372, 376.
4. To punish those who transport inmates of a house of prostitution
on an innocent vacation trip in no way related to the practice of
their commercial vice is consistent neither with the purpose nor
the language of the Mann Act. P. 377.
139 F. 2d 967, reversed.

321 U. S. 757, to review the affirmance of
a conviction for violation of the Mann Act.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Eugene D. O'Sullivan, with whom Mr. Thomas
W. Laniganwas on the brief, for petitioners.

