ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
137

143,

Syllabus.

it is not shown that the District Court abused its discretion in denying intervention.'
The appeal is
Dismissed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY dissent.

ASHCRAFT ET AL. v. TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 391.

Argued February 28, 1944.-Decided May 1, 1944.

1. Upon review here of a conviction of a defendant in a criminal case
in a state court, it is the duty of this Court to make an independent
examination of the defendant's claim that his conviction, alleged to
have been obtained through the use in evidence of confessions
coerced by law enforcement officers, was in violation of his rights
under the Federal Constitution. P. 147.
2. An independent examination by this Court of the defendant's claim
in such a case can not be foreclosed by the finding of the state
court, or the verdict of a jury, or both. P. 148.
3. The treatment of the alleged confessions by the two state courts,
and the trial court's instructions to the jury in respect of the alleged
confessions, make more important in this case an independent
examination by this Court of the defendants' claims. P. 147.
4. Upon undisputed evidence, this Court concludes that if the defendant Ashcraft made a confession it was not voluntary but
compelled, and that his conviction, resting upon the allfged confession, must be set aside as in violation of the Federal Constitution.
P. 153.
The uncontradicted evidence-inter alia, that Ashcraft had been
held incommunicado for thirty-six hours, during which time with6 Id., cases cited p. 556.

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

out sleep or rest, he had been interrogated by relays of officers and
investigators--showed a situation inherently coercive.
5. In making such disposition of cases as justice may require, this
Court must consider any change, in fact or in law, which has supervened since the judgment was entered. P. 156.
6. The conviction of a codefendant having been sustained by the state

court upon the assumption that Ashcraft's confession was properly
admitted and his conviction valid, the judgment as to the codefendant is vacated and the case remanded for further proceedings.

P. 155.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 728, to review the affirmance of

convictions of two defendants tried jointly in the state
court.
Messrs. James F. Bickers and Grover N. McCormick for
petitioners.
Mr. Nat Tipton, with whom Mr. Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General of Tennessee, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE

BuACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

About three o'clock on the morning of Thursday, June
5, 1941, Mrs. Zelma Ida Ashcraft got in her automobile
at her home in Memphis, Tennessee, and set out on a trip
to visit her mother's home in Kentucky. Late in the
afternoon of the same day, her car was observed a few
miles out of Memphis, standing on the wrong side of a
road which she would likely have taken on her journey.
Just off the road, in a slough, her lifeless body was found.
On her head were cut places inflicted by blows sufficient
to have caused her death. Petitioner Ware, age 20, a
Negro, was indicted in a state court and found guilty of
her murder. Petitioner Ashcraft, age 45, a white man,
husband of the deceased, charged with having hired Ware
to commit the murder, was tried jointly with Ware and
convicted as an accessory before the fact. Both were
sentenced to ninety-nine years in the state peniten-

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

Opinion of the Court.

tiary. The Supreme Court of Tennessee affirmed the
convictions.
In applying to us for certiorari, Ware and Ashcraft
urged that alleged confessions were used at their trial
which had been extorted from them by state law enforcement officers in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and that "solely and alone" on the basis of these confessions they had been convicted. Their contentions raised
a federal question which the record showed to be substantial and we brought both cases here for review. Upon
oral argument before this Court Tennessee's legal'representatives conceded that the convictions could not be
sustained without the confessions but defended their use
upon the ground that they were not compelled but were
"freely and voluntarily made."
The record discloses that neither the trial court nor the
Tennessee Supreme Court actually held as a matter of
fact that petitioners' confessions were "freely and voluntarily made." The trial court heard evidence on the issue
out of the jury's hearing, but did not itself determine
from that evidence that the confessions were voluntary.
Instead it overruled Ashcraft's objection to the use of
his alleged confession with the statement that, "This
Court is not able to hold, as a matter of law, that reasonable minds might not differ on the question of whether
or not that alleged confession was voluntarily obtained."
And it likewise overruled Ware's objection to use of his
alleged confession, stating that "the reasonable minds of
twelve men might . . . differ as to . . . whether Ware's
confession was voluntary, and . . . therefore, that is a
question of fact for the jury to pass on." ' Nor did the

'The legal test applied by the trial court to determine the admissibility of the two confessions was stated thus:
"The Court has come to the conclusion . . . that the law in Tennessee with reference to confession is simply this: it is largely

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

State Supreme Court review the evidence pertaining to
the confessions and affirmatively hold them voluntary.
In sustaining the petitioners' convictions, one Justice dissenting, it went no further than to point out that, "The
trial judge . . . held . . . he could not say that the con-

fessions were not voluntarily made and, therefore, permitted them to go to the jury," and to declare that it,
likewise, was "unable to say that the confessions were not
freely and voluntarily made." 2
If, therefore, the question of the voluntariness of the
two c6nfessions was actually decided at all it was by the
jury. And the jury was charged generally on the subject
of the two confessions as follows:
"I further charge you that if verbal or written statements made by the defendants freely and voluntarily
and without fear of punishment or hope of reward, have
been proven to you in this case, you may take them into
consideration with all of the other facts and circumstances
in the case. . . . In statements made at the time of the
arrest, you may take into consideration the condition of
the minds of the prisoners owing to their arrest and
a question of fact as to whether or not a confession is voluntary, and
is made without hope of reward or fear of punishment. It only becomes a question of law for the Court to decide when, from the facts
surrounding the taking of the alleged confessions or statements, the
Court, as a matter of law, can hold that the State has failed to carry
its burden, which it has of showing that the confessions were free
and voluntary, and that reasonable minds could not differ, and could
come to but one conclusion that the confessions were involuntary and
forced."
2 Notwithstanding the apparent fact that neither the trial court
nor the appellate court affirmatively held the confessions voluntary,
the Tennessee Supreme Court, in its opinion, restated the rule it had
announced in previous cases, that, "When confessions are offered as
evidence, their competency becomes a preliminary question, to be
determined by the court ....
[If] the judge allow the jury to determine the preliminary fact, it is error, for which the judgment will be
reversed." See Self v. State, 65 Tenn. 244, 253.

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

Opinion of the Court.

whether they were influenced by motives of hope or fear,
to make the statements. Such a statement is competent
evidence against the defendant who makes it and is not
competent evidence against the other defendant...
You cannot consider it for any purpose against the other
defendant."
Concerning Ashcraft's alleged confession this general
charge constituted the sole instruction to the jury.' But
with regard to Ware's alleged confession the jury further
was instructed:
"It is his [Ware's] further theory that he was induced
by the fear of violence at the hands of a mob and by fear
of the officers of the law to confess his guilt of the crime
charged against him, but that such confession was false
and that he had nothing whatsoever to do with, and no
knowledge of the alleged crime. If you believe the
theory of the defendant, Ware, . . . it is your duty to
acquit him."
Having submitted the two alleged confessions to the jury
in this manner, the trial court instructed the jury that:
"What the proof may show you, if anything, that the defendants have said against themselves, the law presumes
to be true, but anything the defendants have said in their
own behalf, you are not obliged to believe .... "
This treatment of the confessions by the two state
courts, the manner of the confessions' submission to the
jury, and the emphasis upon the great weight to be given
confessions make all the more important the kind of "independent examination" of petitioners' claims which, in
8 On motion for new trial, Asheraft's counsel urged error in that,
"The court . . . in delivering his charge to the jury . . . in no
place or at any time .. .presented the theory of the defendant Ashcraft to the jury. He wholly and completely in his charge ignored the
contention and theory of the defendant Ashcraft that the alleged
confession or admissions made by him . . . were not freely and
voluntarily made. . ....

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

any event, we are bound to make. Lisenba v. California,
314 U. S. 219, 237-238. Our duty to make that examination could not have been "foreclosed by the finding of a
court, or the verdict of a jury, or both." Id. We proceed
therefore to consider the evidence relating to the circumstances out of which the alleged confessions came.
First,as to Ashcraft. Ashcraft was born on an Arkansas farm. At the age of eleven he left the farm and became a farm hand working for others. Years later he
gravitated into construction work, finally becoming a
skilled dragline and steam-shovel operator. Uncontradicted evidence in the record was that he had acquired
for himself "an excellent reputation." In 1929 he married the deceased Zelma Ida Ashcraft. Childless, they
accumulated, apparently through Ashcraft's earnings, a
very modest amount of jointly held property including
bank accounts and an equity in the home in which they
lived. The Supreme Court of Tennessee found "nothing
to show but what the home life of Ashcraft and the deceased was pleasant and happy." Several of Mrs. Ashcraft's friends who were guests at the Ashcraft home
on the night before her tragic death testified that both
husband and wife appeared to be in a happy frame of
mind.
The officers first talked to Ashcraft about 6 P. M. on
the day of his wife's murder as he was returning home
from work. Informed by them of the tragedy, he was
taken to an undertaking establishment to identify her
body which previously had been identified only by a
driver's license. From there he was taken to the county
jail where he conferred with the officers until about 2
A. M. No clues of ultimate value came from this conference, though it did result in the officers' holding and
interrogating the Ashcrafts' maid and several of her
friends. During the following week the officers made extensive investigations in Ashcraft's neighborhood and

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

Opinion of the Court.

elsewhere ,and further conferred with Ashcraft himself
on several occasions, but none of these activities produced tangible evidence pointing to the identity of the
murderer.
Then, early ;n the evening of Saturday, June 14, the
officers came to Ashcraft's home and "took him into custody." In the words of the Tennessee Supreme Court,
"They took him to an office or room on the northwest
corner of the fifth floor of the Shelby County jail. This
office is equipped with all sorts of crime and detective
devices such as a fingerprint outfit, cameras, high-powered lights, and such other devices as might be found in
a homicide investigating office. .

.

. It appears that the

officers placed Ashcraft at a table in this room on the fifth
floor of the county jail with a light over his head and began to quiz him. They questioned him in relays until the
following Monday morning, June 16, 1941, around ninethirty or ten o'clock. It appears that Ashcraft from Saturday evening at seven o'clock until Monday morning at
approximately nine-thirty never left this homicide room
on the fifth floor." I
Testimony of the officers shows that the reason they questioned Ashcraft "in relays" was that they became so tired
they were compelled to rest. But from 7:00 Saturday
evening until 9:30 Monday morning Ashcraft had no
rest. One officer did say that he gave the suspect a single five minutes' respite, but except for this five minutes
the procedure consisted of one continuous stream of
questions.
As to what happened in the fifth-floor jail room during this thirty-six hour secret examinition the testimony
4From

the testimony it appears that Ashcraft was taken from

the jail about 11 o'clock Sunday night for a period of approximately

an hour to help the officers hunt the place where Ware lived. On his
return Asheraft was, for a short time, kept in a jail room different
from that in which he was kept the rest of the time.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

5
follows the usual pattern and is in hopeless conflict.
Ashcraft swears that the first thing said to him when he
was taken into custody was, "Why in hell did you kill
your wife?"; that during the course of the examination
he was threatened and abused in various ways; and that
as the hours passed his eyes became blinded by a powerful electric light, his body became weary, and the strain
on his nerves became unbearable.' The officers, on the
other hand, swear that throughout the questioning they
were kind and considerate. They say that they did not
accuse Ashcraft of the murder until four hours after he
was brought to the jail building, though they freely admit that from that time on their barrage of questions was
constantly directed at him on the assumption that he was

1"As the report avers, 'The third degree is a secret and illegal
practice.' Hence the difficulty of discovering the facts as to the extent
and manner it is practiced." IV Reports of National Committee on
Law Observance and Enforcement (Wickersham Commission), U. S.
Government Printing Office, 1931, Lawlessness in Law Enforcement,
p. 3. Station houses and jails are most frequently employed for
third degree practices, "upstairs rooms or back rooms being sometimes
picked out for their greater privacy." Id., The Third Degree, p. 170.
Cf. Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S. 227, 238.
6" 'Work' is the term used to signify any form of what is commonly
called the third degree, and may consist in nothing more than a severe
cross-examination. Perhaps in most cases it is no more than that,
but the prisoner knows that he is wholly at the mercy of his inquisitor and that the severe cross-examination may at any moment shift
to a severe beating. . . Powerful lights turned full on the prisoner's
face, or switched on and off have been found effective .....

The

most commonly used method is persistent questioning, continuing
hour after hour, sometimes by relays of officers. It has been known
since 1500 at least that deprivation of sleep is the most effective
torture and certain to produce any confession desired." Report of
Committee on Lawless Enforcement of Law made to the Section of
Criminal Law and Criminology of the American Bar Association
(1930) 1 American Journal of Police Science 575, 579-580, also quoted
in IV Wickersham Report, supra, p, 47.

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

Opinion of the Court.

the murderer. Together with other persons whom they
brought in on Monday morning to witness the culmination of the thirty-six hour ordeal the officers declare that
at that time Ashcraft was "cool," "calm," "collected,"
"normal"; that his vision was unimpaired and his eyes
not bloodshot; and that he showed no outward signs of
being tired or sleepy.
As to whether Ashcraft actually confessed, there is a
similar conflict of testimony. Ashcraft maintains that although the officers incessantly attempted by various tactics of intimidation to entrap him into a confession, not
once did he admit knowledge concerning or participation
in the crime. And he specifically denies the officers' statements that he accused Ware of the crime, insisting that
in response to their questions he merely gave them the
name of Ware as one of several men who occasionally had
ridden with him to work: The officers' version of what
happened, however, is that about 11 P. M. on Sunday
night, after twenty-eight hours' constant questioning,
Ashcraft made a statement that Ware had overpowered
him at his home and abducted the deceased, and was
probably the killer. About midnight the officers found
Ware and took him into custody, and, according to their
testimony, Ware made a self-incriminating statement as
of early Monday morning, and at 5:40 A. M. signed by
mark a written confession in which appeared the statement that Ashcraft had hired him to commit the murder.
This alleged confession of Ware was read to Ashcraft
about six o'clock Monday morning, whereupon Ashcraft
is said substantially to have admitted its truth in a detailed statement taken down by a reporter. About 9:30
Monday morning a transcript of Ashcraft's purported
statement was read to him. The State's position is that
he affirmed its truth but refused to. sign the transcript,
saying that he first wanted to consult his lawyer. As to

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

this latter 9:30 episode the officers' testimony is reinforced by testimony of the several persons whom they
brought in to witness the end of the examination..
In reaching our conclusion as to the validity of Ashcraft's confession we do not resolve any of the disputed
questions of fact relating to the details of what transpired
within the confession chamber of the jail or whether Ashcraft actually did confess." Such disputes, we may say,
are an inescapable consequence of secret inquisitorial practices. And always evidence concerning the inner details
of secret inquisitions 8 is weighted against an accused,
7

The use in evidence of a defendant's coerced confession cannot be
justified on the ground that the defendant has denied he ever gave
the confession. White v. Texas, 310 U. S. 530, 531-532.
6State and federal courts, textbook writers, legal commentators,
and governmental commissions consistently have applied the name
of "inquisition" to prolonged examination of suspects conducted as
was the examination of Ashcraft. See, e. g., cases cited in IV Wickersham Report, supra, and also pp. 44, 47, 48, and passim; Pound
(Cuthbert W.), Inquisitorial Confessions, 1 Cornell L. Q. 77;
Chambers v. Florida,309 U. ยง. 227, 237; Brain v. United States, 168
U. S.532, 544; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S.591, 596; Counselman
v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 573; cf. Cooper v. State, 86 Ala. 610,
611, 6 So. 110. In a case where no physical violence was inflicted
or threatened, the Supreme Court of Virginia expressly approved
the statement of the trial judge that the manner and methods used
in obtaining the confession read "like a chapter from the history of
the inquisition of the Middle Ages." Enoch v. Commonwealth, 141
Va. 411, 423, 126 S.E. 222, 225; and see Cross v. State, 142 Tenn.
510, 514, 221 S.W. 489. The analogy, of course, was in the fact that
old .inquisition practices included questioning suspects in secret places,
away from friends and counsel, with notaries waiting to take down
"confessions," and with arrangements to have the suspect later affirm
the truth of his confession in the presence of witnesses who took no
part in the inquisition. See Encyclopedia Britannica, Fourteenth Ed.,
"Inquisition"; Prescott, Ferdinand and Isabella, Sixth Ed., Part First,
Chap. VII, The Inquisition; VIII Wigmore on Evidence, Third Ed.,
p. 307. "In the more *serious offenses the party suspected is arrested, he is placed on his inquisition before the chief of police, and

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

Opinion of the Court.

particularly where, as here, he is charged with a brutal
crime, or where, as in many other cases, his supposed offense bears relation to an unpopular economic, political,
or religious cause.
Our conclusion is that if Ashcraft made a confession it
was not voluntary but compelled. We reach this conclusion from facts which are not in dispute at all. Ashcraft, a citizen of excellent reputation, was taken into
custody by police officers. Ten days' examination of the
Ashcrafts' maid, and of several others, in jail where they
were held, had revealed nothing whatever against Ashcraft. Inquiries among his neighbors and business associates likewise had failed to unearth one single tangible
clue pointing to his guilt. For thirty-six hours after
Ashcraft's seizure during which period he was held incommunicado, without sleep or rest, relays of officers, experienced investigators, and highly trained lawyers questioned
him without respite. From the beginning of the questioning at 7 o'clock on Saturday evening until 6 o'clock
on Monday morning Asheraft denied that he had anything to do with the murder of his wife. And at a hearing
a statement is obtained....

Where the office of the district attor-

ney is in political harmony with the police system, the district attorney
is generally invited to be present as an inquisitor." 2 Wharton
on Criminal Evidence, Eleventh Ed., pp. 1021-1022; and see Notes
5 and 6, supra.
An admirable summary of the generally expressed judicial attitude
toward these practices is set forth in the Report of The Committee
on Lawless Enforcement of Law, 1 Amer. Journ. of Police Science,
supra, p. 587: "Holding incommunicado is objectionable because arbitrary-at the mere will and unregulated pleasure of a police officer.
โข . . The use of the third degree is obnoxious because it is secret;
because the prisoner is wholly unrepresented; because there is present no neutral, impartial authority to determine questions between
the police and the prisoner; because there is no limit to the range of
the inquisition, nor to the pressure that may be put upon the
prisoner."
587770'----45---14t

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

before a magistrate about 8:30 Monday morning Asheraft
pleaded not guilty to the charge of murder which the
officers had sought to make him confess during the previous thirty-six hours.
We think a situation such as that here shown by uncontradicted evidence is so inherently coercive that its
very existence is irreconcilable with the possession of mental freedom by a lone suspect against whom its full coercive force is brought to bear. It is inconceivable that
any court of justice in the land, conducted as our courts
are, open to the public, would permit prosecutors serving
in relays to keep a defendant witness under continuous
cross-examination for thirty-six hours without rest or sleep
in an effort to extract a "voluntary" confession. Nor can
we, consistently with Constitutional due process of law,
hold voluntary a confession where prosecutors do the same
thing away from the restraining influences of a public trial
in an open court roomy
9 Bram v. United States,
168 U. S. 532, 556, 562-563; see also Wan

v. United States, 266 U. S. 1, 14-15; Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S.
465, 475; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 573-574; 3 Elliot's
Debates, pp. 445-449, 452; ef. Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227.
The question in the Brain case was whether Brain had been compelled
or coerced by a police officer to make a self-incriminatory statement,
contrary to the Fifth Amendment; and the question here is whether
Asheraft similarly was coerced to make such a statement, contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment. Lisenba v. California, 314 U. S. 219,
236-238. Taken together, the Brain and Lisenba cases hold that a
coerced or compelled confession cannot be used to convict a defendant
in any state or federal court. And the decision in the Brain case
makes it clear that the admitted circumstances under which Ashcraft is alleged to have confessed preclude a holding that he acted
voluntarily.
10
Compare the following allegation contained in Ashcraft's motion
for new trial, "The Sheriff's deputies ... set themselves up as a quasi
judicial tribunal and tried . . .and convicted him there and in so doing
rendered a trial ... before the trial court ... and the jury of peers
...a mere formality," with Lisenba v. California,supra,p. 237. "The

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

Opinion of the Court.

The Constitution of the United States stands as a bar
against the conviction of any individual in an American
court by means of a coerced confession.11 There have
been, and are now, certain foreign nations with governments dedicated to an opposite policy: governments which
convict individuals with testimony obtained by police organizations possessed of an unrestrained power to seize
persons suspected of crimes against the state, hold them
in secret custody, and wring from them confessions by
physical or mental torture. So long as the Constitution
remains the basic law of our Republic, America will not
have that kind of government.
Second, as to Ware. Ashcraft and Ware were jointly
tried, and were convicted on the theory that Ashcraft
hired Ware to perform the murder. Ware's conviction
was sustained by the Tennessee Supreme Court on the
assumption that Ashcraft's confession was properly admitted and his conviction valid. Whether it would have
been sustained had the court reached the conclusion we
have reached as to Ashcraft we cannot know. Doubt as
to what the state court would have done under the changed
requirement of a public trial is for the benefit of the accused; that the
public may see he is fairly dealt with and not unjustly condemned, and
that the presence of interested spectators may keep his triers keenly
alive to a sense of their responsibility and to the importance of their
functions . . ." Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Sixth Ed. (1890)
p. 379; see also Keddington v. State, 19 Ariz. 457, 459, 172 P. 273.
"The aid of counsel in preparation would be farcical if the case could
be foreclosed by a preliminary inquisition which would squeeze out
conviction or prejudice by means unconstitutional if used at the trial."
Wood v. United States, 128 F. 2d 265, 271. See also Chambers v.
Florida,supra, p. 237, Note 10.
" Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S.227; Canty v. Alabama, 309 U. S.
629; White v. Texas, 310 U. S.530; Lomax v. Texas, 313 U. S.544;
Vernon v. Alabama, 313 U. S.547; Lisenba v. California,314 U. S.
219, 236-238; Ward v. Texas, 316 U. S.547, 555; and see Brain v.
United States, 168 U. S.532.

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

circumstances brought about by our reversal of its decision as to Ashcraft is emphasized by the position of the
State's representatives in this Court. They have asked
that if we reverse Ashcraft's conviction we also reverse
Ware's.
In disposing of cases before us it is our responsibility to
make such disposition as justice may require. "And in
determining what justice does require, the Court is bound
to consider any change, either in fact or in law, which has
supervened since the judgment was entered." Patterson
v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607; State Tax Commission v.
Van Cott, 306 U. S. 511, 515-516. Application of this
guiding principle to the case at hand requires that we send
Ware's case back to the Tennessee Supreme Court.
Should that Court in passing on Ware's conviction in the
light of our ruling as to Ashcraft adopt the State Attorney
General's view and reverse the conviction there then
would be no occasion for our passing on the federal question here raised by Ware. Under these circumstances we
vacate the judgment of the Tennessee Supreme Court
affirming Ware's conviction, and remand his case to that
Court for further proceedings.
The judgment affirming Ashcraft's conviction is reversed and the cause is remanded to the Supreme Court
of Tennessee for proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.
dissenting:
A sovereign State is now before us, summoned on the
charge that it has obtained convictions by methods so unfair that a federal court must set aside what the state
courts have done. Heretofore the State has had the benefit of a presumption of regularity and legality. A confession made by one in custody heretofore has been
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

admissible in evidence unless it was proved and found
that it was obtained by pressures so strong that it was in
fact involuntarily made, that the individual will of the particular confessor had been overcome by torture, mob violence, fraud, trickery, threats, or promises. Even where
there was excess and abuse of power on the part of officers,
the State still was entitled to use .the confession if upon
examination of the whole evidence it was found to negative the view that the accused had "so lost his freedom of
action that the statements made were not his but were the
result of the deprivation of his free choice to admit, to
deny, or to refuse to answer." Lisenba v. California,314
U. S. 219, 241.
In determining these issues of fact, respect for the sovereign character of the several States always has constrained this Court to give great weight to findings of fact
of state courts. While we have sometimes gone back of
state court determinations to make sure whether the guaranties of the Fourteenth Amendment have or have not
been violated, in close cases the decisions of state courts
have often been sufficient to tip the scales in favor of
affirmance. Lisenba v. California, supra, 238, 239;
Buchalter v. New York, 319 U. S. 427, 431; cf. Milk
Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Dairies,312 U. S.
287, 294.
As we read the present decision the Court in effect declines to apply these well-established principles. instead,
it: (1) substitutes for determination on conflicting evidence the question whether this confession was actually
produced by coercion, a presumption that it was, on a new
doctrine that examination in custody of this duration is
"inherently coercive"; (2) it makes that presumption irrebuttable-i. e., a rule of law-because, while it goes back
of the state decisions to find certain facts, it refuses to resolve conflicts in evidence to determine whether other of

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

the State's proof is sufficient to overcome such presumption; and, in so doing, (3) it sets aside the findings by the
courts of Tennessee that on all the facts this confession did
not result from coercion, either giving those findings no
weight or regarding them as immaterial.
We must bear in mind that this case does not come here
from a lower federal court over whose conduct we may
assert a general supervisory power. If it did, we should
be at liberty to apply rules as to the admissibility of confessions, based on our own conception of permissible procedure, and in which we may embody restrictions even
greater than those imposed upon the States by the Fourteenth Amendment. See Brain v. United States, 168 U. S.
532; Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1; McNabb v. United
States, 318 U. S. 332, 341; United States v. Mitchell, 322
U. S. 65. But we have no such supervisory power over
state courts. We may not lay down rules of evidence for
them nor revise their decisions merely because we feel
more confidence in our own wisdom and rectitude. We
have no power to discipline the police or law-enforcement
officers of the State of Tennessee nor to reverse its convictions in retribution for conduct which we may personally
disapprove.
The burden of protecting society from most crimes
against persons and property falls upon the State. Different States have different crime problems and some freedom
to vary procedures according to their own ideas. Here,
a State was forced by an unwitnessed and baffling murder
to vindicate its law and protect its society. To nullify
its conviction in this particular case upon a consideration
of all the facts would be a delicate exercise of federal judicial power. But to go beyond this, as the Court does today, and divine in the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment an exclusion of confessions on an irrebuttable
presumption that custody and examination are "inherently coercive" if of some unspecified duration within

ASUCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

thirty-six hours, requires us to make more than a passing

expression of our doubts and disagreements.
I.
The claim of a suspect to immunity from questioning
creates one of the most vexing problems in criminal

law-that branch of the law which does the courts and
the legal profession least credit. The consequences upon
society of limiting examination of persons out of court
cannot fairly be appraised without recognition of the
advantage criminals already enjoy in immunity from
compulsory examination in court. Of this latter Mr. Justice Cardozo, for an all but unanimous Court, said: "This
too might be lost, and justice still be done. Indeed, today
as in the past there are students of our penal system who
look upon the immunity as a mischief rather than a benefit, and who would limit its scope, or destroy it altogether.
No doubt there would remain the need to give protection
against torture, physical or mental." Palko v. Connecticut, 302 I. S. 319, 325-26.
This Court never yet has held that the Constitution
denies a State the right to use a confession just because
the confessor was questioned in custody where it did not
also find other circumstances that deprived him of a
"free choice to admit, to deny, or to refuse to answer."
Lisenba v. California,314 U. S. 219, 241. The Constitution requires that a conviction rest on a fair trial. Forced
confessions are ruled out of a fair trial. They are ruled
out because they have been wrung from a prisoner by
measures which are offensive to concepts of fundamental
fairness. Different courts have used different terms to
express the test by which to judge the inadmissibility of
a confession, such as "forced," "coerced," "involuntary,"
"extorted," "loss of freedom of will." But always where
we have professed to speak with the voice of the due process clause, the test, in whatever words stated, has been

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

322 U.S.

applied to the particular confessor at the time of
confession.
It is for this reason that American courts hold almost
universally and very properly that a confession obtained
during or shortly after the confessor has been subjected
to brutality, torture, beating, starvation, or physical pain
of any kind is prima facie "involuntary." The effect of
threats alone may depend more on individual susceptibility to fear. But men are so constituted that many will
risk the postponed consequences of yielding to a demand
for a confession in order to be rid of present or imminent
physical suffering. Actual or threatened violence have
no place in eliciting truth and it is fair to assume that no
officer of the law will resort to cruelty if truth is what
he is seeking. We need not be too exacting about proof
of the effects of such violence on the individual involved,
for their effect on the human personality is invariably and
seriously demoralizing.
When, however, we consider a confession obtained by
questioning, even if persistent and prolonged, we are in a
different field. Interrogation per se is not, while violence per se is, an outlaw. Questioning is an indispensable instrumentality of justice. It may be abused, of
course, as cross-examination in court may be abused, but
the principles by which we may adjudge when it passes
constitutional limits are quite different from those that
condemn police brutality, and are far more difficult to
apply. And they call for a more responsible and cautious
exercise of our office. For we may err on the side of hostility to violence without doing injury to legitimate prosecution of crime; we cannot read an undiscriminating
hostility to mere interrogation into the Constitution
without unduly fettering the States in protecting society
from the criminal.
It probably is the normal instinct to deny and conceal
any shameful or guilty act. Even a "voluntary confes-

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

sion" is not likely to be the product of the same motives
with which one may volunteer information that does not
incriminate or concern him. The term "voluntary" confession does not mean voluntary in the sense of a confession to a priest merely to rid one's soul of a sense of
guilt. "Voluntary confessions" in criminal law are the
product of calculations of a different order, and usually
proceed from a belief that further denial is useless and
perhaps prejudicial. To speak of any confessions of crime
made after arrest as being "voluntary" or "uncoerced" is
somewhat inaccurate, although traditional.
A confession is wholly and incontestably voluntary
only if a guilty person gives himself up to the law and becomes his own accuser. The Court bases its decision on
the premise that custody and examination of a prisoner
for thirty-six hours is "inherently coercive." Of course
it is. And so is custody and examination for one hour.
Arrest itself is inherently coercive, and so is detention.
When not justified, infliction of such indignities upon the
person is actionable as a tort. Of course such acts put
pressure upon the prisoner to answer questions. to answer
them truthfully, and to confess if guilty.
But does the Constitution prohibit use of all confessions made after arrest because questioning, while one
is deprived of freedom, is "inherently coercive"? The
Court does not quite say so, but it is moving far and fast
in that direction. The step it now takes is to hold this
confession inadmissible because of the time taken in
getting it.
The duration and intensity of an examination or inquisition always have been regarded as one of the relevant
and important considerations in estimating its effect on
the will of the individual involved. Thirty-six hours is
a long stretch of questioning. That the inquiry was prolonged and persistent is a factor that in any calculation

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

of its effect on Ashcraft would count heavily against the
confession. But some men would withstand for days
pressures that would destroy the will of another in hours.
Always heretofore the ultimate question has been
whether the confessor was in possession of his own will and
self-control at the time of confession. For its bearing on
this question the Court always has considered the confessor's strength or weakness, whether he was educated
or illiterate, intelligent or moronic, well or ill, Negro or
white.
But the Court refuses in this case to be guided by this
test. It rejects the finding of the Tennessee courts and
says it must make an "independent examination" of the
circumstances. Then it says that it will not "resolve any
of the disputed questions of fact" relating to the circumstances of the confession. Instead of finding as a fact
that Ashcraft's freedom of will was impaired, it substitutes the doctrine that the situation was "inherently coercive." It thus reaches on a part of the evidence in the
case a conclusion which I shall demonstrate it could not
properly reach on all the evidence. And t refuses to resolve the conflicts in the other evidence to determine
whether it rebuts the presumption thus reached that the
confession is a coerced one.
If the constitutional admissibility of a confession is no
longer to be measured by the mental state of the individual confessor but by a general doctrine dependent on the
clock, it should be capable of statement in definite terms.
If thirty-six hours is more than is permissible, what about
24? or 12? or 6? or 1? All are "inherently coercive." Of
course questions of law like this often turn on matters of
degree. But are not the States entitled to know, if this
Court is able to state, what the considerations are which
make any particular degree decisive? How else may state
courts apply our tests?

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON,

163

J., dissenting.

The importance of defining these new constitutional
standards of admissibility of confessions is emphasized by
the decision to return the companion case of Ware to the
Supreme Court of Tennessee for reconsideration "in the
light of our ruling as to Ashcraft." Except for Ware's
own testimony, all of the evidence is that when he confronted Ashcraft in custody Ware confessed immediately,
voluntarily, and almost spontaneously. But he had been
arrested, taken from bed into custody, and detained and
questioned. Does the doctrine of inherent coerciveness
condemn the Ware confession? Should the Tennessee
court decide whether Ware, obviously a much weaker
character than Ashcraft, was actually coerced into confessing? It already has decided that question and this
Court does not hold the fact determined wrongly. Ware's
case is properly in this Court. Why should not this Court
decide Ware's case on the merits and thus test and expound its novel ruling as applied to a different set of
circumstances?
No one can regard the rule of exclusion dependent on
the state of the individual's will as an easy one to apply.
It leads to controversy, speculation, and variations in application. To eliminate these evils by eliminating all confessions made after interrogation while in custody is a
drastic alternative, but it is the logical consequence of today's ruling, as its application to the facts of Ashcraft's
case will show.
II.
Apart from Ashcraft's uncorroborated testimony, which
the Tennessee courts refused to believe, there is much evidence in this record from persons whom they did believe
and were justified in believing. This evidence shows that
despite the "inherent coerciveness" of the circumstances
of his examination, the confession when made was delib-

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

erate, free, and voluntary in the sense in which that term
is used in criminal law. This Court could not, in our opinion, hold this confession an involuntary one except by substituting its presumption in place of analysis of the evidence and refusing to weigh the evidence even in rebuttal
of its presumption.
As in most such cases, we start with some admitted
facts. In the early morning Mrs. Ashcraft left her home
in an automobile to visit relatives. She was found murdered. She had not been robbed nor ravished, although an
effort had been made to give the crime an appearance
of robbery. The officers knew of no other motive for
the killing and naturally turned to her husband for
information.
On the afternoon of the crime, Thursday, June 5, 1941,
they took Ashcraft to the morgue to identify the body, and
to the county jail, where he was kept and interviewed until 2:00 a. m. He makes no complaint of his treatment
at this time. In this and several later interviews he made
a number of statements with reference to the condition
of the car, and as to Mrs. Ashcraft's having taken a certain drug, and as to money which she was accustomed to
carry on her person, which further investigation indicated to be untrue. Still Ashcraft was not arrested. He
professed to be willing to assist in identifying the killer.
At last, on Saturday evening, June 14, an officer brought
Ashcraft to the jail for further questioning. He was taken
to a room on the fifth floor and questioned intermittently
by several officers over a period of about thirty-six
hours.
There are two versions as to what happened during this
period of questioning. According to the version of the
officers, which was accepted by the court which saw the
witnesses, what happened? On Saturday evening Ashcraft was taken to the jail, where he was questioned by
Mr. Becker and Mr. Battle. Becker is in the Intelligence

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

Service of the United States Army at the present time
and before that was in charge of the Homicide Bureau of
the Sheriff's office of Shelby County, Tennessee. Battle
has for eight years been an Assistant Attorney General of
the County. They began questioning Ashcraft about
7:00 p. m. They recounted various statements of his
which had proved untrue. About 11:00 o'clock Ashcraft
said he realized the circumstances all pointed to him and
that he could not explain the circumstances. They then
accused him of the murder, but he denied it. About 3:00
a. m. Becker and Battle retired and left Ashcraft in charge
of Ezzell, a special investigator connected with the Attorney General's office. He questioned Ashcraft and discussed the crime with him until about 7:00 on Sunday
morning. Becker and Battle then returned and interviewed him intermittently until about noon, when Ezzell
returned and remained until about 5:00. Becker then returned, and about 11:00 o'clock Sunday night Ashcraft
expressed a desire to talk with Ezzell. Ezzell was sent for
and Ashcraft told him he wanted to tell him the truth.
He said, "Mr. Ezzell, a Negro killed my wife." Ezzell
asked the Negro's name, and Ashcraft said, "Tom Ware."
Up to this time Ware had not been suspected, nor had
his name been mentioned. Ashcraft explained that he did
not tell the officers before because "I was scared; the
Negro said he would burn my house down if I told the
law."
Thereupon Becker, Battle, Ezzell, and Mr. Jayroe, connected with the Sheriff's office, took Ashcraft in a car and
found Ware. When questioned at the jail, Ware turned
to Ashcraft and said in substance that he had told Ashcraft when this thing happened that he did not intend to
take the entire blame. The officers thereupon turned
their attention to Ware. He promptly admitted the killing and said Ashcraft hired him to do it. Waldauer, the
court reporter, was called to take down this confession, and

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSoN, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

completed his transcript at about 5:40 a. m. He read it to
Ware and told him he did not have to sign it unless he so
chose. Ware made his mark upon it and swore to it before Waldauer as a Notary Public. A copy was given to
Ashcraft, and he then admitted that he had hired Ware
to kill his wife. He was given breakfast and then in response to questions made a statement which was taken
down by the court reporter, Waldauer. It was transcribed, but Ashcraft declined to sign it, saying that he
wanted his lawyer to see it before he signed it. No effort
was made to compel him to sign the confession. However,
two business men of Memphis, Mr. Castle, vice president
of a bank, and Mr. Pidgeon, president of the Coca-Cola
Bottling Company, were called in. Both testified that
Ashcraft in their presence asserted that the transcript was
correct but that he declined to sign it. The officers also
called Dr. McQuiston to the jail to make a physical examination of both Ashcraft and Ware. He had practiced
medicine in Memphis for twenty-eight years and both Mr.
and Mrs. Ashcraft had been his patients for something like
five years. In the presence of this friendly doctor Ashcraft might have complained of his treatment and avowed
his innocence. The doctor testified, however, that Ashcraft said he had been treated all right, that he made no
complaint about his eyes, and that they were not bloodshot. The doctor made a physical examination, and says
Asheraft appeared normal. He further testified as to Ashcraft, "Well, sir, he said he had not been able to get along
with his wife for some time; that her health had been
bad; that he had offered her a property settlement, and
that she might go her way and he his way; and he also
stated that he offered this colored man, Ware, a sum of
money to make away with his wife."' The doctor says
2

The officers had been baffled as to any motive for Asheraft to

murder his wife (who was his third, two former ones having been

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JAcKsoN, J., dissenting.

that that statement was entirely voluntary. No matter
what pressure had been put on Ashcraft before, the courts

below could reasonably believe that he made this statement
voluntarily to a man of whom he had no fear and who
knew his family relations.
Ashcraft's story of torture could only be accepted by
disbelieving such credible and unimpeached contradiction.
Ashcraft testified that he was refused food, and was not allowed to go to the lavatory, and was denied even a drink
of water. Other testimony is that on Saturday night he
was brought a sandwich and coffee about midnight; that
he drank the coffee but refused the sandwich; that on
Sunday morning he was given a breakfast and was fed
again about noon a plate lunch consisting of meat and
vegetables and coffee. Both Waldauer, the Reporter, and
Dr. McQuiston testified that they saw breakfast served to
Ashcraft the next morning before the statement taken
down by Waldauer. Ashcraft claims he was threatened
and that a cigarette was slapped out of his mouth. This
is all denied.
This Court rejects the testimony of the officers and disinterested witnesses in this case that the confession was
voluntary not because it lacked probative value in itself
nor because the witnesses were self-contradictory or were
impeached. On the contrary, it is impugned only on
grounds such as that such disputes "are an inescapable
consequence of secret inquisitorial practices." We infer
from this that since a prisoner's unsupported word often
conflicts with that of the officers, the officer's testimony for
constitutional purposes is always prima facie false. We
know that police standards often leave much to be desired,
but we are not ready to believe that the democratic procseparated from him by divorce). He disclosed in his confession -to
them that her sickness had resulted in a degree of irritability which
had made them incompatible and resulted in his sexual frustration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

ess brings to office men generally less believable than the
average of those accused of crime.
Reference also is made to the fact that when petitioner
was questioned investigation had failed "to unearth one
single tangible clue pointing to his guilt." We cannot see
the relevance of such circumstances on the question of the
voluntary or involuntary character of his statements to
the officers. Is the suggestion that if they had probable
clews to his guilt, their questioning of him would have been
better justified?
This questioning is characterized as a "secret inquisition," invoking all of the horrendous historical associations
of those words. Certainly the inquiry was participated in
by a good many persons, and we do not see how it could
have been much less "secret" unless the press should have
been called in. Of course, any questioning may be characterized as an "inquisition," but the use of such
characterizations is no substitute for the detached and
judicial consideration that the court below gave to the
case.

We conclude that even going behind the state court
decisions into the facts, no independent judgment on the
whole evidence that Ashcraft's confession was in fact coerced is possible. And against this background of facts
the extreme character of the Court's ruling becomes
apparent.
I am not sure whether the Court denies the State all
right to arrest and question the husband of the slain
woman. No investigation worthy of the name could fail
to examine him. Of all persons, he was most likely to
know whether she had enemies or rivals. Would not the
State have a constitutional right, whether he was accused
or not, to arrest and detain him as a material witness?
If it has the right to detain one as a witness, presumably
it has the right to examine him.

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

Could the State not confront Ashcraft with his false
statements and ask his explanation? He did not throw
himself at any time on his rights, refuse to answer, and
demand counsel, even according to his own testimony.
The strategy of the officers evidently was to keep him
talking, to give him plenty of rope and see if he would
not hang himself. He does not claim to have made objection to this. Instead he relied on his wits. The time came
when it dawned on him that his own story brought him
under suspicion, and that he could not meet it. Must
the officers stop at this point because he was coming to
appreciate the uselessness of deception?
Then he became desperate and accused the Negro. Certainly from this point the State was justified in holding
and questioning him as a witness, for he claimed to know
the killer. That accusation backfired and only turned
up a witness against him. He had run out of expedients
and inventions; he knew he had lost the battle of wits.
After all, honesty seemed to be the best, even if the last,
policy. He confessed in detail.
At what point in all this investigation does the Court
hold that the Constitution commands these officers to
send Ashcraft on his way and give up the murder as insoluble? If the State is denied the right to apply any pressure to him which is "inherently coercive" it could hardly
deprive him of his freedom at all. I, too, dislike to think
of any man, under the disadvantages and indignities of
detention being questioned about his personal life for
thirty-six hours or for one hour. In fact, there is much in
our whole system of penology that seems archaic and vindictive and badly managed. Every person in the community, no matter how inconvenient or embarrassing, no
matter what retaliation it exposes him to, may be called
upon to take the witness stand and tell all he knows about
a crime--except the person who knows most about it.
587770"---45--15

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

Efforts of prosecutors to compensate for this handicap by
violent or brutal treatment or threats we condemn as passionately and sincerely as other members of the Court.
But we are not ready to say that the pressure to disclose
crime, involved in decent detention and lengthy examination, although we admit them to be "inherently coercive," are denied to a State by the Constitution, where
they are not proved to have passed the individual's ability
to resist and to admit, deny, or refuse to answer.
III.
The Court either gives no weight to the findings of the
Tennessee courts or it regards their inquiry as to the effect
on the individuals involved as immaterial. We think it
was a material inquiry and that respect is due to their
conclusion.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee, writing in this case,
stated the law of that State by which it reviewed and affirmed the action of the trial court. It said, "When confessions are offered as evidence, their competency becomes
a preliminary question to be determined by the court.
This imposes upon the presiding judge the duty of deciding the fact whether the party making the confession was
influenced by hope or fear. This rule is so well established,
that if the judge allow the jury to determine the preliminary fact, it is error, for which the judgment will be
reversed.
"In the instant case the trial judge heard the witnesses
as to their confessions out of the presence of the jury, and
he held that under the facts he could not say that the
confessions were not voluntarily made and, therefore, permitted them to go to the jury." (Emphasis supplied.)
The rule of law thus laid down complied with the law
as this Court had settled it at the time of trial.
The Tennessee Supreme Court made a painstaking examination of the evidence in the light of the claim that

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JAcKsoN, J., dissenting.

the confessions were coerced. It concluded that it was
"unable to say that the confessions were not freely and
voluntarily made. Both of the plaintiffs in error have had
a fair trial and we decline to disturb the conviction."
That court, it is clear, renders no mere lip service to the
guaranties of the Constitution. In other cases it has set
aside convictions because confessions used at trials were
found to have been coerced.2 There is not the least indication that the court was passionate or biased or that
the result does not represent the honest judgment of a
high-minded court, sensitive to these problems.
A trial judge out of hearing of the jury saw and heard
Ashcraft and saw and heard those whom Ashcraft accused
of coercing him. In determining a matter of this kind no
one can deny the great advantage of a court which may
see and hear a man who claims that his will succumbed
and those who, it is claimed, were so overbearing. The
real issue is strength of character, and a few minutes'
observation of the parties in the courtroom is more informing than reams of cold record. There is not the
slightest indication that the trial judge was prejudiced
or indifferent to the prisoner's rights. Ashcraft's counsel
moved to exclude his confession "for the reason that the
statements contained therein were not freely and voluntarily made, nor were they free from duress and restraint,
but were secured by compulsion. . . ." The court said,
(I.*. the sole proposition, as the Court sees it from this
testimony, is that he was confined and questioned for a
period of approximately thirty-six hours. I think counsel
concedes that is practically the main ground upon which
he rests his motion. There was no physical violence offered to the defendant Ashcraft, and none claimed." He
overruled the motion and received the confession. This
2Deathridge v. State, 33 Tenn. 75; Strady v. State, 45 Tenn. 300;

Self v. State, 65 Tenn. 244; Cross v. State, 142 Tenn. 510, 221 S. W.
489; Rounds v. State, 171 Tenn. 511, 106 S. W. 2d 212.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

Court, not one of whose members ever saw Ashcraft or
any one of the State's witnesses, overturns the decision
by the trial judge.
Moreover, a jury held Ashcraft's statements incredible.
After the trial judge, out of their presence, heard the evidence and decided the confession was admissible, the jury
heard the evidence to decide whether the confession
should be believed. Ashcraft again testified and so did
all of the witnesses for the State. Conduct of the hearing
both by the judge and the prosecutors was above criticism. The Court observes: "If, therefore, the question of
the voluntariness of the two confessions was actually decided at all it was by the jury." Is t suggested that a
State consistently with the Constitution may not leave
this question to the sole determination of a jury? I had
supposed that the constitutional duty of a State when
such questions of fact arise is to furnish due process of
law for deciding them. Does not jury trial meet this test?
Here Tennessee, and I think very commendably, provided the double safeguards of a preliminary trial by the
judge and a final determination by the jury.
The Court's opinion makes a critical reference to the
charge of the trial judge. However, diligent counsel took
no exception to the part of the charge quoted, made no
request for further instruction on the subject, and assigned no error to the charge. Even if we think the charge
inadequate, does the inadequacy of a charge constitute
want of due process? And if so, do we review questions
as to the charge although counsel for the petitioner made
no objection during the trial when the judge could have
corrected the error, but after the trial was over assigned
it as one of twelve reasons for demanding a new trial?
No conclusion that this confession was actually coerced
can be reached on this record except by reliance upon the
utterly uncorroborated statements of defendant Ashcraft.

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
143

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

His testimony does not carry even ordinary guaranties
of truthfulness, and the courts and jury were not bound
to accept it. Perjury is a light offense compared to murder and they may well have believed that Ashcraft was
ready to resort to a lesser crime to avoid conviction of a
greater one. Furthermore, the very grounds on which
this Court now upsets his conviction Ashcraft repudiated
at the trial. He asserts that he was abused, but he does
not testify as this Court holds that it had the effect of
forcing an involuntary confession from him. On the contrary, he flatly insists that it had no such effect and that
he never did confess at all.
Against Ashcraft's word the state courts and jury accepted the testimony of several apparently disinterested
witnesses of high standing in their communities, in addition to that of the accused officers. One of the witnesses
to Ashcraft's admission of guilt was his own family physician, two were disinterested businessmen of substance and
standing, another was an experienced court reporter who
had long held this position of considerable trust. Another
was a member of the bar. Certainly, the state courts were
not committing an offense against the Constitution of the
United States in refusing to believe that this whole group
of apparently reputable citizens entered into a conspiracy
to swear a murder onto an innocent man, against whom
not one of them is shown to have had a grievance or a
grudge.
This is not the case of an ignorant and unrepresented
defendant who has been the victim of prejudice. Ashcraft
was a white man of good reputation, good position, and
substantial property. For a week after this crime was
discovered he was not detained, although his stories to the
officers did not hang together, but was at large, free to
consult his friends and counsel. There was no indecent
haste, but on the contrary evident deliberation, in suspect-

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

ing and accusing him. He was not sentenced to death,
but for a term that probably means life. He was defended by resourceful and diligent counsel.
The use of the due process clause to disable the States
in protection of society from crime is quite as dangerous
and delicate a use of federal judicial power as to use it to
disable them from social or economic experimentation.
The warning words of Mr. Justice Holmes in his dissenting
opinion in Baldwin v. Missouri,281 U. S. 586, 595, seem to
us appropriate for rereading now.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

join in this opinion.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. COUNTY OF
ALLEGHENY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 417. Argued March 1, 1944.-Decided May 1, 1944.
Pursuant to a contract with the United States for the production of
ordnance, a contractor installed machinery in his mill. In the
assessment of the mill for state taxes, the value of the machinery
was included. Held:
1. Whether the machinery was property of the United States was
a federal question. P. 182.
2. Title to the machinery was in the United States. P. 183.
3. The state tax law, so far as it purports to authorize taxation
of the property interests of the United States in the machinery in
the contractor's plant, or to use that interest to tax or to enhance
the tax upon the Government's bailee, violates the Federal Constitution. P. 192.
4. The claim in this case that immunity from state taxation was
waived is unsupported. P. 189.
(a) A provision of the contract requiring the contractor to
abide by the "applicable" state law was inadequate to waive federal
immunity. P. 189.
(b) A provision of the contract whereby the Government was
obligated to pay certain taxes of the contractor did not operate to
waive immunity. P. 189.

