OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

232

Syllabus.

322 U. S.

His judgment accords with the conclusions we make from
our own independent examination of the record. It is
not necessary for us to decide more than that Kansas has
failed to show that the main channel of the river shifted
at any time in question from a course such as the river
now follows, or one slightly closer to the Kansas bluffs, to
one following the course of the Missouri channel when the
flow was divided.
It follows the land in dispute must be awarded to
Missouri and the boundary will be fixed as the master has
recommended in his report. A decree will be entered
accordingly. [See post, p. 654.]
HUDDLESTON ET AL. V. DWYER ET Ai;.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 628.

Argued April 25, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

1. It is the duty of the federal appellate courts, as well as the trial
court, to ascertain and apply the state law where that law controls the decision. P. 236.
2. A judgment of a federal court in a case ruled by state law, correctly
applying that law as authoritatively declared by the state courts
when the judgment was rendered, must be reversed on appellate
review if in the meantime the state courts have disapproved their
former rulings and adopted different ones. P. 236.
3. This Court ordinarily will not decide questions of state law which
may conveniently be decided first by the court whose judgment
is here on review. P. 237.
4. Upon review here of a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in a case in which the decision is controlled by state law, it appears
that a decision of the highest court of the State, rendered subsequently to those on which the Circuit Court of Appeals relied, has
at least raised such doubt as to the applicable state law as to require its reexamination. The judgment therefore is vacated and
the cause remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for reconsideration in the light of the subsequent state court decision.
P. 236.
137 F. 2d 383, vacated.

HUDDLESTON v. DWYER.
232

233

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORAR,

321 U. S. 759, to review the affirmance of

an order directing a levy of taxes to provide funds for the
payment of respondent bondholders.
Mr. William E. Davis, with whom Messrs. Joseph R.
Brown and Frank H. Moore were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William L. Curtis submitted for respondents.
PLR CUIuAM.

Respondents are owners of defaulted paving bonds issued by the City of Poteau in Le Flore County, Oklahoma,
the bonds being secured by assessments for benefits, payable in ten annual installments, upon the property in two
improvement districts established by the city, including
certain lots owned by the county, and others belonging
to the city, which it later conveyed to the county. Respondents brought suit in 1937 in the District Court for
Eastern Oklahoma, against the county, its Board of Commissioners and other officers of the county and city, alleging diversity of citizenship, and seeking a judgment
fixing the county's liability under state law for the assessments and asking mandamus to compel a tax levy by the
county officials for the payment of the overdue assessments, and other relief.
The District Court dismissed the complaint. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed and
remanded the cause to the District Court with directions
to determine the amounts due on the respective assessments against the lots in question, and in the event of
failure to provide funds for the payment of the judgment,
then to entertain jurisdiction in an ancillary proceeding in
mandamus to compel the necessary tax levies. Dwyer v.
Le Flore County, 97 F. 2d 823. The District Court entered judgment accordingly, retaining jurisdiction for
such action as might be necessary to effectuate the
judgment.
587770"-45--19

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

No funds having been provided for payment of the overdue assessments, respondents brought the present proceeding in the District Court for mandamus, to compel
petitioners, County Commissioners and other county officers, to make the tax levies necessary for payment of
the amounts adjudged to be due. The District Court
gave judgment for mandamus, in effect directing petitioners, beginning with the fiscal year 1942-3, to make ten annual levies in- connection with the county general fund
levies, sufficient to pay successively the ten assessment
installments which became due and payable in the years
1925 to 1934 inclusive, with interest at 12% from the due
date of the annual installments until August 13, 1937, the
date when the complaint was filed, and thereafter with interest at the rate of 6% per annum upon the aggregate
of such installments and interest already accrued.
One of the defenses to the petition for mandamus in the
District Court was that under Oklahoma law a county
is without authority to levy and collect a tax in one year
to pay improvement assessments which became due in
an earlier year. This defense was urged on appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals which overruled it and affirmed
the judgment of the District Court, 137 F. 2d 383, after an
examination of the Oklahoma authorities, including Independent School District No. 39 v. Exchange National
Co., 164 Okla. 176, 23 P. 2d 210; First National Bank v.
Board of Education, 174 Okla. 164, 49 P. 2d 1077; Board
of Educationv.Johnston,189 Okla. 172, 115 P. 2d 132, and
Wilson v. City of Hollis, decided by the Oklahoma Supreme Court on October 6, 1942 and not officially reported. The Court of Appeals found none of these cases
to be precisely in point but concluded that the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma had consistently and pointedly
avoided the announcement of the rule contended for.
It accordingly held that the District Court had correctly
directed tax levies to provide for payment, from the

HUDDLESTON v. DWYER.
232

Opinion of the Court.

general tax fund, of the overdue installments of the
improvement assessments, with interest as prescribed.
Petitioners filed a timely petition for rehearing which
was denied on September 1, 1943. On December 17, 1943,
petitioners moved for leave to file a second petition for
rehearing which the Circuit Court of Appeals denied. In
their second petition, petitioners brought to the attention
of the court and relied upon an opinion of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma in Wilson v. City of Hollis, of October 19, 1943, - Okla. -, 142 P. 2d 633, which had superseded its earlier opinion on which the Circuit Court of
Appeals had relied in its opinion in this case. Petitioners
contended that by its later opinion the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma had determined that Oklahoma law did not
authorize the levy of a general fund tax to pay assessment
installments which fell due in prior years, but that such
installments could be paid only from a sinking fund levy,
and that no statutory penalties or additional interest for
delinquency could be collected.
In its second opinion the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
reexamined in detail the mode of enforcing past due installments of improvement assessments against the property of municipalities and counties in Oklahoma. It differentiated between the liability of municipally owned and
privately owned property located within improvement districts, and it appears to have held, with respect to the former, that under the applicable provisions of the Oklahoma
statutes mandamus to enforce the levy of a general fund
tax will lie only in the year in which the assessment installment falls due, that money from the general fund cannot
be applied to the payment of obligations of a prior fiscal
year, and that "no delinquency that will carry with it
additional interest or penalty can accrue against public
property." It said that judgment could be rendered
against a county or municipality for past due installments
which could be paid as are other judgments against a

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

county or municipality under Okla. Const. Art. 10, ยง 28,
and 62 0. S. 1941, ยง 431, et seq., i. e., in three annual installments out of sinking fund levies. In announcing
these conclusions the Supreme Court of Oklahoma stated
that it found confusion arising out of its decisions on this
subject, and that it was forced to reexamine its earlier
decisions, including some of those on which the Circuit
Court of Appeals had relied in deciding this case, to differentiate some, and to bring others into conformity with
its conclusions announced in the Wilson case. In particular it declared that Independent School District
No. 39 v. Exchange National Co., supra, and First National Bank v. Board of Education, supra, were in part
overruled.
State law is the controlling rule of decision in this case
as to both substantive and procedural rights of the parties. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64; Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, Rules 69 (a), 81 (b), 28 U. S. C. following ยง 723 (c). It is the duty of the federal appellate
courts, as well as the trial court, to ascertain and apply
the state law where, as in this case, it controls decision.
Meredith v. Winter Haven, 320 U. S. 228. And a judgment of a federal court ruled by state law and correctly
applying that law as authoritatively declared by the
state courts when the judgment was rendered, must be
reversed on appellate review if in the meantime the state
courts have disapproved of their former rulings and
adopted different ones. "Until such time as a case is no
longer sub judice, the duty rests upon federal courts to
apply state law under the Rules of Decision statute in
accordance with the then controlling decision of the highest state court." Vandenbark v. Owens-Illinois Co., 311
U. S. 538, 543.
The second opinion of the Oklahoma Supreme Court in
the Wilson case has at least raised such doubt as to the
applicable Oklahoma law as to require its reexamination

HUDDLESTON v. DWYER.
232

Opinion of the Court.

in the light of that opinion and of later decisions of the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma on which respondents rely,
before pronouncement of a final judgment in the case by
the federal courts. That doubt is not to be resolved in
the first instance by this Court. We have often had occasion to point out the importance to the orderly judicial
administration of state laws in the federal courts that
questions of state law required to be decided here should
first be considered and decided by the state or federal
court from which the case is brought to this Court for review. Dorchy v. Kansas,264 U. S. 286, 290-91; Missouri
ex rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 273
U. S. 126, 131; Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S.
202, 206-7; New York ex rel. Whitman v. Wilson, 318
U. S. 688, 690-91. The decision of the highest court of a
state on matters of state law are in general conclusive
upon us, and ordinarily we accept and therefore do not
review, save in exceptional cases, the considered determination of questions of state law by the intermediate
federal appellate courts, cf. Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins.
Co., supra. When we are called upon to decide them, the
expression of the views of the judges of those courts, who
are familiar with the intricacies and trends of local law
and practice, if not indispensable, is at least a highly desirable and important aid to our determination of state
law questions. This Court will not ordinarily decide
them without that aid where they may conveniently first
be decided by the court whose judgment we are called
upon to review. See, e. g., Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins.
Co., supra; Rosenthal v. New York Life Ins. Co., 304
U. S. 263, 264; West v. A. T. & T. Co., 311 U. S. 223, 241;
Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U. S. 487, 497; Meredith v.
Winter Haven, supra.
Accordingly, without passing on any of the other contentions of the parties, we vacate the judgment below and
remand the cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals so that
it may reconsider its decision in the light of the decisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

and opinions of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in the
Wilson and later cases.
So ordered.
HAZEL-ATLAS GLASS CO. v. HARTFORDEMPIRE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 398.

Argued February 9, 10, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

Upon appeal from a judgment of the District Court denying relief
in a suit by Hartford against Hazel for infringement of a patent,
the Circuit Court of Appeals in 1932 held Hartford's patent valid
and infringed, and upon its mandate the District Court entered
judgment accordingly. In 1941, Hazel commenced in the Circuit
Court of Appeals this proceeding, wherein it conclusively appeared that Hartford, through publication of an article purporting
to have been written by a disinterested person, had perpetrated
a fraud on the Patent Office in obtaining the patent and on the
Circuit Court of Appeals itself in the infringement suit. Upon
review here of an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals denying
relief, held:
1. Upon the record, the Circuit Court of Appeals had the
power and the duty to vacate its 1932 judgment and to give the
District Court appropriate directions. P. 247.
(a) Even if Hazel failed to exercise due diligence to uncover
the fraud, relief may not be denied on that ground alone, since
public interests are involved. P. 246.
(b) In the circumstances, Hartford may not be heard to
dispute the effectiveness nor to assert the truth of the article.
P. 247.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals is directed to set aside its
1932 judgment, recall its 1932 mandate, dismiss Hartford's appeal, and to issue a mandate to the District Court directing it to
set aside its judgment entered pursuant to the 1932 mandate,
to reinstate its original judgment denying relief to Hartford, and
to take such additional action as may be necessary and appropriate. P. 250.
137 F. 2d 764, reversed.

