OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

INLAND AND SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY v.
TOLSON.
ERROR TO THE SUP.REAE

COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 532. Submitted December 23, 1889.-

Decided January 6, 1890.

At a special term of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff against a sole defendant.
The defendant appealed to the general term and gave sureties. The
general term affirmed the judgment below, and entered judgment against
the defendant and against the sureties. The defendant sued out a writ
of error to this judgment without joining the sureties. The defendant in
error moved to dismiss the writ for the non-joinder of the sureties, and
the writ was accordingly dismissed. The counsel for the plaintiff in error
then moved to rescind the judgment of dismissal, and to restore the case
to the docket. Briefs being filed on both sides; Held, that the motion
should be granted, and the case should be restored to the docket.

THIS cause was first tried in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, at special term, where the following judgment was entered
"1Now, again, come here the parties aforesaid, in manner
aforesaid, and the same jury that was respited yesterday, who,
after the case is given them in charge, on their oath say that
they find said issue in favor of the plaintiff, and assess his
damages by reason of the premises at the sum of eight thousand dollars, besides costs, therefore it is considered that the
plaintiff recover against said defendant eight thousand dollars
for his damages in manner and form as aforesaid assessed and
$ - for his costs of suit, and have execution thereof."
An appeal from this judgment was taken to the general
term by the defendant, the Inland and Seaboard Coasting
Company, and an undertaking given as provided by the rules
of court, Henry A. Willard, John W Thompson, Samuel Norment and J H. Baxter being the sureties.
The court in general'term thereupon entered judgment asfoflows
"Now again come here as well the plaintiff as the defend-

IIAND &c. COASTING CO. v. TOLSON.
Statement of the Case.

ant by their respective attorneys, whereupon it appearing to
the court that the defendant's exceptions to the admissibility
of evidence and to the rulings and instructions of the court in
special term were not well taken, and the defendant by its
counsel having, in open court, abandoned its various appeals
and applications for new trial on other grounds, the motion
for a new trial on exceptions is now overruled and the judgment of the court in special term is affirmed with costs. And
it is further adjudged that the plaintiff recover upon his said
judgment, to wit, the sum of eight thousand dollars as of the
date of the said judgment of the special term and the costs
as well against the said defendant, and as against Henry A.
Willard, John W Thompson, Samuel- Korment and J H.
Baxter, its sureties, on said appeal to tins court, and have
execution against them and each of them."
The writ of error recited that the judgment to which it was
directed was against the Inland and Seaboard Coasting Company; and in the citation that company was described as plaintiff in the writ, and no mention was made of the sureties.
The cause being docketed here counsel for the defendant in
error, on the 21st of October, 1889, moved to dismiss the writ
because the judgment was rendered against the company, and
the several sureties, and the sureties had not joined with.the
company in the writ, citing Hampton v. Rouse, 13 Wall. 187,
.Masterson v Herndon, 10 Wall. 416, Simpson v Greeley, 20
Wall. 152, Feibelman v Packard, 108 U. S. 14, Estts v
Trabue, 128 U. S. 225, Thilsons' Hers v _Tew York znsurance Co., 12 Pet. 140; Hilton v Dicinson,108 U. S.165.
Counsel for plaintiff in error opposed this motion, contending
as follows
It is respectfully submitted that the judgment of the general term affirming the judgment below, which was a judgment against the defendant, the Inland and Seaboard Coasting
Company, for a specific sum of money, was a separate .judgment against the Inland and Seaboard Coasting Company
The fact that the court proceeded further to acyudge that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the plaintiff recover on his satcZ judgment (meaning the judgment of the special term) the amount therein named, and the
costs as well against the said defendant as against its sureties
and have execution against them and each of them, did not
deprive the defendant of its right to a separate writ of error
to the judgment that was separately against it.
The most that can be claimed as to the adjudication by
the court in general term is, that it was a separate judgment
against the company, and also another judgment against the
sureties.
Estzs v Thabue, 128 U S. 225, so far from supporting the
motion, is authority for saying that if a judgment is "distributive" and can be regarded as containing a separate judgment against a defendant who is a principal, and, also, a
judgment against the sureties, the defendant against whom
the judgment is entered as a principal can have his separate
writ of error.
The practice of allowing judgment on the forthcoming bond,
referred to in the case of ED7tis v Trabue, above, is statutory
Aras v Slith, 16 Pet. 303.
An affirmance of a judgment or decree against sureties
can only be rendered when there is a statutory provision
authorizing it. Hirwart v Ballon, 9 Pet. 156, Beall v
-Yew .2fexwo, 16 Wall. 535, -loore v Hunhzngton, 17 Wall.
417, Smith v Gatnes, 93 T. S. 341, Marchandv Fr'ellsen,
105 U. S. 423.
But in the present case there was no authority of law for the
entry of a judgment by the court in general term. The judgment was entered in accordance with what is believed to be a
new practice under a rule of court, and the defendants had no
personal knowledge that the judgment had been entered.
On the 4th of INovember, 1889, the court ordered the writ
to be dismissed, and judgment was entered accordingly
On the 23d of Deceniber, 1889, the counsel for the plaintiff
in error moved to rescind that judgment, and to restore the
case to the docket and for leave to amend the writ of error by

INLAND &c. COASTING CO. v. TOISON.
Statement of the Case.

inserting therein as plaintiffs in error the names of the several
trustees, stating that it was too late to-sue.out another writ of
error.
He further, said .In respect of the original suit, the court'in
general term affirmed its judgment in special term against the
plaintiff in error. It then took up and considered the undertaking, made after the judgment at special term, and rendered
judgment upon that. These were in fact, and in law, two
judgments. The,, defendants in the second judgment occupy
precisely the same relation to the judgment they would
occupy if, instead of a judgment rendered, in the same cause
on the undertaking, there was. a separate suit to enforcethe
undertaking after a judgment rendered for the tort.
In such a suit it is plain that the parties to the undertaking
could not show error in the suit in which the undertaking
was given, aud they can no more show it here; than in such
separate suit. The defendants in the undertaking are proceeded against by reason of the contract They have said we
agree that if the judgment appealed from be affirmed judgment may be rendered against us, and upon this contract
judgment is rendered. The sureties were no parties to the
tort suit, and although the plaintiff in error was a .party to
both, it is proceeded against in distinct capacities, in the suit,
as a tort feasor, and, on the undertaking, as a party to a
written contract.
In New York, an undertaking by the appellant and his
sureties has, to a great extent, taken the place of a bond in
error, but suit must then be brought on the undertaking.
The legal character of such an undertaking has been fully
considered by the courts of that State. Robznson v Plympton, 25 N. Y 484, Hinckley v. .reitz, 58 N. Y 583.
The terms of the judgment are that the plaintiff recover
upon the judgment entered at the special term.against the
defendant and its sureties, " and have execution against them

and each of them." These words authorize execution against
either. At common law the execution had to be against all,
although it might be levied upon any one. Where, as in this
case, a judgment provides that execution may be sued out

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

against all or either of them, referring to the persons named
in the judgment, this necessarily means that the judgment is
joint and several. If it is several, then certainly each one of
the persons against whom it is rendered has a right to sue out
a separate writ of error in his own name.
In the case of .hstw v Trabue, 128 U. S. 225, this court
said "There is nothing distributive in the judgment, so that
it can be regarded as containing a separate judgment against
the claimants and another separate judgment against the
sureties, or as containing a judgment against the sureties
payable and enforceable only on a failure to recover the
amount from the claimants, and execution zs awarded
aga-bnst all of the partes yoimtly. In such a case the sureties
have the right to a writ of error."
If, however, the court shall be of opinion that the judgment referred to in the writ of error was not a separate
judgment against the plaintiff in error, and a separate judgment against the persons named therein as sureties, but was a
joint judgment against the plaintiff in error and the sureties,
then it is submitted, that the writ of error may be amended,
under the authority conferred by section 1005 of the Revised
Statutes. Pearson v Tewdall, 95 U S. 294, Moore v Simonds, 100 U. S. 145, Kntckerbocker Life Ins. Co. v Pendleton, 115 U. S. 339.
Counsel for defendant in error resisted this motion contending The judgment of the general term of the court below
is a joint judgment against the plaintiff in error, and its sureties in the undertaking on appeal. This -court has already
so held in this cause. Prior decisions of this court are to the
same effect. Estis v Trabue, 128 U. S. 225, and cases there
cited.
By the terms of their appearance they espouse the cause of
the appealing party, and join him in becoming actors in the general term, and agree to pay the judgment if they cannot succeed in having it set aside.
The court had express statutory power to make the rule,
and it is binding upon the court and upon the parties. Bank

INLAND &c. Wi0ASTING 00. v. TOLSON.
Statement'of the Case.

of Columlza v OleeZy, 4 Wheat. 235, -Aills v Bank of the
United States, 11 Wheat. 431,
Hirartv Ballon, .9 Pet. 156.
The objection to the writ of error is jurisdictional and it
cannot be cured by amendment. Estis v Trabue, 128 U. S.
225, Owzngs v Hincannon, 7 iPet. 399, Wilson v. N Y
Insurance Co., 12 Pet. 140.
In Moore v. ,Simonds, 100 U. S. 145, the appeal was taken
m the name of a firm. But the supersedeas bond showed the
names of the individual members of the firm and was executed
,by them. It was held that the appeal might be amended bythe bond. In delivering the opinion of the court Chief Justice Waite, referring to a case in 11 Wall. 82, which had been
dismissed for a similar defect, said that, "it does not appear
that the defect could have been remedied by reference to anything in the appealpapers."
In the case of the KEnsckerboccer Ins. Co. v. Pendleton, 115
U. S. 339, while a part of the names of the plaintiffs below
did not appear as defendants in the writ, they did appear as
obligees in the supersedeas bond, and the amendment was
made by that.
There is no case in this court, so far as we know, where a
writ of error or appeal, defective in parties, has been amended,
where there was nothing in the "appeal papers," by which
the amendment could be made.
The supersedeas bond and citation in this case have not
been printed, but they follow the writ of error in the recital
of the parties to the judgment below There is, therefore,
nothing by which the amendment can properly be made.
In this case it is clear that but one of the five defendants in
the court below intended to sue out the writ of error, and
there was no summons and severance. The judgment referred
to in the writ, bond and citation, is said to be one in which
Tolson is plaintiff and the plaintiff in error is defendant. But
the judgment in the record sent up in return to the writ is a
judgment against plaintiff in error and four others. Clearly
the writ could not confer jurisdiction upon this court to
review the record of that judgment. To allow the insertion
of the names of the other defendants below as plaintiffs in the
voL. dxxxvi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

present writ would be to make a new writ and not to amend
the present one, and would necessitate a new bond and citation.
But even if the amendment be within the discretion of the
court it should not be granted.
The motion to rescind
P'ER CURIAM. (January 6, 1890)
the judgment of dismissal, entered November 4, 1889, to restore the cause to the docket, and to amend the writ of error
herein by inserting therein, as plaintiffs ii error, the names of
Henry A. Willard, John W Thompson, Samuel Norment and
J H. Baxter is
Granted and case returned to the docket.
_Mr N5athansel Wilson for plaintiff in error.
Mfr A ,thur A. B'rney and Z/- C]harles C. Cole for defendant in error.

IRWIN v. SAN FRANCISCO SAVINGS UNION.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 181.

Submitted January 23, 1890. - Decided February 3, 1890.

W[rght v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488, affirned and applied to tlis case.

THE United States, being the real party interested as plaitiffs in error, by their counsel filed the following statement as
a brief for the plaintiff in error
"This is an action of ejectment, brought in the Superior
Court of Solano County, California, and afterwards removed
into the United States Circuit Court, to recover a large body
of swamp and overflowed lands contiguous to the mainland
of IMare Island, upon which island the United States have a
navy-yard, and have erected extensive buildings, etc.
"The plaintiff in error, the defendant below, was the officer

