OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

cannot be brought within the rule of application to a purpose
as nearly as possible resembling that denounced. Nor is there
here any counterpart in Congressional power to the exercise of
the royal prerogative in the disposition of a charity If this
property was accumulated for purposes declared illegal, that
does not justify its arbitrary disposition by judicial legislation.
In my judgment, its diversion under this act of Congress is in
contravention of specific limitations in the Constitution, unauthorized, expressly or by implication, by any of its provisions, and in disregard of the fundamental principle that the
legislative power of the United States as exercised by the agenits
of the people of this republic is delegated and not inherent.

RYAN
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

v. UNITED STATES.
COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MIPCHIGAN.
No. 1307. Submitted April 21, 1890.

Decided May 19, 1890.

The facts stated by the court constituted a valid contract, mutually binding on the parties, for the sale to the United States of a tract of land in
Michigan for purposes of fortification and garrison, as specified in the
act of July 8, 1886, 24 Stat. 128, c. 747.
In the absence of the Secretary of War the authority with which he was invested by that act could be exercised by the officer who, under the law
became for the time Acting Secretary of War.
Under the Michigan statute of frauds it is not essential that the description
in a memorandum for the sale of real estate should have such particulars
and tokens of identification as to render a resort to extrinsic evidence
needless when the witing comes to be applied to the subject matterbut it must be sufficient to comprehend the property which is the subject of the contract, so that, with tie aid of extrinsic evidence, without
being contradicted or added to, it can be connected with and applied to
the tract intended, to the exclusion of other parcels.
A complete contract, binding under the statute of frauds, may be gathered
from letters, writings and telegrams between the parties relating to its
subject matter, and so connected with each other that they may fairly be
said to constitute one paper relating to the contract.

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
If an offer Is made by an owner of real estate in writing to sell it on speelfled terms, and the offer is accepted as made, without conditions, without
varying its terms, and in a reasonable time, and the acceptance is communicated to the other party in writing within such time, and before the
withdrawal of the offer, a contract arises from which neither party can
withdraw at pleasure.
When, under a contract to sell real estate, the vendor delivers to the vendee a deed of conveyance for the purpose of examination, its recitals, if
the memorandum of sale is not fatally defective under the statute of
frauds, are competent for the purpose of showing the precise locality of
the parcel referred to in the memorandum.
When one assumes by his deed t'o convey a title to real estate, and by any
form of assurance obligates himself to protect the grantee in the enjoyment of that which the deed purports to give him, he will not be
suffered afterwards to acquire and assert an adverse title, and turn his
grantee over to a suit upon the covenant for redress.
In an action of ejectment, involving merely the legal title, the plaintiff
is entitled to recover upon- showing a good title as between him and the
defendant.

EJEC

Tmr. The case, as stated by, the court, was as follows

This action of ejectment was brought to recover certain
lands in the village of Sault Sainte Marie, Chippewa County,
Michigan, of which the United States claims to be the owner
in fee, and the possession of which is alleged to be wrongfully
withheld from .the government by the defendant, Thomas
Ryan. They are described in a deed from Ryan and wife to
the United States, of date December 18, 1886, and recorded
in the proper local office on the 25th of May, 1887. At the
conclusion of the evidence the jury, under the direction of
tho court, returned a verdict for the government, and a judgment was entered against the defendant. The present writ of
error brings that judgment here for review The principal
question to be determined is whether the title to the premises
in dispute ever passed from the defendant to the government.
It is claimed that the negotiations in reference to the sale
of these premises never resulted in a binding contract between
the United States and the defendant, that the deed of December 18, 1886, although signed and acknowledged by the
defendant and his wife, was delivered to the officers of the
government, pending such negotiations, only for examination,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and was not placed upon record with the assent, express or
implied, of the grantors, that the proposal made in Ryan's
name for the sale of the property was withdrawn by him
before it was accepted, and before the above deed was filed
for record, and that, therefore, no title passed to the United
States. Each of these propositions is controverted by the
government.
The facts upon which these several propositions depend are
very numerous, and are to be gathered principally from letters and telegrams between the parties and their agents.
They are, substantially, as follows
By the third section of an act of Congress, approved July 8,
1886, 24: Stat. 128, c. 747, the Secretary of War was authorized to sell the military reservation known as Fort Brady, in
the village of Sault Sainte Marie, in the State of Michigan,
except certain portions thereof. By the fourth section he was
authorized to purchase grounds in or near the same village,
suitable and sufficient for fortification and for garrison purposes, and to construct thereon the necessary buildings, with
appurtenances, sufficient for a four-company military post, to
be known as Fort Brady, in accordance with estimates to be
prepared by the War Department, and the sum of one hundred and twenty thousand dollars was appropriated to enable
the Secretary to comply with the provisions of the act. That
section contained the proviso "that the title to lands authorized to be purchased under the fourth section of this act shall
be approved by the Attorney General." It was declared by
the sixth section that section three should not take effect until
the purchase of the new site provided for in section four should
have been effected.
By direction of the Secretary and in execution of the above
act, a board of officers of the army was constituted, to meet
at Fort. Brady, Michigan, on the 7th of September, 1886, or
as soon thereafter as was practipable. for the purpose, among
others, of selecting for purchase suitable and sufficient grounds
as indicated in the fourth section of the above act of Congress.
The board was directed to report by telegraph to the Adjutant
General with its recommendation for the approval of the Sec-

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

retary of War, as soon as a new site was selected. Shortly
before the day fixed for its convening, Ryan and his attorney,
Mr. Cady, met in Detroit, and during their interview in that
city some conversation was had between them in relatibn to
the meeting of this board, and the purposes for which it was
to be convened. It appears that, for a number of years prior
to that date this property had been mentioned in military
circles and among citizens as a possible site for a'fort.
On the. 7th of September, 1886, Cady telegraphed from
Sault Sainte Marie to Ryan at Detroit, Michigan. " Telegraph
.price to me of southwest quarter of southwest quarter of section 6and southeast quarter of southeast quarter of section 1
To this telegram
for Fort' Brady Answer immediately"
Ryan responded on the same day under his own signature.
"Twelve thousand dollars." On the next day Ryan, by Cady,
telegraphed to the board convened by the Secretary of War
"I am instructed by Mr. Ryan to offer the S. W J of S. W J
of see. 6 and.the S. E. - of the S. E. I of sec. 1, (both in towns.
47 N. of ranges 1 E. and W.), containing eighty (80) acres,
more or less, if sold together3 for the sum of twelve thousand
dollars ($12,000). Although.not authorized yet, I assume that
Mr. Ryan would sell any portion of said lands at a price in
ratio to the above (s.e., $150 per acre)." To this telegram
was appended a postscript "P S. The above offer is subject
to the opening of.Easterday Avenue along the south line."
Under-date of September 9, 1886, the president of the board
of officers telegraphed to the Adjutant General at Washington
"The boardrecommends for purchase, the two adjoining fortyacre tracts on the hill, half mile due south of west end of
canal, divided through the centre of length by meridian of
-Sault Ste. Marie, aggregating about seventy-five acres, price,
twelve thousand dollars." 'General Drum, Acting Secretary
of War, under date of September 11, 1886, made the following
endorsement on this telegram "Under ordinary circumstances
action in this case would have been deferred until the return
-of the Secretary of War or the Lieutenant General. In view,
however, of the importance of the, selection of this site, -and of
the fact that-inaction here. would delay further action by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

board, which is now in Michigan awaiting reply, the recommendation of the board as contained in the within telegram is
approved. The board will be advised by telegraph of such
approval." On the same day General Kelton, Acting Adjutant General, telegraphed to Lieutenant Colonel Abbot, president of the board "Despatches nine (9) and eleven (11)
instant received. The Secretary of War approves the recommendation of board for purchase of two (2) tracts designated
at the price of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000). Acknowledge receipt. iNo further instructions." This telegram was
received, for on the 11th of September, 1886, Lieutenant
Colonel Abbot, the president of the board of officers, wrote
from Fort Brady to Ryan at Sault Ste. Marie "You are
hereby notified that the Acting Secretary of War has approved the recommendation of the board of officers now in
session at this post, that your proposal dated September 8,
1886, be accepted, viz., for the sale of certain tracts of land
described in your proposal as follows ' The S. W J of the S.
W I of sec. 6 and the S. E. J of the S. E. J of sec. 1, subject
to the opening of Easterday Avenue along the south line, for
twelve thousand dollars.'" This letter was first delivered to
Mr. Cady, and-was by him delivered to Ryan within three or
four days after it came to his hands. The receipt of it by
Ryan is not disputed.
On the 30th of September, 1886, the Acting Secretary of
War wrote to Colonel Poe, one of the board "The recommendation of the board, approved by the departmeiit, selects
a tract of about 75 acres of-land at Sault Ste. Marie, owned by
Thomas Ryan, as the new site for Fort Brady, at the proposed
price of $12,000. Papers on file show Mr. Ryan's address to
be Michigan Exchange Hotel, Detroit. Please take the
proper steps without delay to collect and forward to this
department the necessary deeds and other title papers for the
conveyance of this land to the United States for examination
by the Attorney General, as required by law General Orders
47, H'dq'rs of Army, A. G. 0., of 1881, publishes regulations
of the Department of Justice concerning such title papers,
a copy of which will be forwarded to you by mail." Under

RYAN v, U.NITED -STATES.
Statement of the Case.

date of October 4, 1886, Mr. ,Cady wrote to' the Adjutant
General of the Army at Washington. "On the 11th ulto.
Mr. Thomas Ryan, of Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., was notified
by Henry IL Abbot,. Lieutenant Colonel of Engineers,. president of board, that his offer of certain lands as a site for
Fort Brady had been accepted. I have the honor of acting
for Mr. Ryan in preparing his title for the Attorney General.
Will you please furnish me with a copy of the printed directions for preparing abstracts for the use of the government 2
Any communication relative to the matter should be addressed
to W B. Cady, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich." Two days thereafter, October 6, 1886,.Colonel Poe wrote to Ryan "I have
received from the War Department the -following letter of
I
instructions, viz. [Lettqr above of September 30, 1886].
have, therefore, to request that you will proceed as rapidly as
possible with the preparation of the requisite papers, and to
aid you in this I enclose herewith a copy of General Orders
No. 47, Headquarters of the Army, Adjutant General's Office,
May 13, 1881, above referred to. Please acknowledge receipt
of this communication and inform me as to-how soon you can
begin the preparation 6f the papers in question." The general
order referred to in this letter was one issued from the Headquarters of the- Army, by direction of the -Secretary of War,
and embodying certain regulations established 'by the Department Qf Justice for the guidance of those drawingconveyances,
making abstracts, or collecting evidences of title to land in'"
caseg in which 'it is the duty of the Attorney General -to pass
upon the validity of such title. Among other requirements
was one to the effect that a deed to the United -States should
be acknowledged according -to the -laws of the State where
the land lies, and one (XX) directing 'that before any pipers.
relating to title were sent to the Department of Just{ce for
examination they should be submitted to the proper District
Attorney of the United States.
Under date of October 13, 1886, Mr. Cady thus acknowledged'
the-receipt of Colonel Poe's letter ,of the 6th iiist. to Thomas
Ryan, saying "I' 'am acting for Mr. Ryan in- preparing. his
titfe for the inspection of the Attorney General. -I expect. ta

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement -of the Case.

be able to send on the necessary papers in from six to eight
weeks." Some time having passed without anything being
heard either from Mr. Ryan or from his att6 rney, Cady,
Colonel Poe, under date of December 10, 1886, wrote to the
latter urging him to forward "the title papers to the Ryan
property purchased by the United States for a new site for
Fort Brady" To this letter Mr. Cady replied, under date of
December 11, 1886, stating that he had met with unexpected
delay in obtaining certain papers, and saying "If I understand directions, I am to first send papers, to G. Chase Godwin,
U S. District Attorney for this district. Do you wish them
first sent to you 2 Also, should the deed from Ryan to the
government be recorded before forwarding? Will you honor
me by answering the above questions at once 2 I expect to
start for Detroit on the 20th inst., and if you wish -to see the
papers I will bring them down for your examination and send
to Mr. Godwin from Detroit."
The next letter, in the order of their dates, which appeared
in evidence, was one under date of December 22, 1886, from

Colonel Poe to Mr. Godwin, United States District Attorney
at Grand-Rapids. In that letter the writer said "In accordance with paragraph XX of the circular of the Attorney General of the United States, dated October 27, 1875, W B. Cady,
Esq., attorney for Mr. Thomas Ryan, of Sault Ste. Marie,
Mi6higan, visits you for the purpose of submitting the title
papers to a tract of land which the government desires to purchase for a new site for Fort Brady The War Department
is anxious to complete the transaction as soon as possible, and,
your early action would greatly facilitate matters." This
letter was delivered to Mr. Godwin by Mr. Cady, the latter
having with him abstracts, certified copy of deeds, maps, etc.,
relating to the title to the property On the same day as the
letter last referred to, Cady & Cady wrote to the Adjutant
General, at Washington, enclosing the papers, "relating to
Thomas Ryan's sale to the government," including a "deed of
Thomas Ryan et ux. to U. S. to carry out above sale," and
"authority of Thomas Ryan and E. K. Roberts, cashier,
relating to your draft, etc." Under date of January 3, 1887,

RYAN v. .UNITED. STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Mr. Cady addressed a letter to the District Attorney, in which
he said "I enclose deed, etc., in the Ryan sale. This makes
papers complete. I would respectfully call your attention to
the following 1st. I enclose two deeds of lands in question,
one in exact conformity to Mr. Ryan's bid, the other reserving
a strip of land 88 feet wide off east side for street purposes,
-2d. That the dower right, if any, of Mrs. Warner is cut off by
the state tax deeds held by Mr. Ryan. Most respectfully
asking you to consider the paper at as early a date -as.possible
and to communicate to me the results, I submit the papers to
*your inspection. In conversation with General Poe today he
seemed quite certain that thepapers would be sent to him
after your examination of them, and that he should send them
to th6eWar Department,, you sending your report to the Attorney Generali Would you kindly inform, me what course you
have decided to follow in the matter?"
Among the papers enclosed with this letter was a deed,
duly executed and acknowledged, by Ryan and wife, for the
premises m dispute. It contained a covenant that .the grantors were seized of the premises, in fee simple, and would warrant and defend the. same against all lawful claims whatsoever.
That deed excepted a strip off. the south side of the southeast
quarter of the southeast -quarter of section.one in township IT
N., thirty-three feet in width, reserved for Easterday Avenue,
and, also, a strip off the south side of the southwest quarfer-of
the southwest quarter of section six in same-township, of like
width, reserved for the same avenue, and a strip of like
'vidth, off the.east side of the latter.forty acres, for street pur-poses. During -the latter part of January or first of February,
Cady received a letter from the- District Attorney asking for
further information in regard-to what was called the Warner
dower, and. in respect to a mortgage held -by -the Citizens'
.Bank'of Detroit.
Under date of March. 18, 188T, all the papers were forwarded by the District Attorney to the Attorney General.
In that letter -the former expressed the opinion that the title
to the lands was suffioient. On the next day, March 19, 1887,.
th4 District attorney wrote to Cady;.: "Ybursof. the 16th inst.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

received. The abstract and accompanying papers in the matter of the title to the Fort Brady reservation proposed site
have been forwarded to General Poe, together with my opinion regarding the same. I have recommended and advised
-that the title is good and complete." The papers referred to
in this letter were immediately forwarded by General Poe to
the Secretary of War. The latter, under date of March 28,
1887, referred them, together with the deed of conveyance by
Ryan and wife to the United States, to the Attorney General,
with the request that the War Department be advised- as to
the validity of the title to the lands in question, and whether
the above deed was sufficient to vest the title in the United
States.
While these papers were in the hands of the Attorney
General, Brennan & Donnelly, attorneys for Ryan, wrote to
the Secretary of War- '"Mr. Thomas Ryan of Sault Ste.
Marie, in this State, with whom your department had some
negotiations some months ago for the purchase of the S. W
of the S. W I-of section 6, the S. E. j of the S. E. - of
section 1, in said town., as a site for Fort Brady, has instructed us to say that he has arranged for a different disposition of the property, and further negotiations are unnecessary Will you. please return to hun all papers, submitted to
the government concerning said property?" This document
wa referred by the Secretary to the Lieutenant General of
the army, who was informed that the title papers had been
forwarded to the Attorney General, and that a copy of the
document had been sent to the latter. Under date of
April 9, 1887,, the Attorney General returned the papers to.
the Secretary of War. They were sent again to the Attorney
General on the 16th of April, 1887, the latter being advised
by the Secretary of War that their return was not desired,
and that the opinion of- the Attorney General was desired as
to the validity of the title to these lands, as to the sufficiency
of the deed to vest the title in the United States, and as to
whether there was a sufficient agreement in writing to bind
Ryan notwithstanding his attempted withdrawal from the
agreement. On the 18th of May, 1887, the Attorney General

RYAN v. UNITED STA.TES.
Statement of the Case.

returned the papers to the Secretary of War, with a written
opinion to the effect that the deed was sufficient to pass title
to the United States provided nothing had transpired since,
its execution to affect. the title. He advised the Secretary of
War that nformation on that point should be obtained before
completing the purchase price, by.having search made for liens,
incumbrances, etc., down to that date. The Attorney General, on the next day, transmitted the deed of Ryan and wife
to the District Attorney, instructing him to continue the
search for liens, incumbrances, etc., subsequent to the date
of the deed, and saying "Should the title be found to be
unaffected thereby and to remain unchanged, you are instructed to have the deed recorded, after which payment of
the purchase money will be made in the usual way through
the War Department. Please attend to this promptly and
report your doings under these instructions as early .as practicable."
On the 28th of May, 1887,.the District Attorney wrote to
the Attorney General, acknowledging the receipt of the latter's letter of the 19th, and saying "I found upon investigation that he had got a deed from one Anne E. Warner, who
made claim of dower, but which claim had no force, I thought,
but I found that on the 4th of April Thomas Ryan and' wife
deeded to the village of Sault Ste. Marie a strip of land 40
feet wide off the: east side of the southwest quarter of the
southwest quarter of section 6, and 40 feet off the west side
of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section
one, making together a strip 80 feet wide, for street purposes.
Ihereto attach a slip, with the land marked out, showing you
what has been done to affect the title to the land. Kotwith-standing all this, Irecorded the deed running to the United
States. Perhaps I should explain further. Since this land
was contracted to the government a very remarkable business
boom has struck Sault Ste. Marie, and Mr. Ryan claims that
the land deeded to the government is worth fifty or sixty
thousand dollars.. He has made a claim that -the government
was dealing with the .expectation of purchasing it, and assuming that -it had not been accepted" as yet, but was under

OCTOBER TERM , 1889.
Statement of the Case.

consideration by the government, while I supposed you had
accepted his offer to sell the land for $12,000. This being the
situation, I took the responsibility of recording the deed, notwithstanding that eighty feet had been deeded away, thinkmg that it would be the safest way to secure the government,
as the property is unquestionably worth more than $12,000,
although the conveyance of the street should be valid. There
is no doubt that the village officers knew of such contract
when made, and no doubt exists in my mind but the village
officers prefer that the government should own this property
The facts seem to be that Thomas Ryan had other lands
adjoining this, or in the vicinity, which he had sold for fabulous prices, and he has no doubt promised to other parties the
opening of this street, and in pursuance of this fact has made
this deed. As this now stands the title of the land is in the
government, except only that Ryan has conveyed away this
80-foot strip. I shall be pleased to take any steps that may
be directed in this matter." Under date of June 9, 1887, the
Attorney General transmitted to the Secretary of War the
letter of the District Attorney, in which he said. "It appears
that since the date of that deed, and before the same was
recorded, namely, on the 4th of April, 1887, the said Ryan
and wife deeded a small part of the premises to the village of
Sault Ste. Marie for the purpose of a street. Notwithstanding this, the United States attorney thought it advisable to
put the deed to the United States on record. By the law of
Michigan an unrecorded deed is ' void as against any subsequent purchaser in good faith and for a valuable consideration of the same real estate or any portion thereof whose
conveyance shall be first duly recorded.' If the conveyance
to the village has been first duly recorded, and is otherwise
within the provision of law just adverted to, its title to so
much of the premises as is granted thereby would doubtless
be superior to a title derived- under the deed to the United
States. However, should the use of that part of the prem-ises for the purpose of a street be unobjectionable, the failure
to derive the title thereto under such deed may be ummportant."

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The Lieutenant General- of -the Army recommlended that
the ground be not purchased unless the 80-foot right of way
-referred to be given up by the village. This recommendation
was approved and the papers were referred to the Chief of
Engineers, Colonel roe, to ascertain whether the village would
relinquish the strip 80 feet wide. The Secretary and the
Lieutenant General decided "to await further action of the village council of Sault Ste. Marie, that the rights of the Unthed
States should be maintained, and that payment must be withheld until the roadway is relinquished to the government, thus
making the title of the United States good to the whole tract
conveyed by the deed of Thomas Ryan to the United States.."
The result desired in this particular was attained, for by deed
of May 22, 1888, the village, which had then become a city,
relinquished to the United States all the rights that .it had
obtained from IRyan and wife under their deed to it of April

4,1887.
It was admitted at the trial that previous to the action of
the village council authorizing said deed, namely, May 22,
1888, Mvfajor Adams, on behalf 'of the United States, made a
tender to Ryan of the sum of twelve thousand dollars. Before
this tender, Adams had an understanding with the local
authorities that the village would make the relinquishment,
which they shortly thereafter did.
It appeared in evidence that Ryan was not 'the holder of the
legal title at the beginning of the negotiations between him
and the government. On the 6th of June, 1883, he -and
his wife conveyed to James R. Ryan by deed, which was
recorded, without any reservation therein for streets. By
deed of June 16, 1883, recorded June 19, 1883, James R. Ryan
and wife, for the consideration of one dollar "and other considerations," conveyed by quit-claim deed ten acres of these
lands to Remegius Chartier, S. J., and his successors and
assigns, "to be forever 'the property of the Fathers of the
-Society of Jesus for the purpose of education and other works,
in accordance with their constitution,,with the -power to sell
and dispose of the same to accomplish the same" ends in case
circumstances should require it , together .with all and singular

80

OCTOBER TERll,

1889.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the hereditaments and appurtenances thereunto belonging or
m anywise appertaining, to have and to hold the said parcel
of land hereinbefore described to the said party of the second
part, and to his successors, heirs and assigns to the sole and
only proper use, benefit and behoof of the said party of the second part, [his] successors, heirs and assigns forever." Cbartier,
for the consideration of one dollar, by deed of November 26,
1886, recorded November 29. 1886, reconveyed said parcel to
James R. Ryan. The latter, by deed of December 6, 1886,
recorded December 13, 1886, conveyed to Thomas IRyan the
same premises which the latter and wife had conveyed by their
deed of June 6, 1883.
Other facts are set out in the bill of exceptions, but the
above are all that are necessary to be stated.
M r Michael Brennan, Afr John C. Donnelly and .Afr Isaac
Xarston for plaintiff in error.
I. There was no contract between the parties valid under
the statute of frauds of Michigan. Gault v Stormount, 51
Michigan, 636, and cases cited.
II. There was no mutuality in the alleged contract, which
was essential to its validity
Wilkunson v Ileavenmh, 58
Michigan, 574, .Rchardsonv Hardwick, 106 U S. 252.
III. An acceptance by the Secretary of War was necessary
before the proposal could become a binding contract. Gilbert
& Secor v. United States, 8 Wall. 358, Pars8A v United
States, 8 Wall. 489, Filor v United States, 9 Wall. 45, United
States v Burns, 12 Wall. 246.
IV Until delivery and acceptance of the deed, either party
could terminate the negotiations, and-Ryan did, actually, terminate them.
V The papers were submitted to the United States only
for inspection. This was not a delivery, transferring title.
Wadsworth v Warren, 12 Wall. 307, Graves v Dudley, 20
X. Y '16, Parker v. Parker,I Gray, 409, Aurdoch v. Gil,hrst,52 N. Y 242, Eggleston v Wagner, 46 -Michigan,610,
Taft v. Taft, 59 Michigan, 185, Pennzngton v Pennzngton,

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

75 Michigan, 600, .AfoCullough v -Day, 45 Michigan, 554,
.Martz v Eggenann, 44 Michigan, 430, Patrzok v. Howard,
47 Michigan, 40, Hfyne v. Osborn, 62 Michigan, 235, -Hendrziks v. Rasson, 53 Michigan, 575, Stevens v Castel, 63
M~ichigan, 111.
VI. Ohartier, the trustee in the deed from Ryan, had no
power to reconvey the tract to.him, and consequently nothing
passed by his deed. 2 Howell's Stats. § 5565,.§ 5573, subd.
5, § 5583, .MethodistChurch v. Clark, 41 Michigan, 730, 739,
Perce v Grtnzley, 43 W. W Rep. 932. And this may be
taken advantage of in ejectment. Doolan v Carr, 125 U. S.
618, Reynolds v Iron Silver .fining Co., 116 U. S., 687, 698.
Mr Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTME HARLAN, after stating the facts, as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
No question is made in this case, as in view of the decisions
of this court and the statutes of Michigan there could not
properly be, in respect to the right of the United States, by
purchase, to acquire the premises in dispute for the purposes
of fortification and garrison expressed in the act of July 8,
1886. Rfohi v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, United States v
Jones, 109 U. S. 513'; Van Brocklin v State of Tennessee, 117
U. S. 151, 154, 2 Howell's Anno. Stats. Mich. § 5202, 5203.
Nor can it be doubted that what was done by the Secretary
of War and by other officers of the government acting under
his direction was within the limits of the authority conferred
by that act. It is equally clear that in the absence of the. Secretary the authority with which he was invested could be exercised by the officer who, under the law, became for the tune
Acting Secretary of War. Rev Stat. § 179.
But the defendant insists that the alleged contract between
him and the government was not valid or binding under the
statute of frauds of Michigan, which provides- that "every
contract *forthe leasing for a longer period than, one year, or
for the sale of any lands, or interest 'in lands, shall be void,
VOL. cxxxvi-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

unless the contract, or some note or memorandum thereof, be
in writing and signed by the party by whom the lease or sale
is to be made, or by some person by him lawfully authorized
by writing." Howell's Stat. § 6181. His contention is, that
the writings, including telegrams, which are relied upon to
establish a valid, binding contract, do not, in themselves, show
that the lands therein referred to are the lands in question, and,
therefore, no written memorandum, such as the statute requires
was executed. In support of this view we are referred to Gault
v Stormount, 51 MNlich. 636, 638. In that case, the memorandum was only a receipt, given at Wyandotte, Michigan, by
the party selling, showing that he had received from the
party proposing to buy "the sum of $75 as part of the principal of $1050 on sale of my house and two lots oft corner of
Superior and Second streets in this city" This receipt was
held to be insufficient to answer the requirements of the
statute, for the reason that "though it specified the purchase
price, it failed to express the time or times of payment, and
there is no known and recognized custom to fix what is thus
left undetermined," the court adding that "a memorandum,
to be sufficient under the statute, must be complete in itself,
and leave nothing to rest in parol." It will be observed that
the memorandum in that case was not rejected as insufficient
because of any warlt of fulness in the description of the premises, nor is there any intimation that such description, -(if the
case had turned upon that point,) might not have been aided
by extrinsic parol evidence, identifying the premises intended
to be sold. That case did not in any degree modify the decision in Eggleston v Vagner, 46 Mich. 610, 618, where the court
said "A further objection is that the proposal did not sufficiently describe the real estate to satisfy the statute of frauds.
The general principle is not questioned. The degree of certainty with which the premises must be denoted is defined in
many books, and the cases are extremely numerous in which
the subject has been illustrated. They are all harmonious.
But they agree in this, that it is not essential that the description have such particulars and tokens of identification as to
render a resort to extrinsic aid entirely needless when the

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

writing comes to be applied to the subject matter. The terms
may be abstract and of a general nature, but they must be
sufficient to fit and comprehend the property which isthe subject of the transaction, so that with the assistance of external
evidence, the description, without being contradicted. or added
to, can be connected with and applied to the very property intended and to the exclusion of all. other property The circumstance that imany case a conflict arises in the outside evidence
cannot be allowed the force of proof that the written description is in itself insufficient to satisfy the statute."
Did the papers which passed between the parties, constituting the memorandum of the transaction, contain such a
description of the lands in dispute as was sufficient, in connection with extrinsic evidence not contradictory of nor adding
to. the written description, to meet the requirements of the
Michigan statute of frauds 2- We say "the papers," because
the principle is well established that a complete contract binding under the statute of frauds may be gathered from letters,
writings and telegrams between the parties relating to the
subject matter of the contract, and so connected with each
other that they may be fairly said to -constitute one paper
relating to the contract. Beckwztht v Talbot, 95 U. S. 289,
292, Ricdgway v Wharton, 6 H. L. Cas. 238, Coles v Trecothsck, 9 Yes. 234, 250; Cave v , llastsngs, 7 Q. B. D. 125,
128,, Long v .fillar, 4 0. P. D. 450, 456.
Turning now to the evidence in the case there would seem
to be no ground for doubt as to the sufficiency of the description of the lands. Cady's telegram of September 7, 1886,
Ryan's response thereto on the same day, shis written proposal through Cady to the board of army officers on the 8th,
and the formal written notification to IRyan on the 11th of
September, by the president of the board, of the acceptance
by the Acting Secretary of War of his proposal of the 8th,
show that the lands which the defendant proposed to sell to
the United States, and which the goiernment agreed to buy,
for the sum of $12,000, was the "S. W J of the S. W J of
sec. 6, and-the S. E. - of the S. E. J of sec. 1, subject to the
opemng.of Easterday Avenue along the south line." And this

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

description of the premises must be taken in connection with
the act of Congress, showing that the authority given to the
Secretary of War was to purchase grounds "in or near the
village of Sault Ste. Marie." It is said that neither the telegram of Cady to Ryan nor the latter's Tesponse thereto identified the lands by naming any township or range. But Ryan's
written proposal through Cady to sell did give the township
and range, and the government's written acceptance of the
11th of September referred to that proposal by its date of
September 8, 1886. It is well said by the Solicitor General
that, in the absence of any evidence to show it, or to raise
doubt upon the subject, the presumption is not to be indulged
that Ryan owned, in or near the village of Sault Ste. Marie,
two tracts of land in different townships and ranges which
would answer the description of "southwest quarter of southwest quarter of section 6, and southeast quarter of southeast
quarter of section 1." The only fact which gives even plausibility to the contention we are considering is the absence from
"the written proposal of Ryan, as well as from the written
acceptance of the government, of any express statement as to
the particular village in which the lands were situated. But
this defect, if it be one, is supplied by the communication of
Colonel Poe, of October 6, 1886, in which he transmits to
Ryan the letter of instructions from the War Department of
September 30, 1886, in which the lnds that the board recommended to be bought-the recommendation alluded to in
the government's letter of acceptance of September, 11, 1886,
addressed to Ryan -are referred to as containing "about 75
acres of land at Sault Ste. Marie." Besides the deed executed
by Ryan and' wife, and delivered by them to the United
States, describes the lands as being "in the village of Sault
Ste. Marie." Whatevdr may be said as to the effect of this
deed in passing title, if it was delivered only for purposes of
examination, or if the previous memorandum of sale' had been
for any reason fatally defective under the statute of frautis,
its recitals, coming as they do from the vendor, are competent
for the purpose of showing'the precise locality of the-property
which the memorandum of sale was intended to embrace.

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

,.enzns8 v.
oarson,
66 Alabama, 345, 355, and authorities
there cited.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the written proposal of the defendant to sell the premises in dispute at the
price of twelve thousand dollats, and the written acceptance
of that proposal by the government, through its authorized
officers, constituted a valid contract, mutually binding upon
the parties under the Mifchigan statute of frauds. In this
view, the notification given by the defendant on the 1st of
April, 1887, to the Secretary of War, that he had arranged for
a different disposition of the property, and that further negotiations were unnecessary, did not affect the rights of the government. A mere offer to sell real estate, upon specified
terms, may undoubtedly be withdrawn at any time before its
acceptance. Such is the general rule. But if the offer be
accepted without conditions, and without varying its terms,
and the acceptance be communicated to the other party without unreasonable delay, a contract arises, from which neither
party can withdraw at pleasure. Was there an unreasonable
delay upon the .paxt of the government in accepting the
defendant's offer g- Clearly not. The acceptance was within
a few days after the offer. Nor, after the acceptance, was
there any such delay by the government as entitled the
defendant to abandon the contract; or to treat it as rescinded.
He was informed by the act of Congress, of which he was
bound to take notice, that the approval of the title by-the
Attorney General was a condition precedent to the payment
by the Secretary of War of the price for the lands. He recognized the right of the government to have the title examined..
He was furnished with a cqpy of the regulations prescribed
by the Department of Justice for the examination of the titles
to property where such titles. were to be passed upon by thp
Attorney- General. The defendant himself was dilatory in
furnishing the necessary, abstracts and papers relating to the
title. And while the Attorney General was. engaged in the
examination of the title, he assumed to withdraw from the
contract, and to convey a part of the premises to the village
of Sault Sainte Marie. The delay which occurred after that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

conveyance came to the knowledge of the government was
necessary in order that it might, before paying for the lands,
secure a reconveyance of such part thereof as had been conveyed by Ryan to the village. That result being obtained,
the government made the tender of the full amount it agreed
to pay
It is said, however, that the deed was delivered to the officers of the government only for the purpose of an examination of the title, and that they had no right to put it on
record. This view has been pressed upon the theory that
there was no valid contract upon the part of Ryan for the
sale of the land, and that he had the right to withdraw his
proposal to sell at the time he assumed to do so. If he had
not been bound by contract to sell the lands, at the time he
withdrew his offer, the placing of the deed upon record would
have been unauthorized, and might not have passed the title
as between the defendant and the United States. In the case
supposed the government, upon being notified of the withdrawal of the offer to sell, would have been under a duty to
return the deed. But we have seen that long before such
attempted withdrawal there was a valid contract that bound
the parties, the one to sell and the other to buy the lands at
an agreed price. The attempt to withdraw the offer did not,
therefore, impair the rights of the government. The deed
was delivered in execution of that contract, with the intention
that it should become presently operative when the Attorney
General approved the title, and the government had the right
to put it on record when the title was approved by that officer. The title was approved by him, and thereupon the
government became bound to pay the price it agreed to pay
for the lands. The delay in making the tender was due to
Ryan's efforts to evade or defeat his contract.
There are one or two other matters that require to be
examined. It is said that the defendant was not the owner of
these lands at the time when, according to the views already
expressed, there arose a binding contract between him and
the United States. But the title was in him prior- to 1883,
and was again in him on the 6th of December, 1886, as well

RYAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

as on and after December 18, 1886, when he and his wife
executed and acknowledged the deed of the United States.
If he chose to bind himself by contract to sell land that he
did not at the time own, but the title to which he subsequently acquired and conveyed by general warranty, he will
not, in an action of ejectment based upon the title so conveyed, be heard to say that he had no title at the time he
agreed to sell.
It is, also, said that the deed from Remegius Chartier, S. J.,
to James R. Ryan, for ten acres of these Jands, and the deed
from James R. Ryan and wife to Thomas iRyan were void, as
to that ten acres, because the previous deed of James R. Ryan
and wife to Chartier showed, upon its face, that said ten acres
were the.property of "The Fathers of the Society of Jesus for
the purposes of education and other works in accordance with
their constitution." In the view we take of this question it is
unnecessary to determine the precise nature of the interest, if
any, acquired by that society in the ten acres conveyed to
Chartier, nor to determine whether the court below correctly
interpreted the words "absolutely void" in section 5583 of the
Statutes of Michigan, which declares that "when the trust
shall be expressed in the instrument creating the estate, any
sale, conveyance or other acts of the trustees, in contravention
of the trust, shall be absolutely void." The legal title was in
Chartier, his successors and assigns, in trust for the purposes
of education and other works in accordance with the constitution of his society, "with power to sell and dispose of the
same to accomplish the same ends in case circumstances
should require it." He thus had the power, under some circumstances, to sell and convey He did sell and convey by a
deed which did not disclose upon its face a violation of the
trust, and his grantee, holding then the legal title to the
entire premises in dispute, conveyed to the defendant, who
with his wife covenanted in their deed to 'the United States
that they were seized of the premises in fee simple, free from
all incumbrances whatever, and that they, and their heirs,
executors and administrators, would warrant and defend the
title against all lawful claims whatsoever. The title acquired

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

by him, after he contracted to sell to the United States, enured
to the benefit of his grantee. He is estopped to dispute his
grantee's right of possession, or to dispute, as between him
and his grantee, the title he assumed to convey with general
warranty In -an Rensselaer v. .Kearney,11 How 297, 325,
it was said that the principle deducible from the authorities
was "that whatever may be the form or nature of the conveyance used to pass real property, if the grantor sets forth on
the face of the instrument, by way of recital or averment, that
he is seized or possessed of a particular estate in the premises,
and which estate the deed purports to convey, or, what is the
same thing, if the seizin or possession of a particular estate is
affirmed in the deed, either in express terms or by necessary
implication, the grantor and all persons in privity with him
shall be estopped from ever afterwards denying that he was
so seized and possessed at the time he made the conveyance.
The estoppel works upon the estate, and binds an after-acaured title as between parties and privies." See, also, Bush v
Ccoper, 18 How 82, 85, Crews v Burcham, 1 Black, 352, 357,
.Motev .Crawford,130 U. S. 122, 130, Jackson ex der. Danforth v .Murray,12 Johns. 201. And such is the established
doctrine of the Supreme Court .of Michigan, which said, in
Smith v Williams, 44 Michigan, 24:0, 242 - an action of ejectment-"'%hat when one assumes by his deed to convey a
title, and b/ any form of assurance obligates himself to protect the gran ee in the enjoyment of that which the deed purports to give l1im, he will not be suffered afterwards to acquire
or~assert a title and turn his grantee over to a suit upon his
covenant for ret ress." See also Case v Green, 53 Michigan,
615, 620.
The United States has established a good title and right as
against the defenciant, and that is sufficient to entitle it to
judgment in this ac ;ion of ejectment.
These cons-ideratso-is requre an afjrmance of the 3udgment
below and zt zs so ordered.

