OCTOBER TERM\f, 1889.
Syllabus.

We are of opinion that the court erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the amended bill.
The decree ts reversed with direetzonsfor suchfurtherproceedings as may be consistent with this opznton.

ALLEN v. HANKS.
APPEAL FROM THE

DISTRICT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 316. Submitted April 30, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

A and B intermarried in Arkansas in 1869, during which year a child was
born to them alive, capable of inheriting, and died in 1862. In 1864, C
died, the owner of estate, real and personal in Arkansas, leaving as sole
heirs at law Inis father, D, his brother, A, and a sister, E. The two latter
became the owners in common of decedent's realty subject to a life
estate in D, their father. In 1870, D died, after which in 1871, A and R
agreed upon a partition. A desiring to vest the title to his share in his
wife - lie being then solvent - conveyed (Ins wife uniting with him to
relinquish dower) to his sister, E, all his interest ii the lands inherited
from his brother. By deed of date January 2, 1871, E (her husband
joining her) conveyed to A's wife what was regarded as one-half in value
of the lands formerly owned by C, including those in dispute in this
suit. This deed was recorded May 24, 1875, in the county where A's
Wife then and ever since resided. No other schedule of it, nor other record
nor intention to claim the lands in dispute as her separate property was
ever filed by her. After the date of the deed to A's wife, the lands in
dispute were cultivated by him-as agent of his wife, and in her name, for
her and not in his own right. In 1884, his creditors obtained a judgment
against him, and another on a debt contracted in 1881, sued out execution,
and caused it to be levied upon the lands in dispute, and advertised them
to be sold. A's wife brought a suit in equity to enjoin the sale upon the
ground that the lands were not subject to her husband's debts, and that
a sale would create a cloud upon her title; Held,
(1) The constitution of Arkansas of 1868 placed property thereafter
acquired by a married woman, whether by gift, grant, inheritance
or otherwise, as between herself and her husband, under her exclusive control, with power to dispose of it or its proceeds, as she
pleased,
(2) The deed by E and her husband to A's wife was subject to the constitution of 1868, which made any property acquired by the wife,

ALLEN. v. HANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

after it went into operation, her separate estate, free from his
control,
When the deed of 1871 was recorded in 1875, if not before, the
lands in dispute became free from the debts of A, and therefore
were not liable ;for the debt contracted in 1881,
Neither the constitution of 1868 nor that of 1874 could take from
the husband any rights vested in him prior to the adoption of
either instrument. But when the constitution of 1868 was adopted A
had no estate by the curtesy in these lands in virtue of his marriage; for his wife had then no interest in them. In Arkansas,
as at common law, except when from the nature and circumstances of the real property of the wife she may be regarded as
constructively in possession, marriage, actual seism, issue and
death of the wife arc all requisite to create an estate by the curtesy;
It is competent for a State, in its fundamental law or by statute, to
provide that all property thereafter acquired by or coming to a
married woman, shall constitute her separate estate, not subject
to the control, nor liable for the debts, of the -husband,
It is the right of those who have a clear, legal and equitable title
to land, connected with possession, to claim the interference of
a court of equity to give them peace or dissipate a cloud on the
title.

IN EQuITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr Jacob T!rweber for appellants.
fr Jmes C. Taprian and XrP Jol
:MR.

JUSTicE

HAm&

J lloror for appellee.

delivered the opmion of the court.

This suit involves the title to certain lands in Arkansas,
which the appellee, a married woman; claims to constitute her
separate estate, and, as such, not liable for the debts of her
husband, James M. Hanks.
By the laws of Arkansas .inforce when the appellee and
her husband were married, (Rev Stat. Ark. 1858, Gould's
Dig. 65, c. 111,) it was provided that (§ 1) "any married
woman may become seized and possessed of any property, real
and personal, by direct bequest, devise, gift or distribution in
her own right and name and as of her own property Promded,
The same does not come from the husband after coverture,"
that (§ I) "before any married woman shall be entitled -to the

OCTOBER TERv,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

privileges and benefits of the provisions of this chapter, she
shall cause to be filed in the recorder's office, in the county
where she lives, a schedule of the property derived through
her, and no property belonging to any married woman shall
be exempt from the payment of any debts contracted by her
husband previous to the filing of the schedule aforesaid," and
that (§ 8) "whenever the deed, bequest, grant, decree or other
transfer of property of any kind to any married woman shall
expressly set forth that the same is designed to be held exempt
from the liabilities of her husband, such property with the
natural increase thereof shall be deemed and considered as
belonging exclusively to such married woman, under the provisions of this chapter, and shall not be liable to execution or
sale for the payment of debts of her husband, whether contracted before or after the accruing of the title of the wife
Promded, That no conveyance from any married man to his
wife, either directly or indirectly, shall entitle her to any benefits or privileges of this act."
In 1868 a new constitution was adopted, and among its
provisions was one declaring "The real and personal property of any female in this State, acquired either before or
after marriage, whether by gift, grant, inheritance, devise
or otherwise, shall, so long as she may choose, be and remain the separate estate and property of such female, and
may be devised or bequeathed by her, the same as if she were
a feme sole. Laws shall -be passed providing for the registration of the wife's separate property, and when so registered,
and so long as it is not entrusted to the management or control
of the husband otherwise than as an agent, it shall not be
liable for any of his debts, engagements or obligations."
Art. XII, § 6.
This was followed in 1873 by an act providing that (Gantt's
Dig. Stat. Ark. 1874, § 4193, p. 756) "the property, both real and
personal, which any married woman now owns or has had conveyed to her by any person in good faith and without prejudice to existing creditors, or which she may have acquired as
her sole and separate property, that-which comes to her by
gift, bequest, descent, grant .or conveyance from any person,

ALLEN v. HANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

that which she has acquired by her trade, business, labor or
services carried on or performed on her sole or separate
account, that which a married woman in this State holds or
owns at the time of her marriage, and the rents, issues and
proceeds of all such property, shall, notwithstanding her marriage, be and remain her sole and separate property, and may
be used, collected and invested by her in her own name, and
shall not be subject to the interference or control of her busband, or liable for his debts, except such debts as may have
been contracted for the support of herself or her children by
her as his agent;" that, § 4201, "before any married woman
shall be entitled to the privileges of this act in respect to
property held by her separately as aforesaid, she shall cause
her said separate property to be recorded in her name in the
county where she lives or has a residence," and that, § 4203,
"the property of a woman, whether real or personal, .and
whether acquired before or after marriage, in her own right,
shall not be sold to pay the debts of the husband contracted
or damages incurred by him before marriage."
By the constitution of Arkansas of 1874, it was declared
that "the real and personal property of any ,fene covert in
this State, acquired -either before or after marriage, whether
by gift, grant, inheritance, devise or otherwise, shall, so long
as she may choose, be and remain her separate estate and
property, and may be devised, bequeathed or conveyed by
her the same as if she were afeme sole, and the-same shall not
be subject to the debts of her husband." Art. IX, § 7.
The present suit depends upon the construction -of these
statutory and constitutional provisions, as applied to certain
facts disclosed in this case) in respect to which there is no
dispute. These facts will now be stated.
James M. fHanks and the appellee were married in the State
of Arkansas in the year 1859. During that year a child was
born to them, alive, and capable of inheriting. It died in
1862. John F fHanks, the owner of considerable property,
real and personal, in the State of Arkansas, including the
lands in dispute, died in 1864, his sole heirs at law being his
father, Fleetwood fHanks, and his brother, James M. fHanks,

OVCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the husband of appellee, and his sister, Ann A. Porter, the
wife of William Porter. Fleetwood Hanks took a life interest
in the estate left by his son, James M. Hanks and Mrs. Porter
inheriting subject to that interest. The father died in 1870,
whereupon the brother and sister of the decedent became the
owners in common of the realty In 1871 they agreed upon
a partition, and James M. Hanks, for the purpose of having
the title to his share vested in his wife -he being then perfectly solvent - executed, January 2, 1871, a deed conveying
-all his interest in the lands so inherited to Mrs. Porter, his
wife joining in it for the purpose of relinquishing her dower.
At the same time Mrs. Porter, her husband joining with her,
conveyed to the appellee what was regarded as one-half in
value of the lands inherited from John F Hanks, including
those here in controversy
From the date of that deed forward the lands in dispute have been cultivated by James M.
Hanks "as agent of his wife and in her name, for her and not
in his own right." The deed from Porter and wife to Mrs.
Hanks was filed for record, and recorded May 24, 1875, in the
county where the lands are situated, and in which the appellee
then, and has ever since, resided, and had her home, but "no
other schedule of it, nor other record, nor intention to claim
it as her separate property, was ever filed by her."
On the 14th of October, 1884, the appellants, J H. Allen,
Thomas H. West and John 0. Bush, constituting the firm of
Allen, West & Bush, recovered in the court below a judgment
a.gainst W L. Nelson and James M. Hanks for $14,645.29,
with interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from the
above date. The judgment was for a debt contracted in 1881.
Execution upon that judgment having been levied on the
interest of James M. Hanks in the lands in dispute, and the
marshal, Fletcher, having advertised the same to be sold in
satisfaction of the execution, the appellee brought the present
suit, and seeks a decree perpetually enjoining the sale. The
appellants, Allen, West & Bush, answered, insisting that James
M. Hanks had an interest in the lands subject to their execution. The decree asked by the appellee was entered, and'is
-now~here for review

ALLEN v. HANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

The question to be determined is, whether the appellee's
husband has any interest in these lands that may be seized
and sold for the debt due Allen, West & Bush, contracted in
1881.
The contention of the appellants is, that upon the marriage
of the appellee and her husband in 1859, he acquired, at once,
a right to take the rents and profits of all lands owned by the
wife at any time during coverture, unless the deed or devise
under which she held them expressly excluded his marital
rights, or unless the property was "scheduled" in conformity
with the laws then in force, and, as to the latter, not even
then if acquired either directly or indirectly from the husband,
that upon issue born of the marriage in 1859, capable of inheriting, he at once acquired an estati by the curtesy initiate or an
estate for life, which he could convey without his wife's consent, was subject to execution for his debts, and' was not, -and
could not be, affected by any subsequent change in the law
The contention of appellee is, that she owned no property at
the time of marriage or at the birth of her child, or when it
died, that before she acquired any lands whatever, the married
woman's law was changed by the constitution of 1868, so as
to vest in her an absolute title to all property subsequently
acquired by her, exempt from any estate in the husband that
would be subject to seizure by his creditors, that the only
limitation upon such right was that she should comply with
the acts of the legislature passed in reference thereto, and
that when the act of 1873 was passed and she recorded her
deed under its provisions, the real estate acquired by her under
the constitution of 1868 was free from liability for the debtand contracts of her husband.
If 'the case depended entirely upon the statutes in force
prior to the adoption of the constitution of 1868, it may be
that the law would be for the judgment creditors of the appellee's husband, because the provisions of the Revised Statutes
of 1858, (Gould's Digest, c. 111, p. 765,) declaring that any
married woman might become seized and possessed of property
by direct bequest, devise, gift or distribution in her own -right
and as of her own property, did not apply where the property.VoL. cxxxvi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

came from the husband after coverture, or was conveyed by
him to his wife directly or indirectly, and, also, because the
appellee did not file in the recorder's office, where she lived,
the required "schedule."
But we are of opinion that the constitution of 1868 made changes in the previous law that had a
material bearing upon the rights of the parties. The declaration in that constitution that the property of any female in
the State, acquired before or after marriage, whether by gift,
grant, inheritance, devise "or otherwise," should, so long as
she chose, be- and remain her separate estate and property, and
subject to be devised or bequeathed by her as if she were a
feme sole, placed the property acquired by the appellee after
that constitution went into effect, as between herself and her
husband, under her exclusive control, (unless the deed or other
instrument under which she held it otherwise directed,) with
power to dispose of the proceeds as she pleased- a power
inconsistent with any right in the husband to take the rents
and profits. We limit this effect of the constitution of 1868
to property acquired after its adoption, because that instrument, upon'this point, should receive the same construction as
the Supreme Court of Arkansas has given to the constitution
of 1874, namely, that it could not take from the husband any
rights vested in him prior to its adoption. Tiller &c. v MeGoy, 38 Arkansas. 91, 96, 'Ward v The Estate of Mai, 36
Arkansas, 586, 588, Shryoek, Trustee v Gannon, 38 Arkansas,
431, 437 , Erwin v Puryear,50 Arkansas, 356, 358.
Did the constitution of 1868 take from the husband any
rights previously vested, in virtue of his marriage, to the lands
in dispute 2 Clearly not. Obviously the appellee had no interest in them at the time of marriage, or at the birth or
death of her child, because they were not, at either date,
.owned by her husband. Nor had she any interest in them at
the time of the adoption of that constitution, except that after
the death of John F Hanks, in 1864, she may, perhaps, have
had a contingent right of dower in such real estate as might
fall to her husband upon the termination of the life estate of
Fleetwood Ranks, and after partition between her husband,
James M. Hanks, and his sister, Mrs. Porter. When, in 1871,

ALLEN v. HANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

the title to these lands was conveyed by Porter and wife to
the appellee by direction of her husband, the conveyance was
necessarily subject to the constitutional provision then in
force, that the lands as between herself and husband should
constitute her separate property, and as such, be free from
his control. It is true that the lands so conveyed to her did
not by the conveyance of 1871 become exempt fkom liability
for the debts of her husband until they were "1scheduled," as
required by chapter 111 of the Revised Statutes of 1858,
which chapter was not, m the matter of scheduling the
property of married women, (other than property in slaves,)
superseded by the constitution of 1868. Berlin v Cantrell,
33 Arkansas, 611, 618, Tiller &c. v. -McCoy, 38 Arkansas,
91, 95, .lumyhrzes v Hanson, 30 Arkansas, 79, 88. But the
provision in that constitution as to the registration of the
wife's separate property had reference to its protection. against
the debts, engagements and obligations of her husband. As
between herself and her husband, no registration was required or necessary A law for registration, such as the constitution of 1868 directed to be passed, was not enacted until
1873, when the act of that year, already referred to, was
passed, declaring, among other things, that any property then
owned by a married woman, or which had been conveyed to
her by any person in good, faith and without prejudice to
existing creditors, or which she might have acquired as her
separate property,. should be and remain her sole and separate
property, and might be used, collected and invested in her
own name, and should not be subject to the interference or
control of her husband, or liable for his debts, except such
debts as might have been contracted for the support of the
wife or her children by her as his agent. That act, as we
have seen,. provided that before any married woman should be
entitled to its privileges, in respect to property held by her
separately as aforesaid, she should cause her said property to
be recorded in her name in the county where she lived or had
a residence. When it was passed; the appellee, by virtue of
the deed of 1871 by Pbrter and wife, and of the constitution
of 1868, certainly held the lands in dispute as her separate

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

property; and when the deed to her, under which she acquired title, was recorded in the county where she lived or
had her residence, all was done that the act of 1873 required
to be done in order to protect her estate against the creditors
of her husband.
But it is said, that, as the conveyance to the appellee in 1871
did not, in express terms, create a separate estate in her favor,
the placing it upon record did not meet the requirements of
the statutes in force when the constitution of 1868 was
adopte'l, or of the act of 1873, and that, in order to protect
the property .against the creditors of the husband, it was
necessary that there be a -record of the wife's property distinctly as her separate estate. Such, perhaps, may have been
the state of the law in, Arkansas prior to the act- of 1873,
although there is language in Tiller v AfcCoy, 38 Ark. 91,
96, (which was a case between a married woman and the
creditors of the husband,) indicating that there was some
difference between the recording required by that act and the
"scheduling" provided for in previous statutes. The court, in
"Appellee did not schedule her land as
that case, said
required by the act in Gould's Digest, (chapter 111, p. 765,)
and she held it by inheritance, and not by any conveyance or
bequest, etc., showing that it was to be exempt from liabilities
for her husband. Nor did she cause the land to be recorded
in her name as required by the act of April twenty-eighth,
1873." This language implies that some distinction was made
between the recording required in the act of 1873 and the
" scheduling" prescribed in previous statutes. Be this as it
may, the constitution of 1868 w~s itself notice that property
acquired by a married woman after its adoption, whether by
gift, grant, inheritance, devise "or otherwise," should be and
remain, so long as she chose, her separate estate, and when
the deed of 1871 was recorded in 1875, all had notice of
record that, if that deed be interpreted in the light of the
constittition in force when it was executed, the property
described in it was, by force of -that instrument, the separate
estate of Mrs. Hanks, until by conveyance or in some other
mode she chose that it should not remain her separate prop-

ALLEN v. HANKS.
Opinion of- the Court.

erty The effect of the constitution of 1868, and of the act
of 183, in respect to property acquired by a married woman
after the adoption of the former and after the passage of
the latter, was to make that property her separate estate as
between herself and her husband, whether the deed conveying the title to her was recorded or not, and, as between her
and the creditors of the husband, from the time the property,
so held by her separately, was recorded in her name m the
county where she lived or had a residence. It was so recorded
in 1815. If, as between the appellee and her husband, the
latter could not, of right, take the rents -and profits of the
wife's land, it is not perceived that he had any interest that
could be seized by his creditors, at least after the deed of 1871
was recorded in the proper county
When to these considerations is added the fact that the
deed under which the appellee claims was recorded after -the
constitution of 1814 took effect, and long before the debt of
Allen, West & Bush was contracted, there would seem to be
no just ground for the claim that her property is liable to be
sold for that debt. It may be also observed, that, while the
constitution of 1874 is not to be so construed as to divest the
husband of any right previously vested in him, we see no reason why the appellee, as between herself and the appellants,
may not invoke the protection of the clause in that instrument exempting the wife's property, whenever and in whatever mode acquired, from the debts of her husband. The
husband, as between himself and his wife, had no vested right
in these lands when the constitution of 1874 was adopted, nor,
indeed, any interest subsequent to the execution, by his direction, of the deed of 171, the effect of which deed was, as we
have seen, to create a separate estate for her in the property
conveyed.
It is contended, however, that the constitution of 1868
could not divest the appellee's husband of his marital rights in
respeot to the property that he caused to be-couveyed to his
wife in 1871. This contention'proceeds upon the ground that
mnnediately upon marrihge and birth of issue, an estate by
the curtesy vested in the husband, not only in the real prop

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

erty then owned by the wife, but in such as she might acquire
at any time during coverture, and that no constitutional or
statutory provision could affect his rights, in this respect, even
as to property acquired by the wife after the change in the
law We do not concur in this view It is not sustained by
any decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas to which our
attention has been called, or of which we kave any knowledge.
On the contrary, the cases above cited, while holding that the
constitution of 1874 could not affect any interest vested in the
husband prior to its adoption, concede, by necessary implication, that, .inall other respects, that constitution would control every acquisition of property by a married woman after
its adoption. When the constitution of 1868 was adopted, the
appellee's husband could have no estate by the ourtesy in
lands not then owned by her, for, as was said by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas in McDan.el v Grace,15 Arkansas, 465,483,
except when from the nature and circumstances of the real
property of the wife she may be regarded as constructively in
possession, (as where it consists in wild lands, or it is impossible or impracticable to enter upon them,) marriage, actual
seizin of the wife, issue and death of the wife, are all requisite
to create an estate by the curtesy, and that the husband was
not entitled to his curtesy, according to the common law,
unless the wife was seized in fact and in deed. .Xercer's
-Lessee v Selden, 1 How 37, 54, Davms v 1lTason, 1 Pet.
503, 507, 4 Kent, 29, 30. There was, upon the part of the
wife, no seizin of the lands in dispute until 1871, when the
title came to her. That it is competent for the State, in its
Jfundamental law or by statute, to provide that all property
thereafter acquired by or coming to a married woman shall
constitute her separate estate, not subject to the control, nor
'liable for the debts, of the husband, and that such regulations
do not take away or impair any vested right of the husband,
is, in our judgment, a proposition too clear to require argument or the citation of authorities to support it.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that the appellee's
husband has no interest in the lands in dispute that may be
taken under the execution of the appellants, Allen, West &

ALLEN v. HAIRKS.
Opimon of the Court.

Bush. The decree in her favor was, therefore, right, unless,
as contended, the appellee had a sufficient remedy at law for
the protection of her rights. It is not sufficient that she has
a remedy at law, "it must be plain and adequate, or, m other
words, as practical and as efficient to the ends of justice and
its prompt administration as the remedy in equity" Boyce
v G undy, 3 Pet. 210, 215, T-atson v Sutherland, 5 Wall.
74. Now, what remedy at law is adequate to the relief she
seeks, and to which she is entitled if these lands constitute her
separate estate and may not be taken for her husband's debts?
She is in possession, and, therefore, cannot bring ejectment.
Must she remain inactive while the sale proceeds, and until the
purchaser obtains and has recorded the marshal's deed to her
lands, and then bring an action to have the deed cancelled
and the sale set aside, as clouds upon her title 2 It needs no
argument to show that the existing levy upon the appellee's"
land constitutes itself a cloud upon her title, which, if not remQved and the proposed sale prevented, will injure the salable value of the lands, and otherwise injuriously affect her
rights. In Orton. v Smstk, 18 How 263, 265, the right of
those who have a clear, legal and equitable title to land, connected with possession, to claim the interference of a court of
equity to give them peace, or dissipate .a cloud on the title, is
recognized. And such is the established rule in Arkansas,
where the general distinction between the functions of courts
of law and equity have been maintained. In Branch v
.fitclwel, 24 Arkansas, 431, 439, the court said "When a
party has the only or the better legal title to land, as against
that which he wishes to put at rest, he may obtain or regain
possession by an action of ejectment, if he is out of possession,
and it is reasonable that equity should decline to interfere
where he may obtain all the relief he needs at law If he is
Sn possession, then, as he can bring no action at law, it has been
held that he may ask the court of equity to remove a cloud
upon his title, which makes it less valuable, and may prevent
his disposing of it to others." The same principle is recognized
in Yiller v Newman, 27 Arkansas, 233, Cha lin v. Holmes,
27 Ai'kansas, 414, 417, Crane v Randolph, 30 Arkansas, 579,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

585. In Pettit v Shepherd, 5 Paige, 493, 501, the chancellor
said. "If a court of chancery would have jurisdiction to set
aside the sheriff's deed which might be given on a, sale, and to
order the same to be given up and cancelled, as forming an
improper cloud upon the complainant's title to his farm, it
seems to follow, as a necessary consequence, that the court
may interpose its aid to prevent such a shade from being cast
upon the title, when the defendant evinces a fixed determination to proceed with the sale." "It is better," the court said
in Gerry v Stimson, 60 Maine, 186, 189, "to prevent the
creation of a fictitious or fraudulent title, than to compel its
cancellation or its release after it has been created." So in
ilincdey v Greany, 118 Mass. 595, 598 "The plaintiff is not
required to wait until somebody obtains a title under a sale
before he can seek his remedy Even when this remedy
[which in that case was a petition summoning the defendant to
show cause why he should not bring an action to try his title]
may be availed of under the statute, it is not necessarily so
adequate and complete as to supersede the remedy in equity"
Irwzn v lewts, 50 Mississippi, 363, 368, Christie v Jale,46
Illinois, 111, 122, Meriiman v. Polk, 5 iHeiskell, 717, '718
Jones v De Grffenretd, 60 Alabama, 145, 151.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the relief
asked was properly granted.
Decree aflrmed.

