THAW v. RITOCHE.
Syllabus.

tract known as Green River Island, and that the jurisdiction
'of Kentucky at that time extended, and ever since has
extended, to what was then low-water mark on the north
side of that channel, and the boundary between Kentucky
and Indiana must run on that line, as nearly as it can now be
ascertained, after the channel has been filled.

Judgment mfavor of the claam of -Yentucky will be entered
in conformsty wzth thts opmwn, and commissionerswill be
appointed to ascertan and Pun the boundary line as
herein designated, and to report to ths court, upon which,
appointment counsel of the parties will be heard on notice.
And it is so ordered.

THAW v. RITCEIE.
E

OR TO THE SUPREME COVT OF THE DISTICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 264.

Argued April 15, 16, 1890.-Decided May 23, 1890.

Under the statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-ch. 12, § 10, the orphans'
court of the District of Columbia had authority to order, a sale by a
guardian of, real estate of his infant wards for their maintenance and
education, provided that before the sale its order was approved by the
Circuit Court of the United States sitting in chancery.
The statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-ch. 12, § 10, is not repealed by
the act of Congress of March 3, 1843, c. 87.
The authority of the orphans' court of the District of Columbia under the
statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-eh. 12, § 10, to order a sale of an
infant's real estate for his maintenance and education is not restricted to
legal estates, or to estates in possession.
A testator devised all his real and personal estate to his widow for life, in
trust for the equal benefit of herself an4 their two children or the survivors of them, and devised all the property remaining at the death of
the widow, to the children or the survivor of them in fee; and if'both children should die before the widow devised all the property to-her in fee.
Held, that the widow took the legal estate .n the real property for her
life; that she and the children took the equitable estate therein for her
life in equal shares; and that the children took vested remainders in fee,
subject to be divested by their dying before the widow.
The minute book of a court of chancery is competent and conclusive evidence of its doings, in the absence of an extended record.
Real estate devised to the testator's widow for life for the equal benefit of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
herself and their two infant children, and devised over in fee to the
children after the death of the widow, and to her if she survived them,
was ordered by the orphans' court of the District of Columbia, with the
approval of the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in chancery, to
be sold, upon the petition of the widow and guardian, alleging that the
testator's property was insufficient to support her and the children, and
praying for a sale of the real estate for the purpose of relieving her immediate -wantsand for the support and education of the children. Held,
that the order of sale, so far as it cop aerned the infants' interests in the
real estate, was valid under the statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, subch. 12, § 10.
An order of the orphans' court of the District of Columbia, approved by
the Circuit Court of the United States sitting m chancery, under the
statute of faryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-ch. 12, § 10, for the sale by a
guardian of real estate of his infant wards for their maintenance and
education, cannot be collaterally impeached for want of notice to the
infants, or of a record of the evidence on which either court proceeded,
or of an accounting by the guardian for the proceeds of the sale.

Tins was an action of ejectment, brought December 12,
1882, by Columbus Thaw against Maria Ritchie to recover
possesson of an undivided half of lots 1 and 4 in square 160
in the city of Washington.
At the trial, on the general issue, before Chief Justice Cartter, the plaintiff introduced evidence that his father, Joseph
Thaw, died in 1840, serzed and possessed of these lots under a
title derived from the United States, and leaving a will, dated
February 26, 1840, and duly admitted to probate in the same
year, which (omitting the formal commencement and conclusion) was as follows
"Imprimis. I hereby appoint and cofistitute my beloved
wife, Eliza Vran Tyler Thaw, to be the guardian of my two
youngest children, to wit, my daughter, Columbia Thaw, and
my son, Columbus Thaw, and to act in trust for them in all
things as fully as I would do if living.
"Item. I give and bequeath to my said beloved wife Eliza
all my property of every description, real and personal, to hold
and enjoy during her natural life, in trust for the equal
benefit and maintenance of herself and of my daughter Columbia and of my son Columbus, the two children above named,
and if either of them shall die before arriving at the age of
majority, then she is to hold the whole property as above for

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Statement of the Case.

the equal benefit of herself and the survivor of the two abovenamed children, or if both of the said children shall die before
their mother, my said wife, then she, my said wife Eliza, shall
hold the said property during her natural life for her sole own
use and benefit, and in no case shall she, my beloved wife
Eliza, be deprived of the use of any part thereof during her
natural life for the maintenance of herself and of the two
children aforesaid, while they, or of either, while either of
them shall live, or of herself, while she shall survive them both.
"Item. I give and bequeath to my two children above
named, Columbia and Columbus, in equal parts, to their heirs
and assigns forever, all my estate, real and personal, that shall
remain at anc& after the death of their mother, my said wife
Eliza, or if either of them shall not survive their mother, then
I will that the surviving one shall have the whole.
"Item. If both of my said children shall die before their
mother, then, on the demise of the last survivor of them,-I
give and bequeath to my beloved wife Eliza, to her heirs and
assigns forever, for her own proper benefit, all my estate of
every description.
"I do moreover hereby constitute and appoint my beloved
wife, Eliza Van Tyler Thaw, above named; the sole executrix
of this my last will and testament, and authorize her to administer and execute the same without giving security in any
way whatever."
The plaintiff also introduced evidence tending to show that
-ns mother, Eliza V Thaw, died in February, 1866, and, for
the purpose of showing a severance of the joint tenancy
claimed to have existed between himself- and his sister Columbia Thaw in these lots, put in evidence a deed, dated May 16,
1848, from his sister and one Henry Walker of their interest
in these lots to Agricol- Favier, a deed, dated October 22,
1874, from a trustee appointed in a suit in equity for the partition of Favier's real estate, after his death, purporting to
convey the whole of these lots to one Ingersoll, a deed of thelots, dated May 24, 1878, from Ingersoll to Mary J France,
and the will of Mrs. France, admitted to- probate m January,
1881, devisinj all her real estate to the defendant.

OCTOBER TElMN,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

It was admitted that the real estate sought to be recovered
was worth more than $12,000, and that the defenuant was in
possession thereof, claiming title adversely to the plaintiff.
The defendant claimed title under a deed of the two lots to
Favier from Eliza V Thaw, dated .arch 17, 188, purporting
to be executed pursuant to an order of sale made upon her petition by the orphans' court for the county of Washington in
the District of Columbia, and approved by the Circuit Court
of the United States of the District of Columbia, sitting as a
court of chancery In support of this defence, the defendant
offered in evidence, and the court admitted, against the objec
tion and exception of the plaintiff, the following matters
(1) From the office of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, a book, entitled "Chancery Rules No. 4," of its
predecessor, the Circuit Court of the United States of the
District of Columbia, containing this entry
"No. 344-. Eliza V Thaw, guardian to Columbus and Columbia Thaw, infant children of Jos. Thaw, dec'd. Petition, exhibit, decree of orphans' court. 1844, Oct. 12. -D ecree
affirming decree of orphans' court."
(2) From the same office, the only paper on file there in said
case No. 344-, certified by E. N. Roach, register of wills, under
date of April 29,1844, to be " a true copy from an original filed
and recorded in the office of the register of wills ior Washington County aforesaid," and consisting of a petition addressed
to the judge of the orphans' court for that county dated March
29,1844, signed by Eliza V Thaw, and having annexed to it a
certificate of a justice of the peace to her oath tnat" the facts contamed in the within petition are true to the best of her knowledge and belief," together with the order of the orphans'
court thereon, which petition and order were as follows
"To the lion. N. P Causin, judge of the orphans' court of
Washington County
"The petition of the subscriber respectfully represents that
she has paid all the debts due by her deceased husband,
Joseph Thaw, and that the property left by the deceased is
insufficient to support her and the children provided for in the

THAW v. RITCIIIE.
Statement of the Case.

will of the deceased, and a portion of the estate belonging to
the deceased consists of two vacant and unimproved lots of
ground situate, lying and being in the city of Washington, in
the District of Columbia, to wit, lots numbers one and four in
square number one hundred and sixty Your petitioner respectfully prays that the court will deem it expedient and
cause the said lots to be sold for the purpose of relieving the
immediate wants of the petitioner and for the support and
education of the children named in the will of the said Joseph
Thaw, deceased, and that an order may be granted for the sale
thereof at an early a day as practicable, and, as in duty
bound, will ever pray, etc.

"29th March, 1844.

ELiZA

V THAW"

"Orphans' Court of Washington, D.C.
"In the Case of the Petition of Eliza V Thaw, Executrix and
Guardian to Columbia and Columbus Thaw, Minor Children
of Joseph Thaw, deceased.
"This case connng on to be heard in the orphans' court O.n
the petition, exhibits, accompanying proofs and representation
of said Eliza V Thaw in her capacity as guardian and executrix aforesaid, the same were by the court read and duly considered, and thereupon it is by the said court, this 29th day of
March, 1814, ordered, adjudged and decreed, provided that the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia for the county of
Washington, sitting as a court of chancery, shall by its proper
-order in the.premises approve thereof, that the said guardian,
for the petitioner's minor children of said Joseph Thaw and her
self, be and she is hereby authorized and empowered to sell
the said real estate mentioned in said petition, at publio or private sale, after such notice by advertisement as she shall deem
reasonable and sufficient- on the following terms, viz., either
for cash or on credit, at the option of the said guardian, and
on the full payment of the purchase-money and interest, and
on the ratification of the sale by this court, to execute to the
purchaser, his heirs or assigns, at his or their cost and request,
a valid and sufficient deed of conveyance in fee simple of the
said premises, with all the right and estate therein of the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Columbia and Columbus Thaw, minor children aforesaid, provided that the said guardian, before proceeding to act hereunder, shall file with the register of wills her bond, witl4
security, to be approved by the judge of this court, in the
penalty of seven hundred and fifty dollars, with the usual
condition for the due and faithful performance of the trust
reposed in her as guardian of said children, and immediately
after making said sale to report the same under oath to this
court.
"NATH'L

POPE CAUSIN."

(3) Certified copies of two bonds, each executed by Eliza
V Thaw as principal, and Renry Walker and John Walker,
as sureties, to the United States.
One of these bonds, dated March 22, 1844, was in the penal
sum of $725, and upon the condition that if "the abovebounden Eliza Van Tyler Thaw, as guardian to Columbia and
Columbus Thaw, orphans of Joseph Thaw, of Washington
County, deceased, shall faithfully account with the orphans'
court of Washington County, as directed by law, for the
management of the property and estate of the orphans under
her care, and shall also deliver up the said property agreeably to the order of the said court, or the directions of law,
and shall in all respects perform the duty of guardian to the
said Columbia and Columbus Thaw, according to law, then
the above obligation will cease, it shall otherwise remain in
full force and virtue in law"
The other bond, dated May 17, 1845, was in the penal sum
of $750, and upon this condition "Whereas Eliza V Thaw,
by a decree of the orphans' court of Washington County
aforesaid, and confirmed by an order of the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia for the county of Washington, aforesaid, has been appointed trustee to sell the real estate of the
late Joseph Thaw, mentioned in said order, for the support
and maintenance of Columbia and Columbus Thaw, minors, as
will more fully appear by the said decree, reference being
thereto had Now the condition of the above obligation is
such that if the above bounden Eliza V Thaw do and shall

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Statement of the Case.

well and faithfully perform the trust reposed in her as trustee
aforesaid by the said decree, or that may be reposed in her by
any further decree or order in the premises, then the above
obligation to be void, otherwise in full force and virtue in
law"
(4) A book of records from the office of the register of
wills for the District of Columbia, entitled "Guardians' Docket
No. 2," containing numerous entries relating to proceedings of
guardians in the orphans' court from 1818 to 1860, but no
proceedings of the court relating to the sale of real estate, and
the only entry in which relating to Eliza V Thaw's guardianship was as follows
"Eliza V Thaw, guardian to Columbia Thaw and Columbus
Thaw, orphans of Jos. Thaw Bond, March 22, 1844, $725,
H'y Walker, Jno. Walker, sureties. Trustee bond, 17 May,
1845, $750, H'y Walker, E. Walker, sureties."
(5) Another book of records from that *office,entitled "Liber
E. N. R. No. 2. Proceedings 1846 to 1861," the entries in
which appeared to be consecutive, and which was the only
record in that office of proceedings between those dates relating to sales of real estate, and was made by binding up loose
scraps of paper in the handwriting of E. N. Roach, register of
wills during those years,. previously kept in portfolios, and.
contained the only record to be found in the office relating to
the real estate of- Joseph Thaw, namely, among the proceedings of the orphans' court on Friday, January 21, 1848, the
following- "Sale of real estate of Jos. Thaw, dec'd, filed.
Order of approval filed," or "for," the last word being indistinct and uncertain.
(6) Testimony of the assistant clerk of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, and of persons who had served or
had made searches in theL registry of wills, that there was great
confusion in the records, both of the Circuit Court of the United
States of the District of Columbia, and of the orphans' court,
before the organization of the Supreme Court of the District
of Cblumbia in 1863'under the act of March 3; 1863, c. 91. 12
Stat. 762.
(7) Docket entries in a great number of other cases on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

chancery side of the Circuit Court of the United States of the
District of Columbia before and after October 12, 1844, and
between 1823 and 1863, and on the equity side of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia between 1863 and July 8,
1865, showing that the practice and forms of proceeding in
such cases during those periods were similar to the practice in
said case No. 344, and also many later cases in the orphans'
court before 1881, in which the practice and forms of proceeding were similar.
(8) The deed executed by Eliza V Thaw to Agricol
Favier, dated and acknowledged March 17, 1848, and recorded March 1, 1867, containing this recital
"Whereas a decree was passed on the twenty-ninth day of
March in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-four,
by the orphans' court for the county of Washington in the
District of Columbia, upon the petition of Eliza V Thaw,
guardian of her infant children, Columbus and Columbia
Thaw, and whereas the said Eliza V Thaw was thereby
appointed a trustee to sell lots numbered one and four in
square one hundred and sixty in the city of Washington,
which decree was on the twelfth day of October in the year
one thousand eight hundred and forty-four confirmed by the
Circuit Court for the county of Washington, sitting as a court
of chancery, and the said Eliza Thaw having, in conformity
with said decree, filed a bond with sureties, which was approved by the said orphans' court, and having, in like conformity with said decree, sold said lots above mentioned, and
reported the same to said court, which report was by said court,
on the twenty-first day of January in the year one thousand
eight hundred and forty-eight, duly approved, ratified and
confirmed, and whereas the said Agricol Favier was the
purchaser of said lots from her, the said Eliza V Thaw, the
trustee as aforesaid, under the power vested in her by the
said decree."
By the terms of this deed, "the said Eliza V Thaw, for and
in consideration of the sum of
,lawful money of the
United'States, to her in hand paid by the said Agricol Favier
at or before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the re-

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Statement of the Case.

ceipt whereof is hereby acknowledged," conveyed to Agricol
Favier, in fee, these two lots, "and all the estate, right, title,
interest, dlaim and demand whatsoever, legal and equitable,
of her, the said Eliza V Thaw, as guardian and trustee as
aforesaid, and as well as in her own right as of the said infant
children, Columbus and Columbia Thaw, to the same."
(9) A deed of partition of other lands between the plaintiff
and his sister Columbia, dated March 1, 1871, which recited
that "their said mother, after disposing of the real estate acquired by said will, and investing the proceeds thereof in other
real estate," died intestate.
The plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury as follows:
"1st. Under Joseph Thaw's will during the life of Mrs.
Thaw, his widow, she held the legal title to the real estate
devised thereby for her life, in trust for herself and the two
children, Columbia and Columbus, according to the terms prescribed in the will. The interest which Columbus Thaw took
in the real estate under his father's will during the life of his
mother was a remainder in fee after the termination of her
life, and was not an estate in possession until after the death
of his mother. The- orphans' court had no power during Mrs.
Thaw's life to decree the sale of the estate in remainder of
Columbus Thaw Her deed, therefore, purporting to. convey
said estate is void,
"2d. The Maryland act of 1798, chapter 101, sub-chapter
12, § 10, did not apply to remainders, and such estates of
infants were not subject to sale on petition of the guardian to
the orphans' court, with the approval of the. Court of Chancery, as provided in said act.
"3d. The alleged entry in the records of the orphans'
court, purporting to be of the date of January 21, 1848, in
thesb words. 'Sale of real estate of Jos. Shaw, dec'd filed.
Order of approval for,' is indefinite, uncertain and insufficient
to authorize Mrs. Thaw's deed, inasmuch as it does not state
what sale, or what real estate was sold, nor by whom, to whom
or for what consideration the sale was made; and inasmuch as
no report of sale is shown, and no guardian's account, and no

OCTOBER TERM1, 1889.
Argument for 11laintif" in Error.

record evidence of any payment whatever, and the deed itself
does not recite any consideration.
" 4th. The act of Congress of March 3, 1843, entitled 'An
act to provide in certain cases for the sale of the real estate of
infants within the District of Columbia,' repealed the Maryland act of 1798, so far as concerned the sale of the real
estate of infants, and since that act of Congress was passed,
the real estate of infants could only be sold upon a bill filed
therefor as prescribed by said act of Congress, and, as no
-such bill was filed in reference to the real estate in question,
the deed of Eliza V Thaw to Agricol Favier did not convey
the interest of Columbus Thaw therein.
"5th. The orphans' court of the District of Columbia, at
the date of the proceedings therein relating to the sale of the
real estate by Eliza V Thaw, guardian, was one of limited
jurisdiction, and a party claiming title to real estate under its
proceedings must show affirmatively that it had jurisdiction,
and that not having been shown in this case, the deed from
Mrs. Thaw to Agricol Favier did not convey the interest of
the plaintiff in the real estate in question."
But the court refused so to instruct the jury, and directed a
verdict for the defendant, a verdict and judgment were rendered accordingly, and the plaintiff excepted to the refusal
and direction.
The court in general term, Justices ilagner and James sitting, reversed the judgment, for the reasons stated in an
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice ilagner, and reported in 4
Mackey, 34'7, 358-390. Upon the defendant's petition, a reargument was ordered before the whole court, and the original
judgment was affirmed, for the reasons stated in the opinion
delivered by Mr. Justice Cox, and reported in 5 Mackey, 200228, Mr. Justice Hagner dissenting. The plaintiff sued out
this writ of error.
-Mr F P Stanton and .Mr S. Ri.
error.

Bond for plaintiff in

The principal questions for consideration are
First. Did the Maryland act of 1798 give jurisdiction to

THAW v. IRITCHIE,
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the orphans' court, with the approval of its order by the fate
Circuit Court, to decree the sale of real estate of infants 2
Second. If such jurisdiction was conferred by said act, was
it in force in this District at the date of the alleged decree
and sale, or was it repealed or superseded by the act of Congress of March 3, 1843, entitled "An act to provide in certain
cases for the sale of real estate -of infants within the District
of Columbia 2 "
Th rd. Assuming that the act of 1798 conferred upon the
orphans' court the power to decree the sale of an infant's real
estate under its provisions, does the record in this case show
that it acquired jurisdiction for that purpose and that the
alleged sale was legally made 2
FourtA. Was the infant's interest in the property in question
real estate in such a sense as to be the subject of such a sale 2
I. The Maryland act of 1798, c. 101, sub-chapter 12, provides,
in § 6, that every guardian appointed by the court having the
care of real estate, shall, within three months after executing
his bond, procure the said estate to be viewed and reported on
by two skilful, discreet persons, not related to either party,
and appointed by the orphans' court, who shall-take an oath
to appraise the same .without favor or prejudice, and shall
estimate the annual value thereof, and set down what improvements, etc., are on the land, and their condition, etc., and shall
make a -certificate of all they have done, and the same shall
be returned by the guardian to the orphans' court within three
months.
Section 7 provides that "No guardian shall commit waste on
the land, but the court may, on his application, allow him to
cut down and sell wood and account for the same, in case it
shall deem the same advantageous or necessary for the ward's
education and maintenance."
Section 8 provides- that the guardian shall either cultivate
or lease such real estate, or may with the court's approbation,
undertake the estate on his own account and be answerable for
the annual value.
Section "9 provides that the guardian shall account for all
profit and increase of the estate, etc.
VOL. C Xvi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Section 10 is as follows:
" And once in each year, or oftener if required, a guardian
shall settle an account of his trust with the orphans' court,
and the said court shall ascertain, at discretion, the amount
of the sum to be annually expended in the maintenance and
education of the orphan, regard being had to the future situation, prospects and destination of the ward, and the said
court, if it shall deem it advantageous to the ward, may allow
the guardian to exceed the income of the estate, and'to make
use of his principal, and to sell part of the same, under its order"
Provided, nevertheless, That no part of the real estate shall,
on account of such maintenance or education, be diminished
without the approbation of the Court of Chancery or General
Court, as well as of the orphan's court."
This proviso is claimed by the counsel for the defendant
to confer upon the orphans' court plenary power, upon the ex
arte petition of the guardian, without bill or citation of any
kind to the infant, to pass a decree for the sale of his real
estate upon an expairte ratification of the decree by the late
Circuit Court, and this in the face of the express provision in
the same act establishing the orphans' court, "that the said
orphans' court shall not, under any pretext of incidental
power, or constructive authority, exercise any jurisdiction
whatever not expressly given by this or some other law "
We deny the correctness of this interpretation. Looking at
the specific and guarded provisions of that act to protect the
rights of an infant in respect to his personalty and to his
slightest interest in the realty, such as the cutting and selling
wood therefrom, or its careless cultivation even, it is beyond
reason and belief that the same legislative body should, in the
same act, have intended to confer upon the orphans' court, to
which it positively prohibited the exercise of any incidental or
constructive jurisdiction, authority to sell the infant's realty,
including timber and improvements, without the slightest
direction as to the manner of sale or the proceedings by which
the same was to be effected.
The authority, if any, must be expressly conferred. Where
are the words found which give any such express grant of

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

power 2 The brief proviso, negative in its terms, "that no
part of the real estate shall, on account of such maintenance
and education, be dimm hslwd without the approbation of the
Court of Chancery or General Court, as well as of the
orphans' court," is the sole expression in the law upon which
our opponents rely as the grant of such power. The wordssell or sold do not occur in it. If it was intended to confer
the power to sell real estate it would have said so, as nothing
was to be taken by implication. The acts of Congress of
1843, 5 Stat. 621, c. 87, and 1856, 11 Stat. 118, c. 163 (Rev
Stat. D C. §§ 968, 973), relating to the sale of real estate of
infants, etc., explicitly treat the proceeds of such sale as real
estate standing in the place of that which was sold.
In the Maryland system of jurisprudence at that time there
was no necessity to confer such power upon the orphans' court,
nor could any exigency arise wherein the interest of infants
could demand its exercise; for whenever there was a proper
occasion for the sale of the realty, the guardian could procure
such sale through the more guarded and appropriate proceedings of a Court of Chancery
The c6urts of Maryland have-maintained the jurisdiction of
the Court of Chancery-of that State, independent of statute,
to decree the sale of -aninfant's real estate upon a proper showing, and through proper proceedings. In Corrie's Case, 2
Bland, 488, Chancellor Bland says it has always been admitted
that the Chancellor of Maryland was invested with all the
powers in relation to infants with which the Chancellor of
England had been clothed. To the same effect are Dorsey v
Gilbert, 11 G. & J 87, Downsn v Sprecher, 35 Maryland,
474, Zong v. Long, 62 Maryland,. 33, Taylor v. Peabody
Rezghts Co., 65 Maryland, 388.
The office of that proviso was this, after a sale through a
Court of Chancery, to authorize the application of the proceeds
of'the sale, by the concurrent action of the Court of Chancery
and the orphans' court, to such maintenance and education.
In this way the act supplied a seeming defect in the then
existing law whenever a case .should arise where the infant's
personal estate was insufficient for his support and education,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for 'laintiff in Error.

but the instances are numerous which show with what caution
the realty was allowed to be encroached upon, especially as
its possession was a qualification to vote or to hold office, and
until the act of 1785, c. 80, § 9, authorized the guardian to
apply a tenth part of his ward's personal estate, annually, for
his education, no part of the principal of the personalty could
be so used. The orphans' courts were generally presided over
by laymen presumably unqualified to supervise, especially
without specific statutory directions, the often complicated
proceedings, as practised in a Court of Chancery, for the sale of
real estate and the protection of all the rights and interests
involved. There are numerous Maryland decisions showing
how jealously the orphans' court was excluded from control
over, or interference with, real estate. Stewart v Patterson,
8 Gill, 46, Hayden v B.arch, 9 Gill, 79.
It is argued, in avoidance of the fact that the practice pursued in this case was never adopted in Maryland, that after
the organization of the courts in the District of Columbia
they were not bound to follow the Maryland courts in their
construction of the act in question. We do not deny that the
District judiciary is independent of that of Maryland. We
only maintain that tne adjudications and practice in the State
where the act was originally passed, and where it remained in
force, certainly until 1816, and from which it was, in 1801,
adopted as the law of this District, are most persuasive, if not
conclusive, arguments in favor of the construction which they
have placed upon the act. .2letropolitan Railroad v -Moore,
12111 S. 558.
We deem it wholly irrelevant to the argument what may
have been the opinion or practice upon this question in any
other jurisdiction than that of Maryland, as the only point in
the argument is to shed light upon the intention of the legislative body which passed the act under consideration, and
that intention must be judged by the occasion supposed then
and there to exist for its passage.
Before closing this point of our argument we would call
attention to section 16 of sub-chapter 12 of the act of 1798,
which provides that "nothing in this act contained shell be

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

construed to affect the general superintending power exercised
by the Court of Chancery with respect to trusts." As will
appear when we come to comment upon the will of Joseph
Thaw, the estate with which the orphans' court attempted to
deal in this case, was a trust estate during the life of Mr.
Thaw, and therefore came within the inhibition above quoted.
I. As to the effect of the act of Congress approved March
3, 1843, entitled "An act to provide in certain cases for the
sale of real estate of infants within the District of Columbia."
5 Stat. 621, c. 87, incorporated in Rev Stat. D. C. § 957.
This act was passed more'than a year before the proceedings
were instituted by Mrs. Thaw which resulted in the alleged
sale, and about four years before the sale is supposed to have
taken place, no date of sale anywhere appearing. It was in
full force at that time, and we confidently claim that it superseded any authority that can possibly be held to have been
granted by the act of 1798 to the orphans' court to decree the
sale of the real estate in question, and furnished the course of
proceeding necessary to be pursued to accomplish that purpose.
There is no exigency supposed to be provided for by the
former act that is not included in the later one, which is
broader in its scope, more definite in its provisions and ample
in every way to accomplish, by a better and safer method,
everything that can possibly be contemplated by the former.
On well-settled principles of statutory construction,, the former
law, so far as it related to the subject-matter covered by the
latter, was superseded and repealed by it. United States v
Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, Olaflin v United States, 97 U S. 46.
A similar act was passed in Maryland in 1816, and amended
by act of 1818 providing for the sale of a part or the whole of
an infant's real. estate through the guarded proceedings of a
Court of Chancery whenever it shall appear to the court, after
hearing and examination, etc., "that it will be for the interest
and advantage of the infant" to sell the same, and proceedings
for the sale of infant's realty in that State have ever since
been required by its courts to conform to the provisions of
that law, though, like the act -of 1843, it contains no repealing clause, and its title is to authorize the sale in "cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

therein mentioned," as that of the act of 1843 is to authorize
it in " certain cases." Hunter v Hatten, 4 Gill, 115, S. 0. 45
Am. Dec. 11i, TRiliams's Case, 3 Bland's Ch. 186, 203, 204.
In closing this point we will add that the practice in this
District has now come into conformity with what we claim to
be the only practice for the sale of an infant's real estate which
has any legal warrant, as is shown by the list of cases filed by
us and made part of the record and by a comparison of the
numbers and dates of those cases with those of the list filed
by the defendant, and we do not think that a practising attorney would now ask, or the court grant, an order of sale upon
proceedings similar to those pursued in this case, yet what is
the law now, in that respect, was the law in 1844 and 1848,
when the proceedings relied upon by the defendant were instituted and prosecuted.
III. Whatever construction may be placed upon the acts of
1798 and 1S43, we contend that the record totally fails to
show jurisdictional facts sufficient to empower the orphans'
court to divest the plaintiff in error, then an infant, of his
interest in the property in question.
The proceedings in the orphans' court and in the Circuit
Court of the District coipsst only of brief docket entries and
of the certified copy of a petition in the former court by Mrs.
Thaw, not even describing herself as guardian, with a decree
thereon, exhibited in the Circuit Court, and there, without any
other pleadings or parties, summarily approved. The record
of these doings is meagre, informal and deficient. We are well
aware that, in courts whose jurisdiction is not questioned, such
deficiencies are overlooked and often 9upplied by intendment
and presumption. The authorities quoted to show what great
mformalities in such cases are disregarded' we do not answer,
because we do not dispute them.
But we claim that the orphans' court, at the time of these
proceedings, was an "inferior court," in that sense which required everything necessary to give jurisdiction to be shown
in its record.
It is expressly made so by the act establishing it, which provides that "the said orphans' court shall not, under pretext of

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

incidental power, or constructive authority, exercise any jurisdiction whatever not expressly given by this or some other law"
Among the numerous decisions showing with what strictness
this principle has been enforced, we cite the following Scott
v Burch, 6 H. & J 67, Townshend v. Brooke, 9 Gill, 90,
Conner v Ogle, 4 Maryland Oh. 425, lowe "v Lowe, 6 Maryland, 347, Yeaton v Lynn, 5 Pet. 224, 230.
Referring back to the provisions of the act of 1798, as given
under point I of this brief, we see with what specific safeguards the real estate of an infant is surrounded' by sections
6, 7, 8 and 9. Then when we come to section 10, under which
the alleged sale in this case is claimed to have been made, we
find these safeguards still further maintained. Down to the
provmso, for which such potency is claimed, this section is one
single provision of the law, the several parts of which are
-separated only by commas and semicolons -in fact, it is one
single sentence of which all the clauses are interdependent.
It would seem necessary, therefore, that the court should have
the account required of the guardian, if not the report of the
appraisers as per section 6, in order to know the condition of
the estate and to determine the annual sum to be expended
for. the orphan. The language of the statute makes this a
condition -precedent,and surely it is only a reasonable condition for the sale of an orphan's realty
The proviso which immediately follows and qualifies the
provisions of the act of 1798 commented on above has been
construed to authorize the extraordinary proceedings shown
in this case, that is to say, a simple petition by Mrs. Thaw,
the guardian, though not stating -that she is or acts as such,
in the orphans' court, and a decree thereon, and a certified
copy of this petition and decree exhibited in the Circuit Court
and there approved summarily, ex yare. eventuating in the
docket entry in the chancery rules iNo. 4, case No. 344, of date
October 4, 1844. This is the whole case.
We deny the validity of this interpretation of the law of
1798. The jurisdictional facts must appear on the face of the
proceedings, the judgment of a court without jurisdiction is
void, and its proceedings must be in accordance with the funda-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

mental and well-established principles of practice. Especially
is this so of courts of limited jurisdiction, as we have shown
above. Bloom. v Burdice, 1 Hill, 130, S. C. 37 Am. IDec.
299, Tliatehq., v Powell, 6 Wheat. 119, Elliott v Pezrsol,
1 Pet. 328, Bank of the United States v Ritchze, 8 Pet. 128,
Shrmver's Lessee v Lynn, 2 How 43, Hiekey's Lessee v Stewart,3 How 750, Williamson v Berry. 8 How 495, Windsor
v Ie Tegh, 93 U S. 274.
IV As to the interests of the infants in the property at the
time of the alleged sale.
By the will of Joseph Thaw the widow was invested with a
life estate "u? trust for the equal benefit and maintenance of
herself and of her daughter Columbia and of her son Columbus." In the same clause it was provded that if either or
both the children should die before the mother, she should
hold the property, during her natural life, zn trust, for the
equal benefit of herself and the surviving child, and in case of
the death of both children then "for her own sole use and
benefit." This part of the will is explicit in creating a life
estate only, and in raising a trust of that estate for the benefit
of all three as long as the mother should live.
Now, at the time of Mrs. Thaw's application to the orphans'
court in 1844, this trust estate for her life was in existence,
separate and distinct from the remainder in fee. If the propertv was sold under the decree of that court this trust was
included and disposed of by Mrs. Thaw's deed. But if any
thing in this case be certain and undeniable, it is that the
orphans' court was wholly without any jurisdiction over trust
estates. TMaryland act of 1798. c. 101, sub-ch. 12, sec. 16.
We think this point decisive of the whole case.
That clause of the will which gives to the two children, and to their heirs and assigns, all the estate real and
personal, that shall remain after the death of the mother.
would undoubtedly have given the children a vested remainder in fee, if that had been all. But this clause isfollowed
by another, which says, "if both of my said children shall
die before their mother, then, on the demise of the last survivor of them, I give and bequeath to my beloved wife,

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Opinion of the Court.

Eliza, to her heirs and assigns forever, for her own proper
benefit, all my estate of every description." Be it observed,
that this last clause does not devise the property to the
mother in the event of the children dying withou -issue,but
simply on the condition of their dying before her. If both
had married and had children and then died before the
mother, we presume the last clause of the will would have
prevailed, and the mother would have taken the estate. Did
she not have an interest in remainder by virtue of this last
clause giving the estate to her and her heirs, an event quite
possible to happen 2. If the estate in remainder might take
effect in her, it could not have been vested at the same time
in the children. Powell on Devises, Vol. I, 206, and Vol. II,
cxiii.
As contingent remainders are not subject to sale or conveyaice, it matters not that here both parties to this double
contingency are claimed to have united in the deed.
.Mr George F Appleby for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE GuAY, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

In the consideration and decision of this case; we have been
greatly aided by the able and exhaustive opinions delivered in
the court below
The principal question is whether the orphans' court, with
the approval of the Circuit Court of the United States of the
District of Columbia sitting in chancery, had jurisdiction to.
order the sale of real estate of infants for their maintenance
and education.
It may be assumed that in Maryland before 1798 the
orphans' court had no authority to order a sale of a ward's
real estate for any purpose, although the Court of Chancery
was empowered by statute to direct a sale of an infant's land
for the purpose of making partition, and perhaps had inherent
authority to order a sale of an infant's real estate for his support and education. Maryland Stats. 1715, c. 39, §§ 9, 33,
and 1758, c. 4, Bacon's Laws of Maryland, Feoruary, 1777, c.

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinon of the Court.

8, 1 Kilty's LPws, 1785, c. 72, § 12, and c. 80, § 9, and 1798,
c, 101, 2 Kilty's Laws, 4 Mackey, 361, 368, 5 IMackev,
202-206.
The earliest statute of Maryland, which authorized a sale
by a guardian of the principal of the personal property of his
ward, was the statute of 1785, c. 80, § 9, by which, after providing that a guardian should not profit by any increase or
lose by any decrease "of the estate of the minor under the
care of such guardian," and should annually settle an account
"of such estate" with the orphans' court, in which "the increase and profits of the estate" should be accounted for, or
the loss or decrease thereof allowed, and he should be allowed
by the court a commission "upo r the whole annual produce of
such estate" for managing "such estate," it was further enacted as follows "And in case the produce of the estate is
not sufficient to maintain and educate the minor in a proper
manner, and it shall appear to the orphans' court aforesaid
that it will be for the benefit and advantage of the orphan to
apply some part of the principal of the personal estate to
which he shall be entitled towards his education, it shall ana
may be lawful for the said court to allow the guardian to
apply a part of the principal of such personal estate, not exceeding one tenth part thereof annually, to the purpose aforesaid."
The Maryland statute of 1798, c. 101, which is understood
to have been drawn up by Chancellor Hanson at the request
of the legislature of Maryland, is entitled "An act for amending, and reducing into system, the laws and regulations concerning last wills and testaments. the duties of executors,
administrators and guardians, and the rights of orphans and
other representatives of deceased persons," and is divided into
several sub-chapters, the twelfth of which relates to guardians
and wards, and contains the following provisions
By § 1, whenever a male under the age of twenty-one years,
or a female under the age of sixteen, entitled to land by descent or devise, or to personal property of a deceased person
by way of distributive share, or of legacy or bequest, shall
not have a natural guardian, or a guardian appointed by last

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Opinion of, the Court.

will, "the orphans' court of the county where the land lies,
or in which administration of the personal estate is granted,
shall have power to appoint a guardian to such infant."
By § 5, on the guardian's executing his bond, the orphans'
court shall have power to order "the land, distributive share
or other property" of the ward to be delivered to the guardian.
By § 6, "every guardian appointed by the court, having the
care of a real estate," shall, within three months, procure an
appointment by the orphans' court of appraisers "to examine
the estate and estimate the annual value thereof."
By § 7, "no guardian shall commit waste on the land, but
the court may, on his-application, allow- him to cut down and
sell wood, and account for the same, in case it shall deem the
same advantageous or necessary for the wardis education and
maintenance."
By § 8, "each guardian, having a real estate under his care,
shall either cultivate the same," "or he shall lease the same
from year to year, or. for any term not exceeding three years,
and within the non-age of the ward, or he may, with the
court's approbation, undertake the estate on his own account,
and be answerable for the annual value."
By § 9, "every guardian shall account for all profit and increase" of the estate, or annual value as aforesaid, and shall not
be answerable for any loss or decrease sustained without his
fault, to be allowed by the orphans' court."
Section 10 (upon the construction and effect of which this
case turns) is as follows "And once in each year, or oftener
if required, a guardian shall settle an account of his trust with
the orphans' court, and the said court shall ascertain, at discretion, the amount of the sum to be annually expended in the
maintenance and education of the orphan, regard being had to
the future situation, prospects and destination of the ward,
and the said court, if it shall deem it advantageous to the ward,
may allow the guardian to exceed the income of the estate,
and to make use of his principal, and to sell part of the same,
under its order provided, nevertheless, that no part of the
real estate shall, on account of such maintenance or education,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

be diminished without the approbation of the Court of Chancery, or General Court, as well as of the orphans' court."
By § 11, "on the first account to be rendered by a guardian,
he shall state the property by him received from an executor
or administrator, or otherwise belonging to his ward, and
every increase, and the profits thence arising, if any "
By § 12, "in case the personal property of a ward shall consist of specific articles," "the court, if it shall deem it advanitageous for the ward, may at any tune pass an order for the
sale thereof for ready money, or on credit, the purchaser,
with security, giving bond to the said ward, bearing interest."
By § 13, "every account of a guardian shall state his expenditures in maintaining and educating the ward, not exceedmg the income of the estate, unless allowed by the court."
By § 15, on the ward's arrival at age, the guardian shall
exhibit a final account to the orphans' court, and shall deliver
up, agreeably to the court's order, to the ward, "all the property of such ward in his hands."
By § 16, "nothing in this act contained shall be construed
to affect the general superintending power exercised by the
Court of Chancery with respect to trust."
By § 20 of sub-chapter 15, it is declared that "the said
orphans' court shall not, under pretext of incidental power or
constructive authority, exercise any jurisdiction whatever not
expressly given by this act, or some other law"
The statute of Maryland of 1798, by the terms of its final
section, took effect on June 1, 1799, and was to continue in
force until the end of the year 1801, and it was continued in
force in the District of Columbia, and equity jurisdiction was
vested in the Circuit Court of the United States of the
District, by the act of Congress of February 27, 1801, c. 15,
§ 1, 5. 2 Stat. 105, 106.
On consideration of § 10 of sub-chapter 12 of the statute of
1798, in connection with the other sections of that sub-chapter,
and in the light of the previous law of Maryland upon the
subject, we concur in th- final conclusion of the court below,
that the orphans' court, with the approval of the Circuit
Court of the United States of the District of Columbia sitting

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Opinion of the Court.

in chancery, had power to order a sale of the real estate of
infant wards for their maintenance and education.
By the terms of that section, the orphans' court, upon
settling the guardian's account annually or oftener, "shall
ascertain, at discretion, the amount of the sum to be annually
expended in the maintenance and education of the orphan,
regard being had to the future situation, prospects and destination of the ward, and the said court, if it shall deem it
advantageous to the ward, may allow the guardian to exceed
the income of the estate and to make use of his principal, and
to sell part of the same, under its order provided, nevertheless, that no part of the real estate shall, on account of
such maintenance or education, be diminished without the
approbation of the Court of Chancery, or General Court, as
well as of the orphans' court."
The orphans' court 15 thus empowered to allow the guardian, for the suitable maintenance and education of the ward,
to exceed "the income of the estate," and-to use and sell part
of the principal thereof. The words "the estate," in their
natural and legal meaning, include the whole property of the
ward in the guardian's hands, and the words "the property,"
"the estate" and "the income of the estate" are habitually
and repeatedly used in that sense, both in other sections (§§ 6,
8, 9, 11, 13, 15) of the same sub-chapter, and in the earlier
statute of 1785, c. 80, § 9, as appears in the passages already
quoted from each of those statutes. Wherever an authority
to sell is intended to be limited to personal property, it is so
expressed, as in § 9 of the statutes of 1785, and in § 12 of the
statute of 1798. Compared with the express restriction of the
authority to sell any part of the principal to "personal
estate" in the act of 1785, the omission of any such restriction in the act of 1798 strongly tends to show that it was
purposely omitted in the latter act.
This conclusion is confirmed by the -proviso "that no part
of the real estate shall, on account of such maintenance or
education, be diminished without the approbation of the Court
of Chancery, or General Court, as well as of the orphans'
court." As observed by Mr. Justice Story speaking for this

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

court, "the office of a proviso, generally, is either to except
something from the enacting clause, or to qualify or restrain
its generality, or to exclude some possible ground of misinterpretation of it, as extending to cases not intended by the legisXinms v Unzted
lature to be brought within its purview"
States, 15 Pet. 423, 445. The insertion of this proviso, therefore, manifests the understanding and intention of the legislature that real estate was and should be included in the preceding general authority to order a sale of part "of the
estate," except so far as qualified by the proviso. Indeed, if
that authority did not include real estate, the proviso would
be superfluous.
The necessary construction of the whole section, including
the proviso, appears to us to be that express authority is
thereby granted to the orphans' court to order a sale of any
part of the ward's estate, real or personal, for his maintenance
and education , but that, before any sale of real estate can be
made for this purpose, the order of the orphans' court shall
be approved by the Court of Chancery or the General Court.
Whether the property to be sold for this purpose is personal
or real, the application is to be made to the orphans' court,
and the order granted by that court in the first instance. In
the case of personal property, no action of any other court is
required. In the case of real estate, the order of sale, after
being passed by the orphans' court, must be presented to and
approved by the Court of Chancery or the General Court,
but no separate suit need be instituted in either of those
courts.
This construction has prevailed in the courts of the State
of Maryland, as well as in those of the District of Columbia.
In Gotter's Case, which is reported in 3 Bland, 200, note,
and an authenticated copy of the proceedings in which has
been filed in this case and sent up with the record, a petition
presented in December, 1810, to the orphans' court of Cecil
County in the State of Maryland, by a father and guardian,
alleged that his infant cfildren and wards had become entitled,
in right of their mother, to one-ninth part of a grist mill and
about one hundred and forty acres of land in that county, the

THAW v. RITCHIE.
Opinion of the Court.

other owners of which, after consulting with the petitioner,
had "concluded that a sale of the said mill and lands would
be highly advantageous to all the persons interested," and had
contracted to sell them to one Alexander Scott for the sum of
$6424.25, provided the petitioner should be able to convey his
children's part, and that the petitioner believed that such a
sale would "much promote the interest and welfare of his
said children, and enable him to educate and support them
more to their advantage than if no such sale were to be
made;" and therefore prayed the orphans' court to "order
that he may be able to make the necessary conveyance."
On December 12, 1810, the orphans' court, "on due consideration of the allegations contained in the within petition," was
Cof
opinion that the sale prayed for was to the advantage of "
the wards, "and should be confirmed,, and that the petitioner
be authorized to make conveyance of that part of his wards'
real estate." In the Court of Chancery, six days afterwards,
Chancellor Kilty signed a decree, which in the authenticated
copy, quoted in 4 Mackey, 370, is stated as follows: "Under
power vested in this court by the act of 1798, c. 101, sub-ch.
12, § 7,the above order of the orphans' court is approved."
This decree, as printed in. 3 Bland' 200, note, differs only in
substituting § 10 for § 7. That it was not made under the
act of 1785, c. 72, § 12, is quite clear, because no partition was
sought, as well as because the petition was addressed to the
orphans' court, and not to the Court of Chancery, in the first
instance. Tilly v Tilly, 2 Bland, 436, 438 and note. Both
versions of the decree agree in stating that it was made under
the power vested in the Court of Chancery by the act of '1798,
c. 101, sub-chapter 12, and § 7 of that sub-chapter concerns
only the- cutting and sale of standing wood by authority of
the orphans' court, without requiring the approval of any
other court. The inference is irresistible, that the insertion of
§ 7 in the record of the decree was a clerical error, and that
the decree was really made, as Chancellor Bland understood it
to have been, under § 10, for the better support and education
of the wards.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in 1828, decided that

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the value of buildings constructed on the land of a ward by
direction of his guardian, and under order of the orphans'
court, at an expense exceeding the income of his estate, real
and personal, could not be recovered from the ward, because
section 10 of the act of 1798 did not empower the orphans'
court to order any part of the principal of the ward's estate
to be applied to any other purpose than his support and maintenance. But the court added. "-Should an application of
the personal estate not suffice to maintain and educate suitably
to the future destination of the ward, then such maintenance
and education may also induce an application of a part of the
real estate, with the approbation of the Court of Chancery or
General Court, as well as the orphans' court." Brodess v
Theompson, 2 Ifarris & Gill, 120, 126, 127.
Chancellor Bland, in a case decided in the same year, cited
those two cases and expressed a similar opinion. TMillzams's
case, 3 Bland, 186, 199, 200, 207 In 1841 the Court of Appeals said "According to our laws a guardian cannot encroach
on the capital of his ward's estate without the order of the
orphans' court, nor can the real estate be dimmished but by
the approbation of the Court of Chancery" Hatton v Meems,
12 Gill & Johns. 83, 108. And it is admitted on all hands,
that the Circuit Court of the United States of the District of
Columbia, and its successor, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, have always interpreted the section in
question according to what we now hold to be its true construction and effect. 5 M1-fackey, 213, 4 Mackey, 383, 386.
It is argued for the plaintiff, that so much of the -Maryland
act of 1798 as concerned the sale of the real estate of infants
has been repealed by the act of Congress of March 3, 1843, c.
87, entitled "An act to provide in certain cases for the sale of
the real estate of infants within the District of Columbia,"
by which it is enacted that when "the guardian of any infant
shall think that the interest of his or her ward will be proniioted by the sale of his or her real estate. or any part thereof,
it shall be lawful for such guardian" to bring a suit in equity
in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, in which the
infant shall be made a party, and shall be represented by a

THAW v. IITCHIE.
Opinion of the Court.

guardian ad litem, and the facts alleged in the bill, whether
admitted or not, shall be proved by disinterested witnesses,
and the court, upon being satisfied that " the interest of the
infant manifestly requires the sale of his real, estate, or any
part thereof," and that "1by such sale the rights of others
will not be violated," may decree a sale, in which case the
proceeds of the sale shall be invested and applied for the
benefit of the infant, " either in the purchase of real estate,
or in such manner as the court shall think best," and upon
his death shall descend as real estate. 5 Stat. 621, 622, Rev
"Stat.D. C. § 957-968.
But this act contains no express repeal of the Maryland
act of 1798, it does not mention the maintenance or education of infants, but authorizes the sale of their real estate
whenever their interest manifestly requires it, its chief pur
pose evidently is to authorize a change of investment, and it
cannot be presumed to have been intended to take away the
authority of the orphans' court, when discharging its appropriate duty of ascertaining the amount proper to be ex.
pended for an infant's maintenance and education, to order
a sale of his real estate for this, single object with the apm
proval of the Court of Chancery
There is nothing in the nature of the interest that these
children took under the will of.their father, which should prevent a sale of it under the statute of 1'798, when necessary
for their maintenance and education. That statute is not restricted to legal estates, or to estates in possession. The effect
of the testator's dispositions, though obscured by some coiffusion and superfluity of language, was to give the legal estate
in all his land to his widow for life, the equitable and beneficial estate for her life to her and the two children, or the
survivors of them, m equal shares, and the legal estate in remainder, after the death of the widow, to the two children, in
fee, with two limitations over in fee, by way of executory
devise, (neither of which impaired the precedent estates, or
ever took effect,) the one, of the share -of a child, dying before
the mother, to the surviving child, and the other, of the
whole estate to the mother, in case she should survive both
VoL..cxxxvi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

children. The legal estate in remainder in the children, which
nothing but their own death before the determination of the
widow's life estate could prevent from vesting in possession,
vested in them from the death of the testator, subject to be divested by their dying before the widow Doe v Constdive,
6 Wall. 458, 476, 3WoArtkur v Scott, 113 U. S. 340, 379.
Their legal estates in remainder, as well as their equitable
estates for life, were present interests, which might be sold
for their maintenance and education.
The records of the orphans' court, and of the Circuit Court
of the United States of the District of Columbia sitting in
chancery, produced from the proper custody, clearly prove
the following facts Mrs. Thaw, who by the will of her husband was appointed executrix thereof, and guardian of their
two children, and exempted from giving bond as executrix,
gave bond as guardian on March 24, 1844. On March 29,
1844, she presented to the orphans' court a petition on oath,
representing that she had paid all her husband's debts, and
that the property left by him was insufficient to support her
and the children, and praying for an order of sale of the real
estate for the relief of her immediate wants and for the support and education of the children. On that petition, the
orphans' court, on the same day, by an order reciting that it
had heard and considered the case "on the petition, exhibits,
accompanying proofs and representation of Eliza V Thaw in
her capacity of guardian and executrix," decreed that, provided
the Circuit Court of the United States of the District of Columbia sitting as a Court of Chancery should by proper order
approve thereof, she should be authorized, as guardian of the
children and for herself, to make sale and conveyance of the
said real estate, first giving bond for the performance of
the trust thereby imposed upon her, and immediately after
the sale making report thereof to the court. On or about
April 29, 1844, a copy of that petition and order, duly certified by the register of wills, was filed on the chancery side of
the Circuit Court of the United States of the District of Columbia. On October 12, 1844, the order of the orphans' court
was approved bv the Circuit Court sitting in chancery, as is

THA.W v. RITOIHE.
Opnon of the Court.

shown by the entry on its docket or minute book, which, in
the absence -of any extended record, is competent and conclusive proof of its doings. Phildephsa, Wilmmigton & Baltsmore Railroad v Howard, 13 How 307, 331. On May 17,
1845, the petitioner gave bond with sureties for the performance of the trust imposed upon her by the order so approved..
The dates of the sale and of the report thereof to the orphans'
court do not appear. .But it does appear, by the minutes -of
its proceedings, that on January 21, 1848, there was filed in
and approved by-that court a "sale of real estate of Joseph
Thaw, deceased," which, in the absence of evidence of any
other sale of his real estate having been ordered or made,
must be inferred to have been a report of this sale. All the
facts recited in the deed executed by Mrs. Thaw to Agricol
Favier on March 17, 1848, are thus proved by independent
evidence, the competency of which is beyond doubt.
The objection that the petition presented by Mrs. Thaw to
the orphans' court was irregular and insufficient to support
the jurisdiction of that court, because it asked for a sale of the
land for the benefit of the petitioner, as well as of her wards,
is sufficiently answered by Mr. Justice Cox, delivering the
judgment below, as follows "It is true that the guardian, in
her application, confused somewhat her own interests with
those of the wards, and alleged the insufficiency of the property to support herself and the children as a ground for selling,
and asked the sale as well to relieve her own zmlmediate 'want,
as for the support of the children. But it is fair to read this
part of the application as referring to her own undivided interest for life in the property It is not to be read as an application to sell the estate of the children for her support. It is
also true that the court had no jurisdiction over the wife's
interest in the property, and could not pass title to it by its
decree. But if the wife chose to unite in the sale and convey
her interest, which she must be held to have done, we see no
reason why the court could not decree a sale of the share of
the infants." "And if there was error in the form of the
decree because it embraced the widow's interest also, it did not
affect its efficacy as to the interest of the infants, but was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

harmless and inoperative error not to be noticed collaterally
The only question that could arise would be as to the proper
apportionment of the proceeds between the mother and the
wards. But this question could only arise after the sale, and
would not affect the transfer of title." 5 Mackey, 227.
The petition and the order of the orphans' court thereon,
fairly and reasonably construed, show that a sale of the infants' interest in the real estate under the will of their father
was prayed for and ordered as necessary for their maintenance
and education. So far as concerned the interest of the infants,
therefore, the court had before it everything that was necessary to support its jurisdiction. In this form of proceeding,
the guardian sufficiently and fully represented the infants, and
no notice to them was required by the statute of Maryland or
by any general rule of law. The want of proof of such notice,
or of any record of the evidence on which the orphans' court
proceeded in making the order, or the chancery court in approving it, or of any subsequent accounting by the guardian
for the proceeds of the sale, is immaterial. The orders of
those courts within their jurisdiction were conclusive proof in
favor of the purchaser and grantee at the sale, and cannot be
collaterally impeached on any such ground. Thoypson v
Tolmze, 2 Pet. 157, Grsgnon v Astor, 2 How 319, Comstock
v Crawford, 3 Wall. 396, _lfc2itt v Turner, 16 Wall. 352,
A2ohr v Eanterre, 101 IT S. 417.

The cases, on which the plaintiff relies, of Bank of United
States v Rztckte, 8 Pet. 128, and Hunter v Hatton, 4 Gill,

115, 124, were wholly different. Both were cases of decrees in
equity upon suits enter partes in the ordinary form. In the
one case, the decree was directly attacked by bill of review, in
the nature of a writ of error, and in the other case, a notice
required by express statute had not been given.
Judgment affirmed

