OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

SHERMAN v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 180. Submitted November 25, 1889. - Decided December 2, 1889.

Hartranft v. Oliver, 125 U. S. 525, affirmed and applied to this case.

THIs case was submitted by the parties on a stipulation in
which, after reciting the trial and judgment in the court below it was said
"'Now it is conceded by the Attorney General, in behalf
of the defendant in error, that the facts in this cause, as
shown by the plaintiffs' bill of exceptions, contained within
the record on this appeal, duly filed in the office of the clerk
of this court, are, in all substantial respects, the same as the
facts upon which judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs in
the court below in the cause Hlartranft v Oliver, which was
argued in this court March 22, 1888, and is reported in Vol.
125 of the United States Reports at page 525 that is to
say"
"1. The plaintiffs herein imported white cotton goods into
the port of :New York. The vessel carrying the goods arrived at that port on the 30th day of June, 1883, and was
immediately boarded by customs officers of the United States,
who took into their custody all goods on board.
"2. The plaintiffs could not have obtained possession of
their said goods Irom the said customs officers without a certain 'permit,' to be issued by the defendant after the goods
were 'entered' by the plaintiffs at the custom-house of the
said port, and the goods could not be so entered there until
after the vessel itself was entered or reported there.
"3. The plaintiffs had a clerk waiting at the said customhouse for the purpose if entering their said goods as soon as
the vessel should be so entered or reported there on the said
30th day of June, 1883, but that the vessel was not so entered

SHERMAN v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

or reported there until at or about 2 o'clock P. x. of that day,
and that it was then too late to enter the said goods in the
usual course of business within that day in the said customhouse.
"4. The first day of July, 1883, was a Sunday The said
goods were duly entered at the said custom-house on the second day of July, 1883, having remained meantime solely in the
custody of the said customs officers on board the said vessel.
"5. The said goods were not in any public storehouse or
bonded warehouse on the first day of July, 1883, otherwise
than as hereinabove appears.
"6. The defendant, as collector of said port, levied customs
duties upon plaintiffs' said goods, at the rates provided for by
section 250: of the :Revised Statutes of the United States,
amounting to $2754.41.
"The plaintiffs objected and protested against such levy
upon the ground that the levy should have been made under
the act of Congress entitled 'An act to reduce internal revenue taxation, and for other purposes,' approved March 3,
1883, under which last-mentioned act the duties upon the said
goods would have amounted to $2179.59, but they paid the
amount of the said levy of the defendant and duly brought
this action to recover the difference or excess so paid, to wit,
to recover $574.82.
"And hereupon the counsel for both parties deem it not
necessary to print the record on this appeal or to argue the
appeal before the court, and the Attorney General, in behalf
of the defendant, submits to the direction of the court upon
the motion of plaintiffs' counsel for judgment."
.MAr Waldo Hutchlns and
plaintiffs in error.

Hr William, Forse Scott for

.AYr Solicitor General for defendant in error.
PE.R OmRii.
The judgment of the court below is
Reversed wsth costs, on the authomty of the demzson of thu
court sn the case of Hartranft v. Oliver, (No. 190 of October term, 1887), 125 U S. 525, and the cause ts 'remanded
wzth directtons toenterjudgmentfor the platntiff.

