OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

HAMILTON v. LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND GLOBE
INSURANCE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 326. Argued May 2, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

A condition in a policy of fire insurance, that any difference arising between
the parties as to the amount of loss or damage of the property insured
shall be submitted, at the written request of either party to the appraisal
of competent and impartial persons, whose award shall be conclusive as
to the smount of loss or damage only, and shall not determine the question of the liability of the insurance company that the company shall
have the right to take the whole or any part of the property at its
appraised value; and that, until such appraisal and award, no loss shall
be payable or action maintainable; is valid. And if the company requests
in writing that the loss or damage be submitted to appraisers in accordance with the condition, and the assured refuses to do so unless the company will consent in advance to define the legal powers and duties of the
appraisers, and against the protest of the company asserts and exercises
the right to sell the property before the completion of an award, he can
maintain no action upon the policy.
The construction and effect of a correspondence in writing, depending in
no degree upon oral testimony or extrinsic facts, is a matter of law, to
be decided by the court.

THIS was an action upon a policy of insurance, numbered
2,907,224, against fire for a year from September 5, 1885, upon
a stock of tobacco in the plaintiff's warehouse at 413 and
415 Madison Street in Covington in the State of Kentucky
Among the printed "conditions relating to the methods of
adjustment of loss and the payment thereof," were the following
The tenth condition, after provisions relating to proofs of
loss, certificate of a magistrate, submission to examination on
oath, and production of books and vouchers and certified
"When
copies. of lost bills and invoices, further provided
property is damaged, the assured shall forthwith cause it to
be put in order, assorting and arranging the various articles

HTAILTOIT v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

according to their kinds, separating the damaged from the
undamaged, and shall cause an inventory to be made and furnished to the company of the whole, naming the quantity,
quality and cost of each article. The amount of sound value
and of the .loss or, damage shall be determihed by agreement
between the company and the assured, but if at any time
differences shall arise as to the amount of any loss or damage,
or as to any question, matter or thing concerning or arising
out of this insurance, every such difference shall, at the written request of either party, be submitted, at equal expense of
the parties, to competent and impartial persons, one to be
chosen by each party, and the two so chosen shall select an
umpire to act with them in case of their disagreement, and
the award in writing of any two of them shall be binding and
conclusive as to the amount of such loss or damage, or as to
any question, matter or thing so submitted, but shall not
decide the liability of -this company, and until such proofs,
declarations and certificates are produced, and examinations
and appraisals permitted, the loss shall not be payable. There
can be no abandonment to the company of the property
insured, but the company reserve the right to take the whole
or any part thereof at its appraised value."
By the eleventh condition, "it is furthermore hereby expressly provided and mutually agreed that no suit or action
against this company for the recovery of any claim by virtue
of this policy shall be sustainable in any court of law or chancery, until after an award shall have been obtained fixing the
amount of such claim in the manner above provided."
The answer put in issue the amount of loss, and set up that
the plaintiff had not performed the conditions of.the policy on
his part, but had refused to submit a difference, between the
parties as to the amount of loss, to appraisal and award as
provided in the policy, and, against the defendant's protest,
had sold the property. -insured, and deprived the defendant of
its right under the policy to have. an appraisal made and to
take the .property or any part thereof at its appraised value,
and had thiereby waived the right to recover under -the policy
At the trial, the plaintiff offered evidence tending to prove

OCTOBER TEIM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the execution of the policy, a loss by fire on April 16, 1886,
occasioned by the tobacco becoming saturated and impregnated with smoke, and thereby greatly damaged , and proofs
of loss, in accordance with the policy
The only other evidence introduced was a correspondence between the parties at
Cincinnati, the material parts of which were as follows
April 23, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff. "If any claim
for loss is to be made under policy No. 2,907,224 of this
company, you will be expected to conform strictly to the conditions of said policy respecting the method of presenting
claims for loss, and no conditions of the policy, or rights of
the Liverpool and London and Globe Insurance Company
thereunder, are in any manner waived or abandoned by that
company You will, of course, understand the necessity of
not removing or disposing of any part of said stock, upon
which loss is proposed to be claimed, pending the settlement
of the claim, unless by agreement with the insurance companies."
April 24, 1886. Plaintiff to defendant. "It is necessary
that I should have the room in which the property now is for
the purpose of prosecuting my business. I propose to the
company, furmshing it with the invoice of the cost or value
of the property before the loss, to send the entire stock to be
sold at auction." "If this is not assented to by the company
I shall be obliged to remove the property from my warehouse
and put it in storage, and, in my judgment, the expense
attending it and the disposition of it will considerably increase
the amount of the loss. The property is ready for examination by your company I desire that such examination as
you wish to make shall be made at once, and that you will
advise me forthwith whether you assent to the sale of the
property, -by public auction in the manner proposed, as the
fairest and most satisfactory mode of ascertaining its present
value?'
April 24:, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff. "This company
will be pleased to have your claim presented in due course
and form, giving" (among other things) "the amount of loss
or damage you claim on the whole, and also as against this

HAMILTON v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

company, as it may be necessary to have the stock appraised
by disinterested appraisers after receipt of proofs. We cannot consent to its removal, unless it be at your own expense.
It should, if possible, be left where it is, though there can be
no objection to your removing it to some other warehouse
at your own expense, where it can be readily inspected by
appraisers. We cannot consent to your disposal of it by sale.
The matter of determining the value or damage will be one
for mutual conference and agreement."
April 26; 1886. Plaintiff to defendant. "I inclose proof
,of loss under policy of your company, with invoice attached,
in compliance with the requirements of the policy" "The
property described and damaged has been invoiced and arranged, and is ready for examination by your company Such
examination must be made at once, for the reason that I am
obliged to occupy the premises in the prosecution of my business, and each day of delay involves considerable los and expense to me.. As before advised, I propose to send the entire
stock to be sold at public auction in a few days, whereof I will'
give you notice. It can be readily inspected in a short time
where it now lies."

April 27, 1886. Defendant's agent to plaintiff. "I beg to
acknowledge receipt of papers purporting to be proofs of loss
under our policies 2,907,224 and 2,823,517. The same- will
have prompt examiiation and attention. Noting your purpose soon to sell the stock, permit us to say that we protest
against such.disposition of it at this stage, and against this ex
parte way of determining the loss sustained. Conditions of
our policy provide the manner and mode of determining the
loss or damage, and we hereby formally demand an appraisal
of the stock, as to value and damage, under each policy, (each
party to name a competent and disinterested party "
April 27, 1886; Plaintiff's counsel to defendant. "].fr.
Hamilton is obliged, for the. prosecution of his business, -to
remove at once the prQperty-covered by the ainsurance from his
factory in which the property was insured2' 11Ido not find
any provision in your policy,. restricting the assured, uender
such circumstances, from Temoving -or selling the damaged

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

property If you claim that any such provision has that force,
I should be glad if you should at once call my attention to it."
"The property covered by the policy above referred to will
require at least two weeks from this date to remove and bring
to sale, and during that time it will be subject to whatever
examination you may wish to make." "It does not occur to
me that there can be any impediment in ascertaining the
amount of the loss by an arbitration, in the manner provided
by the policy, from the course which Mr. Hamilton indicates
that he proposes to pursue."
April 28, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff's counsel. "It may
be sufficient to point out that the appraisement provided by
the terms of our policies, in the printed clause referred to, contemplates the possibility of the company exercising the right
therein reserved to take the property or any part thereof ' at
its appraised value.' A sale of the property prior to such
appraisement would deprive the company of this right. We
have refused and still refuse to consent to any disposition of
the property, prior to the appraisement, or to any ex yacrte
method of fixing the amount of the loss, which our policies
provide shall be determined 'by agreement between the coinpany and the assured,' and by appraisement in case of difference. As to the removal of the property, your client, has
stated that the loss would thereby be materially increased.
You will understand, therefore, that such additional loss would
necessarily be borne by him, and not by the company whose
protest against such removal has been made. The proposed
removal is expressly designed by Mr. Hamilton for his own
advantage in the ordinary prosecution of his business, and the
indemnity furnished by insurance does not extend to losses
sustained in that direction. We protest against this removal,
furthermore, because it takes away from the view of the
appraisers the actual surroundings, location and condition of
the property at the time difference of opinion arose, and would
thus materially affect the judgment of the appraisers as to the
loss sustained. We ask you for a direct answer to our request
'for an appraisement, and desire that any further communication be directed to that point only You will please take

•HAMILTON v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

notice that any disposition of the property by sale prior to
the appraisement will be understood and accepted by us as
a refusal upon the part of your client to permit such appraisement and as-a relinquishment of all claims under the policies
of this company"
April 28, 1886. Defendant and other insurance companies
to plaintiff. "The undersigned, representing the several.
insurance companies against which you have made claim for
loss under their respective policies of insurance upon stock in
your tobacco factory, Nos. 413 and 415 Madison Street, Covington, Ky., claimed to have been damageff by fire on April.
16, 1886, beg leave jointly to take exception to the amount of
claim made, and to demand that the question of the value of
and the loss upon the stock be submitted to competent and disinterested persons, chosen as provided for in the several policies of insurance under which claim is made, and we hereby
announce our readiness to proceed at once with this appraisement, so soon as your agreement to the demand is declared.
We further desire jointly to protest against the removal, sale
or other disposition of the property, until such an appraisement has been had, and to notify you that the insuring companies will in no way be bound by such expalrte action."
April 29, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to defendant and other
insurance companies. "Mr. Hamilton is not endeavoring to
obtain any unfair advantage or unfair adjustment of his loss
against the companies. He has believed that, in view of the
fact that the traffic in tobacco is so large in this city, and substantially all of it, at least ninety-nine per cent of the leaftobacco business, is transacted by sale at public auction, that
a sale of this tobacco presented the fairest mode of ascertainmg its actual value as it stands. It is in substance and effect
an appraisement in detail of every package by the entire trade
m this city But in view of the fact that the insurers seem
to demand arbitration by arbitrators, and that you propose to
select a competent person, which we understand to mean a
man acquainted with the manufacture of tobacco, to act as
arbitrator in your behalf; Mr. Hamilton will accede to your
proposition, upon the express understanding that the arbitra-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

tors selected §hall have a full opportunity to examine the
stock of tobacco, and that it shall then be sold at public
auction, in order that its value thus ascertained, together with
such other evidence as either party may desire to offer, may
be presented to the arbitrators before they make their
award." "If the proposed arbitration is satisfactory, will you
at once inform me of the arbitrator selected by you and submit to me the form of agreement of arbitration which you
propose 2 Mr. Hamilton will do the like in respect to the
arbitrator selected by him."
April 30, 1886. Defendant and other insurance companies
to plaintiff's counsel. "We must insist upon arbitration, in
accordance with the terms of our several contracts, without
importing into it any conditions as to the sale of the property
Such conditions would be incompatible with the provisions of
our several policies of insurance and the rights of the insuring
companies thereunder. As soon as Mr. Hamilton indicates his
readiness to proceed with the arbitration called for, we will
submit the name of an arbitrator, and also a form of agreement for arbitration."
April 30, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to insurance companies.
"Mr. Hamilton, and I in his behalf, deny that the arbitration
in the manner indicated is in violation of the terms of any of
the policies, or imports any condition into it which the insured
is not entitled to insist upon, or which is incompatible with the
provisions of the several policies of insurance, or the rights of
the insurance companies thereunder. Mr. Hamilton is ready,
and has directed me to express his readiness, to proceed at
once with an arbitration, which, as he understands it, is in
substantial compliance with the arbitration provided for in all
the several policies." "I wish to say that, as I understand the
expression in my letter of the 29th, that 'it' (the tobacco)
Cshall then be sold at public auction, in order that its value thus
ascertained, together with such other evidence as either party
may desire to offer, may be presented to the arbitrators before
they make their award,' does not in any wise call upon the
companies to consent to a sale of the property Mr. Hamilton is quite ready to take upon himself the responsibility of

HAMILTON v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS.

O0

Statement of the Case.

selling it. It simply requires that the arbitration shall be
commenced before the sale, when the arbitrators may have an
opportunity of examining the property, and that the award
shall not be made until after the sale has taken place and the
assured has had an opportunity to submit the result of it, with
other competent evidence, to the arbitrators before the award
is made."
May 3, 1886. Insurance companies to plaintiff's counsel.
"We herewith enclose -a form of agreement for 'submission
to appraisers,' which is in practical accordance with the conditions of the policies of the several companies, and which all
the companies are willing to sign and abide by the award
reached thereunder. We must again decline to entertain your
proposition that the arbitrators, after examining the stock,
shall postpone their award until after the stock shall have
been sold, when the result of such sale, with other evidence,
shall be submitted to the arbitrators. We insist that the
arbitration provided for in such case by our policies is in no
sense a court for the hearing of evidence. The appraisers
may, in their. discretion, seek any evidence they deem necessary for their own full information, .and the forming of their
own judgments as to the value and damage of the goods, but
we insist that under the conditions of the several policies there
can be no abandonment of the stock to the companies, and
that after an award has been reached the companies have the
right to take the stock in whole or in part at their appraised
value. The companies propose to stand upon the conditions
of their policies, and decline all propositions looking to a
waiver thereof, or adding new and inconsistent conditions
thereto."
The principal part of the form of submission to appraisers,
enclosed in this letter, was as follows "It is hereby agreed
by Robert Hamilton, of the first part, and the several insurance companies, by their representatives, whose names are
hereunto affixed, of the second part, that -

and -

appraise and estimate the loss by fire of April 16,
1886, upon the property of Robert Hamilton, as specified
below and as hereinafter provided. In case of disagreement
-shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

said appraisers shall select a third, who shall act with them in
matters of difference only The award of said appraisers or
any two of them, made in writing in accordance Nvith this
agreement, pursuant to the terms of the policies, shall be
binding upon both parties, but it is understood that this
agreement and appraisement are only for the purpose of fixing
the sound value of the property before the fire, and the loss or
damage 'thereon occasioned by said fire, and shall not waive,
invalidate or terminate the right of the insurers to take said
property at its appraised value, or any other rights of either
party hereto, but the same are to be construed solely by reference to said policies."
May 4, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to insurance companies.
"There can be no misunderstanding as to the position taken
by the companies and the assured in this matter. 1st. I understand the companies demand that appraisers be selected by the
companies and the assured, who shall estimate the loss by their
own judgment and without hearing the testimony of witnesses
who may be called by either party, and that the parties shall
be bound by their report or award as to the amount of the loss
thus made. This Mr. Hamilton declines to do. 2d. Mr. Hamilton is willing that the companies jointly, or as they may
arrange between themselves, shall make their own appraisement through their own appraisers of the value of the stock,
and that they shall jointly, or either of them with the consent
of the rest, have the right to take the stock, in whole or in
part, at their appraisal. 3d. Mr. Hamilton has made and
makes no claim to abandon the property, and he has made
and makes no claim that the companies shall consent to the
sale by him o'fthe damaged stock."
Enclosed in this letter, and signed by the plaintiff's counsel,
was the following "To the Liverpool and London and Globe
Insurance Company and the companies jointly acting with it
in respect to the loss sustained by Robert Hamilton on the
property in Nos. 413 and 415 Madison Street, Covington, Ky
Mr. Hamilton demands of the several insurance companies an
arbitration of the amount of the loss sustained upon the goods
covered by fire on the 16th of April, and will select an arbi-

HAMILTOIN v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

trator to represent him in pursuance of the provisions of the
policy, it being stipulated in the agreement for arbitration
that the several companies and the assured shall be duly notified of the time of the hearing by the arbitrators, and that
the arbitrators shall hear all competent legal testimony that
may be offered by either party, as well as personally examine
the damaged goods, in considering and awarding the amount
of the loss."
May 5, 1886. Insurance companies to plaintiff's counsel.
"Your communication of the 4th is at hand. We have nothing
to add to .our letter of the 3d, and if, as we are made to understand, Mr. Hamilton declines to consent to a form of 'submission to appraisers' that does not provide for the introduc.tion
of ' all competent legal testimony that may be offered by either
party,' (under which provision, as you have repeatedly declared, Mr. Hamilton would seek to present evidence based on
a sale of the property,) we must accept your communication
as a refusal to comply with our request and with the conditions
of the policies of insurance, which are clearly incompatible
with your wishes in the matter."
May '7, 1886. Insurance companies to plaintiff's counsel.
"Referring to your letter of the 4th, setting forth your understanding of the position taken by the two parties, permit me,
on behalf of the companies, to take exceptions to your first
statement, to wit 'I understand the companies demand that
appraisers be selected by the, companies and the assured, who
shall estimate the loss by their own judgment and without
hearing the testimony of witnesses who may be called by
either party, and that the parties shall be bound by their report or award as to. the amount of the loss thus made.' This
does not correctly state our position, which remains now as
stated in our communication of the 3d, to wit 'The appraisers may, in their discretion, seek any evidence they deem'
necessary for their own full information.' What we do object
to and protest against is the sale of the goods, or the consideration by the appraisers of evidence founded on that fact or
result. If the form of 'submission to appraisers' we submitted contains any provision or condition limiting or defining

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the duties of the appraisers and not prescribed by the several
policies, each company will submit its own form, as we desire
and demand a submission free from any conditions imposed
by either party"
May 8, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff's counsel. "On behalf of the Liverpool and London and Globe Ins. Company,
we demand an appraisal of the value of and damage to the
goods insured under our policies Nos. 2,823,517 and 2,907,224,
issued to Robert Hamilton, of Covington, Ky., as the same
could not be determined by mutual agreement between us,
and we take exceptions to the amount of loss and damage as
stated in your claim. We herewith submit a form of agreement of submission to appraisers which we deem in strict
accordance with the terms and conditions of our policies, and
upon your assent thereto will be prepared to name our appraiser."
The form enclosed in this letter did not materially vary
from that enclosed in the letter of May 3, 1886.
May 10, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to defendant. "In view
of the number and diverse provisions of the several policies
upon Mr. Hamilton's property, and of what has transpired, I do
not conceive that the several companies are now entitled each to
demand a separate submission to arbitration by -Mr.Hamilton.
It does not seem to me that any provision in the policies of
your company provides for a submission to appraisers in the
manner expressed in the form of agreement enclosed, and I
have already expressed in the correspondence, upon the joint
demand of all the companies, my reasons for this opinion, and
my objections to this form of submission."
May 13, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff. "Objecting to the
amount of your claim for loss and damage under policies
2,823,517 and 2,907,224, we demand, according to condition
10 of the policies, that the differences which have arisen between us as to sound value and loss or damage to the goods
covered by said policies shall be submitted, at equal expense
between us, to competent and impartial persons, one to be
chosen by each party, and the two so chosen shall elect an
umpire to act with them in case of their disagreement. We

HAMILTON v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

name as our appraiser Win. Spear, of St. Louis, and upon the
naming of your appraiser we will meet you to sign an agreement embodying the provisions of our policies without any
conditions. Please take notice that this company reserves
the right to take the whole or any part of the property insured
at its appraised value, and you are further notified that until
such an appraisal is permitted and had, our loss, if any, will
not be payable."
May 15, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to defendant. "Mr..Hamilton adheres to the position taken by him in the joint correspondence between the insurers and Mr. Hamilton and myself
in his behalf. Mr. Hamilton has acted upon the conclusion
reached in that correspondence, and I do not understand that
your company proposes to change its own attitude as taken in
that correspondence."
May 20, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to defendant. Enclosing
a notice in a newspaper of the sale by auction on May 29,
1886, at the plaintiff's warehouse in Covington, of the tobacco
ansured by the policy in suit.
June 3, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to defendant. "Mr. Hamilton has disposed of the property claimed to have been damaged in the fire of April 16, by sae at public auction, in
pursuance of the notice communicated to your company If
your company really desire to submit to arbitration the question of the amount of loss sustained by Mr.'Hamilton, notwithstanding all that has transpired, Mr. Hamilton is quite ready
now to-submit that question, to competent and impartial arbitrators. He simply demands, the arbitrators being chosen,
that in the agreement for submission it shall be provided that
the company and the assured shall be notified of the time of
the hearing of the arbitrators, and that the arbitrators, shall
hear all competent legal testimony that may be offered by
either party, and that a reasonable time shall be prescribed
within which an award shall be rendered."
June 7, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff's counsel. "As you
have, in spite of our protest. sold and scattered the goods, so
that an appraisement within the terms of our policies is now
impossible, and have thereby deprived us of our right to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the property or any part thereof at its appraised value, we
must accept your action as a refusal to accede to our demand
for submission of the differences that have arisen between us.
By the course pursued, Mr. Hamilton has, in our judgment,
waived any rights he may have had under the policies, and
this company will stand upon its legal rights in the premises."
The court, after the case had been argued, instructed th.
jury that it appeared from the evidence that the defendant
requested the plaintiff in writing to submit the amount of his
loss or damage under the policy to competent and impartial
persons, and the plaintiff refused so to do, and instructed the
jury to return a verdict for the defendant, which was accordingly rendered. The plaintiff excepted to these instructions,
and, after judgment on the verdict, sued out this writ of error
.Mr Joseph Wilby for plaintiff in error. At the close of
Mr. Wilby's argument, the court declined to hear further
argument.
-Mrt C'hannzng R-ichards, Mr Rufus -ing, Mr Charles H.
Step ens, Mr S. J Thompson, Mr Thomas B. Paxton and
.Mr .iedyardZIncoln filed briefs for defendant in error.
AIR. JusTicE GRAy, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The conditions of the policy in suit clearly and unequivocally manifest the intention and agreement of the parties to
the contract of insurance that any difference arising between
them as to the amount of loss or damage of the property

insured shall be submitted, at the request in writing of either
party, to the appraisal of competent and impartial persons, to
be chosen as therein provided, whose award shall be conclusive as to the amount of such loss or damage only, and shall
not determine the question of the liability of the company,
that the company shall have the right to take the whole or any
part of the property at its appraised value so ascertained, and
that until such an appraisal shall have been permitted, and

HIAMILTON v. LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

such an award obtained, the loss shall not be payable, and no
action shall lie against the company The appraisal, when
requested in writing by either party, is distinctly made a condition precedent to the payment of any loss, and to the maintenance of any action.
Such a stipulation, not ousting the-jurisdiction of the courts,
but leaving the general question of liability to be judicially determined, and simply providing a reasonable method
of estimating and ascertaining the amount of the loss, is unquestionably valid, according to the uniform current of authority in England and in this country Scott v Avery, 5 HI. L.
Cas. 811, Viney v. BJgnold, 20 Q. B. D. 172, -Delaware&
Hudson Canal v. Pe2nsyvanza Ooal Co., 50 N. Y 250, Reed'
v Washzngton Ins. Co., 138 Mass. 572, 576, Wo v Zzverpool & Iondonr & Globe Ins Co., 21 Vroom, 453, H7all v
NYorwalk Ins. Co., 57 Conn. 105, 114. The case comes within
the general rule long ago laid down by this court "Where
the parties, in their contract, fix on a certain mode by which
the amount to be paid shall be ascertained, as in the present
case, the party that seeks an enforcement of the agreement
must show that he has done everything on his part which
could be done to carry it into effect. He cannot compel the
payment of the amount claimed, unless he shall procure the
-kind of evidence required by the contract, or show that by
tine or accident he is unable to do so."
United States v
Robeson, 9 Pet. 319, 327. See also Martinsburg & Potomac
Railroad v. farch, 114 U. S. 549.
Upon the evidence in this case, the question whether the
defendant bad duly requested, and the plaintiff had unreasonably refused, to submit to such an appraisal and award as the
policy called for, did not depend in any degree, (as in Uhrzg v
Williamsburg Ins. Co., 101 N. Y 362, cited for the plaintiff,)
on oral testimony or extrinsic facts, but wholly upon the construction of the correspondence in writing between the parties,
presenting a pure question of law, to be decided by the court.
Turner v. Yates, 16 HF]ow 14, 23, BI'iven v Vew England
Screw Co., 23 How 420, 433, Smzth v. Faulkner,12 Gray,
251.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

That correspondence clearly shows that the defendant explicitly and repeatedly in writing requested that the amount
of the loss or damage should be submitted to appraisers in
accordance with the terms of the policy; and that the plaintiff
as often peremptorily refused to do this, unless the defendant
would consent, in advance, to define the legal powers and
duties of the appraisers, (which the defendant was under no
obligation to do,) and that the plaintiff throughout, against
the constant protest of the defendant, asserted, and at last
exercised, a right to sell the property before the completion
6f an award according to the policy, thereby depriving tle
defendant of the right, reserved to it by the policy, of taking
the property at its appraised value, when ascertained in accordance with the conditions of the policy
The court therefore rightly instructed the jury that the
defendant had requested in writing, and the plaintiff had
declined, the appraisal provided for in the policy, and that
the plaintiff, therefore, could not maintain this action.
If the plaintiff had joined in the appointment- of appraisers,
and they had acted unlawfully, or had not acted at all, a different question would have been presented.
Jitdgment affirmed.

