CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

THE 'LATE CORPORATION OF THE CHUEIH OF
JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS v.
UNITED STATES.
ROMNEY v. UNITED STATES
Nos. 1031,1054. Argued January 16,17, 18, 18S9. -Decided May 19, 1890.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints was incorporated February, 1851, by an act of assembly of the so-called State of Deseret,
which -was afterwards confirmed by act of the territorial legislature of
Utah, the corporation being a religious one, and its property and funds
held for the religious and charitable objects of the society, a prominent
object being the promotion and practice of polygamy, which was prohibited by the laws of the United States. Congress, in 1887, pa sed an
act repealing the act of incorporation, and abrogating the charter; and
directing legal proceedings for seizing its property and winding up its
affairs: Held that,
(1) The power of Congress over the Territories is general and plenary, arising from the right to acquire them; which right arises
from the power of the government to declare war abd mike
treaties of peace, and also, in part, arising from the power to
make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or
other property of the United States;
(2) This plenary power extends to the acts of the legislatures of the
Territories, and is usually eipressed in the organic act of each by
an express reservation of the right to disapprove and annul the
acts of the legislature thereof;
VOL. cxxxvI--

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.
(3) Congress had the power to repeal the act of incorporation of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, not only by virtue
of its general power over the Territories, but by virtue of an express reservation in the organic act of the Territory of Utah of
the power to disapprove and annul the acts of its legislature;
(4) The act of incorporation being repealed, and the corporation dissolved, its property, in the absence of any other lawful ownet,
devolved to the United States, subject to be diqposed of according
to the principles applicable to property devoted to religious and
charitable uses; the real estate, however, being also subject to
a certain condition of forfeiture and escheat contained in the
act of 1862;
(5) The general system of common law and equity, except as modified
by legislation, prevails in the Territory of Utah, including therein
the law of charitable uses;
(6) By the law of charitable uses, when the particular use designated
is unlawful and contrary to public policy, the charity property is
subject to be applied and directed to lawful obj6cts most nearly
corresponding to its original destination, and will not be returned
to the donors, or their heirs or representatives, especially where
it is impossible to identify them;
(7) The court of chancery, in the exercise of its ordinary powers over
trusts and charities, may appoint new trustees on the failure or
discharge of former trustees; and may compel the application of
charity funds to their appointed uses, if lawful; and, by authority
of the sovereign power of the State, if not by its own inherent
power, may reform the uses when illegal or against public policy
by directing the property to be applied to legal uses, conformable,
as near as practicable, to those originally declared;
(8) In this country the legislature has the power of patens patri in
reference to infants, idiots, lunatics, charities, etc., which in
England is exercised by the crown; and may invest the court of
chancery with all the powers necessary to the proper superintendeuce and direction of any gift to charitable uses;
(9) Congressas the suprent legislature of Utah, had full power and
authority to direct the winding up of the affairs of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints as a defunct corporation, with a
view to the due appropriation of its property to legitimate religions and charitable uses conformable, as near as practicable, to
those to which it was originally dedicated. This power is distinct from that which may arise from the forfeiture and escheat of
the property under the act of 1862;
(10) The pretence of religious belief cannot deprive Congress of the
power to prohibit polygamy and all other open offences against
the enlightened sentiment of mankind.

MORMON CHURCH v. "UNITED STATES.
Statement of- the Case.

ON behalf of the court M." JUsTIO

BRADLEY

stated the

case as follows:'
The church of the Mormons, or, as they call themselves,
the Church of Latter-Day Saints, was first organized as a corporation under an act of assembly of the provisional government which they set up in Utah under the name of the State
of Deseret. The act was dated February 8, 1851, and was in
the usual form of acts of incorporation. The title and first
three sections were as follows:
"An ordinance incorporating the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints.
"SEC. 1. Be it ordained by the GeneralAssembly of the State
of Deseret, That all that portion ,of the inhabitants of said
State which now are or hereafter may become residents
therein, and which are known and distinguished as 'the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints,' are hereby
incorporated, constituted, made and declared a body corporate, with perpetual succession, under the original name and
style of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints,' as
now organized, with full power and authority to sue and be
sued, defend and be defended, in all courts of law or equity in
this State; to establish, order and regulate worship, and hold
and occupy real and personal estate, and have and use a
seal, which they may alter at pleasure.
"SEC. 2. And be it further ordained, That said body or
church, as a religious society, may, at a general or special conference, elect one 'trustee in trust,' and not, to exceed twelve
assistant trustees, to receive, hold, buy, sell, manage, use and
control the real -and personal property of said church, which
said property shall be free from taxation ; . . . said trustee
or assistant trustees may receive property, real or personal, by
gift, donation, bequest, or in any manner not incompatible
I The order of arrangement of the statutes and ordinances varies in this
statement from that adopted in the opinion on file; the matter in the two
statements being identical. The new arrangement was made, on behalf of
the Court, -by MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and is adopted by the reporter Under
his directions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement-of the Case.

with the principles of tighteousness or the rules of justice,
inasmuch as the same shall be used, managed or disposed of
for the benefit, improvement, erection of houses for public
worship and instruction, and the well being, of said church.
"SEc. 3. And be it further ordained,That, as said church
holds the constitutional and original right, in common with
all civil and religious communities, 'to worship God according
to.the dictates of conscience,' to reverence communion agreeably to the principles of truth, and to solemnize marriage
compatible with the revelations of Jesus Christ for the security and full enjoyment of all blessings' and privileges embodied in the religion of Jesus Christ free to all, it is also
declared that such church does and shall possess and enjoy
continually the power and authority, in and of itself, to originate, make, pass and establish rules, regulations, ordinances,
laws, customs and criterions for the good order, safety, government, conveniences, comfort and control of said church and
for the punishment or forgiveness of all offences relative to
fellowship according to church covenants; that the pursuit of
bliss and the enjoyment of life in every capacity of public
association, domestic happiness, temporal expansion, or spiritual increase upon the earth may not legally be questioned:
Provided, however, That each and every act or practice so
established or adopted for law or custom shall relate to
solemnities, sacraments, ceremonies, consecrations, endowments,
tithings, marriages, fellowship or the religious duties of man
to his Maker, inasmuch as the doctrines, principles, practices
or performances support virtue and increase morality, and are
not inconsistent with or repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States or of this State and are founded in the revelations of the Lord." Comp. Laws of Utah, 1876, V. 232.
Congress had passed an organic act for establishing a government in the Territory of Utah on the 9th of September,
1850 (9 Stat. 453); but th territorial government was not

organized until
above stated.
latewe, on two
which had the

after the passage of the church charter as
After its organization the territorial legisdifferent occasions, passed confirmatory acts
effect of validating said charter. One was a

MORMON

CHURCH. v.' UNITED, STATES.
Statement of the Case.

joint resolution, passed October 4, 1851, declaring "That the
laws*heretofore passed by the provisional government-of the
State of Deseret, and which do not conflict with the organic
act of said Territory, be, and the same are hereby declared to
be, legal and in full force and virtue, and shall so remain until
suspended by the action of the legislative assembly of the
Territory of Utah."' The other was an act approved January
19, 1855, entitled "An act in relation to the compilation and
revision of the laws and resolutions in force in Utah Territory,
their publication and distribution," which reenacted the said
charter.
On the 1st of July, 1862; the following act of Congress was.
approved, to wit:
"An act to punish and prevent the Practice of .Polygamy
in the Territories of the United States, and other Places, and
disapproving, and annulling Certain Acts of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah;
".Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in Congress assembled, That
of the United States of Arica
every person having a husband or wife living, who shall marry
any other person, whether married or single, in a Territory.of
the United States, or other place over which the United States
have exclusive jurisdiction, shall, except in the cases specified
in the proviso to this section, be adjudged guilty of bigamy,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years: Provided, nevertheless, That
this section shall not extend to any person by reason of any
former marriage whose husband or wife by such marriage
shall have been absent for five successive years without being
known to such person within that time to be living; nor to
any parson by reason of any former marriage which shall have
been dissolved by th~e decree of a competent court; nor to any
person by reason of any former marriage which shall have
been annulled or pronounced-void by the sentence or decree of
a competent court on the ground of the nullity of the marriage contract.
"SEc. 2. And be itfurther enacted, That the following ordi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case:

nance of the provisional government of the State of Deseret,
so called, namely, 'An ordinance incorporating the Church of
Jesus -Christ of Latter-Day Saints,' passed February eight, in
the year eighteen hundred and fifty-one, and adopted, reenacted
and made iralid by the governor and legislative assembly of
the Territory of Utah by an act passed January nineteen, in
the year eighteen hundred and fifty-five, entitled IAn act in
relation to the compilation and revision of the laws and resolutions in force in Utah Territory, their publication and distribution,' and all other acts and parts of acts heretofore
passed by the said legislative assembly of the Territor r of
Utah, which establish, support, maintain, shield or countenance polygamy be, and the same hereby are, disapproved and
annulled: Provided; That this ac shall be so limited and cohstrued as not to affect or interfere with the right of property
legally acquired under the ordinance heretofore mentioned,
nor with the right 'to worship God according to the dictates
of conscience,' but only to annul all acts and laws which establish,-maintain, protect or countenance the practice of polygamy, evasively called spiritual -marriage, however disguised
by legal or ecclesiastical solemnities, sacraments, ceremonies,
consecrations or other contrivances.
"SEc. 3. And be it further enacted, That it shall not be
lawful for any corporation or association for religious or charitable purposes to acquire or hold real estate in any Territory
of the United States during the existence of the territorial
government of a greater value than fifty thousand dollars;
and all real estate acquired or held by any such corporation or
association contrary to the provisions of this act shall be forfeited and escheat to the United States: Provided, That
existing vested rights in real estate shall not be impaired by
the provisions of this section." 12 Stat. 501.
Another act, known as the Edmunds. act, was approved
MV[arch 22, 188,2, entitled "An act to amend section 5352 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States in reference to
bigamy and for other purposes." 22 Stat. 30, c. 47. This
act contained stringent provisions against the crime of polygamy, and has frequently come under the consideration 'of this
court, and need not be recited in detail.

Iv MON I CHUROH v. UNITED ,StATES.
Statement of the Case.

On the 19th of February, 1887, another act of Congress Was
passed, and became a law by iiot being returned by the President, 24 Stat. 635, c. 397, which made additional provisions as
to tie prosecution of polygamy, and in the 13th, 17th, and 26th
sections, enacted as follows:.
1 "S1E. 13.. That it shall be the duty of the Attorney General
of the United States to institute and prosecute proceedings to
forfeit and escheat to the United -States the property of cor-porations obtained or held in violation of section three of the
act of Congress approved the first day of "July, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, entitled ' An act to punish and prevent the
practice of polygamy in the Territories of the United States.
and other places, and disapproving and annulling certain.acts
of. the legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah, or'in violation of section eighteen hundred and ninety of the RevisedStatutes bf the United, States'; and all such property so forfeited and e~cheated- to the United States shall be disppsed of
by the Secretary of the Interior, 'and -the proceeds thereof
applied to the use 'and benefit of the common schools in the
Territory in which such property may be: Provided That no
building, or the grounds appurtenant thereto, which is held and
occupied xclusivelyfor purposes of the worship of God, or parsonagelonnected therewith, or burial ground, shall be forfeited."
"SEc. 17. That the acts of the legislative' assembly of the
Territry of .Utah: incorporating,'continuing or providing for
the corporation known as the Church of Jesis Christ of LatterDay Saints, and.the ordihance of the.so-called general assembly of the State of Deseret incorporating the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints, so far as. the same may now
have legal force-and 'validity, are hereby disapproved and.
annulled, and the said corporation, in so far as it may now ha, e,
or prtend to have, any-legal existence, is hereby dissolved.
That it, shall be the duty of the Attorney General of the
United States to cause such proceedings to be:taken in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah as shall be proper to
execute the foregoing provisions of this sectidn and to wind
up the affairs of said corporation conformably to law; and in
such. proceedings the court shall have power, and it shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

its duty, to make such decree or decrees as shall be proper to
effectuate the transfer of the title to real property now held
and used by said corporation for places of worship, and parsonages connected therewith, and burial grounds, and of the
description mentioned in the proviso to section thirteen of
this act and in section twenty-six of this act, to the respective
trustees mentioned in section twenty-six of this act; and for
the purposes of this section said court shall have all the
powers of a court of equity."
"SCc. 26. That all religious societies, sects and congregations shall have the right to have and to hold, through trustees appointed by any court exercising probate powers in a
Territory, only on the nomination of the authorities of such
society, sect or congregation, so much real property for the
erection or use of houses of worship, and for such parsonages
and burial grounds as shall be necessary for the convenience
and use-of the several congregations of such religious society,
sect or congregation." 21 Stat. 637, 638 and 641.
In pursuance of the 13th section above recited, proceedings
vere instituted by information on behalf of the United States
in the Third District Court of the Territory of Utah, for the
purpose of having, declared forfeited and escheated to the
government the real estate of the corporation called the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, except a certain
,blook in Salt Lake City used exclusively for public worship.
On the 30th of September, 1887, the bill in the present case
was filed in the Supreme Court of the Territory, under the
17th section of the act for the appointment of a receiver to.
collect the debts due to gaid corporation and the rents, issues
and profits of its real estate, and to take possession of and
manage the same for the time being; and for a decree of dis:
solution and annulment of the charter of said corporation, and
other incidental relief. The bill is in the name of the United
States, and was brought by direction of the Attorney General,
against "the late corporation known and claiming to exist as
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints," and John
Taylor, "late trustee in trust," and eleven other persons late
assistant trustees of said corporation.

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The bill sets forth the act of incorporation of the said
church, and its confirmation by the territorial legislature, as
before expressed, and then states, further, that John Taylor
(since deceased) on and prior to the 19th of February, 1887,
was trustee in trust, and the other individual defendants were
the assistant trustees of the corporation;
That the corporation acquired and held large amounts of
real and personal property in the Territory of Utah after the
1st of July, 1862, - the value of the real estate being about
$2,000,000, and the value of the personal property about
$1,000,000 as held and owned on the 19th of February, 1887;
and which the defendants still claim to hold in violation, of
the laws of the United States;
That the corporation was a corporation for religious or
charitable purposes;
That by the third section of the act of July 1st, 1862, 12
Stat. 501, c. 126, ยง 3, reenacted as, section 1890 of the Revised
Statutes 'of the United States, any corporation for religious
or charitable purposes was forbidden to acquire or hold real
estate in any territory, during the existence of the territorial
government, of greater value than $50,000; .and that more
than this value of the property of the said corporation has
been acquired since July 1st, 1862, which is not held or occupied as a building or ground appurtenant thereto for the purpose of the worship of God, or a parsonage connected therewith,
or burial ground;
That, therefore, the real estate referred to, owned by the
corporation, is subject to escheat to the United States;
That on the 19th day of February, 1887, (by the said act of
that date,) the charter and act of. incorporation of the corporation aforesaid was disapproved, repealed and annulled by
Congress, and the corporation was dissolved, and all the real
estate owned and occupied by it, in excess of $50,000, not held
or occupied for the worship of God, etc., was subject to escheat
to the United States;
That the said corporation, and the successor of. said John
Taylor as trustee in trust, (whose name:is unknown, and who
is asked to be made a party to the bill,) and the other defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ants, assistant trustees, wrongfully and in violation of the laws
of the United States still claim to hold and exercise the powers
which were held and exercised by said corporation, and are
unlawfully possessing and using 'the said real estate, and claim
the right to sell, use and dispose of the same;
That since the 19th of February, 1887, there is no person
lawfully authorized to take charge of, manage, preserve, or
control said property, and the same is subject to irreparable
and irremediable loss and destruction.
The bill prays that a receiver may be appointed' to receive
and hold all the property of the corporation; that a decree be
made declaring.the dissolution and annulment of the charter
of the said corporation; that the court appoint a commissioner
to select and set apart out of the real estate which was held
and occupied by the corporation such real estate .as may be
lawfully held for religious uses; make necessary orders, and
take proceedings to wind up the affairs of the said corporation;
and grant such other and further relief as the nature of the
case may require.
On the 7th of November, 1887, the court appointed a
receiver, and on the 8th William B. Preston, Robert T. Burton
and John R. Winder, claiming to have an interest in a portion
of the property, were made parties to the suit. Demurrers
to the bill having been overruled, the defendants severally
answered.
The corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints, in its answer, after stating the granting of its charter
by an ordinance of the assembly of Deseret, and its confirma,
tion by the legislaturd of the Territory of Utah, contended
that this charter was a contract between the government and
the persdns accepting the grant, and those becoming corporators; and that the corporation had the power to hold real and
personal property, without limit as to .value and amount, for
the purposes of its charter; that it never acquired property in
its own name, but under the powers granted by the ordinance
it did acquire and ihold certain real and personal property, in
the name of a trustee, in trust for said corporation; that the
act of July 1st, 1862, expressly provided that existing vested

MORTOION CHU'RCH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

rights in real estate should not be impaired; that the defendant has ever been and still is a corporation or association for
religious or charitable purposes; that so much of the act of
Coilgress which took effect March 3, 1887, (referring to the
act passed February 19, 1887,) as attempts to dissolve the
defendant corporation, or to interfere with or limit ifs right
to hold property, or to escheat the same, or to wind up its
affairs, is'unconstitutional and void; that the United States
has not the .power to do this, by reason of said contract; that
when the act of March 3, 1887, took effect the said corporation,
-through its trustees, held and owned only three parcels of real
estate, namely: 1st, all of block 87, in plat "A," Salt Lake City
survey; 2d, part of block 88, plat '"IA," of said survey, containing 2-- acres; 3d, part of lot 6, in block 75, plat "A," of same
survey; that the defendant corporation had acquired the first
two of these lots before July 1, 1862; that the first piece,
namely, all of block 87, in plat "A," was, ever since 1850, and
still is, -used and occupied exclusively for purposes of the
worship of God; that the third of said tracts, which is the
only tract of land owned by the corporation on the 3d of
March, 1887, which had been acquired subsequent to July 1,
1862, was always, and still is, used as a parsonage, necessary
for the convenience and use of the corporation; that said corporation had owhed other lands, but had sold and disposed of
the same prior to -March 3, 1887; that after the said act took
effect, -and in pursuance of section 26 of said act, it applied to
*the proper probate court for Salt Lake County for the appointment of three trustees to take the -title to the three tracts
above described; that on May 19, 1887, aid court appointed
William B. Preston, Robert T. Burton and John R._Winder
-such trust ees; that afterwards said three tracts, except a part
of lot 6, in block 75, (the third lot,) were conveyed to said
trustees; that the remaining part of said lot 6 is now held by
Theodore McKean, in trust for the defendant corporation,
having. been omitted from the conveyance to the said trustees
by mistake ; that. said corporation does not now hold any real
estate whatsoever; and that no successor to said John Taylor
has ever beeff appointed trustee in trust by said corporation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The answer denies thatfthe charter and act of incorporation
of the defendant was annulled by the act of February 19,
1887; and alleges that even if said act is valid and binding, it
did not go into effect until March 3, 1887.
The answer further avers that prior to February 28th,
1887, the defendant corporation from time to time acquired
and held personal property for charitable and religious purposes, and, on that day, held certain personal property donated
to it by the members of the church and friends thereof solely
for use and distribution for charitable and religious purposes,
such property being always held by its trustee in. trust; and
that on the 28th of February, 1887, John Taylor, who then
held all the personal property, moneys, stocks and bonds
belonging to said corporation, as trustee in trust, with its consent and approval, donated, transferred and con-veyed the
same (after reserving sufficient to pay its then existing indebtedness) to certain ecclesiastical corporations created and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the Territory of Utah,
to be devoted by them solely to charitable and religious uses
and purposes, and delivered the same to them. Wherefore
the defendant avers that when the act of March 3d, 1887,
went into effect, it did not own or hold any personal property,
except mere furniture, fixtures, and implements pertaining to
its houses of worship and parsonage.
The defendants Wilford, Woodruff and others, charged as
assistant trustees in the bill (except Moses Thatcher), deny
that they ever were such assistant trustees, though they admit
that they acted as counsellors and advisors of John Taylor, the,
trustee in trust. Thatcher admits that he was once elected
assistant trustee, but alleges that his term of office expired
the 9th of October, 1-875, and he has never acted since. They
-all deny that they have ever owned or held any property
belonging to the corporation. They all, however, adopt its
answer.
Preston, Burton and Winder, who were made defendants
after the suit was commenced, admit the conveyance to them
-of the three tracts described in the answer of the corporation,
which they -declare that they hold in trust for the Church of

MORMON CHUROH _v. UNITED. STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. They also adopt the answer of the corporation.
Replications were duly filed.
One Angus M. Cannon intervened as a claimant of certain
coal lands supposed to be affected by the proceedings, and was
admitted as a defendant, and filed an answer explaining his
claim.
Several petitions were filed in the cause, with leave of the
court, for the puipose of asking that certain pieces of property
therein described might be set apart for the use of the church.
They were:
1. A.peitition by Francis Armstrong, Jesse W. Fox, Jr., and
Theodore McKean, who alleged that they held divers pieces of
real estate (described in their petition) in trust for the use aftd
benefit of the Church, 6f Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
To'this petition the plaintiff filpd a general replication.
2. William B. Preston, 'Robert T. Burton and- John- R.
Winder filed a petition stating .that they were duly appointed
by the probate court of Salt Lake County trustees to hold title
to real estate belonging to the said chdrch, and as such trustees hold the legal title to certain pieces of land described, to
wit : Ist, a; piece known as the "Guardo house" and lot, held
for the use and benefit of the president of the said church as a
parsonage, wheri he has made his home and residence since
1878 ;.. 2dly, another piece adjoining the above known as the
"Historian's Offic e" .and grounds, the building on which contains the church, library and records, and the legal title. to
wthich is in Theodore McKean. 'The petitioners pray that the
-said premises be set apart to said church-as a parsonage, and
that the title be confirmed to the trustees.
To this petition the United. States fied an answer, denying
that said Preston, Burton and Winder hold the title to. said
" Guardo house" and land, or that they hold the same in trust
for the said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints ;
that the pretended conveyance under which they claim to hold
'the same is void .and of no effect, for.want of power 'n the
grantors; that said property has never. been, a parsonage;
and that the-property designated as .the historians- office and

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

grounds has never been'part of any parsonage. On the contrary, the plaintiff avers that McKean holds the legal title to
said property in trust for the late corporation of the Chrch of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints as a part of its general property, and that the historian's office and grounds are entirely
separate and apart from the Gu~rdo house and lot, and in no
manner connected therewith.
The saidl Preston, Burton and Winder filed another petition,
stating their appointment as trustees as aforesaid, and that
they, as such, hold another property described in the petition
(being a portion of block 88, plat" A," of Salt Lake City survey) for the use and benefit of the said church, which was taken
possession of by the agents of said church when Salt Lake
City was first laid out in 1848, and ever since had been used
and occupied by said church ; and that prior to July 1, 1862,
valuable buildings and im rovements had been built thereon,
still owned and possessed by the said church; and t hey pray
that said property be set apart to said church, and the title
and possession confirmed to the petitioners as trustees.
The United States filed an answer to this petition denying
the truth of the same.
A similar petition was filed by the same parties, Preston,
Burton and Winder, claiming to hold the legal title to block 87,
plat "A," Salt Lake City survey, known as the "Temple Block"
containing three large buildings.constructed by said church exclusively for religious purposes, and which had been in its possession'since 1848. They pray that this property may be set
apart to the church, and the title and possession confirmed, to
the petitioners as trustees. The plaintiff, by answer, alleges
that the conveyance under which the petitioners claim this property is also void for want of power in the grantors to convey.
Another petition was filed by George Romney, Henry
Dinwoody, James Watson a-d John Clark, in behalf of themselves and of other members of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-Day Saints, alleging that said members are more
than one hundred thousand in number, and so numerous that
they cannot, without inconvenience and oppressive delays, be
brought before the court; that they all have -an interest in

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES..
Statement of the ,Case.

common in -the subject of the petition and the questions involved in this. suit; that on the 7th .of November, 1887, this
court made an order appointing Frank H. Dyer receiver of the
church aforesaid; that he, as such receiver, has seized, taken
possession of, and now holds, subject to the order of the court,
the following-described real and personal property, to wit:
1. All of block 87, plat "A," Salt'Lake City survey, known
as "Temple Block."
2. The east half' of lot 6, block 75, plat "A," aforesaid,
known~as the "Guardo house" and grounds.
3. Part of lot 6, block 75, plat "A," afore aid, known as the
"Historian's office" and grounds.
4. A portion of block 88, plat "A," aforesaid, known as
part of the "tithing-office" property.
5. The south half of lots 6 and 7, in block 88, plat "A,"
aforesaid, known as part of the "tithing-office" property.
6. Various tracts of land, designated, containing a large
number of acres, situated in township 1 south, range 1 west,
United States survey of Utah, and known as the church farm;
excepting, however, a tracd sold to the Denver and :Rio Grande
Western Railway Company by deed dated February 7, 1882.
7. The undivided half of the south half of the southeast quarter, the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, and lot 4,
section 18, and the north half of the northeast quarter of section 19, township 3 north, range 6 east,'in Summit County,
Utah Territory, known as coal lands.
Also a number of items of personal property, including 800
shares of stock in the Salt Lake Gas Company; 4732 shares
in the Deseret Telegraph Company; several promissory notes
of differenf parties and amounts; 30,158 sheep; $237,666.15
of money.
That since said personal property came into possession '0f
the receiver he has collected rents On the real estate, and dividends on the gas stock; and that all the property in the possession of the receiver 'is of the aggregite value of about
$750,000 exclusive of Temple Block.
That all of said property at the time so taken, And long prior
thereto, was the property of the Church of Jesus Christ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Latter-Day Saints, and that the possession of the receiver is
wrongful and without authority or right.
That said church is a voluntary religious society, organized
in the territory of Utah for religious and charitable purposes.
That said petitioners and others, for whose benefit they file
the petition, are members of said church, residing in said Territory ; that the church became possessed of all of said property
in accordance with its established rules and customs, by the
voluntary contributions, donations and dedications of its members, to be held, managed and applied to the use and benefit
of the church, for the maintenance of its religion and charities
by trustees appointed by said members semi-annually at the
general conference.
That John Taylor, the late trustee so apppinted, died on the
25th day of July, 1887, and no trustee has been appointed
since.
That the property in the hands of the trustees is claimed
adversely to the church, the petitioners and the members
thereof, and wholly without right, by the United States, and
is wrongfully withheld by the receiver from the purposes to
which it was dedicated and granted; that the petitioners and
the members on whose behalf this petition is filed are equitably the owners of said property, and beneficially interested
therein, and to prevent a diversion thereof from the religious
and charitable purposes of the said church to which they donated and granted said property, the petitioners pray that in
case said corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints should, upon the final hearing, be held and decreed
to be dissolved, an order may be made decreeing:
1. That the said property belongs to the individual members of said church, and that they are authorized to appoint a
trustee or trustees to hold, manage and apply such property
to the purposes for which it was originally given.. 2. That
said receiver deliver the possession thereof to such trustee or
trustees as may be named and appointed at a general conference of the members of the church, in accordance with its
rules and customs.
To this petition the United States filed an answer, denying

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the claim of the petitioners; admitting the appointment of
the receiver, and his taking. possession of the property referred to; denying that at the time of such taking it was the
property of the said Church of Jesus 'Christ of Latter-Day
Saints, whether the petition is intended to apply to the late
corporation or to the voluntary religious sect which has
existed under that name since the dissolution of the said
corporation. It admits that prior to the said dissolution said
property belonged to the corporation of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints, but alleges that since then it has
had no legal owner except the United States ; denies that the
said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints has been for
years past a voluntary .religious spciety or association, but
alleges that up to the 19th day of February, 1887, said church
existed as a corporation for religious purposes, and since that
time, when it became dissolved, there has existed -a voluntary
and unincorporated religious society, or sect., known by the
name of the Chuich of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
It denies that the corporation to which all of said property
belonged acquired the same by voluntary contributions, donations and dedications of the members. thereof, and alleges
that all of said realty was acquired by purchase, and that said
personalty was acquired by said church largely by purchase
and other means, as afterwards set out. It denies that the
receiver is wrongfully withholding and diverting the property
from the purposes to which it was donated, and denies that
the petitioners or any other persons are equitably or otherwise the owners of said property or any portion thereof, or
bb.neficially interested therein. The answer then. sets forth
the incorporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of.Latter-Day
Saints as a body for religious and charitable purposes, by the
act of the. Territorial Assembly of Utah in. 1855, and' avers
that it continued to be a corporation up to the 19th of Fefruary, 1887; it then sets forth the .act of Congress of July 1,
1862, before referred to, and the act of March 3, 1887, disapproving and annulling the act of iniborporation aforesaid,
and dissolving the said corporation, and alleges' that it did
become dissolved. it then states the previous proceedings,
VOL. CXXXVI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

in the suit, and the appointment of a receiver, and alleges
that the United States had filed in the District Court for he
Third District of Utah a proceeding in the nature of an information against all the real property set out in the petition,
for the purpose of having the same declared forfeited and
escheated to the United States, which proceedings are now
pending. And the answer alleges that said real property
has become forfeited to the United States, as shown in said
information. The answer further states that the said corporation was a religious corporation for the purpose of promulgating, spreading and upholding the principles, practices,
teachings and tenets of said church, and that it never bad
any other corporate objects, purposes.or authority; never had
any capital stock or stockholders, nor persons pecuniarily interested'in its property, nor any natural persons authorized to
take or hold any personal property or estate for said corporation, except such trustees as were provided for by its statute
of incorporation, and that the power of appointing such trustees ceased and became extinct at the date of its dissolution;
that up to that date said personal property had been used
for and devoted exclusively to the promulgation, spread and
maintenance of the principles, practices, teachings and tenets
of said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, amongst
which the doctrine and practice of polygamy, or plurality of
wives, was a fundamental and essential doctrine, tenet and
principle of said church, and the same was opposed and contrary to good morals, public policy and the laws of the United
States, and that the use made of said personal property was
largely for purposes of upholding and maintaining said doctrine and practice of polygamy, and violating the laws of the
United States; that since said dissolution there has existed a
voluntary and unincorporated sect known as the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, comprising the great body
of individuals named in said intervention, who formerly formed
the membership of the said corporation ;.that the organ ization and general government of said voluntary religious sect,
and its principles, doctriries, teachings and tenets include the
practice of polyg,my, and have been substantially the same as,

MORMON' CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
-Statement of the Case.

those of the said corporation; that the said voluntary religious
sect has upheld and maintained the unlawful and immoral
practice and doctrine of polygamy as strongly as the said corporation did; and that any uses, purposes or trusts to which
said personal property could be devoted in accordance with
the-original purposes and trusts to which it was dedicated'
would be opposed to good -morals and public poliky, and contrary'to the laws of the United States. The answer further
states that there are no natural persons or corporations
entitled to any portion of the personal property thereof, as
successors in interest to said corporation; that all definite and
legal trusts to which said property was dedicated have totahy
failed and become extinct; and that by operation of law the
said property has become escheated to the United States;
that the allegation that said property w'as acquired by, volun'
tary cbntributions, donations and dedications of the members
of the corporation is not true, but that the late corporation
carried on business to a wide extent, and whilst a large amount
of personalty in the shape of tithes was paid to the church
each 'year by the' members thereof, yet the personalty now- in"
the hands of the said receiver is in no part made up of voluntary contributions or tithes paid in as aforesaid, but is all of
it property which was acquired by said corporation in the
course of trade, by p.urchase, and for a valuable consideration;
and it held the same in its corporate capacity, .absolutely and
entirely independent of any individual members of said corporation, and upon the trust .and for the uses and purposes
set out, which, as has been alleged, were in whole or in part
immoral and illegal.
A replication was filed to'this answer.
The last-mentioned petition bf intervention and the answer.
theretb are in the nature of an original bill and answer, but
serve to present the whole controversy in: all its aspects, and
for that purpose may.properly be retained, as'no objection is
made thereto.
The cause came on to be heard- upon the pleadings, proofs
and an agieed statement of the facts. The 'court made a finffing: of facts, upon which a final decree -was rendered. The
facts found.are as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"1st. That the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
was, from the 19th day of January, 1855, to the 3d day of
March, A.D. 1887, a corporation for religious and charitable
purposes, duly organized and existing under and in pursuance
of an ordinance enacted by the legislature of the Territory of
Utah, and approved by the governor thereof on the said 19th
day of January, A.D. 1855, a copy of which ordinance is made
a part of the complaint herein.
"2. That on the 19th day of February, A.D.'1887, the Congress of the United States passed an act entitled ' An act to
amend section 5352 of the Ifevised Statutes of the United
States in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes,' approved March 22d, 1882, which purported to disapprove,
repeal and annul the said charter and act of incorporation of
the corporation of the Church of JesuS Christ of Latter-IDay
Saints aforesaid and passed as aforesaid.
"3. That immediately before the passage of said act of
Congress of. February 19th, 1881, the said John Taylor was,
and for a long time prior thereto had been, the qualified and
acting trustee in trust of said corporation of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints; that after the passage of
said act of Congress of February 19th, 1887, the said John
Taylor claimed to hold and continued to exercise the powers
conferred upon said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints by said act of incorporation until his death, which
occurred on the 25th day of July, A.D. 1887.
"4. That at the date of the passage of said act of Congress
of February 19th, A.D. 1887, and for a long time prior thereto,
there were no assistant trustees of said corporation, none having been elected, appointed or*qualified since the year 1887;
that said Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow,
Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Moses Thatcher, FrafAcis \. 'Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J.
Grant and John W. Taylor were, at the commencement of
-thissuit, counsellors and advisers of the said John Taylor, and
continued to his death counselling and advising him respecting the management, use and control of the property hereinafter described.

MORMON CHURCH v. -UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"5. That since the passage of said act of Congress of February 19, 1887, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
has existed as a voluntary religious sect, of which the said Wilford Woodruff is the acting president, and it has had duly designated and appointed by the Probate Court of Salt Lake County,
in said Territory, in pursuance of the act of Congress aforesaid,
the following-named trustees, William B. Preston, Robert T.
Burton and John R. Winder, to take the title to and hold such
real -estate as shall be allowed said religious sect by law for
the erection and use of houses of worship, parsonages and
burial grounds.
"6. That at the time of the passage of said act of Congress
of February 19, 1887, there were no outstanding debts of or
claims against said corporation, so far as appears to the court
from the evidence herein.
"7. That at the time of the passage of the act of Congress
of February 19, 1887, the said corporation owned, held, and
pbssessed the following real estate in said Territory, to wit."
The items of real estate were then enumerated, being substantially the same- as those specified in the petition of George
Romney and others, before referred to, with the addition of
the valuation of each item or piece of property; the Temple
Block being valued at $500,000; the Guardo house and grounds
at $50,000; the Historian'soffice and grounds at $20,000; the
Tithing-office and grounds, one portion at $50,000, and the other
at $25,000; the Church farm at $110,000; and 'the seventh
item, known as "coal lands in Summit County," valued at
$30,000.
,The court further found as follows:
"The legal title to the ieal estate, first, above described,
known as the Temple Block, at 'the timesaid act of February
19, 1887, went into effect was in John Taylor, as trustee in trust
for the said corporation, 'which said trustee in trust subsequentlyand on the 30th day of June, 1887, attempted to convey the same to William B. Preston, Robert T. Burton and
John R..Winder, as trustees, by a certain instrument in writing
in the words and. figures following, to wit:
"'This indenture, made -6ithis thirtieth day of June, in the

OCTOBER TEIM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven,
by and between John Taylor, trustee in trust of that certain
body of religious worshippers called and known as the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, party of the first part,
atid William B. Preston, presiding bishop of said church, and
his two counsellors, Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder,
parties of the second part."'
The indenture then recites the appointment of the parties of
the second part, by probate court of Salt Lake County, as
trustees to hold certain real property of the said church located
in Salt Lake City, under and in pursuance of the 26th section
of the act of March 3, 1887, and purports on the part of
Taylor, the party of the first part, in consideration of one
dollar, to convey to the parties of the second part and their
successors duly appointed, upon trust, the property referred to,
being all of block 87 in plat "A," Salt Lake City survey, for
the use, benefit and behoof of that body of religious worshippers known and called the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints,'and for such use as said church or its authorities
should dictate and appoint, with provision for the devolution
of the property in case of failure of the trustees.
The court further found as follows:
"The said Temple Block was taken possession of by the
agents of the said. Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints, then existing as a voluntary unincorporated religious
sect, when Salt Lake City was first laid out and surveyed, in
1848, and since said date has been in possession of said church
as a voluntary religious sect until it bdcame incorporated as
aforesaid, hnd then as a corporation; that at the time the same
was taken possession of as aforesaid it was a part of the public
domain and continued to be such until said land was entered
by the mayor of said city, along with other lands, on the 21st
day of November, 1871, under the town-site act of Congress
entitled ' An act for the relief of cities and towns upon the
public lands,' approved March *2, 1867; that on the 1st day of
June, 1872, the same was conveyed by the mayor of said Salt
Lake City to the trustee in trust of said corporation, in whom
the title remained until the act of Congress of February 19,
188 , took effect.

MORM ON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES'
Statement of the" Case.

"The facts in regard to tIhe possession and acquisition of the
balance of.said real estate above described are as follows: The
second property, above described and known as the Guardo
house and grounds, was owned by Brigham Young individually
at the time of his death, in 1877,and was thereafter transferred
and conveyed by his executors to John Taylor, as trustee in
trust for' the corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, for a valuable consideration, pursuant to
the powers in them vested byT the will of the said Brigham
Young; that subsequently, on the 24th day of April, 1878, the
said John Taylor, as trustee in trust, transferred and conveyed
the same to Theodore McKean on a secret trust for said corporation, who held the same upon said trust until the 2d day
of July, 1887, when he attempted to convey the same. to
William B. Preston and Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder, trustees, by a certain instiument in writing, of which ihe
following is a copy."
The deed is then set out in the findings, and is altogether
similar to that executed by John Taylor to- Preston, Burton
and Winder, before recited.
The court further-found as follows:
"That said Guardo house and grounds were used and occupied by. said John Taylor, president of said church, from 1878
up to the time of his death as a residenc6.
"The third property above described, known as the hiStorian's office and grounds, was thken possession of by Albert.T.
Rockwood in 1848, and was a part o.f the public domain, and
continued to be such up to the 21st day of November, 1871,
when the town site of Salt Lake City was entered as aforesaid; that on the 3d day of October, 1855, the Church ' of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, through its trustee in trust,
Brigham Young, purchased the said Rockwood's claim to said'
premises and at its own cost and expense erected thereon the
building which has ever since been known.as the historian's
office and residence; that said building was large enough to
accommodate the historian's family and furnish an office for
the church historian; that from the year 1848 until the time
of his death in 1875, George A. Smith was the historian of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

said church and lived, in said building with his family and had
the custody of the books, papers and records of said church relating to its history or public acts of its officers and members;
that the same have always been kept in said building from the
time of its construction until the present time, at the cost of said
church, and that such office is and has been necessary for the
use of said historian in the discharge of his duties; that in
1872 the said George A. Smith obtained the title to said premises from the mayor. of Salt Lake City-under the town-site
act, and that after his death the same was conveyed to his wife
and one of his granddaughters, who afterwards transferred and
conveyed the same to Theodore M[cKean for a valuable consideration; that the said Theodore McKean has ever since
that date held and now holds the same on a secret trust for
the use and benefit of said corporation; that'said grounds are
immediately west of and adjoining the Guardo-house grounds.
"The fourth property above described, known as part of the
tithing office and grounds, was taken possession of by the agents
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints when Salt
Lake City was first laid out and surveyed, in 1848, and ever
since that time has been used and occupied by said church as
a voluntary sect until it became incorporated as aforesaid, and
then as a corporation, receiving and disbursing tithing and
voluntary contributions of property, and that prior to July 1,
1862, buildings and other improvements of considerable value
had been built thereon by said church; that at the time said
property was taken possession of as aforesaid it was a part of
the public domain and continued to be such until the 21st day
of November, 1871, when said land was entered as aforesaid
along with other lands under said town-site act by the mayor
of Salt Lake City; that Brigham Young, who was then president and trustee in trust of said corporation, claimed said
land under said town-site law and it was conveyed to him by
*Daniel 1H. Wells, mayor of Salt Lake City; that in November,
1873, 'Brigham Young transferred and conveyed said property
to George A. Smith, as 'the trustee in trust of the corporation
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and his
successor in office; that on the death of said George A. Smith

MORMON CHURCH v: UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the legal title in said premises vested in ,Brigham Young as
such successor, and the executors of said Brigham Young
transferred and conveyed said. property to, John Taylor, as
the trustee in trust of said- corporation, who, in April, 18,78,
transferr ed and conveyed the same to Edward Hunter upon a
secret trust for the use and benefit Pf said corporation; that said
Edward Hunter afterwards, to wit, o- the 24th day of April,.
1878, transferred and conveyed the same to Robe.rt T. Burton
on a secret trust for said corporation, and on -the 2d'day of
July, 1887, the said Robert T. Burton attempted to. convey"
the same to William B. Preston, JohnlR. Winder, and himself,
as trustees, by a certain instrument in writing in the words
and figures following, to-wit."
The deed here copied is similar to the previous deeds before
recited.
The court further found as follows:
"The fifth ljiece of property above described,,known 'as a
part of the tithing. office and grounds, w" possessed, acquired
axd owned as'follows:
"In the year 1848, Newell K. Whitney, then presiding
bishop -of said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints,,
took possession of lot five, block eighty-eight, plaf 'A.' Salt
Lake City survey, and in the same year Horace K. Whitney
took possession of lot six, in said block; that some time in the
.year 1856 the Church of Jestis Christ of Latter-Day Saints, by
its agents, took possession of the south half of said lots and
placed .thereon yards and corrals, and have continued to
dccupy the same with said yards and corrals down to this
period; that in the year 1870 the mayor of Salt Lake Pity en-.
tered the town site of Salt Lake City, in trust for the inhabitants and occupants thereof, under the law.of 1861; that the.
foregoing lots are a portion of said entry.
"The said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Sainti, by
its trustee, Brigham Young, filed.an application in the proper
court for a title to the south half of said lots, and the heirs.of
Newell K. Whitney also filed an application in the proper
,court for the- soith half of lot five, and Horace K. Whitney
filed an applicaiion in the same court for the south half bf lot

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

six. The court awarded the title to the said premises to
Brigham Young, as trustee as aforesaid.
"That afterwards, in the year 1872, Brigham Young, trustee, obtained a deed from the heirs of Newell K. Whitney to
said south half of lot five, and in consideration thereof paid
them seven thousand dollars, and at the same time the said
Brigham Young, trustee, obtained a deed from Horace K.
Whitney of lot six, and- paid him therefor the sum of two
thousand dollars.
"At the time the act of Congress of February 19, 1887, took
effect the legal title thereto was held by Robert T. Burton on
a secret trust for the use and benefit of said corporation ; that
on the 2d day of July, 1887, the said Robert T. Burton attempted to convey the same to Wim. B. Preston, John R.
Winder, and himself as trustees, by that certain instrument of
writing hereinbefore last set out.
"The remainder of,said real estate held, owned and possessed
by said corporation as aforesaid was acquired by it after the
first day of July, 1862, by purchase, but the legal title thereof
was at all times held by persons in trust for said corporation
upon secret trusts, and not by the corporation itself.
"That at the time the said act of Congress of February 19,
1887, took effect said corporation owned, held and possessed
the following-described personal property; to wit."
The items of personal property are then set out, being
the same as in the petition of Romney and others before referred to.
The court further found as follows:
I-That the said corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints was in its nature and by its statute of incorporation a religious and charitable corporation for the purpose of promulgating, spreading and upholding the principles,
practices, teachings and tenets of said church, and for the purpose of dispensing charity, subject and according to said principles, practices, teachings and tenets, and that from the time
of the organization of said corporation up to the time of the
passage of said act of February the 19th, 1887, it never had
any other corporate objects, purposes and authority; never

MORMON C-IURCO

v. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the Case.

had any capital stock or stockholders, nor have there ever
been any natural persons who were authorized under its act
and charter of incorporatibn -to take or hold any personal
property or estate of said corporation, except the trustees provided for by said statute of incorporation.
. "That the said personal property hereinbefore set out hadl
been accumulated by said l'ate corporation prior to the passage
of said act of February the 19th, 1887, and that such accimulation extended over a period of twenty years.of more; that
prior to and at the time of the passage of said act the said
personal property had been used for and devoted to the promulgation, spread and maintenance of the doctrines; teachings,
tenets and practices of the said Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, and the doctrine of polygamy or plurality
of wives was one of the said doctrines, teachings, tenets and
practices of the said late church corporation, but only a portion of the members of said corporation, not exceeding twenty
per cent of the marriageable members, male and female, were
engaged in the actual practice of polygamy; that'since the
passage of the said act of Congress of February 19, 1887, the
said voluntary religious sect known. as the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints has comprised the great body of
iiadividuals who formerly composed the membership of said
corporation, and the organization, general government, doctrines and tenets of said voluntary religious sect have been
and now are substantially the same as those of the late corporation of the Church of Jesus Chrst of Latter-Day 'Saints.
"That certain of the officers of said religious sect, regularly
ordained, and certain public preachers and teachers'of said religious sect, who are in good standing, and who are preachers and
teachers concerning the doctrines and tenets of said sect, have,
since the passage of said act of Congress of February the 19th,
1887, promulgated, taught, spread and uphettd the same d6ctrines, tenets and practices, including the doctrine of polygamy, as were formerly promulgated, taught and upheld by
the said late corporation, and the said teachings of the said
officers, preachers and teachers have not been repudiated or
dissented from by said voluntary religiods sect, nor have their

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

teachings and preachings or their actions created any division
or schism in said voluntary religious sect.
"That any dedication or setting aside of any of the personal property hereinbefore set out as having belonged to the
late corporation, to the uses and purposes of or in trust for the
members of the late corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-Day Saints, or any of them, would practically and
in effect be a dedication and setting aside of said personal
property to the uses and for the purposes of and in trust for
the unincorporated religious sect known as the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
"That at the commencement of this suit all of said personal
property was in the possession of the said William B. Preston,
who held it in trust and for the benefit of said corporation.
'"That all of the -above described property, real and personal, is now in the possession of Frank H. Dyer, receiver of
this court.
" That of the above-described real estate the following
tract, including the buildings thereon, situated in said county
of Salt Lake, Territory of Utah, and being all of block eightyseven (87), in plat ' A,' Salt Lake City survey, at the time of the
passage of the act of Congress of February 19, 1887, was used
exclusively for the worship of God according to the doctrines
and tenets of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
"That several proceedings have been instituted by and with
the consent and advice of this court, by information, on behalf
of the United States of America, in the Third District Court
of said Territory of Utah, for the purpose of having declared
and adjudged forfeited and escheated to the government of
the United States all of the above-described real estate, excepting the said block eighty-seven of plat 'A,' Salt Lake City
survey, last above mentioned, by virtue of the said act of Congress entitled ' An act to amend section 5352 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States in reference to bigamy, and for
other purposes,' which proceedings are now pending in said
court and undetermined."
Upon this finding of facts the court adjudged and decreed
as follows, to wit:

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"That on the 3d day of March, 1887, the corporation of the,
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints became and the
same was dissolved, and that since said date it has had no
legal corporate existence.
"2d. It is furthermore adjudged and decreed that the following alleged deeds, hereinbefore set out, were executed
without authority, and that no estate in the property. set out
in said deeds passed by the same or any of them, to wit;
"The deed, dated June 30th, i887, from .John Taylor,
trustee in trust, to William B. Preston, Robert T. Burton and
John R. Winder, as trustees, for the property described as the
'Temple Block.' The deed, dated July 2d, 1887, from .Theodore McKean and his wife to William B. Preston, Robert T.
Burton and John R. Winder, as trustees- for property known
as Athe 'Guardo house' and grounds. The deed, dated July
2d, 1887, from -Robert T. Burton and wife to William B.
Preston, Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder, as trustees,
for the property described as the ' Tithing- house' and grounds.
"And it is therefore ordered and debreed that said alleged
deeds and each of them be, and the same are hereby, annulled,
cancelled and set aside.
"3d.. It is further adjudged and decreed that the followingdescribed real estate, to wit, all'of block eighty-seven, in plat
'A,' Salt Lake City survey, in the city'and county of Salt,
Lake, Territory of Utah, be, and the same is hereby, set apart
to the voluntary religious worshippers and unincorporated sect
and body known as the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints, and that, the said William B. Preston, Robert T.
Burton and John R. Winder, trustees appointed by the Probate
Court of Salt Lake County, as hereinbefore set out, do hold,
manage and control said property so set, aside for the benefit
of said voluntary religious worshippers and unincorporated sect
and body, and for the erection and use by them of houses of
worship, and for their use and convenience in 'the lawful exercise of worship according to the tenets of said sect and body;
and it is ordered that Frank I. Dyer, receiver of this court,
heretofore appointed, do surrender and deliver. possession and
control of ,all of the property so set aside to the trustees,

OCTOBER TERf, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

William B. Preston, Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder,
aforesaid.
"4th. It is furthermore adjudged and decreed that,
except
as to the Temple block aforesaid, the petitions of William B.
Preston, Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder, trustees, filed
the 6th day of October, 1888, in this court for the setting
aside of certain real estate for the uses and purposes of the
religious sect known as the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints be, and the same are hereby, denied; and it is
adjudged and decreed that the balance of the real estate over
and above said Temple block, which has been "hereinbefore
fpund as belonging to said late corporation, has not nor has
any of it ever been used as buildings or grounds appurtenant
thereunto for the purposes of the worship of God or of parsonages connected therewith, or for burial grounds by the said
late corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints, nor is the said real estate, except as set aside, or any
part thereof, necessary for such purposes for the unincorporated religious sect known as the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints.
"5th. It is furthermore adjudged and decreed that all of the
real estate set out in the findings of fact hereinbefore was the
property of and belonged to the late corporation of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and the same was held
in trust for said corporation; and, furthermore, that the legal
titles of and estates in said real estate and every part and
parcel thereof were acquired by said late corporation and its
trustees subsequently to July 1, 1862, and that prior to said
date neither the said corporation nor its trustees had any legal
title or estate in and to said real estate or any part thereof.
"6th. And it is further adjudged and decreed that the petition of intervention by George Romney, Henry Dinwoody,
James Watson and John Clark, on behalf of themselves and
other members of the late corporation of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints, filed this day in this court, which
said petition alleges the clairfi on behalf of the petitioners and
those for whom it is filed in and to the real and personal
property formerly belonging to said late corporation and now

MORMON CHURCH 9j. UNITED STATES:
Statement of the Case.

in the-hands of the receiver ofthis court be, .and the same is
hereby, denied; and it is adjudged and decreed that neither
said interveners nor those in whose behalf they filed said petition have any legal claim or title in and to said property or
any part thereof"'Tth. Ald the court does further -adjudge and decree that
the late corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints having become by law dissolved as aforesaid, there
did not exist at'its dissolution and do not now exist any tirusts
or purposes within the objects and purposes for which said
personal property was originally acquired, as hereinbefore set
out, whether said acquisition was by purchase 6r donation, to
or for which said personalty or any part thereof could be used
or to which-it could be dedicated, thAt were and are not in
whole or in part opposed to public policy, good morals and
-contrary tQ .the laws of the United States; and, furthermore,
that there do not exist any natural.persons or any body, association or corporation who are legally entitled to any portion
of said personalty as successors, in. interest to said Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, nor have there been nor are
there now any trusts of a,definite-and legal character, upon
which this court, sitting as. a court of chancery, can administer
the personal property hereinbefore set out; and it is furthermore adjudged that all and entire the personal property set
out in this decree as having. belonged to said late corporation
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints has by
reason of the dissolution of said corporation as aforesaid, on
account of the failure or illegality of the trusts to which -it
was dedicated at its acquisition and for which it had been used
by said late corporation and by operation of law, becoma escheated to and the property of the United States of America,
subject ,to,the costs and expenses of this prbceeding and of the
receivership by this court instituted and ordered.
"8th. It is furthermore ordered and adjudged that there is
not now and has not been since the 3d day of- March, 1887;
any person legally, authorized to take charge of, manage, preserve and control the personal and real property hereinbefore
set out, except the receiver heretofore appointed by this court;

OCTOBER TERAIf, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

and it is therefore ordered that' the receivership hereinbefore
established by this court is continued in full force and effect,
and that the said receiver shall continue to exercise all and
entire the powers and authority conferred upon him by the
decree appointing him; and it is further ordered that he do
continue in his possession and keeping all of the property, real
and personal, hereinbefore set out, except such realty as has
been set apart by the provision of this decree for the benefit-of
the unincorporated religious sect known as the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and that he do safely keep, manage and control the same in accordance with the provisions of
the order of this court appointing him receiver, pending the
determination of the proceeding upon information hereinbefore
referred to and until-the further order of this court; and final
action upon and determination concerning the accounts, proceedings and transactions of said receiver and all matters connected with or incidental thereto are ordered to be reservet
for the future consideration and decision of this court."
From this decree the defendants appealed, and the interveners, Romney and others, also took a separate appeal, and
the case is now here for adjudication.
Mr. Jame&0. -Broadhead(with whom was Mr..FranklinS.
Richards on the brief) for appellants.
It is settled law that the people of the United States represented by Congress, may do for the Territories what the people
of each State may do for their State. But the same authority
has established the doctrine that the personal and civil rights
of the inhabitants of the Territories are secured to them by
the same principles of constitutional liberty which restrain all
the agencies of government, state and national, and that therefore the Congress of the United States has no right to impair
the safeguards which protect the civil rights of every citizen,
whether in a State or a Territory, and which are secured to
him by the express provisions of the Constitution of the United
States, or by the principles of government which underlie our
whole political system. And it is equally well established by

3i R'MON CHURCH v.' UNITED STATES.
Argument fot Appellants.

the decisions of this court that Congress can pass no law
impairing the obligation of contracts, or legislating back to the
government property that has been given away by acts. of.
Congress, or divesting title of property from one citizen and
giving it to another, because such acts are repugnant to the
spirit of, our institutions.
In the exercise of its unquestioned power the territorial
legislature of Utah, in 1851, by joint resolution, approved the
charter of this corporation, which had been previously granted
by. the so-called State of Deseret, and on the 19th day of
January, 1855, it confirmed and reenacted the same. The
franchises granted to this corporation were that it should be
a corporation with perpetual succession, and with power to
acquire and hold real and perso'ial estate for the religious and
charitable purposes set forth in the charter., No authority was
given to the church by this charter, nor is it claimed in its
organization that any authority exists, to set at defiance the
laws of the land, nor is it claimed, as has been asserted by
the Supreme Court of -Utah in the opinion delivered by that
court in this case, that the organization claims to be directed
and led by inspiration that is above all human wisdom and
subject to a power above all municipal governments. The
court claims this assertion of fact as belonging to history,
whereas the very contrary doctrine is asserted in what are
called the "revelations" of this church, to be found on page
219 of their book of Doctrine and Covenants. The one dis'tinguishing feature of this corporation is, that, being a corporation founded for religious and charitable purposes it was not
founded for the profit of the corporators, but for the administration of charitable trusts. It is with regard to a corporation
of this character that we maintain that:
I. Congress having, by the organic act of September 9i
,1850, given full power and authority to the Territory of Utah
-over all rightful subjects of legislation, including the power
and authority to create private corporations, and no right to
-repeal, alter or amend the powers and frandhises vested in thechurchcorporation having beeil reserved in the act of incorporation, or in any other act or law of the territorial- legislav'OL cxxxvI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

ture of Utah, or in the organic act itself, the creation of
this corporation was a contract which could not be altered or
repealed by any subsequent act of the territorial legislature
or of the Congress of the United States.
While we admit that the Congress of the United States has
supreme legislative authority over the Territories, we maintain
that it has not the power to undo what it authorized to be
done. We say that while the granting of a corporate franchise
is an act of legislation -a law, because it is an act of the lawmaking power, the only representative of the State in this
is something more than a law in the general sense
respect -it
of that word. A law in its general sense is a rule of action,
and applies to every citizen in the community. An act of
incorporation, or any other contract made by the authorities
representing the State, applies to one individual, or to a limited
number of individuals; and while it is a law, as applied to
them, it is at the same time a contract made with them, which,
if executed, may not be impaired by any subsequent act of
legislation. If there is a provision in the charter that it may
be repealed by the power granting it -that the artificial person created by the act may be destroyed -then this power of
repeal becomes a part of the contract, or if by a general law
relating to the subject of corporations it is declared substantially that their charters may be amended, and that the Sta.te
reserves the right to alter or repeal them, then this reservation
becomes a part of the contract. Dartmouth college v. ITJoodward, 4.Wheat. 518, 637, 645, 682, 700.
The reservation contained in the organic act of the Territory
of the right to disapprove acts passed by the territorial legislature is not a reservation upon all the grants of power contained in that section of the organic act, or rather in that
part of the section which gives them the right to legislate upon
all rightful subjects of legislation. There is nothing in the
organic act, nor in the charter under consideration, nor in any
act of Congress, which reserves to Congress or to the territorial legislature the right to alter, amend or repeal a charter
of incorporation. Every decision of this court in which the
right of a legislature to alter or take away the franchises

MORMON1

CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

of, a corporation has been upheld is a case in which there was
either a special reservation in the charter, or some provision of
a general law on the subject of corporations, reserving to the
State the power to alter or repeal the act creating the corporation. Miller v. State, 15 Wall. 478, 488; Greenwood v. Teight
Comany, 105 U. S. 13, 15; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13
Wall. 190, 212; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, 53; Wilkinson
v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627, 657; Osborn v. iNicholson, 13 Wall. 654;
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 388; Dred Scott v. Sa'ndford, 19
How. 393, 449.
II. The charter of the church corporation received the
implied sanction of Congress, and thereafter Congress could
not impair the contract nor. dissolve the corporation, either by
disapproving the act of incorporation, or by repealing the.
charter.
The law requires that the secretary of the Territory shall
transmit to the President of the Senate and: to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives, for the use of Congress, two
copies of the laws and journals of each session of the territorial legislature, within thirty days after the end of each
session, and one copy to the President of the United States.
This court will presume that the officers have performed their
dty in this respect. From 1851 to 1887 there were thirty-six
regular sessions of Congress. The sixth section of the organic
act provides (that'all laws passed by the Legislative Assemlibly
and Governor shall be submitted to the Congress of the
United States, and if disapproved, shall be null and of no
effect. It is true there is no time fixed within which this disapproval may be manifested, but after this long period of
time it is certainly fair to presume that such legislation has
received the implied sanction of Congress. Clinton v. Englebrecht,13 Wall. 434, 446.
But if it should be held that Congress had the power to
disapprove the charter of the church and dissolve the corporation, then the property now in possession of the receiver
would belong to the members of the corporation, and it should
have been set apart, by the court below, for their use and
benefit. In the well considered opinion of the Court of Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

peals in New York in the case of People v. O'Brien, 111
N. Y. 2, it is said: "It cannot be necessary at this day to enter
upon a discussion in denial of the right of the government
to take from either individuals or corporations any property
which they may rightfully have acquired. In the most arbitrary times such an act was recognized as pure tyranny, and
it has been forbidden in England ever since Magna Charta,
and in this country always. It is immaterial in what way the
property was lawfully acquired, whether by labor in the ordinary avocations of life, by gift, or descent, or by making a
profitable use of a franchise granted by the State; it is enough
that it has become private property, and it is thus protected
by the law of the land."
To the same effect is the language of this court in Greenwood v. Freight Co., ubisup., where it is said: "Personal and
real property acquired by the corporation during its lawful
existence, rights of contract, or choses in action so acquired,
and which do not in their nature depend upon the general
powers conferred by the charter, are not destroyed-by such a
repeal; and the courts may, if the legislature does not provide some special remedy, enforce such rights by the means
within their power. The rights of the shareholders of such a
corporation, to their interest in its property, are not annihilated by such a repeal, and there must remain in the courts
the power to protect those rights." p. 19.
The act of March 3, 1887, was an act of judicial legislation,
and for this reason beyond the power of the legislative department of the general government; it is, therefore, unconstitutional. ilurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, 535; Davis v.
Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 223; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13
Wall. 190, 212; Terrett v. Taylor, ubi suy.; Loan Association
v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 662.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1887, not only purports to
disapprove the'territorial act incorporating the -church, but it
also decrees the dissolution of the corporation and confiscates
its property.
What has been said in regard to the power of Congress to
annul the charter of incorporation of the Church of Jesus

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for AppeUants.

Christ of Latter-Day Saints applies to the act of July 1, 1862,
and of March 3, 1887. In regard to the act of March 3, 1887,
it may be further said that it was an act of judicial legislation, even if it were a lawful act, so far as the mere disapproval of the act of incorporation is concerned.
The Congress of the United States is not content with dissolving the corporation and leaving the rights of property
belongiig to the corporation at the time of its dissolution to
be determined by existing laws, but it makes, or undertakes
to make, a new law in the nature of a judicial determination
to.the effect that this property no longer belongs to the corporation, nor to the individual members who composed the
corporation, but that it belongs to the United States, and that
the.court will set apart so much as in its judgment shall be
necessary for the convenience and use of the congregation, or
the members composing the congregation, and that the balance shall be disposed of conformably to some law not pointed
out in the act, but which the Congress of the United States
assumes to have an existence, fixing rules for the disposition
of such property.
The court, in its final judgment, adjudged the personal property escheated; set aside part of the real estate; and authorized the remainder to be proceeded against by information.
It is difficult to understand why the realty was not escheated as
well as the personalty. There was as much authority to do the
one as the other; and there was no legal authority to do either.
1. There is no such thing known to the jurisprudence of
the United States as escheat. There is no rule of law by
which personal property of any kind can escheat to the
United States.
Under the.laws of the United States, property may become
subject to forfeiture under the provisions of various statutes, but no forfeiture can exist except by statutory provision.
The doctrine of escheat belongs to the common law which was
varied from time to time by acts of Parliament. "Escheats,"
said Lord Coke, "are of two kinds; ,First, _proptcr defo.u
tenentB; second, yopter deZiotum tenentio." See Coke Lyt.
13a, 92b.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

The doctrine, as applied to real estates in England, is that
where a person dies intestate, without leaving any person who,
according to the law of inheritance, can claim as heir, the estate in fee will escheat to the lord from whom the fee is held.
And, as this doctrine was derived partly from the feudal system, things which do not lie in tenure as a rent charge will
not escheat; and at common law an equitable or trust estate
would nbt be forfeited or escheated either for treason or felony, for the simple reason that there is a trustee in possession;
and if there be a tenant, no matter whether he holds for himself or in trust for some one else, the reasons which would
cause an escheat to the lord would not in that case exist.
See Attorney General v. Sands, Tudor's Leading Cases, 775

and notes, 3d Eng. ed.
If lands be given to a body corporate or politic, as for
instance to a dean and chapter, or to a mayor and commonalty
and to their successors, upon its dissolution the land will
revert to the donor and not to the lord by escheat. Coke
Lytt. 13 b.
Equitable estates and estates held in trust are not liable to
escheat, because they are not the subject of tenure and because
the lord can only claim the escheat on account of the defect of
the tenant. Cox v. Parker,22 ]3eavan, 168 ; Burgess v. Wheate,
1 Eden, 128, 176; Taylor v. Raygarth, 14 Sim. 8, 16; Beale v.
Symonds, 16 Beavan, 406.
At common law, the crown, by virtue of its prerogative,
is entitled to chattels, real or personal, of an intestate leaving
no next of kin. Tudor's Leading Cases, 784 and notes; but this
does not aj )ly to equitable estates or the _projerty of dissolved
religious corporations.

Personal estate was formerly forfeited to the crown upon
conviction of treason or felony. -McDowell v. Bergen, 12
Irish Com. Law (N. S.) 391; Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown,
book 2, c. 49, sec. 9.
But the harsh rules of the common law in regard to
escheats and forfeitures were abolished in cases of treason
or felony by Statutes 33 and 34 Vict. c. 23.
In the statutes of most of the States of the Union there

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

are laws regulating, escheat; and in most of those States all of them indeed except the State of Louisiana -the coinmon law, and the acts of Parliament of a gefieral nature
.prior to the fourth year of the reign of James I, have ,been
adopted, but the common law has never been adopted by the
United States. W/keatrn v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591.
V. The personal property is not subject to escheat to the
United States on account of any failure or illegality of the
trusts to which it was dedicated at its acquisition and for
which it has been used -by the corporation.
There is no rule of equity jurisprudence which authorizes
a. chancellor to declare as forfeited or escheated to the government, property which has been used for an illegal or immoral purpose. Courts of equity will refuse to carry into
effect illegal or immoral contracts. Of this there are numerous instances, but we know of no case in which a court -of
equity, in the absence of any statutory provision on the subject, has been authorized to escheat or forfeit to the govern-,
ment, property which has been illegally acquired, or which is
held for illegal or immoral purposes. . B the provisions of
the statutes of some of the States, courts of equity, at the
instance of an escheator, an officer appointed to prosecute on
behalf* of the Commonwealth in such cases, will entertain
jurisdiction of eicheats. But even where this is provided by
positive law, the doctrine of escheats will be avoided by courts
of equity in the interests of justice, by the application of the
doctrine of .equitable conversion. CommonweaZtA v. .[artin,
5 kunford, 117.
VI. If both the acts of Congress referred to should be held
constitutional and valid, and it should be declared that any real
estate ibelonging to the corporation can be legally forfeited
and escheated to the United States by any legal proceedings,
then 'weclaim that the following described real estate cannot
-be held as forfeited and escheated to the United States; (1)
all real estate in which the church held vested rights, either
legal or equitable, on the 1st day of July, 1862; (2) real
estate to the value of fifty thousand ,dollars at the time of
its aclquisitio-n acquired after the 1st of July, 1862; (3) all

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

real estate held or occupied by the corporation at the date of
its dissolution, for the purpose of the worship of 'God, or
parsonage connected therewith, or burial ground, and property appurtenant to such real estate as may have buildings
erected thereon for any of these purposes.
The property in which the church corporation had vested
rights at the time of the passage of the act of July 1, 1862,
consisted of the Temple Block, the Historiau's Office, the Tithing Office, and the real estate connected with those respective
premises. Similar titles have been held valid in Tussey v.
Smith, 99 U. S. 20, 22; Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610,
616; Co,fleld v. .cClellan, 16 Wall. 331. See also Lamb v.
Davenport, 18 Wall. 307, 313.
There can be no doubt, from the decisions of this court, that
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints had and held,
on the first day of July, 1862, ยงuch an equitable interest in the
Temple, Block, the Tithing Office property, and the Historian's Office and gounds, as constituted a "vested right in
real estate," which the act of Congress of that date declared
should "not be impaired." The property still belongs to the
church, and should have been set apart to it. Bogardus v.
Trinity Church, 4 Sandf. Ch. (N. Y.) 633, 758; Harvard College v. Boston, 104: Mass. 470, 488.
'VII. Under the averments of the bill and the proofs taken
there was no authority to appoint a receiver, because: (1) The
bill does not describe any property that the government claims
has been escheated, or is subject to escheat or forfeiture; (2)
There is'no averment or claim that any of the personal prop-,
erty is subject to escheat or forfeiture to the government;
(3) There is no averment in the bill, or proof, that any of the
property referred to was in danger of being lost or injured,
or that it was not safe in the hands of the persons who are
alleged to be in the possession of the same - it is only claimed
to be illegally in their possession, and that they have no right
to hold it.
"The appointment of a receiver is not a matter of strict
right. Such an application always calls for the exercise of
judicial discretion, and the chancellor should so mould his

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

'order that while favoring one, injustice is not done to another.
If this cannot be accomplished the application should ordinarily be denied." Fosdick v. Sckall, 99 U. S. 235, 253.
Mr. Solicitor GeneralJenks for the appellees.
Mr. Joseph E McDona d (with whom was Mr. John A.
Butler on the brief) for appellants, made the following point,
Broadekd.
not made by rM-.
If said act of Congress of March 3, 1887, is finally held constitutional and valid, the seventeenth section. thereof, wherein
it is provided and required that "the court shall have power,
and it shall be its duty, to make such decree or decrees as
.shall be proper to effectuate the transfer of the title to real
property now held and used by such corporation for places
.of worship and parsonages connected therewith and burial
grounds, and of the .description mentioned in the proviso to
section thifteen of this act, and in section twenty-six of this
act, to the respective trustees mentioned in section twenty-six
of this act," is a direct legislative declaration' and determination by the Congress of. the United States that the teachings,
doctrines, tenets and practices of the church, sect, association
or organization now known as the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints are not opposed to public policy and good
moralh, and are not contrary to the laws of the United States.
And if said church, sect, association or organization is competent in law to receive and hold by its trustees valuable
real estate for its religious and dharitable uses and purposes in
accordance with the "tenets of said. sect and body," it is 'con-trary to law, equity and reason to hold, as is held by the
decree appealed from, that all of the personal property and
estate belonging to said corporation and dedicated to its religious and charitable uses and purposes is forfeited and escheated
to the United States, on the ground that the retention of said
personal property by said church, sect, association or organization, now known as the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints, -and the appropriation and dedication thereof by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

said church to its religious and charitable uses and purposes,
would be opposed to public policy, good morals and contrary
to law.
M . JusTioE B .ADLEY,after stating the case, delivered the
.opinion of the court.
The principal questions raised are, first, as to the power of
Congress to repeal the charter of the Church of Jesus Christ
of' Latter-Day Saints; and, secondly, as to the power of Congress and the courts to seize the property of said corporation
and to hold the same for the purposes mentioned in the
decree.
The power of Congress over the Territories of the United
States is general and plenary, arising from and incidental to
the right to acquire the Territory itself, and from the power
given by the Constitution to make all needful rules and regulations respecting the Territory or other property belonging to
the United States. It would be absurd to hold that the United
States has power to acquire territory, and no power to govern
it when acquired. The power to acquire territory, other than
the territory northwest of the Ohio :River, (which belonged to
the United States at the adoption of the Constitution,) is derived
from the treaty-making power and the power to declare and
carry on war. The incidents of these powers are those of
national sovereignty, and belong to all independent governments. The power to make acquisitions of territory by conquest, by treaty and by cession is an incident- of national soyereignty. ,The territory of Louisiana, when acquired from
France, and the territories west of the Rocky Mountains, when
acquired from Mexico, became the absolute property and
domain of the United States, subject to such conditions ds the
government, in its diplomatic negotiations, had seen fit to
accept relating to the rights of -the people then inhabiting
those territories. Having rightfully acquired said territories,
the United States government was the only one which could
impose laws upon them, and its sovereignty over them was
complete. No State of the Union had any such right of sover-

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

eignty over them; no other country or government had any
such right. These propositions are so elementiy, and so
necessarily follow from the condition of things arising upon
the acquisition of new territory, that they need no argument
to support them. They are self-evident. Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of the American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 5412, well said: ":Perhaps the power of
governing a Territory belonging to the United States, which
has not, by becoming a State, acquired the means of self-government, may result necessarily from the facts, that it is not
within the jurisdiction, of any particular State, and is within
the power and jurisdiction of the United States. The right
to govern may be the inevitable consequence of -the right to
acquire territory. Whichever may be the source whence the
power is derived, the possession of it is unquestioned." And
Mr. Tustice Nelson delivering the opinion of -the court in
Benner v. Porter,9 How. 235, 242, speaking of the territorial
governments established by Congress, says: "They are legislative governments, and their courts legislative courts, Congress, in the exercise of its powers in the organization and
government of the Territories, combining the powers of both
the federal and state authorities." Chief Justice Waite, in the
case of 1'ational Bank v. County of Yankton, 101 U. S. 129,
133, said: "In the organic act of Dakota there was not an
express .reserva'tion of power in Congress to amend the acts
of the territorial legislature, nor was it necessary. Such a
power is an incident of sovereignty, and 'continues until
granted away. Congress may not only abrogate laws of the
territorial legislatures, but it may itself legislate directly for
the local government. It may make a void act of the terri
tQrial legislature valid, and a. valid act void. In other words,
it has full and complete legislative authority over the people
of the Territories and all the departments of the territorial
governments. It may do for the Territories what the people,
under the Constitution of the United States, ma' do for the:
States." In a'still more recent case, and one'relating to the
legislation of Congress over the Territory of Utah itself, .murhy.v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 44, Mr, Justice Matthews said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"The counsel for the appellants in argument seem to question
the constitutional power of Congress to pass the act of March
22, 1882, so far as it abridges the rights uf electors in the Territory under previous laws. But that question is, we think, no
longer open to discussion. It has passed beyond the stage of
controversy into final judgment. The people of the United
States as sovereign owners of the national Territories, have
supreme power over them and their inhabitants. In the exercise of this sovereign dominion, they are represented by the
government of the United State s, to whom all the powers of
government over that subject have been delegated, subject
only to such restrictions as are expressed in the Constitution,
or are necessarily implied in its terms." Doubtless Congress,
in legislating for the Territories would be subject to those
fundamental limitations in favor of personal rights which are
formulated in the Constitution and its amendments;, but these
limitations would exist rather by inference and the general
spirit of the Constitution from which Congress derives all its
powers, than by any express and direct application of its provisions.
The supreme power of Congress over the Territories and
over the acts of the territorial legislatures established therein,
is generally expressly reserved in the organic acts establishing governments in said Territories. This is true of the Territory of Utah. In the 6th section of the act establishing a
territorial government in Utah, approved September 9, 1850,
it is declared "that the legislative powers of said Territory
shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation, consistent
with the Constitution of the United States and the provisions
of this act.

.

.

.

All the laws passed by the legislative as-

sembly and governor shall be submitted to the Congress of the
United States, and if disapproved shall be null and of no
effect." 9 Stat. 454.
This brings us directly to the question of the power of Congress to revoke the charter of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints. That corporation, when the Territory of
Utah was organized, was a corporation defacto, existing under
an ordinance of the so-called State of Deseret, approved Feb-

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ruary 8, 1851. This ordinance had no validity except in the
voluntary acquiescence of the people of Utah then residing
there. Deseret, or Utah, had ceased to belong to the Mexican
government by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and in 1851
it belonged to the United States, and no government without
authority from the United States, express, or implied, had any
legal right to exist there. The assenmbly of Deseret had no
power to make any valid law. Congress had already passed
the law for organizing the Territory of Utah into a government; and no other government was, lawful within the
bounds of that Territory. But after the organization of the
territorial government of Utah under the act of Congress,
the legislative assembly of the Territory passed the following
resolution: ".Resolved, by the -LegislativeAs8embly of the Territory of Utah, That the laws heretofore passed by the provisional government of the State of Deseret, and which do not
conflict with the organic act of said Territory, be and the,
same are hereby declared to be legal and in full force and virtue, and shall so remain until superseded by the action -of the
legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah." This resolution was approved October 4, 1851. The confirmation was
repeated on the 19th of January, 1855, by the act of the legislative assembly entitled, "An act in relation to the compilation
and revision of the laws and resolutions in force in Utah Territory,. their publication and distribution." From the time of
these confirmatory acts, therefore, the said corporation 'had a
-legal existence under its charter. But it is too plain for argument that this charter, or enactment, was subject to revocation and repeal .byCongress whenever it should see fit .to
exercise its power for that purpose. ,Like any other act of the
territorial legislature, it was subject to this condition. Not
only so, but the power of Congress could be exercised in modifying or limiting the powers and privileges granted by such
charter; for. if it could repeal, it could modify; the greater
includes the less. Hence there can be no question that the act
of July 1, 1862, already recited, was a valid'dxercise of congressional power. Whatever may be the'effeci or true construction of this act, we have no doubt of its validity. As far

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

as it went it was effective. If it did not absolutely repeal the
charter of the corporation, it certainly took away all right or
power which may have been claimed under it to establish,
protect or foster the practice of polygamy; under whatever
disguise it might be carried on; and it also limited the amount
of property which might be acquired by the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints; not interfering, however, with,,
vested rights in real estate existing at that time. If the act
of July 1, 1862, had but a partial effect, Congress bad still the
power to make the abrogation of its charter absolute and complete. This was done by the act of 1887. By the 17th section of that act it is expressly declared that "the acts of the
legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah, incorporating,
continuing or providing for the corporation known as the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and the ordinance
of the so-called general assembly of the State of Deseret, incorporating the said church, so far as the same may now have
legal force and validity, are hereby disapproved and annulled,
and the said'corporation, so far as it may now have or- pretend to have any legal existence, is hereby dissolved." This
absolute annulment of the laws which gave the said corporation a legal existence. has dissipated all doubt -on the subject,
and the said corporation has ceased to have any existence as a
civil body, whether for the purpose of holding property or of
doing any other corporate act. It was not necessary to resort
to the condition 'imposed by the act of 1862, limiting the
amount of real estate which any corporation or association for
religious or charitable purlposes was authoiized to acquire or,
hold; although it is apparent from the findings of the court
that this condition was violated by the corporation before the
passage of the act of 1887. Congress, for good and sufficient
reasons of its own, independent of that limitation, and of any
violation of it, had a full and perfect right to repeal its charter
and abrogate its corporate existence, which of course depended
upon its charter.
The next question is, whether Congress or the court had the
power to cause the property of the said corporation to be seized
and taken possession of, as was done in this case.

MORMON. CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

When a business corporation, instituted for the purposes of
gain, or private interest, is dissolved, the modern doctrine is,
that its property, after payment of its debts, equitably belongs
to its stockholders. But this doctrine has never been extended
to public or charitable corporations. As to these, the ancient
and established rule prevails, namely: that when a corpora-.
tion is dissolved, its personal property, like that of a man
dying without heirs, ceases to be the subject of private ownership, and becomes subject to the disposal of the sovereign
authority; whilst its. real estate reverts or. escheats to the
grantor or donor, unless some other course of devolution has
been directed by positive law, though still subject as we shall
hereafter see to the charitable use. To this rule the corporation in question was undoubtedly subject. But the grantor
of all, or the principal part, of the real. estate of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints was really the United
States, from whom the property was derived by the church,
or its trustees) thr6ugh the operation of the town site act.
Besides, as we have seen, the act of 1862 expressly declared
that all real estate acquired or held by any of the corporations
or associations therein mentioned, (of. whiqh the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints was one,) contrary to the
provisions of that act, should be forfeited and escheat to the
United States, with a saving of existing vested rights. The
act prohibited the acquiiing or holding of real estate of
-greater value than $50,000 in a Territory; and no legal title
had vested in any of the lands in Salt Lake City at that time,
as the town site act was not passed until M arch 2, 1867.
There can be no doubt, therefore, that the real estate .of the
corporation in questi6n could not, on its dissolution, revert or
pass to any otherperson or persons thanthe United States.
If it be urged that the real estate did not stand in the name
*of the corporation, but in the name of a trustee. or trustees,
and therefore was not .subject to the rules relating to corporate property, the*substance of the difficulty still remains.
It cannot be contended that the prohibition of the act of 1862
could hive been, so easily evaded as by putting- the property
of the corporation into the hands of trustees. The equitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The trustee
or trust estate was vested in the corporation.
held it for no other purpose; and the corporation being dissolved that purpose was at an end. The trust estate devolved
to the United States in the same manner as the legal estate
would have done had it been in the hands of the corporation.
The trustee became trustee for the United States instead of
trustee for the corporation. We do not now speak of the
religious and charitable uses for which the corporation; through
its trustee, held and managed the property. That aspect of
the subject is one which places the power of the government
and of the court over the property on a distinct ground.
Where a charitable corporation is dissolved, and no private
donor, or founder, appears to be entitled to its real estate,
(its personal property not being subject to such reclamation,)
the government, or sovereign authority; as the chief and common guardian of the State, either through its judicial tribunils or otherwise, necessarily has the disposition of the funds
of such corporation, to be exercised, however, with due regard,
to the objects and purposes of the charitable uses to which
the property was originally devoted, so far as .they are lawful
and not repugnant to public policy. This is the general prin-'
ciple, which will be more fully discussed further on. In this
direction, it will be pertinent, in-the meantime, to examine
into the character of the corporation of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and the objects-which, by its con-.
stitution and principles, it promoted and had in view.
It is distinctly stated in the pleadings and findings of fact,
that the property of the said corporation was held for the
purpose of religious and charitable uses. But it is also stated
in the findings-of fact, and is a matter of public notoriety, that
the religious and charitable uses intended to be subserved and
promoted are the inculcation and spread of the doctrines and
usages of the Mormon Ohurch, or Church of Latter-Day
the pracSaints, one of the distinguishing features of which is"
tice of polygamy - a crime against the laws, and abhorrent
to the sentiments and feelings of the civilized world. lNotwithstanding the stringent laws which have been passed by
Congress - notwithstanding all the efforts inade to 'uppre~s

MORMO01-CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.

49

Opinion of the Court.

this barbarbus practice-the sect or community composing
the Ohurch of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints perseveres,
iA defiance of law, in preaching, upholding, promoting and
defending it. It is a matter of public notoriety that its emis.saries are engaged in many countries in propagating this
nefarious doctrine, and urging its converts to join 'the corn-'
iimunity in Utah. The existence of such a propaganda js a
blot on. our civilization. The organization of a community for
the spread and practice of polygamy is, in a measure, -a return
to barbarism. It is contrary to the spirit of Christianity and
of the civilization which Christianity has. produced in the'
Western worli. The question, therefore, is whether the promotion of such a nefarious system-and practice, so repugnant.
to our laws and - to the principles of .our civilization, is to be
allowed to'continue by .the sanction of the. government itself;
and whether the funds accumulated for that purpose shall be
restored to the same i nldivful uses as heretofore, to the detriment of thf true interests of civil society.
It is unnecessary here to refer to the past history of. the
sect; to their defiance of the government authorities,,to threir
attempt to estAblish an .independent* community,' to their
efforts to drive from'the territory all who were not connected
with them in communion and sympathy. The tale is one of
patience on the part:of the, American government and people,
and of contempt of authority and resistance to law on. the
part of the Iormons. Whatever persecutions they may have
suffered in the early part of. their history, in Miss6uri - and
Illinois, they have no excuse for their. persistent defiance 'of
law. under the government of the United States.
Qne pretence for this obstinate -course is, that their belief in
'the practice .of polygamy, or int
the -right to indulge in.it, is a.
religious belief, and, therefore- under the protection of the constitutional guaranty of religious freedom. This is altogether'
a sophistical plea. ND doubt the Thugs. of India imagined
that their belief- in the *right 6f assassination was a rehioous
belief; but their thinkfng so did not make. it so. The .practice of suttee by the, Hindu widows may have sprung from a
supposed religious conviction. Thle offering of human sacriVOL. cxxvi-4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

fices by our own ancestors in Britain was.no doubt sanctioned
by an equally conscientious impulse.

But no one, on ,that

account; would hesitate to brand these practices, now, as
,crimes' against society, and obnoxious to condemnation {nd
punishment by the civil authority.
The State has ยฃ perfect right to prohibit polygamy, and all
other open offences against, the enlightened .sentiment of mankind, notwithstanding the pretence of religious conviction by
which they may be advocated and practised. -Davisv. Bea
.son, 133 U. S. 333.
And since polygamy has been forbidden
by the laws of the United States, under' severe penalties, and
since t;e Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints has persistently used and' claimed the right to use, and the unincor,porated community still claims the same right to* use, the
funds with 'which the late corporation was endowed for the
purpose of promoting and propagating the.unlawful practice
as an integral part of their religious usages, the question
arises, Whether the government, finding these funds without
legal ownership, has or has not, the right, through its courts,.
an.d in due course of administration,.to cause them to be seized
'aud devoted to objects of undoubted charity and usefulness suc.h for example as the maintenance of schols- for'the benefit of the community whose leaders are now misusing them
in the unlawful manner above described; setting apart; how.evei, for th exclusive possession and use of the church, sumcient and suitable. porlions of the property for the purposes
of public worship, parsonage buildirigs and burying" grounds,
as provided in the law.
The property in question hbs been dedicated to public and
chaiit~ble uses: . It matters not whether it is the prioduct of
private contributions, made during the course of half a cen-"
tury, or of taxes imposed upon the people, or 'of gains arising
from fortunate operations in business,' or appreciation in valโขues; the charitable uses for which it is-held are stamped upon
it' by charter, by- ordinance, by regulation and by usage, in,
-sdoih an indelible manner that there can be no mistake' as to
their character, purpose or object.
The law respecting property held for. charitable uses of.

XORMON CHURCH v, UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Coiut.

'course depids upon the legislation and jurisprudence ,of the.
country in which the property is situated and the uses 'are
carried' out; -and When the positive law affords no specific provision for actual cases that arise, the. subject must necessarily
be governed by those principles of reason and public policy
which prevail in al., civilized' and enlightened communities:-,
The principles of the law of charities are not confined to-z
particular people or nation, but prevail in'all civilized .countries
pervaded. by the spirit of Christianity. They- are foundim-.
bedded in the civil law of Rome, in the laws. of Europeaii
nations, and especially in the laws of that- nation from which
our institutions are derived. A leading and prominent principle prevailing in them all is, that property ยฐdevoted to a
charitable and ivorthy- object, promotive of the publib g6od,
shall be aj~plied to the purposes of its dedication, 'and' pietected from spoliation and from diversion to other objects.
Though devoted to a particular use, it is considered as giveni.
to the public, and is, therefore, taken under the guardianship
of the law . If it cannot be applied to the pairticular use f6i
which it was intended, either- because the objects to be subserved have failed, or because they have'become unlawful and
repugnant iothe public poli~y of the State, it will be applied
'to some object of kindred character so as to fulfil in substance,
if not in manner and form,.the purpose of its consecration.'.The manner 'in which the due, administration and application .,of charitable estates is secured, depends upon the judicial
institutions and machinery of the particular governmentto
which they are subject. In England, the court of chancery iF;
the ordinary tribunal to which this class of cases is delegated;.
and *there are comparatively few which it is not competent'
to. administer. WThere there.is a failure of trustees, it 'can:
appoint new ones; and where a modification of'uses is neces-.
sary in order to avoid a violation of the laws, it has power-to
make -the change. 'There are some cases, however, which are
'beyond its jurisdiction ;, as where, by statute, :a gift to Certain
uses is declared void and the- propeity'goes ,to the king; and
in some other cases of failure of "the charity. In such cases
,the.
king as varens 2atrice, under his sign manual, disposes of*

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-the fund to. such uses, analogous to those intended, as seems
to hm expedient and wise.
These general principles are laid 'down in all the principal
,treatises on the subject,-and are the result, of numerous cases
and authorities. See Duke on Char. Uses, c. 10, ยง 4, 5, 6;
Boyle on Char. Bk. 2 , c. 3, c. 4; 2 Story's Eq. Jur. ยงยง 1167
et seq.; Attorney General v. Gyise, 2 Vernon, 266; Mggridge
v. Thacewell, 7 Yes. 36, 77; Pe Themmines v. .De Bonneval,
5 Russ. 289; Town of Pawlet v. Clark, 9 Cranch, 292, 335,
336; BKeatty v. urtz, 2 -Pet. 566; Vidal v. Girard'sEecutors,-2 How. 127; Jackson v. Phillips,14 Allen, 539 ;, Ould v.
Washington Hospital, 95 U. S. 303; Janes v. Habersham, 107
U. S. 174.
The individual cases cited are but indicia"of the general
principle underlying them. As such they are authoritative,
though often in themselves of minor importance. Bearing.
this in mind, it is interesting to see how far back the principle
is recognized. in the Pandects of Justinian we find cases to
thiesame effect its those referred to, antedating the adoption
of Christianity as the religion 6f the Empire. Amongst others,
in. the Digest, lib. 33, tit. 2, law 16, a case is reported which
occurred in the early part of the third century, in which a
legacy was left to a city, in order that from the yearly revenues games might be celebrated for the purpose of preserving
.the memory, of the deceased. It was not lawful at that time
to celebrate these games. The question was, what was to
be done with this legacy. Modestinus, a celebrated jurist of
authority, replied, "Since the testator wished games to be
celebrated which are not permitted, it would be -unjust that
the' amount which he has destined to that end -should go back
o the heirs. Therefore let the heirs and magnates of the city
be cited, and let Pin examination be made to ascertain how the
trust may be employed so that the memory of the deceased
may be preserved- in some other -and lawful manner." Here
is the doctrine of charitable uses in a nutshell.
Domat, the French jurist, writing on the civil law,(after
explaining the nature of pious and cha.itable usesi and. thefavor with which they. are treated in the law, says,. 1 If a pious

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED' STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

legacy were destined to some use which could not have its
effect, as if a testator had left a legacy for building a chui'ch
for a parish, or an apartment in an hospital, and it happened,
either that before his death the said church, or the said apartment had been built out of some other fund, or that it was
nolways necessary or useful, the legacy would not for dll that
remain without 'any use; but it would be laid o'iit on other
works of piety for that parish, or for that hospital, according
to the directions that should be given in this matter by the
persons to whom this function should belong." I And for this
principle he cites a passage from the Pandects. Domat's Civil
Law, book 4, *title2,, section 6, par. 6.
By the Spanish law, whatever was given to the service. of
God, became incapable of private ownership, being held by
the clergy -as guardians or trustees; and any part not required
for their own support, and the repairs, books and furniture of
the church, was devoted to works of piety, such as feeding
and clothing the poor, supporting orphans, marrying poor
virgins, redeeming captives and the like. Partida III. tit. :28,
I1.
1-2-15. When property :was given for a particular, object,
as a church, a hospital, a convent or a community, etc., and
the object failed, the property did not revert to the donor, or
his heirs,-but .devolved to the crown, the church or other convent or community, unless the donation contained an- express
condition in writing to tlie contrry. Tapia, Febrero Novisimo, lib. 2, tit. 4, cap. 22, ยง 2 4 2 6 .
A case came before Lord Bacon in 1619, Bloomfield v. Stowe
Ma'ket, Duke on Char. Uses, 624, in Which lands had been
given before the Reformation to be sold, and the proceeds
applied, one-half to the making of a highway from the town

I Si un legs pleux 6tait destin6 A quelque usage qui ne pfit avoir son effet,
comme si un testateur avait l6gu6 pour faire une 6glise pour une paroisse, on
ua btiment dans .un h6pital, et qu'il arrivt, ou qu'avant sa mort cette
6glise on ce batiment efit'6t
fait de quelque autre fonds, ou qu'il n'y en efit
-point de n~cessit ni d'utilit6,,le legs ne demeurerait pas 'pourdela sans aueun
usage; mais 11 serait employ 6,d'autres ouvres Pe pit6 pour cette paroisse
ou pour cet.6pital, selon les destinations qu'en feraient les personnes que
cette fonction pourrait regarder.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in which the lands were, one-fourth to the repair of a church
in that town, and the other fourth to the priest of the church
to say prayers for the souls of the donor and others. The
Lord Keeper decreed the establishment of the uses for making
the highway and repairing the church, and directed the remnpiing fourth (which could not, by reason of the change in
religiop, be applied as directe.d by the donor) to be divided
bet,ween the poor of the same town and the pqor of the town
where the ddnor inhabited.
In the case of Baliol College, which came before fhe court
of :chancery from time to time for over a century and a half,
the same principle was asserted, of directing a charity fund to
a different, though analogous use, Where the use originally
declared had become contrary to the policy of the law.
There, a testator in 1679, when Episcopacy was established
by law .in Scotland, gave lands in trust to apply the income
to the education of Scotchmen at Oxford, with a view to their
taking Episcopal orders and settling iht Scotland. Presbyterianisnm being regstablished in Scotland after the Revolution of 1688, the object of the bequest could not be carried
into effect; and the court of chancery, by successive decrees
of Lord Somers and Lord Hardwicke, directed the income of
the, estate to be applied to the education of a certain number
of Scotch students At Baliol College, without the condition of
taking orders; and, in consideration of this privilege, directed
the surplus of the income to be applied to the college library.
See .the cases of Attorney General v. Guise, 2 Vernon, 266;
Attorney Gemveral v. Baliol College, 9 Mod. 407; Attorney
Genralv. Glasgow College, 2 Collyer, 665; S. C. 1 H. L. Cas.
800. And see abridgment of the above cases in Jackson v.
Phil i]ps, 14 Allen, 581, 582.
Lord Chief Justice Wilmot, in his opinion in Attorney
Geh&d v. Lady Dbwning, 1 Wilmot, 32, looking at the
cas, .in the supposition that the trusts of the will (which
were for instituting a college) were illegal and void, or of
such a nature as not fit to be carried into execution, said:,
"This court has long made a distinction between superstitions.
.uses and mistaken charitable uses. By mistaken, I mean such

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of thWeCourt.

as are repugnant to that sound constitutional policy, which
controls the interest, wills and wishes of individuals, when
they clash iVith the interest and safety of the whole community. Property, destined to superstitious uses, is given by law
of parliament to the king, to dispose of a he pleases; and
it falls properly under the cognizance of a court of revenue.
But where property is given to mistaken charitable uses, this
court 'distinguishes between the charity and the use; and
seeing the charitable bequest in the intention of the testator,
they execute the intention, varyifig the use, as the king, who
is the curator of all charities- and the constitutional trustee
for the performance of, them, pleases to direct and appoint."
"This doctrine is now so fully settled that it cannot be departed from." 16.
In YMoggritge v. Thackwell, 7 Yes. 36, 69, Lord Eldon said:
"I have no doubt, that cases much older than I shall cite may
be found; all of which appear to prove that if the testator
has manifested a general intention to give to charity, the
failure of the particular mode in which the charity isto be
effectuated shall not' destroy the charity: but, if the substantial intention is charity, the law will "siibstitute another mode
of devoting the property to charitable purposes, though the
formal intention as to the mode cannot be accomplished." In
Hill on Trustees, page 450j after citing this observation of
Lord Eldon, it is added: "In accordance with these principles,
it has frequently been decided that where a testator has sufficiently expressed his intention to dispose of his estate in trust
for charitable purposes gene'ally, the general- purpose will be
enforced by the court to the exclusion of any claim of the.
next of kin to take under a resulting trust; although the
partieular purpose or inode of. application is not declared at
all by the testator. And the same rule prevails, although the
testator refers to some past or intended declaiationof the particular charity, which declaration is not made or cannot be
discovered; and although the selection of the objects of the
chati y and the mode of application are left to the discretion
of the -trustees. And it is immaterial that the trustees refuse.:
the gift, or die, or that their appointment is revoked in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Coult.

lifetime of the testator, causing a lapse of the bequest at law.
The same construction will also be adopted where aparticular
charitable purpose, is declared by the testator which does not
exhaust the whole value of the estate; or where the particular
trust cannot be carried into effect, either for.its uncertainty or
its illegality, or for want of proper objects. And in all these
cases the general intention of the testator in favor of charity
will be effectuated by the court through a cypT s application
of the fund." The same propositions are laid down by Mr.
Justice Story in his Equity Jurisprudence, sections 1167 et
seq. But it is unnecessary to make further quotations.
These authorities are cited (and many more might be adduced) for the purpose of showing -that where property has
been devoted to a public or charitable" use which cannot be
carried out on account of some. illegality in, or failure of the
object, it does not, according to the general law of charities,
revert to the donor or his heirs, or other representatives, but
is applied under the direction of the courts, or of the supreme
power in the State, to other charitable objects lawful in their
character, but corresponding, as near as may be, to the original intention of the donor.
They also show that the authority thus exercised arises, in
part, from tile ordinary power of the court of chancery over
,rusts, and, in part, from the right of the government, or
sovereign, as parens patri, to supervise the acts of public
and charitable institutions in the interests of those to be beflefited by their establishment; and, if their funds become bona
vaoantia, or left without lawful charge, or appropriated to
illegal purposes, to cause them to be applied in such lawful
manner as justice and equity may require.
If it should be conceded that a case like the present transcends the ordinary jurisdiction of the court of chancery, and
requires for its determination the interposition of the parens
patricp of the State, it may then be contended that, in this
country, there is no royal person to act asparensyatri, and
to give direction for the application of charities wt~ich cannot
be administered by the court. It is true we have no such
chief magistrate. But, here, the legislature is the parews

MORMON .CHURCH v. UNITED' STATES.

'57;

Opinion 'of'the ,Courmt

pariep, and, unless restrained ty constitution.al limitations,
possesses all the powers in this regard which -the sovereign
possesses in England. Chief" Justice Marshall, in the Dartmouth CoZZge Cae, said :. "By the revolution, the duties,-as
well as -the powers, of government devolved on the people.
.

.

.

It is admitted that dmong the latter was compre-,

hended the transcendent power of parliament, as well as that
of the executive department." 4 Wheat. 651: And Mr.
Justice Baldwin, in lcGill.v. Brown, Brightly, 346, 373, a
6ase arising on Sarah Zane's will, referring to this declaration
'of Chief' Justice Marshall, said: "The revolution devolved
on the. State all the transcendeift power of parliament, and
the prerogative of the crown,.and gave their acts-the same
forc6 and effect."
Chanbellor Kent says: "In this country, the legislature or
government of the State, asparenspatrice,has the right to enforce all charities of a public nature, by'virtue of its general
superintending- authority over the public interests, where no
other person is entrusted with it." 4 Kent Corn. 508, note.
In Fontaim v. Rabenel, 17 How. 369, 384, Mr. Justice
Mc'Lean, deliveriig the opinion of this court in a charity case,
said.: "When this country achieved its independence, the prerbgatives of the crown devolved upon'the people of the States.
And this power still remains with them except sp far as they
have delegated a portion of it to the federal government.
The sovereign will is.made known to us by legislative enactment. The State, as a sovereign, is the parens patriw."
This prerogative ofp arenspatriw is inherent in the supreme
power of every State, whether that power is lodged in a royal
person or in, the legislature, and has no affinity to those arbitrary powers which are -sometimes exerted by irresponsible
monarchs to the great detriment of the people and the destruction of theirliberties.. On the contrary, it is a most beneficent
function, and often necessary to be exercised in the interests
of humanity, and for the prevention of injury to those who
cannot protect themselves. Lord Chancellor Somers, in Cary
v. BMtie, 2 Vernon, 333, 342, said:' "It is true infants are
always favored. In this court there are several things-which

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

belong to the king aspater_atritv,and fall under the care and
direction bf this court, as charities, infants, idiots, lunatics, etc."
.The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts well said, in
Sohier v. Mass. Gen. Hospital, 3 Cush. 483, 497: "It is deemed

indispensable that there should be a power in the legislature to
authorize a sale of the estates of infants, idiots, insane persons
and persons not known, or not in being, who cannot act for
themselves. The best interest of these persons, and justice to
other persons, often require that such sales should be made.
It would be attended with incalculable mischiefs, injuries and
losses, if estates, in which persons are interested, who have not
capacity to act for themselves, or who cannpt be certainly
ascertained, or are not in being, could under no circumstances,
be sold, and perfect titles effected. .But, in such cases, the legislature, as parens _patris, can disentangle and unfetter the
estates, by authorizing a sale, taking precaution that the substantial rights of all parties are protected and secured."
These remarks in reference to infants, insane persons and persons not known, or not in being, apply: to the beneficiaries of
charities, who are often incapable of vindicating their rights,
and justly look for protection to the sovereign authority, acting as parenspatri. They show that this beneficent function
has not ceased to exist under the change of government from a
monarchy to a republic; but that it now resides in the legislative
department, ready to be called into exercise whenever required
for the purposes of justice and right, and is as clearly capable
of being exercised in cases of charities as in any other cases
whatever.
It is true, that in some of the States of the Union in which
charities are not favored, gifts to. unlawful or impracticable
objects, and even gifts affected. by merely technical difficulties,
are held to be void, and the property is allowed to revert to
the donor or his heirs or other representatives. But this is. in"
cases where such heirs or representatives are at hand to claim
the property, and are ascertainable. It is difficult to see how
this could be done in a case where it would be impossible for
any such claim to be made, - as where the property has been
the resulting accumulation of ten thousand petty contributions,

MORMON CHUROH v. UNITED STATES.

59

Opinion of the Court.

extending through a long period of' tim, as .is the case. with
all ecclesiastical and community funds. - In such a case the
only course that could be 4atisfactorily'pursu~ed, would e that
pointed out by the general law of charities, namely, f.or t e
government, or-the court of chancery, to assume the, control
of the fund, and devote it to lawful objects of charity, most
nearly corresponding' to those to which it was originally destined.. Itcould not be returned to the donors, nor distributed
among the beneficiaries.
The impracticability of pursuing a different course, however,,
is not the true ground of this rule of 'charity-law. The true
ground is that the property given to a charity becomes in' a
measure public property, only applicable as far as may be, it
is true, to-the specific' purposes -to which it is Aevoted, but
within those limits c6nsecrated to the public use, and become
cpart of the public resources for promoting the .happiness' and
well-being -of the people of the State.- Hence, when such-,
property ceases to have any other owner, 'by the failure of the.
trustees, by forfeiture for illegal application, or for any other
cause, the ownership naturally and, necessarily falls upon the.
sovereign power of the 'State; and, thereupon the court ofchancery, in, tle exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, will.
appoint a new trustee to take the place of the trustees .that
.have failed or that have been set aside, and will give directions
for the further management aiad administration of..the property; or if the case is beyond the ordinary jurisdiction of the
court, the legislature may interpose and make. such disposition
of, the matter as will accord with the. purposes of justice and
-right. The funds-,are not lost to.,the public as charity funds.;
they are not lost t' the general objects or class of objipts"
which they were intended'to subserva or effect. The State, by
its legislature or its judiciary, interposes to preserve. them from
dissipation and destruction, and to set them up on a new basis
of usefulness, directed to lawful ends, coincident, as far as may
be, with the objects originally proposed.
The interposition of the legislature in 'such cases-is exemplifled by the case of The Tow of Pawlet v. lark, 9-Cranch,
292, which ar6se in Vermont. In. the town- charter, granted

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in the name of the king in 1761, one entire share of the town
lands was granted "as a glebe for the Church of England as
by law established." There was no Episcopal church in the
town until 1802. In that year one was organized, and its parson laid claim to the globe lands, and leased them to Clark
and others. Of course, this church had never been connected
with the "Church of England -as by law established;" and
the institution of such a church in 1802 was impossible, and
would have been contrary to the public policy of the State.
Meantime, in 1794, the legislature had granted the glebe lands
to the several towns to be rented by the selectmen for the sole
use and support of public worship, without restriction as to
sect or denomination. This law was subsequently repealed,
and in 1805 the legislature passed another act, granting the
'glebe lands to the respective towns, to apply the rents to the
use of schools therein. This was held to be a valid disposition.
Mr. Justice Story, in the course of an elaborate opinion,
amongst other things, showed that a mere voluntary society
of Episcopalians within a town could no more entitle themselves, on account of their religious tenets, to the glebe than
any other society worshipping therein. "The glebe," he said,
"remained hcreditas.jacens,and the State, which succeeded
to the rights of the crown might, with the assent of the
town, alien or encumber it, or might erect an Episcopal church
therein," etc. p. 335. "'By the revolution the State of Vermont succeeded to all the rights of the crown as to the
unappropriated- aยง well as the appropriated glebes." p. 335.
,Again: "Without the authority of the State, however, they
[the towns] could not apply the lands'to other uses than public worship; and in this respect the statute of 1805 conferred
a new right which the towns might or might not exercise at
their own pleasure." I p. 336.
1

Note by MP_ JusTrIC BADLF.Y. The frequency with which this power
of the legislature is exerted is shown by a recurrence to the private laws
of. any of the States. Taking glew Jersey for example; the Index of
Private Laws, under the head of "Academies" alone, refers to the following acts:
1..By an ancient charter the trustees of the township of 'Bergen held

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES. "
Opinion of the Court.

Coming to the case before us, we have no doubt that the
general law of charities which we have described is applicable
certain lands for the. common benefit of the freeholders, a portion of which
was set apart for the free school of the. township. An academy being
organized and incorporated in the town, its trustees claimed this portion
and sold certain parcels of it. The legislature, on the representation of the
trustees of the township, confirmed the sales that had been made, but
directed that the proceeds, and the land unsold should be vested in the trustees of the township, for the use and benefit of the free school alone. This,
of course, the court of chancery could not have done. Laws of 1814,
p. 202.
2. By tn act of Mfarcl 2, 1848, it was enacted, that the title of a lot in,
the village of Hackensack, formerly vested in the trustees of the Washington Academy, should be vested in the Washington Institute of Hackensack,
to be held by them for. the purposes and trusts, and subject to the conditions, of the articles of their association. Laws of 1848, p. 118. -It is
probable that the first institution had ceased to exist.
3. A certain school-house and lot in the city of Newark was held by trustees for the benefit of "The Female Union School Society," for the edication of indigent female children. Not being longer needed for that purpose,
in consequence of the establishment of public free schools in the city, the
legislature authorized the trustees, with the assent of the association, to
sell the property and pay over'the proceeds to a new corporation created for
the support and education of destitute orphan children of the city, called
The 'rotestant Foster Home Society. Laws of 1849, p. 143.
4. In 1854 an act was passed, authorizing the trustees of the Camden
Academy to convey their property to the Board of Education of the city of
Camden. The reason appears from the following- recital of the act
"Whereas a certain lot of land [describing it] has heretofore been given
or bequeathed for the purpose of erecting a school-house thereon; and
whereas the building known as the Camden Academy has been erected
thereon by voluntary subscription; and whereas the donors of said land and
the subscribers to the funds, for the erection of said building, have, with few
exceptions, departed this life, and the objects which they had in view have
in a great degree been frustrated; and whereas it is considered that the
same may be best promoted by securing said lot of land,. and the building
thereon, for the occupancy of public schools of the city of Camden; Be it
enacted," etc. Laws of 1854, p. 353.
5. By an act passed in 1871, the trustees of Chatham Academy, in the
county of Morris, were. authorized to convey any part of the real estate
held by them, or to sell the same and pay over the proceeds, to the trustees
of Chatham School District No. 1, to be used by them for educational purposes only. Laws of 1871, p. 670. Here was, evidently, atiother case of an
academy having run down, and its operations discontinued.
Instances of this kind of legislation, in which the legislature clearly acts
as par~nspatrice, may be found almost without number.

-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1889..
Opinion of the Court.

thereto. It is true, no formal declaration has been made by
Congress or the territorial legislature as to what system of
laws shall prevail there. But it is apparent from the language
of the organic act, which was passed September 9, 1850, (9
Stat. 453,) that it was the intention of Congress that the system of common law and equity which generally prevails in
this country should be operative in the Territory of Utah;
except as it might be altered by legislation. In the 9th
section of the act it is declared that the Supreme and District
Courts of the Territory "shall possess chancery as well as
common law jurisdiction," and the whole phraseology of the
act implies the same thing. The territorial legislature, in like
nianner, in the first section of the act regulating procedure,
approved December 30, 1852, declared that all the courts of
the Territory should have "law and equity jurisdiction in civil
cases." In view of these significant provisions, we infer that
the general system of common law and equity, as it prevails in
this country, is the basis of the laws of the Territory of Utah.
We may, therefore, assume that the doctrirne of charities is applicable to the Territory, and that Congress, in the exercise of
its plenary legislative power over it, was entitled to carry out
that law and put it in force, in its application to the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
, Indeed, it is impliedly admitted by the corporation itself,
in its answer to the bill in this case, that the law of charities
exists in Utah, for it expressly says: "That it was, at the time
of its creation, ever since has been, and still is, a corporation
or association for religious or charitable uses." And again it
says:
"That prior to February 28, 1887, it had, as such corporation, as it lawfully might by the powers granted to it by its
acts of incorporation, acquired and held from time to time
certain personal property, goods and chattels, all of which it
had acquired, held and used solely and only for charitable and
religious purposes; that on the 28th day of February, A.D.
1887, it still held and owned certain personal property, goods
and chattels donated to it by the members of said church and
friends thereof solely and only for use and distribution for

MOFJV[O

OIURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the, Court.

charitable and religious purposes;" and " that on February
28, 1887, John Taylor, who then held all the personal property, moneys, stocks and bonds belonging to said defendant
corporation as trustee in trust for said defendant, by and with
the consent and approval of defendant, donated, transferred
and conveyed all of said personal property, moneys, stocks
and bonds held by him belonging to said defendant corporation, after setting apart and reserving certain moneys .and
stocks then held by him, sufficient in amount and necessary
for the payment of the then existing indebtedness of said defendant corporation, to certain ecclesiastical corporations
created and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the
Territory of Utah, to be devoted by said ecclesiastical coqo-.
rations solely and only. to charitable and religious uses and
purposes."
And the interveners, Romney and others, who ekaim to
represent the hundred thousand and more individuals of the
Mormon Church in their petition. say:
"That the said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Iay Saints
is and for many years last past has been a voluntary religious
society or association, organized and existing in the Territory
of Utah for religious and 6baritable purposes.
F1That said petitioners and others, for whose benefit they
file this petition, are members of said church, residing in
said Territory; that said church became. possessed of all the
above-described property, in accordance with its established
rules and 'customs, by the voluntary contributions, donations
and dedications of its said members, .to be held, managed and
applied to the use and benefit of said church and for the maintenance of its religion and charities by tlustees appointed by
said members semi-annually at the general conference or meeting of said members."
The foregoing considerations place it beyond, doubt that
the general law of charities, as understood and administered
in our Anglo-American system of laws, was and is applicable
to the case now under consideration.
Then looking at the case as ihe finding of facts presents it,
we have before us - Congress had before it -

a contumacious

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

organization, wielding by its resources an immense power in
the Territory .of Utah, and employing those resources and that
power in constantly attempting to oppose, thwart and subvert
the legislation of Congress and the will of the government of
the United States. Under these circumstances we have no
doubt of the power of Congress to do as it did.
It is not our province to pass judgment upon the necessity
or expediency of the act of Febrdary 19, 1887, under which
this proceeding was taken. The only question we have to
consider in this regard, is as to the constitutional power of
Congress to pass it. Nor are we now called upon to declare
what disposition ought to be made of the property of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. This suit is, in
some respects, an ancillary one, instituted for the purpose of
taking possession of and holding for final disposition the property of the defunct corporation in the hands of a receiver, and
winding up its affairs. To that extent, and to that only, the
decree of the Circuit Court has gone. In the proceedings
which have been instituted in the District Court of the Territory, it will be determined whether the real estate of the corporation which hasbeen seized (excepting the portions exempted
by the act) has, or has not, escheated or become forfeited to
the United States. If it should be decided in the affirmative,
then, pursuant to the terms of the act, the property so forfeited and escheated will be disposed of by the Secretary of
the Interior, and the proceeds applied to the use and benefit
of common schools in the Territory.
It is obvious that any property of the corporation which
may be adjudged to be forfeited and escheated will be subject
to a more absolute control and disposition by the government
than that which is not so forfeited. The non-forfeited property will be subject to such disposition only as may be required by the law of charitable uses; whilst the forfeited and
escheated property, being subject to a more absolute control
of the government, will admit of a greater latitude of discretion in regard to its disposition. As we have seen, however,
Congress has signified its will in this regard, having declared
that the proceeds shall be applied to the use and benefit of

-MORMON CHURCH v.. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

common schools in the Territory. Whether that will be a
proper destination for the non-forfeited property will be a matter for future consideration in view of all the circumstances of
the case.
As to the constitutional question, we see nothing in -the act
which, in our judgment, transcends the power'of Congress
over the subject. We have already considered the question of
its power to repeal the charter of, the corporation. IT cer
tainly also had power to direct proceedings to be instituted.
for the forfeiture and escheat of the real estate of the cotrporation; and, if a judgment should.be rendered in favor of the
government. in these proceedings, the power to dispose pf -the
proceeds of the lands thus forfeited and escbeated' for the use
and benefit of common sch6ols in the Territory, is beyond:
dispute, It would probably have power to make such a disposition of the proceeds if the question were merely one of
charitable uses, and not of forfeiture. Schools find education
were regarded by the Congress of the Confederation as the
most natural and. obvious appliances for the promotion of
religion and morality. In the ordinance of 1187, passed -for
the government of the-Territory Northwest of the Ohio, it is
declared, Art. 3,. "Religion, morality and -knowledge, being
necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind,
schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged." Mr. Dane, who is reputed to have drafted -the said
ordinance, speaking of some of the statutory provisions of the
English law regarding charities as inapplicable to America,,
says: "But in construing these'lawis, rules have been laid
down, which are valuable in every State; as that the erection
of schools and the relief of the poor are always right, and
the law will deny the application of private property only as
to uses the nation deems superstitious." 4 Dane's Abridg.
239.
The only remaining constitutional question arises upon that
part of the 17th section of the act, under which the present
proceedings were instituted. We do not vell see how the constitutionality of .this provision can be seriously disputed, if it
be conceded or established that the corporation ceased. to
VOL. CXXXVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
-Dissenting

Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Lamar, JJ.

exist, and that ifs property thereupon ceased to have a lawful owner, and reverted to the care and protection of the government as parens2atrice. This point has already been fully
discussed. We have no doubt that the state of things referred
to existed, and that the right of the government to take possession of the property followed thereupon.
The application of Romney and others, representing the
unincorporated members of the Church of Jesus Christ 'of Latter-Day Saints, is fully disposed of by the considerations
already adduced. The principal questibn discussed has been,
whether the property of the church was in such a condition
as to authorize the government and the court to takb possession of it and hold it until it ยงhall be seen what final disposition of if should be made; and we think it was in such a
condition, and. that it is properly held in the custody of the
receiver. The rights of the church members will necessarily
be taken into consideration in the final disposition of the case.
There is no ground for granting their present application.
The property is in the custody of the'law, awaiting the judgment of the court as to its final disposition in view of the
illegal uses to which it is subject in 'the hands of the Church
of Latter-Day Saints, whether incorporated or unincorporated.
The conditions for claiming possession of it by the members
of the sect or community under the act do not at present exist.
The attempt made, afjer the passage of the act on February
19, 188T, and whilst it was in the President's hands for his
approval or rejection, to transfer the property from the trustee
then holding it to other persons, and for the benefit of different associations,was so evidently intended as an evasion of the
law, that the court below justly regarded it as void and without force or effect.
We have carefully examined the decree, and do 'notfind anything in it that calls for a reversal. It may perhaps require modijfcation in some matters of detail, andfor that
purpose only the case is reservedforfurther consideration.
MR.CHIEF, JUSTICE. FULLER, with whom concurred M1. Jusand MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, dissenting.

TICE FIELD

MNORMON .CHURGH v. UNITED STATES.

67

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Lamar, JJ.

I am constrained to dissent from the opinion and judgment
just announce'd. Congress possesses such authority over the
Territories as the Constitution expressly or by clear implica'
tion delegates.. Doubtless territory may be acquired by the
direct action of Congress, as in the annexation of Texas; by
treaty, as in the case of Louisiana; or, as in tlio case of California, by conquest and afterwards by -treaty; but the power
of.Congress to legislate over the Territories is: granted in so
many-words by the Constitution. Art. 4, sec. 3, clause 2.-.
And it is further therein provided that" Congress shall have
power to make all laws which shall be-necessary and proper
for carrying into ex 'ution the foregoing powers, and all other
powers vested by this Constitution in the government- of the
United States, or in any department or officer thereof."
In my opinion Congress is restrained, not merely by the limitations expressed in the Constitution, but also by the absence
of any grant of power, express or implied, in .that instrument.
And no such power as that involved in the act of Congress
under consideration is conferred by the Constitution, nor is any
clause pointed 6ut as its legitimate source. I regard it of vitalconsequence, that absolute power should never be conceded as
belonging under our system of government to any one of its
departments. The legislative power of Congress is delegated
and not inherent, and is therefore limited. I agree .that the
power to make needful rules and regulations for the Territories
necessarily comprehends the power to suppress crime; and it is
immaterial even though that crime assumes the form of a
religious belief or creed. Congress has the power to extirpate
polygamy in any of the Territories, by the enactment of a
criminalcode directed to that end; but it is not authorized
under the cover, of that power to seize and confiscate the
property of persons, individuals, or corporations, without office
found, because they may have been guilty of criminal practices.
The doctrine of oy:pris is one of construction, and not of ad-:
ministration. By it a fund dvoted to,a particular charity is
applied to a cognate purpose, and if the purpose for which this
property was accumulated was such as has been depicted, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

cannot be brought within the rule of application to a purpose
as nearly as possible resembling that denounced. Nor is there
here any counterpart in Congressional power to the exercise of
the royal prerogative in the disposition of a charity If this
property was accumulated for purposes declared illegal, that
does not justify its arbitrary disposition by judicial legislation.
In my judgment, its diversion under this act of Congress is in
contravention of specific limitations in the Constitution, unauthorized, expressly or by implication, by any of its provisions, and in disregard of the fundamental principle that the
legislative power of the United States as exercised by the agenits
of the people of this republic is delegated and not inherent.

RYAN
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

v. UNITED STATES.
COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MIPCHIGAN.
No. 1307. Submitted April 21, 1890.

Decided May 19, 1890.

The facts stated by the court constituted a valid contract, mutually binding on the parties, for the sale to the United States of a tract of land in
Michigan for purposes of fortification and garrison, as specified in the
act of July 8, 1886, 24 Stat. 128, c. 747.
In the absence of the Secretary of War the authority with which he was invested by that act could be exercised by the officer who, under the law
became for the time Acting Secretary of War.
Under the Michigan statute of frauds it is not essential that the description
in a memorandum for the sale of real estate should have such particulars
and tokens of identification as to render a resort to extrinsic evidence
needless when the witing comes to be applied to the subject matterbut it must be sufficient to comprehend the property which is the subject of the contract, so that, with tie aid of extrinsic evidence, without
being contradicted or added to, it can be connected with and applied to
the tract intended, to the exclusion of other parcels.
A complete contract, binding under the statute of frauds, may be gathered
from letters, writings and telegrams between the parties relating to its
subject matter, and so connected with each other that they may fairly be
said to constitute one paper relating to the contract.

