OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

NORRIS v. HAGGIN.
AP'EAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF TIE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 333.

Submitted May 2, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

A plaintiff who delays for fifteen years after an alleged fraud comes to his
knowledge before seeking relief in equity is guilty of laches, and ins bill
should be dismissed.

The defendants demurred to the bill and it was
The plaintiff appealed. The case is stated in the

IN EQUITY.

dismissed.
opinion.

il3r J H. 3-YocTune for appellant.
-.Mr 1ous T Haggin and jMrl S. C. Denson for appellees.
AE[.

JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California. The plaintiff, Samuel
Norris, who is appellant here, brought his suit in the Superior
Court of the county of Sacramento, against James 3. Raggin and Lloyd Tews, by way of a bill in chancery The bill
gives a very lengthy account of what the plaintiff calls a
"fraud and imposition" practised upon him by the defendants, who had been his agents and attorneys, and who, when
he became so enfeebled in mind as to be incapable of understanding his rioghts or attending to business at all, procured
from him conveyances and mortgages and other instruments
in writing, by means of which they secured the title to over
a million and a half dollars' worth of property, principally
real estate.
This suit was commenced on the 21st day of August, 1884,
and after a demurrer by defendants had been filed in the state

NORRIS v. IIAGGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

court, it was, on their motion, removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of California. There the
case was heard on the demurrer, which was sustained by the
Circuit Court and the bill dismissed. 28 Fed. Rep. 275.
From the decree dismissing the bill, the present appeal is
brought.
The statements of the bill are very full and profuse in their
recital of the advantages taken by the defendants of the plaintiff. He sets out in the amended bill, which was filed in* the
Circuit Court, that he was a citizen of the kingdom of Denmark, and a resident of the Sandwich Islands. That from the
1st day of December, 1849, until the 2d day of April, 1861, he
was the owner in fee, in possession and entitled to the possession, of a certain piece or tract of land consisting of 45,000
acres, in the county of Sacramento, on the right bank of the
American River, and known as the Rancho del Paso, and more
particularly described in a patent from the government of the
United States to him, which was duly recorded in the office of
That also he was the
the recorder of Sacramento County
owner of certain other parcels and lots of ground, the value of
which in the aggregate amounted to $1,535,000. He then
says that on or about the 1st day of January, 1855, said taggin and Tevis became and, until a short time prior to the
commencement of this suit were, the trusted agents, business
managers and attorneys of plaintiff in and about the management of his business affairs connected with said property,
that the defendants, for a valuable consideration, promised and
undertook to act as his agents and confidential advisers, -and
that, having faith and confidence in their integrity and ability,
he, from said first day of January, 1855, to the last of December, 1867, trusted them, and took and acted on their advice in
all his business affairs, and counselled with them in all matters
of importance, and confided to them all matters pertaining to
his affairs. Re then states that on the 4th day of March,
1859, he was injured by a severe blow on his head, whereby
his senses and faculties were impaired, so that he then and
thereby became deaf, and that for several months his hearing was wholly gone, and his left eye became and for several

OCTOBER TER-,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

years was sightless.

That his nervous system was so far in-

jured by said blow that for several years thereafter he was
unable to take refreshing sleep, and for more than ten years
thereafter he was unable, and mentally and physically incompetent, to attend in person to his business affairs or comprehend or understand what had been done in or about his said
business, or to direct his agents how to act, therein.
The specific acts of fraud charged to have been committed
against him by the defendants are, mainly, that on the 29th
day of April, in the year 1859, while in this unfortunate condition, they procured from him a note for 864,000, with a
mortgage upon all his property to secure its payment, that
this note was without consideration, that he did not understand it, that it was never read to him, and that, also, without his knowledge, they brought suit and foreclosed the mortgage by a decree of court, under which they purchased it at
the sale, and now have the legal title, also, that they procured
other judgments to be rendered against him in favor of other
parties, on alleged contracts of which he had no knowledge or
recollection, and in which, also, certain of this property was
sold and purchased, and came ultimately to the hands of defendants Haggin and Tews, all of which was through their
contrivance. It is further alleged that, in order to make sure
of their claim to this property, they procured from defendant
on the 23d day of June, 1863, a conveyance, executed and
delivered by him to said Tevis, of all the estate hereinbefore
described, and also all other lands owned by him in California,
which deed was recorded in the proper office on the 10th day
of September, 1863.
The bill also alleges that these frauds did not come to his
knowledge until a short time before the commencement of
this suit, and then only through information derived from his
counsel in the case.
There are many things about the bill which are peculiar and
calculated to throw suspicion on the claims here asserted. The
original bill filed in the state court was afterwards supple.
mented by two amended bills in the Circuit Court of the
United States. The allegations of these bills are, in the main

!NORRIS v. HAGGIX_.
Opinon of the Court.

the same, but there are some differences in them which are
calculated to attract attention. Among these are the fact that
in the first amended bill filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States, the execution of the note and mortgage for
$64,000 is thus described "That on the 29th day of April,
1859, your orator became indebted. to said defendant Tevis
in the sum of $64,000, and on that date gave said Tevis his
note due on demand, for that sum, for the benefit of both
defendants, and to secure said note, and on the same date,
executed and delivered to said Tevis, for the benefit of both
defendants, his certain indenture of mortgage securing the
payment of said note by pledge of all the real estate hereinbefore mentioned, that on the 12th day of January, 1860, said
Tevis commenced his suit to foreclose said mortgage in the
District Court of the 6th Judicial District, that your orator,
if he had- at said time been able and competent to transact
business and manage his affairs, might easily have arranged
to pay and discharge said note without the sacrifice of his
property"
In his second amended petition he declares that he knew
nothing about the giving of this note, that he was ignorant
of. the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage, that the whole
was a fraud from beginning to end, and that the note was
entirely without consideration.
Another feature of the case is, that although there are three
bills, including the original and amended bills, each of which
purports to be complete in itself, none of them are sworn to
either by complainant or by anybody for him, and this is 4true
although the first and second amended bills purport to be bills
of discovery, and some fifteen interrogatories are propounded
to the defendants by the second amended bill, which they are
required to answer under oath. There is also some ambiguity
about the length of time during which the plaintiff was in
this disabled condition, and there is no clear statement at all.
of what was the extent and character of that disability It is
not averred anywhere that he was insane.
As to the length of time of the existence of this disability,
it is stated m one paragraph of the last amended bill, that it

OCTOBER TERMv,

18$9.

Opinion of the Court.

existed from the time of his attack in 1859 for something
more than ten years, and it is averred, and, apparently in
accordance with this, as fixing the time of his recovery of
capacity to attend to business "That in the year 1869 lie
applied to I. 0 Beatty, who had in some early cases been his
attorney, for information concerning his affairs with defendants, and was advised by him that he could not act for him
as he had been employed by the defendants," and he excuses
himself for not seeking other advice or making other investigations, by saying that he was "ignorant of all the facts necessary
to lay before an attorney, and could not communicate with a
stranger so as to make himself intelligible, and felt himself
compelled to accept the status of his affairs as he found them,
and was incompetent to investigate and discover for himself
the facts and matters hereinbefore recited."
It is to be observed that the facts which it was necessary
for him to know in order to institute legal proceedings to
recover his rights were those of which he could not well have
been ignorant, and with reference to or on account of which be
undoubtedly applied to Beatty for advice. These were the
facts, that at that time all of his property was in the possession
of Ffaggmn and Tevis, who had been receiving the rents and
profits, and in their actual use, for five or six years, that the
mortgage he had given for $64,000 was on record in the
proper office, that the foreclosure proceedings were of record
in the court, that all the judgments under which Ins property
was sold were open and notorious, and required only an attorney or person of ordinary capacity to examine them to
know their existence, and that if his story, as now stated, of
the imposition of the parties upon him were true, he must
have -known of that fraud, and could easily have ascertained about it, there being no difficulty in examining into the
facts, and in obtaining his knowledge of whether he was bound
by the proceedings.
We take it for granted, then, that in 1869 the plaintiff had
so far recovered his mental faculties as to be aware of the
fact that all of his property had passed from him, and was
in the possession of the defendants. This, of course, brought

NORRIS. v. IIAGGIN.
Opinion of the Court..

to his knowledge the fact that it was all done by fraudu,lent means, if the story told in his bill is true. It was,
therefore, his duty to at once-institute proceedings to correct
the wrong done him, and the fact that one lawyer to whom
he applied had already been retained by the defendants, instead of being a reason for not proceeding in the matter, was
a clear intimation to him that the defendants expected to contest his right, instead of conceding it, and that it was time he
should assert that right in a court of justice.
This principal note and mortgage were executed in.1859.
The defendants foreclosed and got possession of the property
m 1862. The present suit was brought in 1884, twenty-two
years after the foreclosure proceedings, and after the possession by the defendants, everything about it being notorious
and open to be known to anybody And if we can suppose
that the plaintiff's mental life was a blank up to 1869, there
are still fifteen years of silence and iaction and laches unaccounted for. It is obvious that at that time he had sufficient
knowledge to understand that his property had passed from
him, that it was in the possession of the defendants, that it
was claimed that the transfer was obtained under judicial
proceedings, and that he.must have known that these proceedings were open to investigation, and yet from that time
up to 1884, a period of fifteen years, no movement was made
to subject the parties to. legal proceedings for relief against
the frauds and impositions that had been practised upon him.
No hindrance is suggested during all this time to any action
by him. The sole reason given is, that because he could not
get Mr. Beatty, he could not get any other lawyer whom.he
could rely upon, or who could put him in possession of the
facts he needed, and this declaration is made in the face of
the fact that every step on which the defendants had to rely
were mortgages, duly recorded judgments rendered in open
court, sales made in public, and. actual possession for twentytwo years of the property in controversy
We do not need to rely exclusively on the statute of limitations of the State of California, which -makes five years the
longest period allowed for bringing .suit in cases of this kind.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is sufficient to say, that as a court of equity is governed by
the analogies of the statute of limitations of a court of law,
and as the object of this suit is to do what generally could be
done at law, namely, recover possession of real estate, and
as the plaintiff is equally guilty of the laches which a court of
equity regards in the same spirit it does the statute of limitation, this unexplained delay after the plaintiff had recovered
whatever mental capacity he now has, must stand as a sufficient bar to the successful prosecution of this suit.
Even the principle of a court .of equity, that time does not
begin to run against a party on whom a fraud has been committed until that fraud has been discovered, can do the plaintiff
no good in the present case. That he knew about the fraud,
if there was one, in 1869, when he applied to Beatty, who
refused to take his case, and that the facts out of. which he
was bound to know this fraud, if his bill be true, existed, were
open, were patent, and could not fail to be discovered by any
sort of inquiry or investigation, is so clear that there is no
room for the doctrine of his having discovered these facts only
a year or two before the suit was brought, or indeed after he
had employed counsel.
It is a part of this general doctrine, that to avoid-the lapse
of time or statute of limitation, the fraud must have been one
which was concealed from the plaintiff by the defendant, or
which was of such a character as necessarily implied concealment. N'leither of these principles can apply to the defendants in this case. The acts which constituted the fraud as
alleged in the bill were open and public acts. The note and.
the mortgage were recorded in the proper public office of the
proper county The possession of defendants was obtained
by judicial proceedings which were open to everybody's
examination, and which were probably well known in the
entire community The very circumstance that in 1869 the
plaintiff consulted a lawyer upon this subject, shows that he
was aware of the fact that defendants were contesting his
right to the property, and that, if he had made any inquiry at
all, he must have known of the proceedings on which they
rested their title.

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.

393

Syllabus.

Under all the circumstances of the case, we are satisfied
that the two judges who held the Circuit, Court were .justified
in sustaining the demurrer to the bill. The decree is therefore
Ajff'med.

TEXAS

AND) PACIFIC

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v.

MARSHALL.

MARSTALL

v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC
COMPANY

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

RAILWAY

STATES FOR

TIE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Nos. 293,"1105.

Argued April 23, 24, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

The. city of Marshall agreed to give to the Texas and Pacific Rgilway
$300,000 in county bonds, and 66 acres of land within.the city limits for
shops and depots; and the company "in consideration of the donation"
agreed "to permanently establish its eastern terminus and Texas offices
at the city of Marshall," and "to establish and construct at said city-the
main machine shops and.car works of said railway company." The city
performed its, agreements, and the company, on its part, made Marshal
its eastern terminus, and built depots and shops, and established its
principal offices there. After the expiration of a few years Marshall
ceased to be the eastern terminus of the road, and some of the shops
were removed. The city filed this bill in equity to enforce the agreement, both as to the terminus and as to the shops; Held,
(1) That the contract on the part of the railway company was satisfied
and performed when the company had established and kept a
depot and offices at Marshall, and had set in operation car works
and machine shops there, and had kept them going for eight
years and until the interests of the railway company and of the
public demanded the removal of some or all of these subjects of
the contract to some other place;
(2) That the word " permanent" in the contract was to be construed
with reference to the subject matter of the contract, and that,
under the circumstances of this case it was complied with by the
establishment of the terminus and the offices and shops contracted
for, with no intention at the time of -removing or abandoning
them;

