KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN CO.
Syllabus.

]KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST
COMPANY
KNEELAND v. BALLOU.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Nos. 252, 1537. Argued April 3,7,1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

A party bidding at a foreclosure sale of a railroad makes himself thereby a
party to the proceedings, and subjectto the jursdiction of the court for
all orders necessary to compel the perfecting of his purchase; and with
a rightto be heard on all questions thereafter arising, affecting his bid,
which are not foreclosed by the terms of the decree of sale, or are expressly reserved to him by such decree.
Where not concluded by the terms of a decree of foreclosure of a railroad,
any subsequent rulings wich determine in what securities, of diverse
value, the purchaser's bid shall be made good, are matters affecting his
interests, and in which he has a right to be heard in the trial court, and
by appeal in the appellate court.
The appointment of a receiver of a railroad vests in the court no absolute
control of the property, and no general authority to displace.vested contract liens, and when a court makes such an appointment it has no right
,to make the receivership conditional oin the payment of any unsecured
claims except the few which by the rulings of this court have been declared to have an equitable priority, it being the exception and.not the
rule that the contract priority of liens can be displaced.
A court which appoints a receiver acquires, by virtue of that appointment,
certain rights and assumes certain obligations, and the expenses which
the court creates in discharge of those obligations are necessarily burdens
on the property taken possession of, and this, irrespective of the question who may be the ultimate owner, or who may have the preferred
lien, or who may invoke the receivership.
When a court appoints a receiver of railroad property it may, in the administration, contract debts necessary for operaiting the road, or for
labor, supplies or rentals, and make them a prior lien on the property.
When, at the instance of a general creditor, a receiver of a railroad and its
rolling, stock is appointed, and among the latter there is rolling stock
leased to the company with a right of purchase, and. there heiug a deficit
in the runnung of the road by the receiver. the rentd is not paid, and the
lessor takes possession of his rolling stock, his clain for rent is not
entitled to priority over mortgage creditors on the foreclosure and sale
of the road under the mortgage.
When the holder of a first lien upon the realty alone of a railroad company

OCTOBER TERf, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
asks a court of chancery to take possession not only of the realty but also
of personal property used for the benefit of the realty, that personalty
thus taken possession of and operated for the benefit of the realty
should be first paid in preference to the claim secured by the realty.
Where, on the application of the trustee of a railroad mortgage, a receiver
is appointed and takes possession of the road and of its rolling stock,
and among the latter is rolling stock which the company was operating
under lease, and the receiver continues to operate it, its rental at th
contract price, (and not according to its actual use,) if not paid from
earnings will be a charge upon the proceeds of the sale under the foreclosure of the mortgage prior to the mortgage debt.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr John X. Butler for appellant.
I& James 1. Iigh, for Paul, trustee, and the United
States Rolling Stock Company, appellees.
Mr Blford Wilson for R. S. Grant, The American Loan
and Trust Company, and the Grant Locomotive Works,
appellees.
Mr H7enry _D Hyde (with whom was Air Samuel Williston
on the brief) for the American Loan and Trust Company and
E. B. Phillips, trustee, appellees.
.. r Robert G Ingersoll (with whom was _Mr
Brown on the brief) for appellant.
MMl

JUSTICE BREWER

Clarence

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were argued and are considered together, the
questions involved being similar, and growing out of the same
foreclosure suits. In a general way it may be stated that they
arise between a purchaser at foreclosure sales of certain railroad property and intervening creditors. The initial question
is as to the right of appellant, the purchaser, to his appeal.
It is urged that a purchaser at a sale under a decree has no
right to appeal from its terms. He takes under it. His purchase is a voluntary act, and, coming in voluntarily to take
under a decree, he may not challenge that under which he
takes. The contention of appellant is that his attitude is not
thus limited that his appeal is not from the decree of sale

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN CO.
Opinion of the Court.

under which he purchased, but from orders made thereafter
respecting his bid, the modes of payment thereof, and the
debts to which it should be applied, matters in which he was
interested, and in respect to which, by the terms of the decree
of sale, he was given a right of appeal, and that such right
springs not alone from the grant of the right- of appeal, but
also from his relations to the matters determined and adjudged
in these subsequent proceedings, and by the final decree. For
a correct solution of this question a statement more m detail
of the facts is essential..
Decrees of foreclosure, for therewere separate divisions,
the Toledo and the Saint Louis divisions, separate suits and
several mortgages, were entered on the 12th day of November, 1885. It is sufficient, however, to notice the proceedings
in one, for there was no substantial difference between the
cases. It contained these. provisions
"The complainants
herein and the purchaser or purchasers at the foreclosure sale
under this decree reserve the right to appeal from any orders
and final decrees made by the court, directing and decreeing
the payment of claims and debts found and determined and
adjudged and decreed to be due and payable as court and receiver's indebtedness, and to be prior and superior in equity
to the lien of said first deed of trust and mortgage herein and
hereby foreclosed, if they shall be so advised." "In making
payment of any surplus of said purchase-money left, after full
payment of the court and receiver's indebtedness, the purchaser
or purchasers shall be allowed to pay said surplus in the bonds
and coupons to whmh the same may be applicable, as hereinabove provided, each such coupon and bond being received
by the master for such sum as the holder thereof is entitled
to receive under the distribution hereln provided and according to the priorities herein adjudged." So that by the decree
the bidders at the sale were notified in advance of thdir right
to be heard, both in the trial and appellate courts, upon the
question of what amounts should be paid to intervening creditors,and what in the bonds secured by-the mortgages. Common experience is that inteivening claims have to be paid in
cash, while the mortgage bonds of a defaulting and insolvent

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation are generally purchasable much below par. In
this case the enormous disproportion between the amount of
outstanding bonds and the value of the property suggests that
those bonds must have been purchasable at a very low price,
and, therefore, that the question of the amount of intervening
claims finally to be charged upon the property was a matter
affecting materially the interests of the purchaser, and the
right to be heard upon it, one which would largely determine
the amount of his bid.
Further, on February 23, 1886, when the master had reported
upon the intervening claims, the appellant, among others, filed
exceptions to that report, in the following words "Come
now James M. Qmgley, Charles T. Harbeck, John McNab,
Halsey J Boardman and Warren D. lobb, complainants in
said causes, and committees representing bondholders holding
bonds secured by mortgages on said railroad and property
in said causes involved, and the Central Trust Company,
trustee in the mortgages in said causes foreclosed, and Sylvester H. Kneeland, purchaser of said railroad and property
sold at foreclosure sale under decrees rendered and entered in
said above-entitled causes, and owner of and trustee for a vast
majority of said mortgage bonds, and now except to each and
every of the master's findings and report herein, and said
complainants, and said purchaser, for their exceptions, assign
the following causes." And in the final decree thereon the
exception and allowance of appeal are stated as follows: "To
this decree the said Sylvester H. Kneeland, as purchaser
and trustee representing the first mortgage bondholders on
said entire line of railroad, concerning both divisions from
Toledo, Ohio, to East Saint Louis, Illinois, now excepts and
prays an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States,
which is granted to operate as a supers6deas, on giving bond
in the sum of two hundred thousand dollars, which is now
filed with the American Surety Company of New York as
surety, and the same is approved by the court, the court, however, reserving the right to resume possession of the property
on the terms mentioned in the order confirming the sale and
approving the deed."

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN 'LOAN 00.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears also that in the early part of these foreclosure
proceedings a committee consisting of James 1M. Quigley and
others, was appointed to represent the bondholders, with
authority to employ agents, etc. This committee, by leave
of the court, was made co-complainant. It is stated by counsel (though that fact does not appear in the record) that a
contract between this committee and Mr. 'Kneeland, with
reference to a purchase in the interest and for the benefit of
the bondholders, was presented to the court at the time of
signing the decree of sale, and that it was upon that that the
provision reserving an appeal to the purchaser was inserted.
While no such agreement is found in the record, and therefore
cannot be a subject of consideration, yet obviously the language in the decree of foreclosure, as well as that of confirmation, suggests that something of the kind'must have been
presented to the attention of the court. Upon these facts
can the appellant's right to an appeal be sustained 2
It was adjudged in Blossom v . ilwaukee &c. RailroacZ Co.,
1 Wall. 655, that a bidder at a marshal's sale malles himself
thereby so far a 'party to the proceedings that for some purposes he has a right of appeal. It .wassaid by M r. Justice
Miller, in the opinion of the -court, that "it is certainly true
that he cannot appeal from the origihial decree of foreclosure,
-norfrom any other order or decree of the court made prior to
his bid. It, however, seems to be well settled that, after a
decree adjudicating certain rights between the parties to a
suit, other persons having no previous interest in the litigation
may become connected with the case, in the coui'se of the subsequent proceedings, in such a manner as to subject them to
the jurisdiction of the court and render them liable to its
orders, and that they may in like manner acquire rights in
regard to the subject matter of the litigation, which the court
is bound to protect." "A purchaser or :bidder at a master's
sale in chancery subjects himself qUoad hoc to th ' jurisdiction
of the court, and can- be compelled to perform his agreement
specifically It would seem that he must acquire a corresponding right to appear and claim, at the hands of the court, such
relief as the rules of equity proceedings entitle him to." It

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

follows from this decision that his right of appeal must extend
to all matters adjudicated after his bid, which affect the terms
of that bid, or the burdens which he assumes thereby, and
which are not withdrawn from his challege by the terms of
the decree under which he purchases. If by the decree the
sale isto be made subject to certain conditions, the purchaser
acquires no right to be heard as to those conditions, either in
the trial or appellate courts. Such was the ruling in Swann v
Wmg/t's Executor, 110 U. S. 590, in which it was adjudged
that, where a decree directed that a sale should be made
subject to liens established or to be established, on references
previously had or then pending before a master, a purchaser
at such sale would not be heard either in the trial or appellate
court to dispute the validity of the liens thus established.
This ruling was placed distinctly on the ground that by the
very terms of the decree the purchaser was to take the
chances of the allowance of all the claims then pending, and,
therefore, their validity and extent was a matter simply between the claimants and the parties to the mortgage, but the
contingency now presented was foreshadowed in the opinion,
for it says "If the court had, in the decree of sale, reserved to th3 purchaser, although not a party to thp proceedings, the right to appear and contest any alleged liens then
under examination, and, therefore, not established by the
court, an entirely different question would have been presented. But no such reservation was made, and the
purchaser was required, without qualification, to take the
property, upon confirmation of the sale, subject to the liens
already established, or which might, on pending references, be
established as prior and superior to the liens of the first mortgage -bondholders."
The right-of purchasers at a foreclosure sale to be heard on
the question of compensation to trustees and others, both in
the trial and appellate courts, was affirmed in Willians v
Morgan, 111 U. S. 684, when, as in that case, by the terms of
the decree, the amount of such compensation placed an additional burden upon the purchasers. The case of Swann v.
Wright's -Executor, mupra, was referred to in the opinion, and

KNEELAIND v. AMERICAN LOAN CO.
Opinion of the Court.

distInguisbedon the ground of the express provisions in the
decree as to the terms of sale. See also Stiuart v Gay, 127
U. S. 518, Central Trust Co. v. Grant Locomotive Works, 134:
U. S. 207. Deducible from these. authorities, as applicable to
the facts in this case, and supported by sound reasons, are the
following propositions First. A party bidding at a foreclosure sale makes himself thereby. a party to the proceedings,
and subject to the jurisdiction of the court for 411 orders necessary to compel the perfecting of his purchase, and with a
right to be heard on all questions thereafter arising, affecting
his bid, which are not foreclosed by the terms of the decree of
sale, or are expressly rderved to him by such decree. Secondly Where not concluded by the terms of the decree, any
subsequent rulings which determine in what securities, of
diverse value, his bid shall be made good, are matters affecting his interests, and in which he has a right to be heard in
the trial court, and by appeal in the appellate court. In the
case at bar, it is obvious that the amount of intervening claims
to bo subsequently allowed was a matter affecting the interests of the purchaser, and in terms reserved to hm by the
decree of sale. Supplementing and strengthening this right,
reserved and substantial, is-the recital in the allowance of the
appeal that the party purchasing is himself a bondholder, and
trustee and representative of the other bondholders, which,
if not conclusive as to the extent of interest in the litigation,
is not to be ignored as wholly a matter of surplusage, but
ought to be assumed as correct, and which is not to be disregarded simply because the evidences of that fact are not preserved in the record.
These conclusions compel an inquiry as to the validity of
the adjudications in respect to the intervening claims. They
were for the rental of rolling stock, and our examination
must, therefore, proceed to the facts upon which the adjudications were made This rolling stock was obtained by the
railroad company, a consolidated corporation, from certain
manufacturers, the appellees herein, oil contracts of purchase.
These in form were leases, but,,in substance, and properly so
adjudged, were contracts of purchase, reserving title in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

vendors until after the payment of certain annual sums, called
rents, and with the right to retake possession on default in
payment. Full payment of the purchase price was never made.
The first bills under which the receiver was appointed were
filed August 1, 1883, by a judgment creditor. The trustees in
the several mortgages were made parties to these bills. They
entered their appearance, and, neither objecting nor consenting, the receiver was appointed. -Such receivership was continued four months and until December 1, 1883, at which time
bills were filed by the trustees for the foreclosure of their
mortgages and a receiver was appointed thereunder. The first
inquiry presented is whether rentals for such period were properly given priority over the mortgage debts. That question
must be answered in the negative. It is important to note
these facts First. This case is not embarrassed by any matter
of surplus earnings, for it appears beyond any possibility of
doubt, that from the time of the purchase of this rolling stock
to the time of the final disposition of these cases the receipts
did not equal the operating expenses. There was no diversion
of the current earnings, either to the payment of interest or
the permanent improvement of the property In fact, but
little interest was ever paid on the bonds. Railroad Co. v
Railway Co., 125 U. S. 658, 673. Second. The receivership
was at the instance of a judgment creditor, and was with a
view of reaching the surplus earnings for the satisfaction of
his debt. It was not at the instance of mortgagees, nor were
they seeking foreclosure of their mortgages. They were asking nothing at the hands of the court. They were not asking
it to take charge of the property, or thus impliedly consenting
to its management of the property for their benefit. Third.
This rolling stock was not included in tne sale, but was returned
to the interveners upon orders entered prior to the decree of
sale. So that only that property was sold which was covered
by mortgages -executed prior to any contract with the interveners with respect to rolling stock, and it is the proceeds of
this sale which the mnterveners are seeking to appropriate.
They cannot say that their property was sold, or that by such
fact they have an interest in the proceeds of sale. Fourth.

KNEELANID v. AMIERIOAN LOAN CO.
Opinon of the Court.

The sale realized only a small proportion of the mortgage
debts. There was no surplus above the mortgages for distribution to the mterveners or among general creditors. In
fact, only a small fraction of the mortgage debt was realized.
Fifth. During these four months no demand for possession or
rental was made of the receiver by any of the interveners, or
any one for them, with the single exception of what may be
known as the "Grant" claims, and in respect to them the
demand for possession was met by refusal on the part of- the
receiver and a proposition for purchase at the unpaid portion
of the purchase price, which proposition was accepted by such
interveners, but never finally carried into effect.
Upon these facts we remark, first, that the appointment' of
a receiver vests in the court no absolute control over the
property, and no general authority to displace vested contract
liens. Because in a few specified and limited cases this court
has declared that unsecured claims were entitled to priority
over mortgage debts, an idea seems to have obtained that a
court appointing a receiver acquires power to give such preference to any general and unsecured claims. It has- been
assumed that a court appointing a receiver could rightfully
burden the mortgaged property for the payment of any unsecured indebtedness. Indeed, we are advised that some courts
have made the appointment of a receiver conditional upon the
payment of all unsecured indebtedness in preference to the
mortgage liens sought to be enforced. Can anything bel
conceived which more thoroughly destroys the sacredness of
contract obligations 9 One holding a mortgage debt upon a
railroad has the same right to demand and expect of the court
respect for his vested and contracted priority as the holder of
a mortgage on a farm or lot. So, when a court appoints a
receiver of railroad property, it has no right to make that
receivership conditional on the payment of other than those
few unsecured claims which, by the rulings of this court, have
been declared to have an equitable priority No one is bound
to sell to a railroad company or to work for it, and whoever
has dealings with a company whose property is mortgaged
must be assumed to have dealt with it on the faith of its perVOL. cxxxvT-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sonal responsibility, and not in expectation of subsequently
displacing the priority of the mortgage liens. It is the exception .and not the rule that such priority of liens can be
displaced. We emphasize this fact of the sacredness of contract liens, for the reason that there seems to be growing an
idea, that the chancellor, in the exercise of his equitable
powers, has unlimited discretion in this matter of the displacement of vested liens. Railroad Co. v Railway Co., 125 U S.
658, 673. So that these interveners acquired no right of
priority by virtue of their antecedent contracts of sale.
But it is urged, and with force, that the court did not allow
contract price, but only rental, and the question is asked, may
a court, through its receiver, take possession of property and
pay no rental for it 2 If it may legitimately compel the operation of the railroad in the hands of its receiver, in order to
discharge the obligations of the company to the public, may it
not also, and must it not also, burden that receivership, and
the property in charge of the receiver, with all the expenses
connected with the operation of the road, together with reasonable rentals for the property used and necessary for the
operation of the road ? As to the general answer to these
inquiries, we have no doubt. A court which appoints a receiver acquires, by virtue of that appointment, certain rights
and assumes certain obligations, and the expenses which the
court creates in discharge of those obligations are burdens
necessarily on the property taken possession of, and this,
irrespective of the question who may be the ultimate owner,
or who may have the preferred lien, or who may invoke the
receivership. So if, at the instance of any party rightfully
entitled thereto, a court should appoint a receiver of property,
the same being railroad property, and therefore under an
obligation to the public of -continued operation, it, in the
administration of such receivership, might rightfully contract
debts necessary for the operation of the road, either for labor,
supplies or rentals, and make such expenses a prior lien on
the property itself , and it is in reliance on this general proposition that the interveners insist on an affirmance of the
decree.

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN CO.
Opinion of the Court.

But as against this we are confronted with these facts: The
court never made any order for the rental of this rolling stock,
and the situation of all the parties during this four months
receivership was this The railroad company, with its franchises for building and operating a railroad, was in equity,
whatever may have been the location of the legal title, the
owner of realty, subject to certain fixed mortgage indebtedness, and of personalty, the rolling stock in question, subject
to certain fixed liens. The creation, in the first instance, of
those liens gave to) neither lien-holder, as against the other,
priority in payment otherwise than in respect to the property
specially charged with those liens. The holder of the lien on
the real estate could not insist that both the real estate and
the personalty should be subjected to the payment of his debt,
before payment to the holder of the lien on the personalty of
his claim, out of the proceeds of its sale. Neither, on the
other hand, could the holder of the lien on the personalty
insist that his lien should be first paid out of any proceeds of
the realty Each was limited to his priority of right on the
property on which his lien rested. Under those circumstances,
neither the holder of the lien on the real or the personal property moving in the premises, a general creditor of the common
debtor invoked for the payment of his debt the intervention
of a court of equity and the possession of all the property
charged with these two liens, and its operation with a view to
the collection of his unsecured claim. The operation of the
road during that receivership did not pay the operating expenses. May the holder of a lien on the real estate insist that
the deficiency be charged to the holder of the lien on the personalty, or that the latter shall become liable to the former for
the rental of its property 2 Unquestionably not. Neither lienholder asking the aid of the court, no obligation was assumed
by either in respect to the management of the property as
against the other. If the operation of the property seized by
the receiver did not result in the payment of the operating
expenses, and the common debtor was'unable to pay, the burden of the deficiency is as properly cast upon the holder of a
lien upon the personalty as upon the holder of a lien upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

realty, and when the court, m the administration of the
receivership, thereafter returns the personaltv to the holder of
the liens upon it, such lien-holder must be content to be relieved
from any burden for a _pro i'ata share of the deficiency, and
has no equity to claim that he shall be not only thus relieved,
but that he may also charge upon the realty to the detriment
of the lien-holder thereon, both the entire burden of the deficiency and compensation to hin for the use of his property
Hence it follows that neither by reason of a contract of purchase of the rolling stock, nor by its use for four months at
the instance of a general creditor, was any burden cast upon
the holder of a lien upon the real estate for the non-payment
of such contract price or the rental value. The court therefore
erred in charging rental value of the rolling stock during
those four months as a prior lien upon the realty
On the 1st of December, 1883, however, the situation was
changed. At that time the mortgagees upon the realty commenced suits to foreclose their mortgages, and at their instance, a receiver was appointed for all the property, both
real and personal. In respect to the question here involved,
the case is as though this was the commencement of judicial
proceedings, and in that respect the attitude is this
The
railroad company owned real and personal property, each
subject to a separate lien. The holder of the lien upon the
realty commences suit to foreclose its lien, and asks the court
to take possession, through its receiver, of both the real and
personal property In the latter it had a remote interest,
though subordinate to existing liens. The court, responding
to its demands, takes possession of all the property, real and
personal. Now, when the holder of a first lien upon the
realty alone asks the court of chancery to take possession,
not only of the real but also of personal property used for the
benefit of the real, that application is a consent on its part
that the rental value of the personalty thus taken possession
of and operated for the benefit of the realty shall be paid
in preference to its own claim. The l)roposItion is a simple
one. The application may not be a consent that the contract
price of the personalty shall be paid in preference to his lioin

KNEELAND v. AMERIOAN LOAN 00.
Opinion of the Court.

but it certainly is a consent that the rental value pf that personalty, during the time of the possession by the receiver appointed at his instance, may have priority to his claim. If the
holder of a lien upon the realty does not think that the continued possession of the personalty is a benefit to his lien, he
should simply omit the personalty from his bill, and ask the
court to take possession of the realty alone. But either because he believed that the possession of the personalty was
necessary for the operation of the railroad, and the security of
his claim., or else because, by virtue of his secondary right,, he
expected to pay for the personalty and retain both the personalty and the realty, he*has had the court take possession of
both by its receiver, and by that act, although subsequently
the personalty was returned to the holder of the lien upon it,
he consented to the payment of reasonable rental pending the
receiver's possession. The conclusion is irresistible, that under
the circumstances reasonable rental value was properly allowed
as a prior claim to the mortgage indebtedness. Indeed, we
do not understand that counsel for appellant seriously contest
this proposition. Their contention substantially is, that the
basis of such rental value was wrong, that the rental should
only be on the basis of actual use - the " mileage system," as
it is known in railroad parlance, that, in fact, the railroad
company had acquired too much rolling stock, and so, averaging it, the mileage was quite small, whereas the master, as
-approved by the court, fixed the rental not at actual mileage,
but at a reasonable value irrespective of the actual use. We
think that the deQision of the court was right. The initiative
in the matter was taken by the trustees. They asked, by
their bill, that the court take possession of all the personalty
If more was taken possession of than was needed, it was their
mistake. The court is not to be assumed to be an experienced
railroad manager, knowing exactly the amount of rolling
stock needed for the operation of the road. It may justly assume that what had been contracted for was necessary, and if
the trustees ask that all may be taken possession of, it may act
upon that as a declaration that all is necessary, and that rental
value is to be paid for all. Theirs is the inquiry, and not the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

Opinion of the Court.
court's. It is a mistake to suppose that their duties in respect
to the foreclosure proceedings are formal merely, or limited
to the employment of counsel and the handling of securities.
They assume all the obligations of a party to the suit. They
are charged with the care of the entire mortgage interest.
They ask and receive large allowances for caring for that interest, and it is a part of their duty to make examination and
become fully informed in respect- to the property, its liens,
what is needed for its operation, and what can prudently and
safely be dispensed with. Upon such information their application should be based. It is true the court is not concluded
by their representations, but its information is in the first
instance derived therefrom, and it may and does generally act
upon them, and its action, based on them, must be held to
be conclusive so far as concerns the interest they represent,
in respect to all liabilities and obligations flowing from the
possession of a receiver. Whatever action the court may take
thereafter, on information furnished -by its receiver, or by
them, or otherwise, in respect to the property not primarily
chargeable with their lien, its first action is the recognition of
the validity of their application, and the taking possession of
all the property they name is in reliance upon their representation that all is needed for the operation of the railroad, and
that they consent either to the payment of the unpaid purchase price of any property thus taken possession of, or a reasonable rental for the use of the same. Consider for a moment
the ordinary experience of railroad building, as developed in
the story of this case. The franchise is acquired, the corporation organized, and a first mortgage placed upon the property, with the usual "after acquired property" clause in it.
The construction of the railroad proceeds, it is finished, rolling stock is necessary, and the corporation acquires it under
conditional contracts of purchase. The enterprise is a failure,
the mortgage interest is unpaid, the trustee, discharging its
duty, is bound to know that the rolling stock is held subject
to the liens attending its purchase. It asks the court to take
possession not alone of the realty but also of the rolling stock
thus acquired and held. The application is not resisted. The

K-NEELAND v. AMERICAS LOAN CO.
Opinion of the Court.

court isignorant of the history of the enterprise, it sustains
the application and appoints a receiver, and the rolling stock
is taken possession of by that receiver. Can it be held that
such possession, taken at the instance of the trustee, casts noburden on the road, either for purchase price or rental prior to
the claim of the original mortgage 2 Can the trustee, forcibly,
through the power of a court, compel an appropriation of this
rolling stock for the benefit of the property subject to its lien
without compensation 2 Does not its application for possession carry with it an assent that rental for such rolling stock
-shall be first paid, as one of the expenses of the receivership
which it has invoked 2 But one answer can be made to this
inquiry, and that isthat its application is a consent to the
payment of reasonable rental during the possession of the
receiver -a rental not based upon the use actually made by
the receiver, but -on the ordinary value of the rental of such
property So, although it may be true, as claimed by counsel,
that more was taken possession of than was needed, and that
there was only a limited use of each car and engine, yet the
case is to be taken as though all were needed and full use
made of all, and that sum which would be reasonable rental
value for such use should be paid. Such value is not to be
determined by the amount of actual use, but by what, in the
first instance and before the use had been had, would be adjudged a reasonable rental.value. Upon such basis no complaint can be made of the amount fixed by the court, reducing
as it did the amount reported by the master.
These are the only matters which, by the exceptions filed
to the master's report respecting rentals, were reserved for
our consideration. Our conclusion, therefore, in the two cases
is, that, the decrees must be
_Reversed, and the cases r.emanded wztk =nstructons to strike
out all allowanes for ren.tad rzor to December 1, 1883,
the time when the recezver was alyomted at the snstance
of the mortgagees, and to allow the rentals as flxed for the
time subsequent thereto.
Counsel for the Grant clasms erspressy"stated, = open court,
am Ass argument, that 4n, case .certain ap peals from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Sixth Circuit were a/firmed there mzght result a double
allowance to hAm clIents, whIch they did not inszst upon.
As the details and sum are not clearly resented, we can
only say that this matter must be taken snto account -in the
subsequent dis2posatzon of the cases.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

McCALL v. OALIFORMA.
ERROR TO THE

SUPERIOR

COURT OF

SAN FRANCISCO,
No. 1190.

THE CITY AND

COUNTY

OF

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted October 28, 1889. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

An agency of a line of railroad between Chicago and New York, established
in San Francisco for the purpose of inducing passengers going from
San Francisco to New York to take that line at Chicago, but not engaged in selling tickets for the route, or receiving or paying out money
on account of it, is an agency engaged in interstate commerce; and a
license-tax imposed upon the agent for the privilege of doing business
in San Francisco is a tax upon interstate commerce, and is unconstitutional.

ORDER No. 1589 of the board of supervisors of the city and
county of San Francisco, "imposing municipal licenses" provided among other things, as follows.
"SEC. 1. Every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this order shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not
more than one thousand dollars or by imprisonment no more
than six months or by both."
"SEC. 10. The rates of license shall be according to the
following schedule

"Subdivision XXXIII.
"First.. For every railroad agency; twenty-five dollars per
quarter."

