OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

in the proofs in the statement that the vessel ran ashore, "and
became a wreck and total loss, and was duly abandoned by the
owners to her insurers, as will appear by certified copy of the
protest of her master and mariners, heretofore served upon
YOU." Hence the admission of the proofs of loss involved the
admission of the explanatory writing. 14s. Co. v Newton, 22
Wall. 32.
Finally it is said the court erred in excluding the record in
a suit instituted by the Dry Dock Company against the Spartan to enforce a lien for the repairs, because the record was
admissible to show the amount due to the Dry Dock Company, and also to show that the steamer was sold to satisfy
the decree in that suit, and thereby to establish a constructive
acceptance of abandonment by the insurers, but we do not
think that it was admissible on either ground. The insurers
were not parties to that suit, and the cost of the repairs and
the amount of the loss were properly shown by other and competent evidence, while the sale of the vessel had no tendency to
prove the acceptance of the abandonment, but rather that the
underwriters did not consider themselves bound in the premises. The result is that the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be
Affirmed.
IN RE KEAMLER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 13. Original. Argued May 20, 1890. -Decided

May 23, 1890.

Ezparte Mlirzan, 119 U. S. 584, affirmed and applied.
A writ of error to the highest court of a State is not allowed as of right,
arid ought not to be sent out when this court, after hearing, is of opinion
that it is apparent upon the face of the record that the issue of the writ
could only result in the affirmance of the judgment.
Chapter 489 of the Laws of New York of 1888, which provides that " the
punishment of death must in every case be inflicted by causing to pass
through the body of a convict a current of electricity of sufficient intensity to cause death, and the application of such current must be continued until such convict is dead," is not repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States, when applied to a convict who committed the crime
for which lie was convicted after the act took effect.

IN RE KEMMLIER.
Statement of the Case.

O the 5th May, 1890, Mr Roger ff. S erman filed a
petition for an original writ of habeas corpus on behalf of
Kemmler, accompanied by a statement in which he said
"This is a motion for an original writ of habeas colums.
"The petitioner is under sentence of death in the Northern
District of New York, under a statute of New York, which
imposes the punishment of death by the passing through his
body of a current of electricity sufficient, in the opinion of the
warden of the State Prison, to cause his death, which current
is to be continued until it kills him, the statute also leaves it
to the warden to fix the day and hour of his death, and contains other features which he here asserts are in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. These features abridge his privfleges and immunities as a citizen of the United States and
deprive him of his life without due process of law
"Judge Wallace has granted a writ, in the emergency, to
afford an opportunity to make this application. The case
having been passed upon under the state constitution by the
Court of Appeals, it is suggested that an original writ here
is proper.
"The petition, an affidavit showing the emergency, the
opinion of the Court-of Appeals of New York, and the state
statute are herewith submitted."
The court at once gave him a hearing, and when he had
concluded it announced its judgment.
PFR Cu
i. This case is governed by the rule laid down
in Exoparte Mirzan, 119 U. S.58., and inasmuch as the writ
of habeas corpus has been granted by the Judge of the United
States Circuit Court, and the case is proceeding to a hearing
there, we must
Deny the application.
It was then suggested by MR. JusTicE BLATCHFORD, to whom
an application had been made for a writ of error to the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York to bring up Kemmler's
case, that the application should be.made to the full court, to
be heard on the 19th of May, and notice thereof be given
to the Attorney General of New York, anid a corresponding
order was made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

The 19th of Mav passed without hearing this motion.
the 20th it came up and and was heard.

On

_Mr' Roger H. Sherman for the petitioner.
.1& Charles F Tabor, Attorney General of the State of
New York, opposing.
Mr.
court

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

,This is an application for a writ of error to bring up for
.review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of New
York, affirming an order of the county judge of Cayuga
County, remanding the relator to the custody of the warden
of the State Prison at Auburn, upon a hearing upon habeas
corpus. The judgment ot the Supreme Court was entered
upon a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State of
New York, affirming a previous order of the Supreme Court.
The application was originally presented to Mr. Justice
Blatcbford, and, upon his suggestion, was permitted to be
made in open court, and has been heard upon full argument.
A writ of error to the highest court of a State is not
allowed as of right, and ought not to be sent out when the
court in session, after hearing, is of opinion that it is apparent
upon the face of the record that the issue of the writ could
only result in the affirmance of the judgment. 8pies v
.Illinois, 123 U. S. 131.
The writ of habeas corpus was allowed on the 11th day of
June, 1889, and made returnable before the county judge of
Cayuga County The petition was filed by one Hatch, and
stated "that William Kemmler, otherwise called John Hort,
is imprisoned or restrained in his liberty, at Auburn State
Prison, in the city of.Auburn, county of Cayuga, State of New
York, by Charles F Durston, agent and warden of Auburn
State Prison, having charge thereof. That he has not been
committed and is not detained by virtue of any judgment,

IN RE KEIMMIR.
Opinion of the Court.

decree, final order or process issued by a court or judge of the
United States, in a case where such courts or judges haveexclusive jurisdiction under the laws of the United States, orhave acquired exclusive jurisdiction by the commencement of
legal proceedings in such a court, nor is he committed or
detained by virtue of the final judgment or decree of a competent tribunal of civil or crininal jurisdiction, or the final
order of such a tribunal made in the special proceedings
instituted for any cause except to punish him for contempt,
or by virtue of an execution or other process issued upon such
a judgment, decree or final order. That the cause or pretence
of the imprisonment or restraint of said William Remmler,
otherwise called John Hort, according to the best knowledge
and belief of your petitioner, is that he was indicted by a
grand jury of Erie County, for murder in the first degree,
that he was tried therefor at a Court of Oyer and Terminer
of Erie County, and found guilty thereof by the verdict of a
jury on the 10th day of May; 1889, -that thereafter and on
the 14th day of May, 1889, he was arraigned in said Court of
Oyer and Terminer for sentence, that, contrary to the constitution of the State of New York and of the United States,
and contrary to his objection and exception, duly and timely
taken in due form of law, he was sentenced to undergo a cruel
and unusual punishment, as appears by a copy of the pretended judgment, warrant or mandate hereto annexed and
made a part of this petition and marked Exhibit ' A' by virtue
of which such imprisonment or restraint is claimed to be made;
that he is deprived of liberty and threatened with deprivation
of life without due process of law, contrary to the constitutions
of the State of New York and of the United States, and contrary to his objection and exception thereto, duly and timely
taken. The imprisonment is stated to be illegal because it is
contrary to the provisions of each of said constitutions."
The warden of the Auburn State Prison made the following return
".First. That I am the duly appointed and acting Warden
and Agent of the Auburn State Prison, and on the said 11th
day of June, 1889, and before the said writ of habeas corpu&

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

was served upon and came to me, the said William Kemmler,
otherwise called John Hort, was and now is in my custody
and detained by me in the State Prison at Auburn, in the
State of New York, under and by virtue of a judgment of
the Court of Oyer and Terminer of the State of New York,
held n.and for the county of Erie, on the 14th day of May,
1889, duly convicting the said William Kemmler, otherwise
.called John Hort, of murder in the first degree. A true copy
of the judgment roll of the aforesaid conviction is hereto attached as a part hereof, and marked Exhibit ' A.'
"And said William Kemmler, otherwise called John Hort,
is also detained in my custody as such Warden and Agent
under and by virtue of a warrant signed by the Hon. Henry
A. Childs, the Justice of the Supreme Court before whom the
said William Kemmler, otherwise called John Hort, was, as
aforesaid, duly tried and convicted, and which said warrant
was duly issued in pursuance of the aforesaid conviction, and
in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal
Procedure,. relating thereto, a copy of which said warrant is
hergto annexed as a part hereof, and marked Exhibit ' B.'
"Second. And I, the said Charles F Durston, Agent and
Warden of Auburn State Prison, do make a further return and
allege as I am advised and verily believe to be true, that the
said William ]Kemmler, otherwise called John Hort, was not
sentenced as hereinbefore set forth, to undergo a cruel and
unusual punishment, contrary to the provisions of the constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the
United States.
"And I do further allege that the said imprisonment and
restraint of the said William Kemmler, otherwise called John
Hort, and the deprivation of .his liberty and the threatened
deprivation of life, are not without due process of law and
are not contrary to the provisions of the constitution of the
State of New York or the Constitution of the United States,
as alleged in the petition upon which said writ of habeas
corpus was granted.
"I do further allege, as I am advised, that the said judgment of conviction hereinbefore set forth, and the aforesaid

IN RE KE]MLER.
Opinion of the Court.

warrant and the punishment and deprivation of liberty and
the threatened deprivation of life of the said William Kemmler, otherwise called John Hort, thereunder, are fully warranted by the provisions of chapter 489 of the Laws of 1888,
which is a valid enactment of the legislature of the State of

New York, and it is not in conflict with or in violation of the
provisions of the constitution of the State of New York or
the Constitution of the United States.
"And I hold the said William Kemmler, otherwise called

John iHort, under and by virtue of no other authority than as
hereinbefore set forth."

Copies of the indictment of Kemmler, otherwise called Hort,
for the murder of Matilda Zeigler, otherwise called Matilda

Hort, the judgment and sentence of the court, and the warrant to the warden to execute the sentence, were attached to

the petition and return. The conclusion of the warrant, pursuing the sentence, was in these words: "Now, therefore, you
are hereby ordered, commanded and required to execute the
said sentence upon, him, the said William Kemmler, otherwise

called John Hort, upon some day within the week commencing on Monday, the 24th day of June, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine, and within the
walls of Auburn State Prison, or within the yard or enclosure
adjoining thereto, by then and there causing to pass through
the body of him, the said William Kemrnler, otherwise called
John Hort, a current of electricity of sufficient intensity to
cause death, and that the application of such current of electricity be continued until he, the said William Kemmler, other..
wise called John Hort, be dead."
Upon the return of the writ before the county judge, coun
sel for the petitioner offered to prove that the infliction of
death by the application of electricity as directed 11is a cruel
and unusual punishment, within the meaning of the Constitution, and that it cannot, therefore, be lawfully inflicted, and to
establish the facts upon which the court can pass, as to the.
ciaracter of the penalty The Attorney General objected to
the taking of testimony as to the constitutionality of this law,
on the ground that the court has no authority to take such

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

proof. The objection was thereupon overruled, and the
Attorney General excepted." A voluminous mass of evidence
was then taken as to the effect of electricity as an agent of
death. And upon that evidence it was argued that the
punishment in that form was cruel and unusual within the
inhibition of the constitutions of the United States and of the
State of New York, and that therefore the act in question was
unconstitutional.
The county judge observed that the "Constitution of the
United States and that of the State of New York, in language
almost identical, provide against cruel and inhuman punishment,but it may be remarked, in passing, that with the foriner we have no present concern, as the prohibition therein
contained has no reference to punishments inflicted in state
courts for crimes against the State, but is addressed solely
to the national government and operates as a restriction on its
power." He held that the presumption of constitutionality
had not been overcome by the prisoner, because he had not
"made it appear by proofs or otherwise, beyond doubt, that
the statute of 1888 in regard to the infliction of the death
penalty provides a cruel and unusual, and therefore unconstitutional, punishment, and that a force of electricity to kill any
human subject with celerity and certainty, when scientifically
applied, cannot be generated." He, therefore, made an order
dismissing the writ of habeas corpus, and remanding the relator to the custody of the respondent. From this order an
appeal was taken to the Supreme Court, which affirmed the
judgment of the county judge. The Supreme Court was of
opinion, People &c. v Durston, Varden, &c., 55 Hun, 64-,
that it was not competent to support the contention of the
relator by proofs altunde the statute, that there was nothing
in the constitution of the government or in the nature of
things giving any color to the proposition that, upon a mere
question of fact involved in legislation, the judgment of a
court is superior to that of the legislature itself, nor was there
any authority for the proposition that in respect. to such questions, relating either to the manner or the matter of legislation, the decision of the legislature could be reviewed by the

IN RE KEMMLER.
Opunon of the Court.

court, and that the presumption that the legislature had
ascertained the facts necessary to determine that death by the
mode prescribed was not a cruel punishment, was conclusive
upon the court. And Dwight, J., delivering the opinion, also
said. "We have read with much interest the evidence returned to the county judge, and we agree with him that the
burden of the proof is not successfully borne, by the relator.
On the contrary, we think that the evidence is clearly in
favor of the conclusion that it is within easy reach of electrical science at this day to so generate and apply to the
person of the convict a current of electricity of such known
and sufficient force as certainly to produce instantaneous, and,
therefore, painless, death."
From this judgment of the Supreme Court an appeal was
prosecuted to the Court of Appeals, and the order appealed
from was affirmed. It was said for the court by O'Brien, J
"The only question involved in this appeal is whether this
enactment is in conflict with the provision of the state constitution which forbids the infliction of cruel and unusual punishment.
If it cannot be made to appear that a law is
in conflict with the constitution, by.argument deduced from
the language of the law itself or from matters of which a
court can take judicial notice, then the act must stand. The
testimony of expert or other witnesses is not admissible to
show that in carrying out a law enacted by the legislature
some provision of the constitution may possibly be violated,"
The determination of the legislature that the use of electricity
as an agency for producing death constituted a more humane
method of executing the judgment of the court in capital
cases, was held conclusive. The opinion concludes as follows
"We have examined this testimony and can find but little in
it to warrant the belief that this new mode of execution is
cruel, within the meaning of the constitution, though it is certainly unusual. On the contrary, we agree with the court
below that it removes every reasonable doubt that the application of electricity to the vital parts of the human body,
under such conditions and in the manner contemplated by the
statute, must result in instantaneous, and consequently in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmno

of the Court.

painless, death." At the same term of the Court of Appeals
the appeal of the relator from the judgment on the indictment
against him was heard, and that judgment affirmed. Among
other points made upon that appeal was this, that the sentence
imposed was illegal and unconstitutional, as being a cruel and
unusual punishment, but the court decided, as in the case of
the appeal from the order under consideration here, that the
position was untenable, and that the act was not unconstitutional because of the new mode adopted to bring about death.
We find, then, the law held constitutional by the court of
Oyer and Terminer in rendering the original judgment, by the
Supreme Court and t~e Court of Appeals in affirming it, by
the county judge in the proceedings upon the writ of habeas
copuos by the Supreme Court in affirming the order of the
county judge, and by the Court of Appeals in affirming that
judgment of the Supreme Court.
It appears that the first step which led to the enactment of
the law was a statement contained in the annual message of
the governor of the State of New York, transmitted to the
legislature January 6, 1885, as follows: "The present mode
of executing criminals by hanging has come down to us from
the dark ages, and it may well be questioned whether the
science of the present day cannot provide a means for taking
the life of such as are condemned to die in a less barbarous
manner. I commend this suggestion to the consideration of
The legislature accordingly appointed a
the legislature."
commission to investigate and report "the most humane and
practical method known to modern science of carrying into
effect the sentence of death in capital cases." This commission reported in favor of execution by electricity, and accompanied their report by a bill which was enacted and became
-chapter 489 of the Laws of 1888. Laws of New York, 1888,
778. Among other changes, section 505 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of New York was amended so as to read as
follows. "ยง 505. The punishment of death must, in every
.case, be inflicted by causing to pass through the body of the
convict a current of electricity of sufficient intensity to cause
-death, and the application of such current must be continued

N RE KEMMLER.
Opinion of the Court.

until such convict is dead." Various other amendments were
made, not necessary to be considered here.
Sections 10, 11 and 12 of the act are as follows
"1ยง 10. Nothing contained in any provision of this act
applies to a crime committed at any time before the day when
this act takes effect. Such crime mu~t be pumshed according
to the provisions of law-existing when it is committed, m the
this act had not betn passed, and the prosame manner as -if
visions of law for the infliction of the penalty of death upon
convicted criminals, in existence on the day prior to the passage of this act, are continued in existence and applicable to
all crimes punishable by death, which have been or may be
committed before the time when this act takes effect. A
,crime punishable by death committed after the beginning of
the day when this act takes effect, must be -punished according to the provisions of this act, and not otherwise.
"ยง 11. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed:
"1ยง12. This act shall take effect on the first day of January,
one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nie, and shall apply
to all convictions for crimes punishable by death, committed on
or after that date."
Kemmler was indicted for and convicted of a murder, committed on the 29th day of March, 1889, and therefore came
within the statute. The inhibition of the Federal Constitution
upon the passage of expostfacto laws has no application.
Section 5 of article 1, of the constitution of the State of
New York, provides that "excessive bail shall not be required,
nor excessive fines imposed, nor shall cruel and unusual punishments be inflicted, nor shall witnesses be unreasonably detained." The Eighth Amendment to the Federal Constitution
reads thus: "Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive
fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted."
By the Fourteenth Amendment it is provided that "All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to
the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and
of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immuni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ties of citizens of the United States, nor shall any State
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws." It is not contended, as it
could not be, that the Eighth Amendment was intended to
apply to the States, but it is urged that the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment, which forbids a State to make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, is a prohibition on the
State from the imposition of cruel and unusual punishments,
and that such punishments are also prohibited by inclusion in
the term "due process of law"
The provision in reference to cruel and unusual punishments
was taken from the well-known act of Parliament of 1688,
entitled "An act declaring the rights and liberties of the subject, and settling the succession of the crown," in which, after
rehearsing various grounds of grievance, and among others,
that "excessive bail hath been required of persons committed
in criminal cases, to elude the benefit of the laws made for the
liberty of the subjects, and excessive fines have been imposed,
nnd illegal and cruel punishments inflicted," it is declared that
"excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted." I Stat.
1 W & Al.c. 2. This Declaration of Rights had reference to
the acts of the executive and judicial departments of the government of England, but the language in question as used in
the constitution of the State of New York was intended par
ticularly to operate upon the legislature of the State, to whose
control the punishment of crime was almost wholly.confided.
So that, ii the punishment prescribed for an offence against the
laws of the State were manifestly cruel and unusual, as burning at the stake, crucifixion, breaking on the wheel, or the
like, it would be the duty of the courts to adjudge such penalties to be within the constitutional prohibition. And we think
IAote by the Court. In the "Body of the Liberties of the Alassachusetts
Colony in New England," of 1641, this language is used. "For bodilie punishments we allow amongst us none that are inhumane, Barbarous or cruel."
Colonial Laws of Massachusetts (1889), p. 43.

IN RE KEMMIjER.
Opinion of the Court.

this equally true of the Eighth Amendment, in its applicaion
to Congress.
In Wilkerson v Utah, 99 U. S. 130, 135, Mr. 'Justice Clifford, in delivering the opinion of the court, referring to Blackstone, said. "Difficulty would attend the effort to define with
exactness the extent of the constitutional provision, which provides that cruel and unusual punishments shall not be inflicted,
but it is safe to affirm that punishments of torture, such as
those mentioned by the commentator referred to, and: all
others in the same line of unnecessary cruelty, are forbidden
by that amendment to the Constitution." Punishments are
cruel when they involve torture or a lingering death, but the
punishment of death is not cruel, within the meaning of that
word as used in the Constitution. It implies there something
inhuman and barbarous, something more than the mere extinguishment of life.
The courts of lNew York held that the mode adopted in
this instance might be said to be unusual because it was new,
but that it could not be assumed to be cruel in the light of
that common knowledge which has stamped certain punishments as such, that it was for the legislature to say in what
manner sentence of death. should be executed, that this act
was passed in the effort to devise a more humane method of
reaching the result, that the courts were bound to presume
that the legislature was possessed of the facts upon which it
took action, and that by evidence taken aliunde the statute
that presumption could not be overthrown. They went further,
and expressed the opinion that upon the evidence the legislature had attained by the act the object had in view in its
passage.
The decision of the state courts sustaining the validity of
the act under the state constitution is not reexaminable here,
nor was that decision against any title, right, privilege, or
immunity specially set up or claimed by the petitioner under
the Constitution of the United States.
Treating it as involving an adjudication that the statute was
not repugnant to the Federal Constitution, that conclusion
was so plainly right that we should not be justified in allow-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the writ upon the ground that error might have supervened therein.
The Fourteenth Amendment did not radically change the
whole theory of the relations of the state and Federal governments to each other, and of both governments to the people.
The same person may be at the same time a citizen of the
United States and a citizen of a State. Protection to life,
liberty and property rests primarily, with the States, and the
amendment furnishes an additional guaranty against any encroachment by the States upon those fundamental rights
which belong to citizenship, and which the state governments
were created to secure. The privileges and immunities of
citizens of the United States, as distinguished from the privileges and immunities of citizens of the States, are indeed protected by it, but those are privileges and immunities arising
out of the nature and essential character of the national government, and granted or secured by the Constitution of the
United States. United States v Cuikshank, 92 U S. 542,
Slaughterhiouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
In Hururtado v. Californta, 110 U. S. 516, 534, it is pointed
out by Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, that the
words "due process of law," as used in the Fifth Amendment,
cannot be regarded as superfluous, and held to include the
matters specifically enumerated in that article, and that when
the same phrase was employed in the Fourteenth Amendment
it was used in the same sense and with no greater extent.
As due process of law in the Fifth Amendment referred to
that law of the land which derives its authority from the
legislative powers conferred on Congress by the Constitution
of the United States, exercised within the limits therein prescribed, and interpreted according to the principles of the
common law, so, in the Fourteenth Amendment, the same
words refer to that law of the land in each State, which derives its authority from the inherent and reserved powers of
the State, exerted within the limits of those fundamental
principles of liberty and justice which lie at the base of all
our civil and political institution.. Undoubtedly the amendment forbids any arbitrary deprivation of life, liberty, or

IN RE KEMMLER.
Opinion of the Court:

property, and secures equal protection to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment of their rights, and, in the
administration of criminal justice, requires that no different or
higher punishment shall be imposed upon one than is imposed
upon all for like offences. But it was not designed to interfere
with the power of the State to protect the lives, liberties and
property of its citizens, and to promote their health, peace,
morals, education and good order. Barbier v Conolly, 113
U. S. 27, 31.
The enactment of this statute was in itself within the legitimate sphere of the legislative power of the State, and in the
observance of those general rules prescribed by our systems of
jurisprudence, and the legislature of the State of New York
determined that it did not inflict cruel and unusual punishment, and its courts have sustained that determination. We
cannot perceive that the State has thereby abridged the privileges or immunities of the petitioner, or deprived him of due
process of law
In order to reverse the judgment of the highest court of the
State of New York, we should be compelled to hold that it
had committed an error so gross as to amount in law to a
denial by the State of due process of law to one accused of
crime, or of some right secured to him by the Constitution of
the United States. We have no hesitation in saying that this
we cannot do upon the record before us.
Dented.
The application for a writ of error is
vOL Ccxxxvi-29

