OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

that all the decisions rendered under similar constitutional
provisions concur in holding that the use of a street by a
railroad company as a site for its track, under legislative
or municipal authority, when it interferes with the rights of
adjoining lot owners to the use of the street, as a means of
ingress and egress, subjects the railroad company to an action
for damages, on account of the diminution of the value of the
property caused by such use, and lastly, that even conceding
the authority of the town of Hot Springs to pass the ordinance authorizing the company to construct and maintain the
railroad embankment, track and turn-table complained of, it
cannot impair the constitutional right of the defendant in
error to compensation.
We think those views are sound and in accordance with the
decisions of this court in Pennsylvanza Railroad Company v
Miller, 132 U. S. 75, and New York Elevated Railroad v
-FfthHfat. Bank, decided May 5, 1890, 135 U S. 432.
The judgment of the court below is
4Afflr/ned

LOVELL v. ORAGIIN.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 212. Argued March 12, 13, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

When the matter set up in a cross-bill is directly responsive to the averments in the bill, and is directly connected with the transactions which
are set up in the bill ao the gravamen of the plaifitiff's case, the amount

claimed in the cross-bill may be taken into consideration in determining
the jurisdiction of this court on appeal from a decree on the bili.

In Louisiana the holder of one or more of a series of notes, secured by a
concurrent mortgage of real estate, is entitled to apro rata share in the
net proceeds, arising from a sale of the mortgaged property at the suit

of a holder of any of the other notes, and an hypothecarv action lies to
enforce such claim, based upon the obligation which the law casts upon

the purchaser to pay the pro rata share of the debt represented by the
notes that were not the subject of the foreclosure suit.

LOVELL v. CRAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.
Such obligation, cast by law upon the purchaser, partakes. of the nature
of a judicial mortgage, and, in order to be effective as to third persons,
(i.e.
persons who are not parties to the act or the judgment on which
the mortgage is founded,) it must be inscribed with the recorder of
mortgages, and no lien arises until it is so registered.
Under the laws of Louisiana a claim for damages arising from alleged
wrongful acts of a party with respect to removing personal property
from a plantation while he had possession of it, and for waste committed
by him about the same time, are quasi-offences, and are prescribed m one
year.
It appearing that the subject of the controversy in this case is identical
with that which was before the court in an action at law at October
term, 1883, in Cragin v. Lovell, 109 U. S. 194, and that the parties are
the same, and that the court thenheld that "the petition shows no pnvity
between the plaintiff and Cragin," and "alleges no promise or contract by
Cragin to or with the plaintiff:" Held, that while the plea of resJudicata
is not strictly applicable, the court should make the same disposition of
the controversy which was made then.

IT EQUITr.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Charles A.
fr W Hallett Philvjys (with whom were .M
Oonrad and .Ar J-osevA P Hornor on the brief) for appellant.
Mr J D Rouse (with whom was X' William Grant on
the brief) for appellees.
]MR. JusTicE LAm:R delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, in the nature of an hypothecary
action, under the Civil Code of Louisiana, brought in the court
below by George D. Cragm, a citizen of New York, against
William S. Lovell, a citizen of Mississippi, and Orlando P
Fisk, a citizen of Michigan. Its object was to have a lien
declared in favor of the complainant, upon certain real property belonging to the defendant Lovell,, and, in default of the
payment thereof by ILovell, to have the property sold to sat-

isfy it.
The bill was filed on the 18th of January, 1883, and its material allegations were substantially as follows On the 31st
of January, 1870, Louisa S. Quitman and Eliza A. Quitman

OCTOBER TERM, '1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sold to Orlando P Fisk a sugar plantation known as the Live
Oak plantation, and certain other particularly described real
estate, all situated in the parish of Terrebonne, Louisiana, and
received in part payment therefor nine promissory notes made
by Fisk, payable to his own order and endorsed in blank by
him, of $2000 each, due in one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight and nine years, respectively, from that date, all of
which bore interest at seven per cent until maturity, and eight
per cent .thereafter until paid, and were secured by a mortgage
on the said plantation "in favor of said vendors, their heirs
and assigns, and all future holder or holders of said promissory notes or any of them." Fisk paid the first of those notes
when it came due, but did not pay any of the others. The
second one not having been paid at maturity, the 'Misses Quitman, on the 14th of February, 1872, brought suit on it against
Fisk in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, to foreclose the mortgage. Afterwards the
Quitmans, in consideration of $2386, the amount of that note,
including accrued interest, attorneys' fees and costs, paid to
them by complainant, sold and transferred to him all their
right, title and interest in the note and in that suit, and subrogated him to all their rights in the premises against Fisk, and
under the mortgage. Fisk having also failed to pay the third
note, the Quitmans brought suit thereon against him, on the
21st of A-lay, 1873, in one of the state courts; and a few
months afterwards, in consideration of $2608.65, the amount
of the note, including accrued interest, attorneys' fees and
costs, paid to them by complainant, sold and transferred to
him all their right, title and interest in the note and in that
suit, with a like subrogation as in the preceding case. The
fourth note not having been paid at maturity, the Quitmans
brought suit on it against Fisk on the 26th of February, 1874,
in one of the state courts of Louisiana, and foreclosed the
mortgage, and, under executory process issued by that court,
the mortgaged property was seized by the sheriff of the parish,
and regularly sold by him on the 2d of May, 1884, to the
Misses Quitman for $10,900, which sum, after paying costs
and expenses, was reduced to $10,447.05, the whole of which

LOVELL v. Ol AGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

portion of the price of said property was retained by the said
Louisa S. and Eliza A. Quitman.
The bill further alleged, that by the sale to the complainant
of the two before-mentioned notes, with subrogation as aforesaid, he acquired a right of priority of payment out of the proceeds of the sale of the property mortgaged to secure the
same, that by such sale and transfer to him they made the
remaining notes held by them subordinate in rank to those
so sold to him, that at the time of the sale the Quitmans
were the holders and owners of all of the other notes, and
that they, having retained the proceeds of the sale of the
property, became and )vere liable to him for the full amount
due upon his two notes, including interest, costs and attorneys'
fees, which amount was unpaid and remained secured by lien
upon the property
It was then averred, that Louisa S. Quitman afterwards
died, leaving her sister, Eliza A. Quitman, as sole heir and
legatee, who entered into the property and took possession of
it, that Eliza A. Quitman died soon afterwards, having
appointed the defendant Lovell sole executor of her estate,
which was still in the course of administration, and that,
before the filing of the bill, complainant notified Lovell, as
executor, that he was the holder and owner of the two notes
purchased by him, and demanded payment of the amount due
thereon, including interest and costs, which ,was refused.
It was then averred that the defendant Lovell is in possession of the property, under a claim of ownership by title derived from the Quitmans, or the last survivor of them, which
claim is subject to the demand of complainant, and that,
after the aforesaid demand and refusal of payment of his two
notes, complainant demanded payment thereof from Lovell, as
possessor of the mortgaged property, at least ten days bef 9 re
the filing of the bill, which was also refused, and the defendant Lovell still refused payment of the notes, and also refused
to surrender the lands or to permit .them to be sold to satisfy
complainant's demand.
By reason of the aforesaid premises, complainant averred
that lie had a first lien and privilege on the mortgaged prop-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

erty in the possession of Lovell, for the amount due on his
notes, and had the, right to have it seized and sold to pay
the same.
The bill prayed that an account be taken of the amount due
complainant on his notes, that he be decreed to have a first
lien and privilege upon the mortgaged property for the amount
found due him, which the defendants should be decreed to
pay, together with costs, attorneys' fees, etc., that in default
thereof the property be seized and sold to pay his demand,
that, if the amount realized from such sale be insufficient to
pay his demand, he might have execution for the deficiency
against the estate of Eliza A. Quitman, and for other and
further relief.
April 2, 1883, the defendant Lovell filed a general demurrer,
which was overruled December 10, 1883, reinstated December
14, 1883, and withdrawn January 9, 1884, with leave to file
his plea, which he did on the same day This plea set up (1)
that the notes sued on by the complainant having been executed by Fisk, January 31, 1870, and made payable in two
and three years from date, respectively, were barred by prescription of five years. (2) That the act of mortgage by which
payment of those notes was secured, having been executed
January 21, 1870, and recorded February 12, 1870, lapsed and
expired and became extinguished January 21, 1880, it having
never been reinscribed. (3) That the foreclosure of the mortgage by the Quitmans on one of the notes secured concurrently with those of the complainant, anct the sale of the
mortgaged property, had the effect to extinguish the mortgage. (4) That the defendant was not in any manner inter
ested in the notes sued on or in any of the others of the series,
nor in the mortgage by which they were secured, out acquired
the property by purchase, for a valuable consideration, long
after the seizure and sale of it to satisfy the mortgage, and
therefore subsequently to the extinction of the mortgage.
This plea was overruled June 9, 1884, and March 6, 1885,
the complainant amended his bill. In this amendment complainant alleged that, in a suit brought by him in the court
below agains, Fisk, a decree was entered on the 6th of June,

LOVELL v. CRAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

1873, that he recover from Fisk the sum of $96,526.71, and
that, as Fisk had used $4918 of complainant's money in examining titles, paying taxes and purchase money of the property
in dispute, the latter sum was decreed to be an equitable lien
upon the plantation, to take effect from February 13, 1872,
the date when the bill in that suit was filed, until discharged
by the payment of the whole debt of Fisk, as established by
the decree. By reason of that lien, complainant alleged that
he had an- interest in paying the amount due upon his two
notes, and that, by the payment of the amount due upon
them to the Quitmans, he was subrogated of right, by opera,
tion of law, to all the rights of the Quitmans to those two
notes and the mortgage securing them, as well as by the
express subrogation alleged in the orginal bill.
March 7,1885, Lovell answered, averring as follows When
Fisk.purchased the plantation, as aforesaid, he was not acting
for himself, but for complainant, who was the real purchaser
and furnished the funds to make the cash payment. at that
time, that shortly after that purchase complainant called, upon
the attorneys for the Quitmans several times, and acknowledged
and claimed that he was the real purchaser of the plantation,
and, as such, promised and bound himself to take up and pay
the notes given in part payment therefor, and did pay at
maturity the first of those notes with his own funds. About
the time of the maturity of the 'second note, the complainant
instituted a suit against Fisk on the equity side of the court
.below, in which he claimed to be the real owner of the plantation, and to have been the purchaser of it, instead of Fisk,
who illegally took the title in hi own name, and was all the
time acting as complainant's agent, having paid the cash part
of the purchase and the first note with complainant's money,
and that complainant had promised the Quitmans to pay them
the balance and' was ready to do so. A final decree was rendered in that suit' upon the pleadihgs and proofs, adjudging
complainant to be the real owner of the -plantation, and' finding the matters and things set forth in his bill -inthat suit to
be correct. Prior to the institution of .thdt suit complaiant
took possessron of the plantation as sole owner thereof, and

OQTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pending that suit caused himself to be appointed receiver
thereof, and continued in the possession thereof, cultivating
the plantation and disposing of the crops raised thereon for
his own sole and exclusive benefit, accounting to no one therefor. Fisk abandoned the plantation about that time, has
never returned, never contested that suit, and never afterwards
set up any claim to the plantation. Fisk, at the time of the
purchase of the plantation and up to the date of the acts coinplained of in that bill, was a man in the full confidence of
complainant, entrusted with ample funds and credit, but without means of his own, either at that time or since. Complainant was a loncafide owner of the plantation from the date of
that sale, and the Quitmans did not sell the two notes to him,
as he alleges, but accepted payment thereof from him, as the
real obligor thereof. Complainant instigated the suits on the
mortgage notes, and then bought them in, and by agreement
with the Quitmans was subrogated to all of the Quitman's
rights as against Fisk, solely in order to aid hnm in hbis suit
against Fisk, he having advised the Quitinans that Fisk had
been acting only as his agent in the transactions, and such
subrogation was taken by complainant to be used only in case
he should fail in his equity suit with Fisk. Complainant was,
and had been for a long time, in possession of the plantation
when it was soid in the foreclosure suit of the Quitmans, and,
ha-ing full knowledge of all those proceedings, consented
thereto, and in fact requested the institution of the proceedings, and was present at-the sale, stating that he was desirous
of having some third person purchase the plantation, as he
was unwilling to own it longer.
The answer further denied that complainant bought the two
notes of the Quitmans, averred that he acquired no right to
the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property, but on the
contrary continued to owe the Quitmans, as before, on the remaining notes of the series, the difference between the amount
of them and the proceeds of the sale, alleged that those two
notes were extinguished by his payment thereof, so far as the
Quitmans and the plantation were concerned, and that the
mortgage, as to them, was also extinguished by those proceed-

LOYELL v. ORAGIN.
Opimon of the Court.

ings, and further set up that the Quitmans never became liable to complainant in any manner for any amount, by reason
of those proceedings, nor did he thereby acquire any lien or
privilege upon the plantation. It was then alleged that, on
the 17th of February, 1876, the defendant purchased the plantation from its then owner, Eliza- A. Quitman, free and unencumbered with any demand or claim of the complainant or of
any one else, that at that hmpthere was no inscription of any
mortgage or privilege against the property in the name of any
one, and none could exist against the defendant, because he
was a third person, within the meaning of art. 176 of the constitution of the State, that the notes which the complaiant
seeks to collect, having, been dated January 31, 1870, and made
payable in one and two years from date, respectively, were
barred by prescription of five years, that the mortgage securing those notes having been executed January 21, 1870, lapsed
and expired and became prescribed under the laws of the State
January 21, 1880, and was therefore extinguished and of no
effect, as it had never been reinscribed, and that by virtue of
the foreclosure proceedings instituted by the Quitmans, upon
one of the notes, the mortgage became extinguished.
The defendant Lovell, by way of cross-bill, then set up (1)
That, by reason of the facts set forth in ,the foregoing answer,
and of the promises made by the complainant to the Quitmans,
as therein set forth,,complainant became liable for the payment of the whole of ,the, purchase price of the plantation
-represented by the notes, given by Fisk, that complainant,
while in possession of the plantation as owner of it, committed
great waste .thereon, by destroying and injuring the fences,
buildings, out-buildings, fixtures and improvements thereof,
and removed therefrom all the movable property which was
there when the sale was -made by the Qiitmans to Fisk, for
the benefit of an adjoining plantation owned by him, and
greatly depreciated the value.of the plantation by reason of improper cultivation and business methods, so that it did not sell
for a sufficient sum to pay the mortgage under which the foreclosure was made, as it otherwise would have done. Wherefore
complainant is liable to and justly owes the defendant Lovell,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

as executor of Eliza A. Quitman, the difference between the
amount of the unpaid notes, with interest up to the date
of the sheriff's sale, to wit, May 1, 1874, and the sum of
$10, 47.05, the net proceeds of that sale, with interest at eig lit
per cent thereafter until paid.
(2) That Eliza A. Quitman instituted a suit at common law
in the court below against the complainant on March 3, 1880,
to recover the amount of that difference, and obtained a judgment against him for that amount, which on the 12th of
November, 1883, upon appeal, was reversed and ordered to be
arrested by this court, and that prescription was thus interrupted, and did not run against this claim urged by the defendant during the pendency of those proceedings. The record
in that suit was then referred to, and was made a part of the
answer and cross-bill, and the amount for which that suit was
brought was claimed as due defendant by complainant.
The prayer of the cross-bill was for an account, a judgment
according to the allegations therein contained, and for other
and further relief.
On the 4th of April, 1885, the complainant filed a demurrer,
plea and answer to the cross-bill, specifically denying all the
material allegations of it and pleading the prescription of one,
five and ten years. He pleaded the decision of this court in
the suit brought by Eliza A. Quitman against him as an estoppel against her and all those clanming under her in this proceeding, and averred that, having a lien upon the plantation,
he had an interest to pay the notes of Fisk if he chose, though
he was not at any time personally liable to the Quitmans, and,
having paid the two notes set forth in his bill, he was entitled
to them, as owner, and was subrogated to the mortgage securing them. He further denied that he took the subrogation
made by the Quitmans under an agreement or understanding
that it should take effect only against Fisk, and not against the
Quitmans and the plantation, but averred that he took it without any restrictions or limitations, for all it was worth under
the law He averred further that the complainant in the crossbill had been sued individually, as third possessor of the premises in dispute, and not as -executor of the Quitmans or of

LOVELL v. ORAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

either of them, and that he owned the property personally,
and not as executor, and therefore could not maintain his crossbill, in his capacity as executor.
Fisk was never found and never appeared. On the 2,8th of
May, 1886, upon motion of the attorneys for complainant, suggesting that he had for a valuable consideration transferred to
George D. Cragm, Jr., all his interest in this suit, and to the
subject matter thereof, with full subrogation to his rights in
the premises, it was ordered that the latter be subrogated as
complainant, with authority to prosecute and carry on the
suitin his own name. A great deal of testimony was adduced
on both sides, and on the 12th of June, 1886, the-foll6wing decree was entered
"This cause came on to be further heard at this term upon
the complainant's bill and the cross-bill of W S. Lovell, executor of the last will and testament of Eliza A. Quitman,
deceased, and the evidence adduced by the parties, and was
argued by counsel, whereupon, and in consideration thereof,
it was ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows:
"1st. That the complainant purchased the two notes sued
upon, and was subrogated expressly as to one, and by operation of law as to the other, to all the rights of act.ion thereon,
including the mortgage executed by Orlando P Fisk to secure
the same, as alleged in the complainant's bill, and is entitled
to the relief prayed.
"2d- That this cause be referred to J "W Gurley, master,
to take an account of the amount due the complainant on
said notes and mortgage, and report the same to this court as.
soon as practicable.
"3d. It is further ordered and decreed that said cross-bill
be dismissed. And further .proceedings are suspended until
the coming in of the master's report."
On the 14th of "June,1886, the master filed his report, in
which he found that, as the sum realized by the Quitmans
from the mortgage sale was retained by them, and as they
were the holders of six of the unpaid notes and complainant
of two, therefore complainant was entitled to one-fourth -of
the not proceeds of the sale, with interest to'June 10, 1886, at

OCTOBER TER'M, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

seven per cent, and also -one-fourth of the attorneys' fees, in
all, $4830.64.
June 15, 1889, a final decree was rendered in accordance
with the report of the master, and it was further decreed
that. in case the amount thus found due should not be paid
within sixty days, the property should be sold to pay that
sum, and a personal judgment was also entered against
Lovell for any amount left over, in case the property should
not sell for the amount found due and the costs.
An application for a rehearing having been denied, Lovell
brought this appeal.
The assignments of error are that the court erred (1) In
refusing to maintain the defendant's plea of prescription of
five years to the notes sued on. (2) In refusing to maintain
his plea of prescription of ten years to the mortgage sued on.
(3) In refusing to maintain his plea that the mortgage was
extinguished by the sale of the plantation under the foreclosure proceedings taken by the Quitmans. (4) In refusing
to maintain his plea on the ground that he was a third person
purchasing without notice. (5) In decreeing that the complainant purchased the two notes sued upon, and was subrogated expressly as to one, and by operation of law as to the
other, to all the rights of action thereof, including the mortgage executed by Fisk to secure them, as alleged in his bill,
and is entitled to the relief prayed. (6) In dismissing the
defendant's cross-bill.
A motion to dismiss the appeal has been filed, and associated with it is a motion to affirm. The first of these motions
is based upon the ground that the amount in dispute, as determined by the judgment rendered, is but $4830.61, which is less
than the amount required to give us jurisdiction. It is then
argued that the amount claimed in the cross-bill cannot be
added to this amount so as to give jurisdiction, nor can that
amount be considered by itself for that purpose, 1st, because
the cross-bill asserts no claim on the part of Lovell in his own
behalf, but only as executor of Eliza A. Quitman, deceased,
while the original bill was brought against him personally, as
third possessor of the property, and, 2d, because the subject

LOVELL v. OIRAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

matter of the cross-bill, to wit, the equitable clums of the
Quitman. estate, of which Lovell -was executor, against thq
complainant, are distinct and separate from the subject matters in the original bill. These two grounds upon which the
motion rests are negatived by the express averments of the
bill itself, which are that the Misses Quitman, "having retained the price of said sale under said foreclosure, became
and were liable to your orator for the full amount then due
upon the notes held by him, and all interest, costs and attorneys' fees accrued thereon, which amount remained secured
by lien and privilege upon all said property, and still so remains, the same still remaining wholly unpaid.
And
your orator avers that
more than thirty days before
filing this bill, he notified the said Lovell, executor as aforesaid, that he was the holder and owner of said notes purchased by him as aforesaid, and demanded payment of the
amount due thereon," etc. And the prayer of the bill was
"that an account may be taken under the direction of this
honorable court, before one of the masters thereof, or otherwise, as the court may direct, of the amount due your orator,
in principal, interest and costs, upon the two notes hereinbefore described, and acquired by him by purchase as aforesaid, that he be decreed to have a first lieu and privilege
upon the lands and premises herein described, for the amount
so found to be due, to date from said 2d day of May, 1874,
that said defendants- be decreed to pay the same, together
-with all your orator's costs and charges in this behalf sustained, (including attorneys' fees at 2 per cent upon the sum
due him,) within some short day to be fixed by the court, and,
in default thereof, that said mortgaged property be seized and
sold under the order and deciee of this honorable court, and that
your orator be paid out of the proceeds of such sale, and that,
if the same be insufficient to pay him, he have- execution
for the balance, and. that -his right to recover any deficiency
from the estate of said Eliza A. Quitman be reserved to him,"
etc.
To these averments the cross-bill was- directly responsive,
and the matter therein set up as -equitable claims of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Quitmans against Cragim- were directly connected with the
transacton-which he alleges, in large part, as the gravamen
of his complaint. It is true that the bill also presents a claim
against Lovell as the possessor of the property to which the
complain'int alleged he had a lien, but that only shows the
alternative nature of the relief sought. The original bill was
an hypothecary action, which, by article 61 of the Loisiana
Code of Practice, is thus defined
"An hypothecary action
is a 9'eal action which the creditor brings against the property
which has been hypothecated to him by his debtor, in order
to have it seized and sold for the payment of his debt." In
the original bill, complainant prayed that the mortgaged property be sold to pay his demand, and if the proceeds of that
sale be insufficient for that purpose that he then "have execution for the balance, and that his right to recover any deficiency from the estate of Eliza A. Quitman be reserved to him."
It is thus observed that the action was against the property
itself, very much of the same nature as a suit sn 9'em at
common law, and it was necessarily brought against Lovell
because, by coincidence, he had possession of it. The judgment against hin, while in one aspect of it a personal
judgment, was also a judgment against the property, and it
would seem that the claim in the cross-bill, which is one
growing out of, or appurtenant to, the property, was really
incident to the suit, as it was a part of the original transac
tion of the sale and mortgage of the Live Oak plantation, out
of which the claim in the original bill is derived. The duty
of Lovell, as executor of the estate of Miss Quitman, to
protect the property, required him to set up the defence in
the cross-bill, as a set-off against the claim and the prayer
of the complainant's original bill. We think, therefore, the
amount claimed by the cross-bill can properly be taken into
consideration in determining the jurisdiction of this court,
and, as that amount is more than the jurisdictional amount,
the motion to dismiss is denied.
For reasons that will be made manifest as we proceed in
our discussion of the case upon its merits, the motion to affirm
is also denied.

LOVELL v. CRAGIN .
Opinion of the Court.

Assuming for present purposes, that the' facts relative to
the purchase by complainant of the two notes which form the
basis of his claun, and also to the subrogation, are as found by
the court below, we 'pass to the assignment of errors. It is
clear that if this were 'an original suit directly on the notes, to
foreclose the mortgage;, it could not be maintained, because,
under the provisions of the Louisiana law the notes would be
prescribed, and the mortgage would be perempted. These
notes were both dated January 31, 1870, and matured February 3, 1872, and February 3, 1873, respectively They
were, therefore, prescribed February' 3, 1877, and February 3,
1878, respectively, by virtue of art. 3540 of the Civil Code,
which is as follows: "Actions on bills of exchange, notes payable to order or bearer, except bank notes, those on all effects
negotiable or transferable by endorsement or delivery, and
those on all promissory notes, whether negotiable or otherwise, are prescribed by five years, reckoning from the day
when the engagements were payable." The mortgage given
to secure these notes was recebrded February '12, 1870, and,
never having been remscribed, became perempted in ten years
from that date, by virtue of art. 3369 of the Civil Code, which
is as follows "The registry preserves the evidence of mortgages and privileges during ten years, reckoning from the day
of its date; its effect ceases, even against the contracting parties, if the inscriptions have not been renewed before the expiration of this time, m the manner in which they were first
made."
It is also true that a mortgage, under the law of -Louisiana,
is indivisible, (art. 3282, Civil Code;) and that the f6reclosure of it has the effect to extinguish it, even if all the parties
to the mortgage have not been made parties to the foreclosure
proceedings. Parkztn8 v Campbell, 5 Martin, La. (N. S.) 149,
Pepper v Dunlap, 16'La. 163.
It is insisted, however, by the 'Complainant that this action
is brought not on the aforesaid notes and mortgage directly,
but to enforce an obligation growing out of the forelqsure
and sale of the mortgaged property -an obligation on the
part of the purchaser at that sale to pay to the complainant,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

out of the net proceeds of the sale, his _pro 9-ata share thereof.
In other words, the contention is, that the net proceeds of the
sale should have been divided ratably among the holders of
all the unpaid notes secured by the mortgage, and that, as
that was not done by the Quitmans, who purchased the property, an obligation arose on their part to pay the different
instalments of the debt, which obligation followed the land,
and was not prescribable until at least ten years from the
date of the sale. Certain provisions of the Civil Code and
the Code of Practice, as well as a number of decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State, are relied upon to support this
view, all which we shall now consider.
The following articles of the Code of Practice relate to the
general question involved
"AuT. 679. When there exists a mortgage or privilege on
the property put up for sale, the sheriff shall give notice,
before he commences the crying, that the property is sold subject to all privilege and hypothecations, of whatsoever kind
they may be, with which the same is burthened, and with the
condition that the purchaser shall pay in his hands whatever
portion of the price for which the property shall be adjudicated
may exceed the amount of the privileges and special mortgages to which such property is subject."
"ART. 686. When a seizing creditor has a privilege or a
special mortgage on the property seized, for a debt of which
all the instalments are not yet due, he may demand that the
property be sold for the whole of the debt, provided it be on
such terms of credit as are granted to the debtor by the original contract for the payment of such instalments as are not
due."
"AnT. 706. But when the property sold is subject to privilegqs or special mortgages in favor of other persons besides
the suing creditor, the sheriff shall require from the purchaser,
and he shall be compelled to deliver to the creditor whether
the sale be made for ready money or on credit, only the surplus of price beyond the amount of the 'privileges or special
mortgages, if there be any surplus."
"AR . 709. The hypothecary action lies against the pur-

LOVELL v. CRAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

chaser of a property seized, which is subject to privileges or
mortgages in favor of such creditors as have said privileges
and mortgages, in the same manner and under the same rule
and restrictions as are applicable to a third possessor of a
mortgaged property"
One of the leading cases relied on is Pefper v Dunlay, 16
La. 163, 169, 170, 171. In that case the holders of the second
and third notes of a series of seven, (the first having been paid
at maturity,) concurrently secured by a mortgage on certain
real and personal property, obtained an order of seizure and
sale, on their mortgage against the mortgaged property,
praying in their petition that it be sold to satisfy all the notes,
but on a credit to meet those not due. The order was issued
by- the lower court, and the defendant appealed directly to
the Supreme Court. After discussing some incidental questions, the court said "The mortgage is in its nature indivisible, and prevails over each and every portion of all
the immovables subjected to it. Louisiana Code, art. 3249
(now 3282). If so, how can property subject to a special
mortgage be sold to satisfy a part of the debt, the whole of
which the mortgage secures, would the purchaser acquire
such title as he is legally entitled to, and would he not, on the
contrary, have to run the danger of being disturbed for the
payment of the balance of the debt, although the price of
his purchase would be the full value of the property2 Such
proceedings would, in our opinion, be met with such difficulties and inconveniences that an injury must necessarily
result to either of the parties, and we cannot sanction the
doctrine that the creditor of part of a debt secured by a special
mortgage, for which notes have been given, may be allowed or
must be restrained to seeking and obtaining the satisfaction
of his -claim out of the sale of the property mortgaged for the
whole, without any regard to the right of those who may be
the holders of the other notes, and with an entire disregard of
the consequences as to the purcbh ser of the property Our
laws being silent on this subject, we must reason by analogy"
And after-discussing the various articles of the Code of Praa
tice relating to this subject, the court went on to say" "It is..
VOL. cxxxVx-1o

OCTOBERh TERtI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

clear, then, from these articles, that the purchaser of the
property is _ersonally bound for the surplus of the adjudication, still secured by special mortgage on the property sold,
and that he holds said surplus in his hands, subject to the
claim or call of the creditors who had the inferior mortgages,
and who had nothing to do with the sale from which said
surplus proceeded, and that when it is demanded of him, if he
does not pay it, he is subject to being proceeded against in the
same manner as if he were a third possessor. This, it.seems
to us, would be a safe and proper rule to adopt in a case like
the present, where the different instalments are secured by the
same mortgage, and where the rights of the creditors are of
equal dignity, and we cannot see any good reason why, in the
absence of any law, it should not be adopted.
We
think, therefore, that we may safely establish, as a rule of
practice, that when a seizing creditor only sues for such instalments of a debt secured by privilege or special mortgage as
are due, the property so mortgaged is to be sold for the whole
of the debt, on such terms of credit as are granted by the
original contract, although such creditor does not show that
the subsequent instalments, belong to him, or that he is the
holder of all the notes mentioned in the contract of mortgage,
and that it suffices that the several instalments, as are not
due, be mentioned in the petition."
Johiison v Diuncan, 24 La. Ann. 381, resembles the case at
bar in some respects. In that case the plaintiff was the
owner and holder of one of a concurrent series of notes secured by mortgage on a plantation. The holder of the other
notes of the series foreclosed the mortgage, and the property
was sold to the defetidant for an amount not quite sufficient
to satisfy the whole indebtedness. The court said "The
defendant was bound to retain in his hands for the benefit of
the plaintiff's note thepro ,rataof the price coming thereto by
law, and to pay the same with interest when demanded. We
do not think he was bound for any more than this, but judgment to this extent may be properly given under the pleadings
and evidence, and this view renders it unnecessary to pass
upon many technical points presented in the argument. The

LOVELL v. CRAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

principal defence urged is that of peremption. The defendant contends that the mortgage was first recorded in 1859,
and was not reinscribed, and that ,the plaintiff, whose suit
was not instituted till 18,71, lost his rights against defendant by peremption. This, we think, an error. The obligation
of defendant springs from his purchase, and the duty of retaining in his hands the proportion of price coming to a concurrent
mortgage note not embraced in the judgment under which
the sale was made, and to deliver such proportion to the
holder of such note. An hypothecary action is provided
against him. As to him, the mortgage of the concurrent
creditor requires no remscription, for he has assumed the debt
to the extent of its proportion of the purchase money, which
he must retain."
In Sonsat v Miles, 32 La. Ann. 164, 166, the court, quoting
from the syllabus in Parkansv Oanmpbell, 5 Martin, N. S. 149,
said "When a debt, secured by mortgage, is due in several
instalments, and the assignee of the second causes the property
to be seized and sold, the sale .gives a complete title to the
purchaser, and the creditor of the first instalment cannot seize
the property in his hands, unless he alleges and oves that the
sale is an absolute nullity, or unless he proceeds against that
purchaser, by the hypothecary action, for any proportion of
the price to which he may be entitled, under a prior or concurrent mortgage."
These authorities establish the principle that the 'holder of
one or more of a series of notes secured by a concurrent mortgage is entitled to apro ,ratashare in the net proceeds arising
from the sale of the mortgaged property at the suit of a holder
of any of the other notes, arfd that an hypothecary action lies
to enforce such claim. And one of them, Johnson v Duncan,
lays down the principle that, as regards the purchaser at the
foreclosure sale, no reinscription of the mortgage is necessary,
because he has assumed, by his purchase, the payment of the
proportionate share of the debt. And the reasoning of the
court in that case inevitably leads to the conclusion, that
the basis of the hypothecary action provided by the Code in
such cases is the obligation which the law casts upon the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

chaser to pay the pro r'ata share of the debt represented by
the notes that were not the subject of the foreclosure suit.
iBut the other proposition advanced- by the complainant,
that the right of action is not prescribable until at least ten
years from the date of sale, is not supported by any of these
authorities, or by any that have been brought to our attention,
or that we have been able to find.
In Smah v Johnson, 35 La. Ann. 943, the court held, as
stated in the syllabus of the case, that "the hypothecary
action against the third possessor is not barred by the prescription of ten years, when the principal obligation has been
kept alive, and the mortgage securing it has been properly
inscribed and reinscribed."
In Gentes v Blasco, 20 La. Ann. 403, 405, the court said
"We consider the hypothecary action as accorded and defined
by arts. 61, 62 and 63 of the Code of Practice, to be an original action. It is declared to be a real action, and that it follows the property in whatever hand it may be found. What
issaid in lemp v Te l-ezrs of Cornelius, 14 La. Ann. 301, in
regard to the ten years' prescription being applicable, whenever it becomes necessary to institute a separate and distinct
action from the one in which the judgment was rendered,
seems not to apply to the hypothecary action. In that case
we have already seen the action was personal. We do not
find in our Code any period expressly fixed for the prescription
of the hypothecary action. And the reason seems to be that
its duration is contingent upon the existence of the right from
which it springs."
Applying this principle to the case at bar, it is to be
observed that the right from which the hypothecary action
springs was the right of the complainant to his pro rata share
of the net proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property, or,
in other words, the hypothecary action is based upon the obligation on the part of the purchasers to pay to hm that amount
- an obligation which, as before stated, follows the land into
the hands-of third persons. We have also seen that, according
to the rule announced in Johnson v. )uncan, as to the purchaser at the sale, no inscription of the obligation was neces-

LOVELL v. ORAGIN.
Opinion of the Court.

sary Eut as to third persons, such is not the case. 'Upon
this point the Louisiana constitution of 1868 and the constitution of 1879 are positive and peremptory Article 123 of the
constitution of 1868 is as follows - "The general assembly
shall provide for the protection of the rights of married women
to their dotal and paraphernal property, and for the registration of the same, but no mortgage or privilege shall hereafter
affect third parties, unless recorded -in the parish where *the
property to be affected is situated. The tacit mortgages and
privileges now existing in this State shall cease to have effect
against third persons after the first day of. January, eighteen
hundred and seventy, unless duly recorded. The general assembly shall provide by law for the registration of all mortgages and privileges."
Article 176 of the constitution of 1879 -provides "No mortgage or privilege on immovable property shall affect third persons unless recorded or -registered in the parish where the
property is situated, in the manner and within the time as is'
now or may be prescribed' by law, except privileges for expenses of last illness, privileges for taxes'-State, parish, or
municipal, Promded, Such privilege shall lapse in three years."
The obligation in such case partakes of the nature of a judicial mortgage, and to be effective as to third persons it was
necessary that it be inscribed with the recorder of mortgages.
The judgment of the court from Which the aforesaid obligation arose did not give a lien until so registered. Hani a v
Creditors,12 Martin, 32, Adle v Anty; 5 La. Ann. 631, For'd
v. Tilden, 7 La. Ann. 533, Arts. 3322 and 3342, Civil Code;
Art. 123, Constitution of 1868, Art. 176, Constitution of 1879.
Thrd Tersons are understood to be "all persons who are
not parties to the act or the judgment on which the mortgage
is founded." Art. 3343, Civil -Code. And in that class must
be placed the defendant Lovell, considered in his individual
capacity, as possessor of the property, for his character as
executor and his obligation as such did not exist until after
he became such purchaser. As to him, the obligation aforesaid was of no effect without being registered, as required by
the laws of Louisiana, and no action would lie to enforce it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

This principle was applied by the Supreme Court of Louisiana
in Delony v George, 20 La. Ann. 216. That case is well
stated in the syllabus, as follows "A having sold a tract of
land to B, retained a mortgage thereon for the unpaid portion
of the price, with thepact de non alienando in the act of sale.
B subsequently sold the same tract of land to C, without an
assumption in the act of sale of the existing mortgage. A
lost his mortgage by allowing ten- years to elapse without reinscription leld, that C, the third purchaser, held the property free from the mortgage of A, after the lapse of ten years
from its inscription, notwithstanding the pact de non alienando
contained in the act of sale from A to B, and that the third
purchaser could successfully enjoin the order of seizure and
sale taken out by A."
It is to be observed that our discussion of the case hitherto has
been upon the theory that the court below was correct in finding that the complainant purchased the two notes in suit
and wa& subrogated to all the rights in and to them enjoyed
by the Quitmans. Indeed, the argument of both parties
is largely based upon that theory, and the contrary view
is presented only incidentally in connection with the issue
raised by the cross-bill. In fact, however, it makes no substantial difference in our conclusion on the issues presented
by the original bill whether that theory, or, more properly
speaking, that finding of fact, be correct or not, as that is the
most favorable view of the matter to the complainant that
can be taken, and, in any view of the case, his bill cannot be
sustained. The decree of the court below in that respect is
erroneous and should be reversed.
With respect to the cross-bill, we are of the opinion the
decree below was correct, although the grounds upon which
the court based its decree are not stated. One of the causes
of action alleged in the cross-bill is for damages arising from
the alleged wrongful acts of the complainant, with respect to
removing personal property from the plantation while he had
.possession of it, and for waste committed by him about the
same time. Under th.i law of Louisiana such acts on 'the part
of the complainant would be considered quasi-offences, and

LOVELL v. ORAGIle.
Opimon of the Court.

would, therefore, be prescribed by one year. Art. 3536, Civil
Code.

But, furthermore, as stated by the attorney f~r appellant,
the cross-bill "is for the same cause of action" as was originally brought in Cragin v Lovell, in which judgment wasrendered against Cragin in the court below, but on appeal to
this court was reversed and ordered to be arrested because the
petition set up no cause of action against. Cragin, the complainant herein. 109 U. S. 194. The cause of action in that
case was the same as n this, and the parties are the same, and
while the plea of res adjudicatamay not be strictly applicable,
because the judgment in that cause was simply arrested and
did not, therefore, adjudicate upon the merits of the case, yet
a comparison of the cross-bill, here and the petition in that
case discloses that they are almost, if -not entirely, identical,
so far as the substance of both is concerned. And, as we held
there that "the petition shows no privity between the plaintiff
and Oragin," and "alleges no promise or contract by Cragin
to or with the plaintiff," it would seem that the same rule
should be applied with reference to this cross-bill, even though
it is ostensibly an equity proceeding. Ballance v Forsyth, 24:
How 18,3, 1.e Insurance Co. v Bangs, 103 U. S. 780; Gould
v -Evansville & Crawfordsville -Railroad,91 U. S. 526, 534,
Alley v. Nlott, 111 U. S. 472, and cases cited.
The decree of the court below sustazning the complasnant's
bill was erroneous, and to that extent -isreversed, and with
respect to its dismissal of the cross-bill it was correct, and
to that extent s ajfrmed, and the case 's remanded to that
court wsth a direction to dismiss the bill wqth costs.

