INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the Case.

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
ORIGINAL.
No. 2. Original. Argued April 9,10,1890,-

Decided May 19, 1890.

The waters of the Ohio River, when Kentucky became a State, flowed in a
channel north of the tract known as Green River Island, and the 3urisdiction of Kentucky at that time extended, and ever since has extended,
to what was then low-water mark on the north side of that channel, and
the boundary between Kentucky and Indiana must run on that line, as
nearly as it can now be ascertained, after the channel has been filled.
The dominion and jurisdiction of a State, bounded by a river, continue as
they existed at the time when it was admitted into the Union, unaffected
by the action of the forces of nature upon the course of the river.
Long acquiescence by one State m the possession of territory by another
State, and in the exercise of sovereignty and dominion over it, is conclusive of the title and rightful authority of the latter State.

IN EQurrY, to settle. and determine the boundary line between the States of Indiana and Kentucky
On the 20th day of December, 1783, the legislature of
Virginia by statute authorized and empowered the delegates
of the State in the Congress of the. United States "for
and on behalf of this State, by proper, deeds or instrument
in writing, under their hands and seals, to convey, transfer,
assign and. make over unto the United States, m Congress
assembled, for the benefit of the said States, all right, title
and claim, as well of soil asjurisdiction, which this Commonwealth hath to the territory or tract of country within the
limits of the Virginia charter, situate, lying and being to the
northwest of the river Ohio."
On the 1st of March, 1781, the delegates from that State in
Congress executed and delivered to. "the United States in
Congress assembled" a deed of "all right, title and claim, as
well of soil as of jurisdiction, which the said Commonwealth
hath to the.territory or tract of country within the limits of
the Virginia charter, situate, lying and being to the northwest
of the river Ohio." This deed-was, on the same day, accepted
by Congress, and was spread at length upon its records.

OCTOBER TER-A,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

On the 13th of July, 1787, Congress enacted an ordinance
which was entitled "An ordinance for the government of the
territory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio."
There were no words of description in this ordinance except
those contained in its title.
In 1788 the legislature of Virginia, by an act which recited
the passage of this ordinance, enacted "that the afore-recited
article of compact between the original States and the people
and States in the territory northwest of Ohio river be, and the
same is hereby, ratified and confirmed, anything to the contrary in the deed of cession of the said territory by this Commonwealth to the United States notwithstanding."
The first Congress assembled under the Constitution enacted,
on the 7th August, 1789, "An act to provide for the government of the territory northwest of the rvver Ohio." These
words of description were repeated in the act, but there were
no other words of description. 1 Stat. 50.
On the 18th December, 1789, the legislature of Virginia
passed an act consenting "that the district of Kentucky,
within the jurisdiction of said Commonwealth, and according
to its actual boundaries at that time, should be formed into a
new State." By that act it was further provided that "the
use and navigation of the river Ohio, so far as the territory of
the proposed State, or the territory which shall remain within
the limits of this Commonwealth, lies therein, shall be free
and common to the citizens of the United States, and the
respective jurisdictions of this Commonwealth and of the proposed State, on the river aforesaid, shall be concurrent only
with the States which shall possess the opposite shores of the
said river."
On the 26th May, 1790, Congress established a territorial
government over "the territory of the United States south of
the river Ohio," 1 Stat. 123, but on the 4th of February, 1791,
1 Stat. 189, it gave its consent to the admission of Kentucky
into the Union, "according to its actual boundaries on the
18th day of December, 1789," the date of the passage of the
act of the legislature of Virginia.
On the 7th May 1800, an act was passed "to divide the

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the Case.

territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio into two
separate governments." 2 Stat. 58.
On the 30th April, 1802, the enabling act f6r the admission
of Ohio was passed, the Ohio River being made the southern boundary .2 Stat. 173. By this act everything west of
the present boundary of Ohio, and. east of the division line
established by the act of 1800 was "made a part of the Indiana Territory"
On the 3d February, 1809, the Territory of Illinois was
separated from the Territory of Indiana, the Wabash River
being the boundary 2 Stat. 514. And, on the 19th April,
1816, the enabling act for Indiana was passed, in which it was
enacted that the State should be bounded "on the south by
the river Ohio, from the mouth of the Great Miami River to
the mouth of the river Wabash."' 3 Stat. 289.
The controversy in this case related to the jurisdiction over
the Green River Island, a formation in the river on the Indiana side opposite the mouth of the Green River, entering the
Ohio from Kentucky, and the .claims of Indiana in respect to
it are fully stated in the brief and argument of its counsel.
Some of the main issues were, issues of fact, concerning which
there was a large amount of proof No good purpose can be
served by further reference to it.
An act passed by the legislature of Kentucky in 1873, and
an Indiana statute following it in 1875 and the proceedings
under the latter were relied upon by the State of Kentucky
These acts are printed in the margin.1
AcT to fix and determine the boundary line between the States of
1 ,A
Indiana and Kentucky above and near Evansville.
WBmwAs,Difficulty has arisen, between the owners of land in Indiana
"1
and Kentucky in regard to the boundary line between said States, and
[said] difficulty involves the title to large tracts of land at or near the line
between. Green River Island and the State of Indiana, therefore,
"Be it enacted by tMe GeneralAssembly of the Commonwealth of Kientucky,
"ยง 1. That the Governor of the State be, and is hereby empowered and
directed, to select a commissioner, who shall be a resident of Kentucky,
and a practical surveyor, who shall act with a similar person selected by
the Governor of the State of Indiana, and such persons so selected shall
make a survey of the line dividing said States, beginning at the head of the
voL. cxxxVI-31

OCTOBER TER-,

1889.

Argument for the State of Indiana.

ir _Alpheus E. Snow and Mr Joseph E. XoeDonald (with
whom was Mr John i. Butler on the brief) for the State of
Indiana.
island known as Green River Island opposite, or nearly so, from the mouth
of Green River; running thence in a direction down the Ohio River to the
lower end of said island, upon a line dividing said island and the State of
Kentucky from the State of Indiana. Said commissioners shall consult
the surveys originally made by the United States government, if there be
more than one, aid they be not inconsistent with each other, and said
commissioners shall be governed in running said line by such survey or
surveys made by the government of the United States. Within ten days
after such survey said commissioners shall reduce said survey to writing,
causing the metes and bounds and land-marks to be particularly described,
and sign the same, and acknowledge the same before any officer authorized
to take acknowledgments of deeds, and duplicates of such written statements of survey signed and acknowledged by the commissioners, shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the Henderson County Court, and in the
auditor's office of Vanderburgh, and Warrick counties, Indiana, and such
written statement, or a copy duly certified by the clerk of the said ilenderson County Court, shall be conclusive evidence of the said line dividing said
island, so called, from said State of Indiana, in any of the courts of this
State.
"ยง 2. The commissioners to be appointed under this act shall report
to the Governor, in writing, the result of the survey together with a plat
of the same; and when said survey shall have been completed, the commissioner shall file his account with the Governor, and when the same shall be
examined and approved by him, the Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby
authorized to draw his warrant on the Treasury for said amount, in favor
of the commissioner appointed. Provided, however, said amount shall not
exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars.
"ยง 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved April 21, 1873." 1 Sess. Laws 1873, 51, c. 964.
The statute of the State of Indiana of February 27, 1875, referred to in
the cross-bill was as follows.
"Ax ACT to ascertain the location of the boundary line between the State
of Indiana and Kentucky, above and near Evansville, and making the same
evidence in any dispute, and declaring an emergency. (Approved February
27 1875.)
" WVIIEREAS, Difficulty and dispute have arisen between the owners of
land in Indiana and Kentucky in regard to the boundary line between said
States, and said difficulty involves the title to large tracts of land above,
near the line between the Green River Island and the State of Indiana.
" SmTiox 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, that the Governor be and is hereby empowered and directed to select
a commissioner, who shall be a resident of the State of Indiana and a prac-

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

From a point on the northwest side of the Ohio River, about
six niiles above the city of Evansville, Indiana, to a point on
the same side of the river about one-half mile above that city,
the Ohio River curves toward Kentucky Between these same
points a depression or bayou exists winch lies on nearly a
straight line from one point to the other. The bottom of this
depression is at present from twenty to thirty feet above lowwater mark of the Ohio River.
There are some evidences that near the upper point,: this
depression, at some past period, divided into two at the river's
tical surveyor, who shall act with a similar commissioner to be appointed
by the Governor of the State of Kentucky, and the two commissioners so
selected, shall make a survey of the line dividing said States, beginning at
the head of said Green River Island, near and opposite to the mouth of
Green River, and running thence down the Ohio River to the lower end of
said island.
"SEC. '2. In running said line the said commissioners shall consult and
be governed by the surveys originally made by the government of the United
States, when such surveys are not inconsistent with each other, and they
shall establish and mark proper monuments along said line, whereby the
same may be plainly indicated and perpetuated.
"SEc. 3. Within ten days after making such survey and establishing
said line, said commissioners shall reduce the same to writing, giving a full
and plain description of all the courses and distances, and of the marks
and monuments made and established, and sign and acknowledge the same
before some officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds, which
writing, so acknowledged, shall be recorded in the Recorder's office in the
counties of Vanderburgh and Warrick, and the original filed in the office of
the Secretary of State, and such writing, or the record thereof, shall be
conclusive evidence in any of the courts of this State of the boundary
line between the State of Indiana and Kentucky, between the points on said
Green River Island heretofore indicated.
" SEc. 4. There is hereby appropriated out of the moneys of the State,
in the hands of the Treasurer, a sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty
dollars, to pay for making said survey. After rendering the services provided for in this act, the commissioners shall make proof to the judge of
the Circuit Court of Vanderburgh County of the value thereof, to which
the said judge shall certify, and upon the presentation of such certificate,
the Auditor of the State shall draw his warrant in favor of said commissioner for amount so certified not exceeding tt~e said sum of two hundred
and fifty dollars.
"SEc. 5. Whereas, An emergency exists for the immediate taking
effect of this act, the same shall be in force from and after its passage."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

edge, thus leaving a delta between the two depressions. Opposite the upper ponb, on the south (Kentucky) side of the Ohio
River, the Green River flows into the Ohio.
The land lying between the depression and the Ohio River
consists of two connected tracts, one called the "Green River
Island" and the other the "Green River Island Tow-head," the latter being a tract formed by deposit which has within
the last twenty or thirty years become attached to the "Green
River Island" tract at all stages of water.
The land lying in the delta of the depression northeast of
the "Green River Island" tract is ealled "Buck Island." The
depression or bayou above, referred to is called the "Green
River Island Bayou."
Until the year 1875, it was generally supposed, in the vicinage, that the boundary line between the two States was the
low-water mark of the Ohio River on its northwest side, but it
was claimed by persons who purported to assert the claims
of the State of Kentucky that the low-water mark of the
Ohio River on the northwest side was the middle line of the
"Green River Island Bayou," and of its northern branch at
the point where the bayou divided, and that hence such middle line of the bayou was the boundary line between the two
States.
A few persons who claimed under the State of Kentucky,
and whose title deeds bounded their land at the state boundary line, claimed that the meander line of the United States
survey of 1806, which ran along the top of the north (Indiana.)
bank of the " Green River Island Bayou," and upon the north
(Indiana) bank of the north branch of the bayou where it
divided, was the state boundary line.
In the year 1875 a survey was made for the purpose of
locating the state boundary line between the two points,
above referred to, by commissioners of the two States, under
peculiar circumstances hereafter to be discussed. This survey
located the state boundary line upon the meander line of the
United States survey of 1806.
The "Green River Island" tract is about five and one-half
miles long, and a little over a mile wide at its greatest width,

INDIA-NA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

C

o

. 2

-- 3
Co,

,

0.

!
9a R.~
-

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

and tapers to a point at both ends. It contains nearly two
thousand acres of land. The "Green River Island Towhead" contains about one hundred acres: The "Buck Island"
tract contains about fourteen acres. The narrow strip of land
between the bayou and the line of the survey of 1875 contains about one hundred acres. The land is worth on the
average fifty dollars an acre.
The owners of the land on the "-Green River Island" tract
deriving title from Virginia and Kentucky had, prior to 1875,
been in dispute and conflict with the owners of the adjacent
land in Indiana, deriving title from the United States, over
the ownership of "Buck Island." After the survey of 1875,
the trouble was much increased, on account of the doubtful
state m which the title to the strip between the bayou and
the line of the survey of 1875 was left.
Inasmuch as these disputes and conflicts had their origin
in a dispute as to the state boundary, the State of Indiana,
after having attempted to settle the boundary line by agreement with the State of Kentucky and failed, brought this
suit for the purpose of obtaining a final settlement of all
disputes by having the location of the state boundary line
between the two points above referred to authoritatively
settled.
I. Do the words "Lying and being to the northwest of the
river Ohio" in the act of cession of 1783 from Virginia to
the United States, and the words "on the south by the Ohio
River" in the act of Congress of 1816 providing for the formation of the State of Indiana, fix the southern boundary at the
middle line of the Ohio River, or on the north or the south
side of the Ohio River 2 and if on either the north or south side
of the Ohio River, at the line of high-water mark, medium
water mark or low-water mark
In the year 1820, the case of Handly's Lessee v Anthony,
5 Wheat. 374 was brought in this uourt from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky
That case was an action of ejectment, in which the plaintiff
claimed under a grant from the State of Kentuckv and the
defendants under a grant from the United States. The title

LNDIA A v. KENTTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

of the individuals who were parties in that action depended,
as Chief Justice Marshall, who delivered the opinion of the
court,-states, "upon the question whether the lands lie in the
State of Kentucky or in the State of Indiana." The land in
question in that case was land lying north of the main Ohio
River, and between the main river and a bayou which was dry
during a portion of the year.
The question involved in that case, so far as the boundary
line between the States was concerned, was whether the boundary line between the States was or was not at the medium
water mark on the northwest side of the Ohio River. There
was no claim that the boundary line was north of the medium
water mark on the northwest side, and consequently it was
entirely immaterial whether the boundary line went to lowwater mark on the northwest side or to the middle line of the
river, or to low-water mark on the southeast side. If the
boundary line was south of the medium water mark on the
northwest side, the land was -necessarily in Indiana, whether
the boundary line was at low-water mark on either side or at
the middle line of the Ohio River.
The court however in that case entered into an inquiry as to
the construction of the act and deed of cession of the Northwest Territory and arrived at the conclusion that the boundary
between the States was the low-water mark on the northwest
side of the Ohio River. The argument of Chief Justice -Marshall is shown by the following quotations
CC
It is not the bank of the river, but the river itself
at which the cession of Virginia commences. She conveys
to Congress all her right to the territory 'situate, lying and
being to the northwest of the river Ohio.' And this territory, according to express stipulation, is to be laid off into
independent States. These States, then, are to have the river
itself, wherever that may be, for their boundary This is a
natural boundary, and, in establishing it, Virginia must have
had in view the conveinience of the future population of the
country
"When a great rver is the boundary, between two nations
or States, if "the original property is in neither, and there-be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

no convention respecting it, each holds to the middle of the
stream. But when, as m this case, one State is the original
proprietor, and grants the territory on one side only, it retains
the river within its own domains, and the newly created State
extends to the river only The river, however, is its boundary"
"If instead of an annual and somewhat irregular rising and
falling of the river, it was a daily and almost regular ebbing
and flowing of the tide, it would not be doubted that a country bounded by the river would extend to low-water mark.
This rule has been established by the common consent of mankind. It is' founded on common convenience. Even when a
State retains its dominion over a river which constitutes the
boundary between itself and another State, it would be extremely inconvenient, to extend its dominion over the land on
the other side which was left bare by the receding of the
water. And this inconvenience is not less where the rising
and falling is annual than where it is diurnal. Wherever the
river is a boundary between States, it is the main, the permanent river, which constitutes that boundary, and the mind
will find itself embarrassed with insurmountable difficulty in
attempting to draw any other line than the low-water mark.
"When the State of Virginia made the Ohio the boundary
of States, she must have intended the great river Ohio, and
not A narrow bayou into which its waters occasionally run.
All the inconvenience which would result from attaching a
narrow strip of country lying on the northwest side of that
noble river to the States on its southeastern side, would result
from attaching to Kentucky, the State on its southeastern border, a body of land lying noethwest of the real river, and
divided from the main land only by a narrow channel, through
the whole of which the waters of the river do not pass, until
they rise ten feet above low-water mark.
"The case i certainly not without its difficulties, but in
the great questions, which concern the boundaries of States,
where great natural boundaries are established in general
terms, with a view to public convenience and the avoidance of
controversy, we think the great object, when it can be distinctly perceived, ought not to be defeated by those technical

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

perplexities which may sometimes influence contracts between
individuals. The State of Virginia intended to make the great
river Ohio, throughout its .extent, the boundary between the
territory -ceded to the United States and herself. When that
part of Virginia, which is now Kentucky, became a separate
State, the river was the boundary between the new States,
erected by Congress in the ceded territory, and Kentucky
Those principles and considerations which produced the boutidary ought to preserve it. They seem to us to require that
Kentucky should not pass the main river and possess herself
of lands lying on the opposite side, although they should, for
a considerable portion of the year, be surrounded by the waters
of the river flowing into a narrow channel."
From what has been said above, it is evident that the conclusion of this court, in the case of Handly'sLessee v Anthony,
above referred to, relating to the state boundary line, is a dictUm, and that*it is, therefore, open to this court to decide
whether the boundary line between these States extends along
the middle line of the Ohio River or along the line of highwater mark, medium water mark or low-water mark on the
northwestern side or the southeastern side.
There have been few cases in the state courts in which the
exact location of the boundary of -the States northwest and
southeast of the Ohio River has been' a material question.
The question has-been considered in the state'courts, and the
following may be said to be the result of the decisions.
The Kentucky courts have always claimed, under the authority of Handly's Lessee v Anthony, to the low-water mark on
the northwest side of the Ohio River. Flemmg v Kenney, 4
J. J. Marsh. 155, Chur'eh v Chambers, 3 Dana, 274, .MJcFall
v Commonwealth, 2 Met. (Ky.) 394, AfcFarland v Ensght, 6
B. Mon. 500.
In Indiana the authority of .Uandly's Lessee' v Anthony is
recognized as applicable to the boundaries of riparian owners,
but the right of wharfing out into the Ohio River is insisted
upon. Stinson v Butler, 4 Blackford, 285, Cowden v..-err,
6 .Blackford, 280, Doe v Hildeth, 2- Indiana, 274, Comnnswners e? St. Joseph County v. -Pdge, 5 Indiana, 13,

OCTOBER TER21,

1889.

Argument foi the State of Indiana.

Batnbrzdge v Sherlock, 29 Indiana, 364, S. C. 95 Am. Dec.
644, Gentile v State, 29 Indiana, 409, Carl'sle v State, 32
Indiana, 55, Martin v Evansville, 32 Indiana, 85, Sherlock v
Baznbridge, 41 Indiana, 35, Sherlock v AllZug, 44 Indiana, 184.
The same may be said of the courts of Illinois, though
there is a strong tendency to claim to the middle of all rivers.
.Middleton v Prztchard, 3 Scammon, 510, S. C. 38 Am. Dec.
112, ]2'nsmnnger v People, 47 Illinois, 384, S. C. 95 Am. Dec.
495, Buttenuth v St. Louts Brsdge Co., 123 Illinois, 535,
Fuller v Dauphsn, 124 Illinois, 542.
In Ohio and Virginia the question has been hotly discussed,
and the authority of ]landly's lessee v Anthony denied.
Virginia was dissatisfied with the case of Handly's Lessee v
An thony because she claimed to high-water mark on the northwest side of the river, Ohio, because she claimed to the middle of the river. See Commonwealth v Garner, 3 Grattan,
655, Benner's lessee v Platter, 6 Ohio, 505, Covngtoml & Circtnnats,Brzdge Co. v Miayer, 31 Ohio St. 317, St. Joseph &c.
Railroad v. Devereaux, 41 Fed. IRep. 14.
The conclusion of Chief Justice Marshall is based upon the
theory that the act and deed of cession of Virginia are to be
treated as a grant of the undisputed territory of Virginia, and
that the words "to the northwest of the river Ohio," are to
be construed as though they were words of strict boundary
rather than of governmental description.
Ie admits that his
construction is not without difficulty, and the words are plainly
ambiguous.
An examination of the circumstances under which- the cession was made establishes that
1. The words "to the northwest of the river Ohio" in the
act and deed of cession of Virginia are not words of boundary, since the territory had not at that time any determinate bounds on the north.
2. These words were used in the previous statutes of Virginia, and in the common and official speech and writing of
the time to describe a large tract of' territory claimed by
England, France, Spain, the United States and Virginia.
3. The act of cession of 1783 is remodelled from the act of
1781, in which the territory of Virginia is divided into two

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

parts by such description that, if the words of description are
construed technically, the Ohio River itself is not described.
4. The act of 1783 is not strictly, an act of cession, but a
proposition for compromise between Virginia and the United
States of a dispute in which the United, States claimed that
Virginia had no title to the territory southeast or northwest
of the Ohio River.
For these reasons it is evident- that the words "within the
limits of the Virginia Charter to the northwest of the river
Ohio" in the act of 'Virginia of 1783 are words of governmental description of an indeterminate tract, contained in an
agreement of compromise, and not words of definite boundary
contained in an instrument of grant.
It is therefore improper to treat the act and deed of cession
of Virginia as though they were a carefully drawn deed of
grant by metes and bounds, and to give to the words "to the
northwest of the river Ohio" the same technical significance
which they might have if they constituted a part of .a carefully
drawn description by metes and bounds of a territory admitted
to be the undisputed property of the grantor.
By the insertion of the provision respecting the free navigation of the Ohio River, Virginia accomplished three important
things.
1. It. bound the State of Kentucky to apply to the Ohio
River the principles relating to the navigable waters wholly
within the Northwest Territory, regarding which it was by
the ordinance provided that "The navigable waters leading
into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places
between the same, shall be common highways and forever
free, as well to the inhabitants of the said territory, as to the
citizens of the United States, and those of any other States
that may be admitted into the Confederacy, without any tax,
impost, or duty therefor."
2. It compelled Kentucky. to -agree with the United States
that it would never attempt to control the navigation of the
Ohio River. If -Kentucky had gone over to Spain, the first
act, of course,. would have been to close -the Ohio and 'Mississippi rivers fo navigation. By keeping Kentucky in the Union

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

and binding her to exercise only that concurrent jurisdiction
which States bounded by navigable rivers would be entitled to
exercise by the rules of international law, the possibility of
either the Ohio or the Mississippi rivers being closed to navigation would be done away with, since Spain, without Kentucky
and the southwest territory, east of the Mississippi, would not
have been strong enough to have violated the obligations of
the treaty of 1783, which provided for the free navigation of
the Mississippi.
3. It bound itself and Kentucky to recognize as having
concurrent jurisdiction with itself over the Ohio River "only
the States which may possess the opposite shores of said river,"
that is, the United States and the States to be formed in the
Northwest Territory, bounding on the Ohio River. Thus, all
complications with the Ohio Company, or any other land
company, would be avoided, since the United States, by consenting to the act, would bind themselves to protect Virginia
and Kentucky from any such claims of jurisdiction over the
Ohio River by any land company
In this act Virginia treats itself and Kentucky as bounding on. the Ohio River. The words are. "That the use and
navigation of the river Ohio, so far as the territory of the
proposed State or the territory which shall remain within the
limits of this Commonwealth lies thereon," etc.
Further, this. act is an admission by Virginia that the State
or States possessing the opposite shores of the river, which at
that time was the United States, had a right to exercise concurrent jurisdiction over the Ohio River with itself .and Kentucky, since it does not purport to grant to the United States
any new rights.
Probably nothing was further from the intention of the
Virginia legislature in adopting the act of cession of 1783
than to make claim to exclusive territorial rights over the
Ohio River, as against the United States. The advantages of
the Union were at that time fully recognized, and the immense
value of the water-ways to the civilization of that period made
it the one idea of the State to keep the great water-ways open
to free navigation, the States on both sides poss( sing jursdic,

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

tion over the river for the proper preservation of peace and
order thereon.
Unless the terms of written instruments make it absolutely
clear that'it was the intention that the boundary line between
the States on the opposite sides of the river should be elsewhere than at the middle line, that line should be the
boundary
As above shown, the words of the act of cession of the
Northwest Territory do not necessarily fix the boundary line
elsewhere than at the middle line of the Ohio River.
It is therefore submitted that the middle line of the Ohio
River is the boundary line between the States of Indiana and
Kentucky
II. If it be granted that the southern boundary of the State
of Indiana is the low-water mark of the Ohio River upon the
northwest side, then is that low-water mark of the Ohio River
on the northwest side, at the present time, on the north or
the south margin of the "Green River Island" tract and
the "Buck Island" tract? Does the present location of this
low-water mark fix the state boundary line 2
The testimony introduced by the State of Indiana proves
conclusively that the low-water mark on the northwest side of
the Ohio River is, at the present time, south of the "Green
River Island Tow-head," and that the whole tract is an accretion to the "Green River Island" tract within the last twenty
or thirty years.
III. If it be granted that the low-water mark on the northwest
side of the Ohio River is, at the present time, along the southern margin of the "Green River' Island" tract, and the "Blick
Island" tract, and that the location of this low-water mark at
the present time does not fix.the state boundary, is it necessary
to examine into the facts relating to the location of the lowwater mark prior to the year 1816, when the State of Indiana
was formed with the Ohio River as its boundary on the south,
or does the formation of the State of Indiana, in 1816, with
that boundary, so fix the boundary, as against the State of
Kentucky, as to make evidence, as to the. location of the lowwater mark prior to that date, immaterial?

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

It is submitted on the proof that, even if it is necessary for
the State of Indiana in this case to make proof of the location of the low-water mark on the northwest side of the
Ohio River prior to the present time, it is not necessary that it
should in its proof go further back than the year 1816, since
in that year the State of Kentucky recognized the right of
the United States and of the State of Indiana to exercise jurisdiction at least to the low-water mark of the Ohio River on
the northwest side.
r
ISX
If the location of the state boundary line was definitely
fixed in the year 1816 at the low-water mark of the Ohio
River, was the low-water mark on the northwest side of the
Ohio River, in 1816, on the north or south margin of the
"Green River Island" tract and the " Buck Island " tract, and
has it ever since remained as located in 1816?
It is shown by the testimony of living witnesses, practically
without contradiction, that, since 1820, the depression north
of the "Green River Island" tract has remained substantially
as it is at present, the height of the bottom of the depression
above low-water mark changing slightly from year to year by
the washing and filling caused by the high water at seasons
of overflow, but the average height above low-water mark
remaining substantially the-same.
It is submitted, therefore, that, if the low-water mark on
the northwest side of the Ohio River is the state boundary,
the State of Indiana has shown, by living witnesses, that this
line of low-water mark, since 1820, has been on the south
margin of both the "Green River Island" tract and the
"Buck Island" tract. The testimony referred to under the
sixth point of this brief shows that the same state of facts
existed between 1820 and 1816.
V If it be necessary for the purpose of determining the state
boundary to examine into the location of the low-water mark
on the northwest side of the Ohio River as it existed prior to
1816, did the United States survey of 1806, a meander line of
which ran along the north side of the "Green River Island"
tract and the "Buck Island" tract, affect the location of the
state boundary line ?

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.

495

Argument for the State of Indiana.

Considering the uncertain state of the law, at the time of the
United States survey of 1806, with regard to the meaning of the
words "to the northwest of the river Ohio," considering also
the fact that there was an outstanding Viiginia patent on a
part of the "Green River Island" tract (the validity of which
will be considered later), considering also that the Henderson
County Court of Kentucky had taken upon itself to allow surveys to be made on the "Green River Island" tract by Kentucky surveyors, thus incidentally determining that the
"-Green River Island" tract was not "to the northwest of the
river Ohio," consdering also that, for the United States -surveyor to have surveyed the "Green River Island" tract at
that time would have reqired of him the determination of a
great question which is yet undetermined, considering also
that the surveyor of'the United States, in going on the" Green
River Island" tract to make surveys over the Kentucky sur
veys would have doubtless exposed himself to personal violence
and ejection from the land; it is not to be wondered that he
accepted the interpretatibn of the words, "to the northwest
of the river Ohio,"placed upon them by the Kentucky courts,
and made return that, in his individual opinion, the bank of
the bayou was the -bank of the Ohio, and that his superiors
did not question his survey
It is submitted, therefore, that tl~e ab'ove considerations
greatly weaken, if they do not totally destroy any evidential
force that the United States survey of 1806 may be claimed to
have, as bearing upon the question of the location of the lowwater mark, in 1806, with relation to the "Green River
Island" tract.
As evidence in itself of the boundary betweenthe States, it
is absolutely worthless, since meander lines are not intended
to show the low-water mark, but only to approxunately determine the location of the banks of the stream meandered.
Railroad Co. v. Sckurmezr, 7 Wal. 272.
VI. If the state boundary line was not definitely fixed at
the low-water mark on the northwest side of the Ohio River,
in 1816, but was so fix6d by the deed of cession from Virginia
to the United States in 1784, and by the act of cession of Vir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

ginia in 1783, was the low-water mark on the northwest side
of the Ohio River, in 1783 and 1784, on the north or the south
margin of the "Green River Island" tract and the "Buck
Island" tract, and has it ever since remained as it existed in
1783 and 178412
Counsel discussed the evidence on this point at length, and
concluded. Everything, therefore, - science, tradition and
evidence of deceased and living persons, - points to the conclusion that the low-water mark on the northwest side of the
Ohio River, is, and since 1783, has been along the south
margin of the " Green River Island" and the "Buck Island"
tracts. And hence the conclusimon isirresistible that if the lowwater mark on the northwest side of the Ohio River be the
state boundary, therefore the state boundary runs to the south
of all the disputed tracts, leaving all these tracts within the
jurisdiction of the State of Indiana.
VII. If it be granted that the southern boundary of the
State of Indiana is. the low-water mark on the northwest side
of the Ohio River, and that the low-water mark on the northwest side of the Ohio River at the present time is on the southern margin of the "Green River Island" tract and the "Buck
Island" tract, but since the year 1816 or the year 1783, the
low-water mark has been along the north margin of those
tracts, has the process by which the location of the low-water
mark has changed been gradual or sudden, and has such change
been a change to a new condition or a return to an old condition 2 If it should be found that the location of the low-water
mark has changed, has the state boundary line changed its
location in consequence of such a change of location of the lowwater mark?
While the principle of accretion is perhaps not strictly applicable to a case of this kind, since there is no claim that the
"Green River Island" tract is a piece of land actually formed
by process of deposit within the existing banks of the Ohio
River, yet, taking into consideration that the tract is a formation by the deposit of the Ohio River within its geologwal
banks: that the location of the main river channel of the
Ohio River has been within the recent historical and geologi-

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

cil times south of the "Green IRiver Island" tract where it
now is, that if the "Green River Island" tract was ever a
true island it was such from a temporary detachment from the
territory of Indiana, it is right and proper that this court in
deciding a question of this kind, which is more properly a
question of politics and diplomacy than a question of strict
law, should base its decision upon the principles of justice,
rather than upon strict and technical rules of law, and should
d issolve any doubts which may arise as to the existence or nonexistence of claimed facts, which by reason of the unsettled
condition of the country cannot be proved with absolute accuracy, by calling to its assistance the principle of accretion,
and if it should be of opinion that the low-water mark on the
northwest side of the Ohio River isthe boundary between the
States of Indiana and Kentucky, should'adjudge that the boundary of the State of Indiana, to which the disputed tracts are now
finally and completely attached, is along the southern margin.
VIII. If this court should find that the state boundary line
is along the north margin of the "Green River Island" tract,
does it also extend along the north or the south margin of the
"Buck Island" tract by reason of the fact that the "1Buck
Island" tract, is an accretion to or a part of the "Green River
Island "tract, or an accretion to or a part of the undisputed
soil of Indiana 2
It will be noticed that, in the above, two facts are assumed
(1) That the low-water mark on the northwest side of the
Ohio River is the state boundary line. (2) That the lowwater mark of the Ohio River is on the north margin of the
"Green River Island" tract.
Both these -facts the State of Indiana expressly denies. If,
however, the facts thus assumed to exist were true, the testimony shows that the " Buck Island" tract is an accretion to
the undisputed soil of Indiana, and that hence the state
boundary line is upon its south margin.
IX. The State of Kentucky has not exercised sovereignty
and jurisdiction over the "Green River Island" tract or the
"Buck Island" tract in such a -manner as to affect the loc6tion
of the state boundary line.
VOL. cxxxv-32

OCTOBER

TERM, 1889.

Ariimeont for the State of Indiana.

The "full possession, jurisdiction and control" which the
State of Virginia is alleged to have retained after the cession
of 1783, is not shown by the evidence.
The cross-bill of Kentucky places her claim of exercise of
jurisdiction over the "Green River Island" tract as distinct
from the exercise of jurisdiction by Virginia, over the "Green
River Island" tract upon four grounds.
The first ground is, "That the owners of soil thereon, hold
their title thereto under grants made by her as the original
proprietor thereof."
The State of Kentucky was formed June 1st, 1792. It
issued its first patent for land on the "Green River Island"
tract in 1818. Twenty-six years elapsed, therefore, before the
executive officers of the State of Kentucky determined to issue
patents for the land on the "Green River Island" tract. Yet
it appears from the statement of Zadok Cramer, the author of
"The Navigator," published in 1808, that at the time of publishing that book, there were "six or eight families settled"
on the "Green River Island" tract.
All the circumstances surrounding the original issue of the
Kentucky patents, are consistent with the theory that doubts
existed for twenty-six years on the part of the governors
of Kentucky as to their right to issue patents for land on the
"Green River Island" tract, and that the doubt was finally
solved by an acting governor, who was, perhaps, interested
in having the question settled one way or the other. A precedent having been once established, the subsequent governors followed it, as was natural and perhaps proper, since the
issuing of the first patent determined the position of Kentucky in the matter, and it was as proper to cover the whole
tract with patents as to cover any part of it.
Considering the fact that, for twenty-six years, under a
systei'h of land laws which permitted the location of land
wheresoever the claimant might see fit, no individual took out
a patent from Kentucky upon the "Green River Island " tract
though during that period there were from six to ten families
settled upon it, considering, also, that the facts surrounding
the issue of the first patent gave rise to the suspicion that the

IN-DIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

state officers issuing the patent may have had an interest in
it, considering, also, the great looseness with which the patents
were finally issued, considering, also, that it was for the
pecuniary interest of the settlers on the island to take title
from Kentucky rather than from the United States, and that
they could not have obtained title from the United States
without having the United States survey of 1806 corrected, it
is submitted that the facts surrounding the issue of the Kentucky patents are such as to destroy the force of the issue of
those patents as proof of the exercise of jurisdiction by Kentucky over the "Green River Island" tract.
The second claim of Kentucky of right to exercise jurisdiction over the "Green River Island" tract is, "that the property thereon, amounting to many thousands of dollars in value,
has always been assessed for taxation by her legally authorized
officials, and the taxes thereon paid into her state treasury"
This statement isnot supported by the evidence.
The third ground on which the State of Kentucky claims
to have acquired the right of jurisdiction over the "Green
River Island" tract is, "that the residents thereon, possessing
the other necessary -qualifications, have always voted at her
elections as legal voters." It appears that the residents on the
"Green River Island" tract voted, when they voted at all, at
the town of Henderson, some twenty miles away by the river.
Admitting this to be true, it is of little or no effect as showing
an exercise of jurisdiction by the State of Kentucky over the
disputed tracts.
The fourth ground on which the State of Kentucky claims
to have acquired the right of jurisdiction over the "Green
River Island" tract is, "that her courts have always exercised
undisputed jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, over the said
island."
The record in the case of Garrett v -MfcClam shows that
the jurisdiction of the Kentucky court was disputed in that
very case. One of the grounds on which the injunction against
the execution of the judgment was. asked was, that the Kentucky court which rendered the judgment had no jurisdiction
over the "Green River Island" tract, because that tract was
"beyond the territorial limits of the State of Kentucky"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

X. The State of Kentucky, in her cross-bill, claims that the
State of Indiana has always acqmesced in the claims of Kentucky to the "Green River Island" tract. The State of Indiana did not acquiesce in the original issuing of the Virginia
patent, since the State of Indiana did not exist at the time the
Virginia patent was issued.
It is impossible for a State of this Union to acquire a right
of jurisdiction as against another State, over a disputed territory, by any exercise of jurisdiction, however clear and however long continued. To permit a State to acquire jurisdiction
by its own action as against another State, would be to apply
the equitable doctrine of laches to dealings between sovereign
States. Sucn a doctrine never has been and never could be
admitted to exist by the States of this Union. It would be in
violation of the common law maxim, -i illum
temnpus occur
9,1 'regt..
While a State may allow rights to be acquired against it
by its own citizens if it so chooses, it is inconsistent with the
idea of sovereignty that one State or nation should acquire
rights of territory and jurisdiction by the inaction of another
State. The question of state boundaries is a question to be
determined by the construction of written instruments, and
the examination of the facts in connection therewith, and the
application of the principles of law and equity so far as they
are consistent with state sovereignty
If it should be admitted that there could be any exercise of jurisdiction or
acquisition of territory through the action of one State, and
the inaction of another, the result of the doctrine would be to
produce disputes regarding the territory, which could finally
be settled only by force, since States would not permit the
courts to determine claims to acquisition of territory
Such a.doctrine would also be subversive of Article I, section 10, of the Constitution of the United States which provides that; "Xo State shall, without the consent of Congress,
enter into any agreement or compact with another State.",
If the doctrine of laches or limitation is to apply as between
States, it could only be sustained upon the theory upon which
the doctrine of laches or limitation is sustained as between

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for the State of Indiana.

individuals, that is, upon presumption of a prior grant. To
hold, therefore, that a State might acquire territory and jurisdiction by its own action, would b6 practically to hold that
one State might enter into compact or agreement with another State, without the consent of Congress, and that the
right of jurisdiction which a State of this Union possesses, is
a right which may be conveyed by the State without the
consent of Congress.
XI. Have the States of Indiana and Kentucky so legislated, and have any acts been done under such legislation
which can affect.the location of the boundary line between
the two States?
The statute of Indiana, of February 27, 1875, referred to in
the cross-bill, does not stand by itself. In the year 1873, the
State of Kentucky had legislated in regard to the boundary line between the States near the "Green IRiver Island"
tract. The statute of Kentucky relating to this matter was
approved April 21st, 1873. [This legislation, and the acts of
the executive of each State were then reviewed at length, and
the Tesults of the examination were claimed to be this I
The effect of the- legislation of Kentucky in 1873, and of
Indiana in 1875, since the consent of Congress to it was
not obtained, depends, therdfore, entirely upon the question
whether the meander line of the Ohio River in the United
States survey of 1806 was or was not the state boundary line.
If it was, it -wascompetent for the two States to provide any
evidence of it, as the actual and admitted boundary, which
they saw fit.
That the meander line of the United States survey "of 1806
was not and could not be the state boundary line is a question
which would seem not to admit of argument. When this
court held, in the. case of Railroad Company v Sohurmer,
7 Wall. 272, that the meander lines of the United States surveys were run merely for the purpose of determining the
amount of land for which the purchaser from the United
States government should pay, it placed a final negative upon
any claim that the meander line could ever be a state boundary line. There is not enough in the fact that a meander

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for the State of Kentucky.

line was run along a river forming the boundary of a State of
this Union to raise such a meander line from its humble
office of determining whether a person should pay a few
dollars, more or less, to the dignity of a boundary line between
two States.
The absurdity of the survey of 1815 is apparent when it is
considered that if the meander line of the United .States survey of 1806 should have been adopted as the boundary of
Indiana along the Ohio River, a large and valuable part of
the city of Evansville and of the other towns and cities of
Indiana on the Ohio River would have become a part of the
State of Kentucky If it was proper for the state boundary
line to be fixed at the meander line adjacent to the "1Green
River Island" tract, it was equally proper that it should be so

fixed at alI!points along the Ohio River.
If these statutes of Indiana and Kentucky made or attempted to make the meander line of the United States survey
of 1806 the boundary line, they impaired the obligation of the
contract made by the United States with the patentees from
the United States adjacent to the "Green River Island" tract,
on the north, since these statutes made no provision for compensation to these patentees, for the land taken from them

between the bayou and the meander line of the survey of 1806.
It is submitted, therefore, - whether the act of Indiana of
1875 is to be treated as part of a- proposed "agreement or
compact" between the State of Indiana and the State of
Kent cky, or whether it stands by itself as furnishing a proposed rule of evidence in the Indiana courts, - that the acts
reqnired to be performed as a prerequisite to the taking
effect of the statute were never performed and never can be
performed, that the statute itself is unconstitutional and void
and that. therefore neither this statute nor the acts done

thereunder have any effect upon the location of the state
boundary -line.
.Mr P W Hardin, Attorney General of the State, and .Mr
J Proctor .nott for the State of Kentucky

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTiCe FxnEo delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a controversy between the State of Indiana and the
State of Kentucky growing out of their respective claims to
the possession of and jurisdiction over a tract of- land nearly
five miles in length and over half a mile in width, embracing
about two thousand acres, lying on what is now the north side
of the. Ohio River.
Kentucky alleges that when she became a State on the 1st
of June, 1792, this tract was an island in the Ohio River, and
was thus within her boundaries, which had been prescribed by
the act of Virginia creating the District of Kentucky The
territory assigned to her was bounded on the north by the
territory ceded. by Virginia to the United States. The tract
in controversy was then and has ever since been called Green
River Island. Kentucky founds her claim to its possession
and to jurisdiction over it upon the alleged ground that at
that time the river Ohio ran north of it, and her boundaries
extended to low-water mark on the north side of the river,
also upon her long undisturbed possession of the premises, and
the recognition of her rights by the legislation of Indiana.
Indiana rests her claim also upon the boundaries assigned
to her when she was admitted into the Union on the 11th of
December,'1816, of which the- southern line was designated
"as'the river Ohio from the mouth of the Great Miami River
to the mouth of the Wabash." This boundary, as she alleges,
embraces the island in question, she contending that the river
then ran south of it, and that a mere bayou separated it from
the mainland on the north.
The territory lying north and west of the Ohio, embracing
the State of Indiana, as well as the territory lying south of
that river, embracing the State of Kentucky, was, previous to
1776, and down to the cession of the same to the United
States, held by the State of Virginia. Indeed, that Commonwealth claimed that all the territory lying north of the Ohio
River and west of the Alleghanies and extending to the Mississippi was within her chartered limits. As tated by Chief
Justice Marshall, in Ifandly's -essee v Anthony, 5 Wheat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

371, 376, at an early period of the Revolutionary War, "the
question whether the immense 'tracts- of unsettled country
which lay within the charters of particular States ought to be
considered as the property of those States or as an acquisition
made iy the arms of all for the benefit of all, convulsed our
confederacy and threatened its existence." To remove this
cause of disturbance, Congress in September, 1780, passed a
resolution recommending "to the several States having claims
to waste and unappropriated lands in the western country, a
liberal cession to the United States of a portion of their
respective claims, for the common benefit of the Union." The
Commonwealth of Virginia yielded to this recommendation,
and on the 20th of December, 1783, an act was passed by her
legislature authorizing her delegates in Congress to convey to
the United States all her right, title and claim, as well of soil
as of jurisdiction, "to the territory or tract of country within
the limits of the Virginia charter, situate, lying and being to
the northwest of the river Ohio," subject to certain conditions,
among which was that the territory should be laid out and
formed into States containing a suitable extent of territory,
not less than one hundred nor more than one hundred and
fifty miles square, or as near thereto as the circumstances
would admit, and that the States so formed should be distinct
republican States, and admitted members of the Federal Union,
having the same rights, sovereignty, freedom and independence
as the other States. In pursuance of this act the delegates in
Congress, on the 1st of March, 1784, executed a formal deed
ceding to the United States all the right, title and claim as
well of soil as of jurisdiction which the Commonwealth had to
the territory or tract of country within the limits of the Virgmia charter, "situate, lyzng and beng to the northwest of the
'river Ohzo," for the uses and purposes and subject to the conditions mentioned in the act of the Commonwealth.
By the act of Congress of July 13, 1787, entitled, "An
ordinance for the government of the territory of the United
States northwest of the river Ohio," a modification was made
of the terms of the cession of Virginia, to the effect that there
should be formed in the ceded territory not less than three

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

nor more than five States, the fixed and established boundaries,of which were designated, and of which the Ohio River
was declared to be one.
As thus seen, the territory ceded by the State of Virginia
to the United States, out of whichhe State of Indiana was
formed, lay northwest of the Ohio River. The first inquiry,
therefore, is as to what line on the river must be deemed the
southern boundary of the territory ceded, or, in other words,
how far did the jurisdiction of Kentucky extend on the other
side of the river. Early in the history of the State, doubts
were raised on this point, and to quiet them, its legislature, on
the 27th of January, 1810, passed the following act declaring
the boundaries of certain counties in the Commonwealth.
"Whereas doubts- are suggested whether the counties calling for the river. Ohio as the boundary line, extend to the
state line on the northwest side of said river, or whether the
margin of the southeast side is the limit of the counties, to
explain which
"Be st enacted by the Gene'al Assemby, That each county of
this Commonwealth, calling for the river Ohio as the boundary
line, shall be considered as bounded in that particular by the
state line on the northwest side of said river, and the bed of
the river and the islands therefore shall be within the respective
counties holding the main land opposite thereto, within this
State, and the several county tribunals shall hold jurisdiction
accordingly" 1 Statute Law of Kentucky, (1834,) p. 268 Sess.
Laws 1810, 100.
Upon this question of boundary we also have, happily, a
decision of this-court rendered so early as 1820. In Handly's
Lessee v .Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374, ejectment was brought to
recover land which the plaintiff claimed under a grant from
the State of Kentucky, while the defendants held under a
grant from the United States, and the title depended upon the
question whether the land lay in the State of Kentucky or in
the State of Indiana. It was separated from the mainland
of Indiana by a bayou, a small channel, which made out of
the Ohio, and entered that river again a few miles below
This bayou was from four to five poles wide and its bed was

OCTOBER TER-l,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

dry during a portion of the year. The court said that the
question whether the land lay within the State of Kentucky or
of Indiana depended chiefly upon the land law of Virginia
and on the cession of that State to the United States. And
in determining this question it went into the consideration of
the proper construction to be given to the deed of cession, and
reached the conclusion that the boundary between the States
was at low-water mark on the northwest side of the river.
"In pursuing this inquiry," said the court, p. 379, "we must
recollect, that it is not the bank of the river, but the river
itself, at which the cession of Virginia commences. She conveys to Congress all her right to the territory 'situate, lying
and being to the northwest of the river Ohio.' And this territory, according to express stipulation, is to be laid off into
independent States. These States, then, are to have the river
itself, wherever that may be, for their boundary
This is a
natural boundary, and in establishing it Virginia must have
had in view the convenience of the future population of the
country When a great river is the boundary between two
nations or States, if the original property is in neither, and
there be no convention respecting it, each holds to the middle
of the stream. But when, as in this case, one State is the
original proprietor and grants the territory on one side only,
it retains the river within its own domain, and the newly
created State extends to the river only The river, however,
is its boundary
If, instead of an annual and somewhat irregular rising and falling of the river, it was a daily
and almost regular ebbing and flowing of the tide, it would
not be doubted that a country bounded by the river would exsend to low-water mark. This rule has been established by
the common consent of manknd. It is founded on common
convenience. Even when a State retains its dominion over a
river which constitutes the boundary between itself and
another State, it would be extremely inconvenient to extend
its dominion over the land on the other side which was left
bare by the receding of the water. And this inconvenience is
not less where the rising and falling are annual than where they
are diurnal. Wherever the river is a boundary between States. it

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

is the main, the permanent river, which constitutes that boundary, and the mind will find itself embarrassed with insurmountable difficulty in attempting to draw any other line than
the low-water mark. When the State of Virgfltia made the
Ohio the boundary of States, she must have intended the great
river Ohio, and not a narrow bayou into which its waters occasionally run. All the inconvenience which would result from
attaching a narrow strip of country lying on the northwest
side of that noble river to the States on its southeastern side,
would result from attaching to Kentucky, the State on its
southeastern border, a body of land lying northwest of the
real river, and divided from the mainland only by a narrow
channel, through the whole of which the waters of the river
do not pass until they rise ten feet above the low-water mark."
This decision has been followed by the courts of Kentucky
See Church v C/lambers, 3 Dana, 279, .- cFlarland v X c
hnzght, 6 B. Mon. 500, 510, Flemi g v Ifenny, 4 J J Marsh.
155, 158, -McFall v Commonwealth, 2 Alet. (Ky) 394. In
this last case, the defendant, a justice of the peace for a Cincinnati township, in the State of Ohio, solemnized a marriage
on a ferry-boat upon the Ohio River, midway between Newport in Kentucky and Cincinnati in Ohio, and was -indicted in
the courts of Kentucky for unlawfully solemnizing a marriage,
and was convicted of the offence, he not having been authorized to perform that ceremony by the county court of that
State. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky in affirming the
conviction referred to the authority of IHandly's Lessee v Anthony, and said "That the boundary and jurisdiction of the
State of Kentucky rightfully extend to low-water mark on the
western or northwestern side of the river Ohio must now be
considered as settled." The same doctrine was maintained in
Commonwealth v Garner, 3 Gratt. 655, by the General Court
of Virginia, at its June term, 1846, after elaborate consideration, against the earnest contention of some of its judges that
the jurisdiction of the State after the cession extended to the
line of high-water mark on-the northwest side of the river.
We agree with the observations of the court in Iandly'Lessee v Anthony, that great inconvenience would have fol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

lowed if land on either side of the river, that was separated
from the mainland only by a mere bayou, which did not
appear to have ever been navigable, and was dry a portion of
the year, had been attached to the jurisdiction of the State on
the opposite side of the river, and, in the absence of proof
that the waters of the river once flowed between the tract in
controversy in this case, and the mainland of Indiana, we
should feel compelled to hold that it was properly within the
jurisdiction of the latter State. But the question here is not,
as if the point were raised to-day for the first time, to what
State the ,tract, from its situation, would now be assigned, but
whether it was at the time of the cession of the territory to
the United States, or more properly when Kentucky became
a State, separated from the mainland of Indiana by the
waters of the Ohio River. Undoubtedly, in the present condition of the tract, it would be more convenient for the State
of Indiana if the main river were held to be the proper boundary between the two States. That, however, is a matter for
arrangement and settlement between the States themselves,
with the consent of Congress. If when Kentucky became a
State on the 1st of June, 1792, the waters of the Ohio River
ran between that tract, known as Green River Island, and the
main body of the State of Indiana, her right to it follows from
the fact that her jurisdiction extended at that time to lowwater mark on the northwest side of the river. She succeeded
to the ancient right and possession of Virginia, and they could
not be affected by any subsequent change of the Ohio River,
or by the fact that the channel in which that river once ran
is now filled up from a variety of causes, natural and artificial,
so that parties can pass on dry land from the tract in controversy to the State of Indiana. Its waters might so depart
from its ancient channel as to leave on the opposite side of the
river entire counties of Kentucky, and the principle upon
which her jurisdiction would then be determined is precisely
that Which must control in this case. XEissour,&
v Eientucky,
11 Wall. 395, 401. Her dominion and jurisdiction continue as
they existed at the time she was admitted into the Union,
unaffected by the action of the forces of nature upon thG
course of the river.

INtDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Optrnon of the Court.

The question then becomes one of fact, did the waters of
the Ohio pass between Green River Island and the mainland
of Indiana when Kentucky became a State and her boundaries
were established 2 There is much evidence introduced on the
part of Indiana to show that since her admission into the
Union the Ohio River has not passed between the island and
the mainland except at intervals of high water, and that at
low water the mainland has been accessible for portions at least
of the year from the island, free from any water obstructions.
Aside from the speculations of geologists, which are not of a
very convincing character, the evidence consisted principally
of the recollections of witnesses, which were more or less
vague and imperfect. Apart from those speculative theories,
she produced no evidence that at the time the cession was
made by Virginia to the United States in 1784, or when Kentucky became a State, the tract was attached to and formed a
part of the territory then ceded, out of which the State of
Indiana was created, or that the waters of the Ohio did not
run between it and the mainland of Indiana so as to justify
its designation as an island in the river. Much evidence has
also been given on that subject by. Kentucky, and a great
number of transactions shown, which proceeded upon the
assumption that the tract was within the jurisdiction of that
State. It is clear, we think, from the whole testimony, that
at an early day after Kentucky became a State, the channel
between the island and the mainland of Indiana was often
filled with water the whole year and sometimes to the width
of two hundred yards, and that water passed through it, of
more or less depth, the greater part of the year, until down to
a period subsequent to the admission of Indiana into the
Union.
But above all the evidence of fo.
transactions and of
ancient witnesses, and of geological speculations, there are
some uncontroverted facts in the case which lead our judgment irresistibly to a conclusion in favor of the claim of Kentucky It was over seventy years after Indiana became a
State before this suit was commenced, and during all this
period she never asserted any claim by legal proceedings to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the tract in question. She states in her bill that all the time
since her admission Kentucky has claimed the Green River
Island to be within her limits and has asserted and exercised
jurisdiction over it, and thus excluded Indiana therefrom, in
defiance of her authority and contrary to her rights. Why
then did she delay to assert by proper proceedings her claim
to the premises 2 On the day she became a State her right to
Green River Island, if she ever had any, was as perfect and complete as it ever could be. On that day, according to the allegations of her bill of complaint, Kentucky was claiming and
exercising, and has done so ever since, the rights of sovereignty
both as to soil and jurisdiction over the land. On that day,
and for many years afterwards, as justly.and forcibly observed
by counsel, there were perhaps scores of living witnesses whose
testimony would have settled, to the exclusion of a reasonable
doubt, the pivotal fact upon which the rights of the two States
now hinge and yet she waited for over seventy years before
assertin- any claim whatever to the island, and during all those
years she never exercised or attempted to exercise a single
right of sovereignty or ownership over its soil. It is not.
shown, as he adds, that an officer of hers executed any process, civil or criminal, within it, or that a citizen residing upon
it was a voter at her polls, or a juror in her courts, or that a
deed to any of its lands is to be found on her records, or that
any taxes were collected from residents upon it for her revenues.
This long acquiescence inthe exercise by Kentucky of dominion and jurisdiction over the island is more potential than the
recollections of all the witnesses produced on either side.
Such acquiescence in the assertion of authority by the State of
Kentucky, such omission to take any steps to assert her present claim by the State of Indiana, can only be regarded as a
recognition of the right of Kentucky too plain to be overcome,
except by the clearest and most unquestioned proof. It is a
principle of public law universally recognized, that long acquiescence in the possession of territory and in the exercise of
dominion and sovereignty over'it, is conclusive of the nation's
title and rightful aut iority In the case of .Rhode Island v

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xasaeahsett8, 4:How 591, 639, this court, speaking of the
long possession of Massachusetts, and the delays in alleging
any mistake in the action of the commissioners of the colonies,
said "Surely this, connected with the lapse of time, must
remove all doubts as to the right of the respondent under the
agreements of 1711 and 1718. No human transactions are
unaffected by time. Its influence is seen on all things subject
to change. And this is peculiarly the case in regard to matters which rest in memory, and which consequently fade with
the lapse of time and fall with the lives of individuals. For
the security of rights, whether of States or individuals, long
possession under a claim of title isprotected. And there is no
controversy in which this great principle may be invoked with
greater justice and propriety than in a case of disputed boundary"
Vattel, in his Law of Ntions, speaking on the same subject, says "The tranquillity of the people, the safety of States,
the happiness of the human race do not allow that the possessions, empire and other rights of nations, should remain uncertain, subject to dispute and ever ready to occasion bloody
wars.' Between nations, therefore, it becomes necessary to
admit prescription founded on length of time as a valid and
incontestable title." Book II, c. 11, ยง 149. And Wheaton,
in his International Law, says. "The writers on natural law
have questioned how far that peculiar species of presumption,
arising from the lapse of .time, which is called prescrztion,is
justly applicable as between nation and nation, but the constant and approved practice of nations shows that by whatever name it be called, the uninterrupted possession of territory
or other property for a certain length of time by one State
excludes the claim of every other in the same manner as, by
the law of nature and the municipal code of every civilized
nation, a similar possession by an individual excludes the claim

I La tranquillit des peuples, le salut des ]tats, le bonheur du genre
humain, ne souffrent point, que les possessions. i'empire, et les autres droits
des Nations, demeurent incertains, suiets A.contestation, et toujours en
6tat d'exciter des guerres sanglantes. 2 Vattei, ed. Pradier-Fod6r6, (1863),
131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of every other person to the article of property in question.'
Part II, c. IV, ยง 164.
Potential as are the considerations drawn from the long
silence and acquiescence of Indiana in the claim and pretensions of Kentucky, her affirmative action is not -the less persuasive in favor of Kentucky's claim. It appears that on
iarch 26, 1804, Congress authorized a survey into townships,
six miles square, of the public lands north of the Ohio River
and east of the Mississippi River. 2 Stat. 277, c. 35. Under
this act a survey was made of the land in the vicinity of
Green River Island in the month of December, 1805, and in
April, 1806, and it did not include the island within the territory north of the Ohio, but treated the bank of the bayou or
channel north of the island as the bank of that river. The
notes of this survey were given in evidence and show conclusively that the officers of the government at that time did not
consider the tract in controversy as forming any part of the
territory of Indiana. but did consider that the waters of the
Ohio River running north of it made the tract now in controversy an island of the river. This survey, from the time it
was made, has been regarded as establishing the fact that the
southern boundary of Indiana lies north of the island. It is
now insisted that the lines of this survey were intended merely
as meander lines run for .the purpose of defining the sinuosity
of the bank and the means of ascertaining the quantity of
land then subject to sale, and was not intended as a boundary
line of the island. Conceding3 for the purposes of this case,
that this is true so far as related to the fixing of the precise
line of low-water mark, to which the territory of Indiana
extended, it does not affect the force of the survey, as evidence that the island was not included within that territory,
according to the judgment at that time of the surveying
officers of the United States. With knowledge of this survey,
the legislature of that State, on the 27th of February, 1875,
passed an act entitled, "An act to ascertain the location of
the boundary line between the States of Indiana and Kentucky above and near Evansville, and making the same evidence in any dispute." This act recited that difficulty and

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

dispute had arisen between the owners of land in Indiana and
Kentucky in regard to the boundary line between the two
States, and that such difficulty involved the title to large
tracts of land above and near the line between Green River
Island and the State of Indiana, and empowered and directed
the Governor to select a cQmmissioner, who should be a resident of the State and a practical surveyor, to act with a similar commissioner to be appointed by the Governor of Kentucky, and provided that the two commissioners so selectedshould make a survey of the line dividing the States, beginning at the head of Green River Island near and opposite to
the mouth of Green River, and running thence down the
Ohio River to the lower end of the island.
The second and third sections of this act are as follows
"S9c. 2. In running said line the said commissioners shall
consult and be governed- by the surveys originally made by the
government of the United States when such surveys are not
inconsistent with each other, and they shall establish and mark
proper monuments along said line, whereby the same may be
plainly indicated and perpetuated.
"SEc. 3. Within ten days after making such survey and
establishing said line, said commissioners shall reduce the same
to writing, giving a full and plain description of all the courses
and distances, and-of the marks and monuments made and established, and sign and acknowledge the same, before some
officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds, which
writing, so acknowledged, shall be recorded in the recorder's
office in the counties of Vanderburgh and Warrick, and the
original filed in the office of the Secretary of State, and such
writing, or the record thereof, shall be conclusive evidence in
any of the courts of this State of tne boundary line between
the States of Indiana and Kentucky, between the points on
said Green River Island heretofore indicated."
An appropriation was also made for the survey
An act of similar purport had been passed by the State of
Kentucky on the 23d of April,'1S73, authorizing the Governor
of that State to appoint a surveyor to act with the person selected by the Governor of Indiana and make a survey of the
VOL. CX.

-1-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

line. In pursuance of these acts the States each appointed a
commissioner to survey the line. The commissioners accordmgly, in 1877, made a survey, and ran a line on the north
side of Green River Island, and also of the small tract known
as Buck Island. In doing this, they followed the lines of the
United States survey of 1806. By this survey both these
islands were left within the State of Kentucky Complaint
being made of the action of the commimssioners in running the
line on the high bank, the Governor of Indiana directed the
commissioner of that State to suspend any further action under
the act, and subsequently visited Evansville, a city in Indiana,
northwest of the island, and near the survey made, and examined the line of the survey, and in a subsequent letter to the
commissioners stated that the line thus run did not m any part
conform to the low-water mark of the river, but that the
greater part was upon the bank, and the residue at a distance
from it, leaving a tract of land between it and the river.
Subsequently the legislature of Indiana, upon the recommendation of the Governor, repealed the law authorizing the
survey, and on the 14th of Trarch, 1877, passed an act author
izing the Governor to enter into negotiations with the Governor
of Kentucky for the acquisition from the latter State of all her
rights of jurisdiction and soil over the Green River Island and
her claim for any ground on the Indiana side of the river at
said island, or to establish the line between the States by surveys, to be made in such manner as they might deem just,
provided that the Governor of Kentucky should be authorized
to enter into the agreement by the legislature of that State,
and the consent of Congress should be obtained thereto.
These efforts to adjust the boundary line failing, the Governor
was authorized to direct the prosecution in this court of a suit
for the purpose of determining and settling the boundary
Now whilst no agreement between the States would be of
any validity under the Constitution without the consent of
Congress, and the survey made pursuant to the joint action
of the two States would not have been legally binding even
had it not been withdrawn before the report of the commissioners was filed in the offices designated in the acts, still the

INDIANA

v. KENTUCKY.

Opinion of the Court.

law of Indiana authorizing the line to be fixed in accordance
with the survey of the United States, and no other was made
except the one in 1806, although the act speaks of surveys,
was a plain recognition on her part that the boundary of the
State was north of the island, though it was uncertain where
the line should be drawn on the land, inasmuch as the channel
of the bayou had been filled up. It is an admission entitled to
great weight in explaining the cause of the State's general acquiescence, from the time it was admitted into the Union up to
the passage of that act, in the claim and jurisdiction of Kentacky Independently of the necessity of obtaining the consent of Congress to the execution of any agreement between
the two States, it was competent for the State of Indiana to
provide for a survey of a line already established, and to make
such survey evidence in subsequent controversies upon the
subject.
Whilst on the part of Indiana there was a want of affirmative action in the assertion of her present claim, and a general
acquiescence in the claim of Kentucky, there was affirmative
action on the part of Kentucky in the assertion of her rights,
as we have seen by the law declaring the boundaries of her
counties on the Ohio River, passed in January, 1810, and
there was action taken in the courts of the United States and
of the State by parties claiming under her or her grantor,
and there was also action by her officers in the assertion of
her authority over the land, all of which tends to support
the claim of rightful jurisdiction. It at least shows that her
claim was never abandoned by her or her people. On the
10th of February, 1781, Virginia issued a military land warrant to one John Slaughter. In March, 1785, Slaughter had
a tract of six hundred acres surveyed, upon which he located
a part of That warrant, and the tract was conveyed to him by
the Commonwealth of Virginia on the 10th of February, 1790,
by patent, in which the land was described by metes and
bounds as lying in the district set apart for the officers and
soldiers of the Virginia Continental line, on the first large
island in the Ohio below the mouth of Green River. That
island was Green River Island. In September, 1821, Slaugh-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

ter's heirs, who were residents of Virginia, brought a suit in
Ojectment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky, to recover the land conveyed to their
ancestor by this patent, against Garrett and others, who were
in possession. The cause was not tried until 1834, when the
plaintiffs, who relied entirely upon the validity of the patent
to Slaughter, recovered judgment and were awarded restitution of the premises. When the marshal went upon the land
to execute the writ for its possession, lie was accompanied by
one Levi Jones, who claimed to have an equitable title under
Slaughter's heirs, and was there to receive possession. Garrett, one of the defendants, concluded to purchase one hundred acres of the land upon which lie was living from Jones,
and for part of the purchase-money executed to Jones his
note. Jones assigned this note to James Rouse, who in turn
assigned it to Jackson McLean. McLean brought an action
at law upon the note in the Circuit Court of Henderson
County, in Kentucky, in which he recovered judgment by default, and sued out a writ of execution, whereupon Garrett filed
a bill in equity in the same court, making Jones and Rouse
co-defendants with McLean, to enjoin the enforcement of the
judgment at law upon the following, among other, grounds
First, that the process in the common law action had been
served upon him at his residence on Green River Island, which
was not within the territorial limits of the State of Kentucky,
but beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and that, therefore,
the service of process, judgment and execution were null and
void, second, that neither Jones, nor Slaughter, under whom
lie claimed, had ever bad a valid title to the land which Jones
had sold him, because the military land warrant upon which
Slaughter's patent had been issued could not be located upon
land which lay northwest of the Ohio and north of the mouth
of the Green River. As evidence that the tract of land in
controversy lay in Indiana and not in Kentucky, lie filed a
copy of the deed of cession from Virginia to the United
States as part of his bill. The question of Kentucky's title
and right of jurisdiction over Green River Island was thus
put in issue and its decision was necessary to the determina

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the case. Several depositions were taken by each
party upon the point, but, upon a full hearing of the case,
Garrett's bill was dismissed, with costs and charges. Here
were two adjudications, one by the United States Circuit
Court and the other by a Circuit Court of the State, that
Green River Island was within the jurisdiction of Kentucky
And the record-shows that between 1818 and 1877 numerous
grants of parcels of land on the island were made by Kentucky, and that between these dates taxes were assessed by
her officers upon the lands as being within her territory and
jurisdiction.
We have spoken of the character of the testimony introduced
on the part of Indiana, and of the fact that it does not touch
upon the condition of the channel above the island previous
to her admission as a Stdte into the Union. The testimony of
the witnesses introduced by the State of Kentucky consisted
to a geat extent of recollections, which must of necessity
have been more or less imperfect. They showed, as already
stated, that in former times at some periods of the year there
was a large volume of water which passed north of Green
River Island, and that sometimes this volume continued
throughout the whole year, but they also showed that at a
very early period great changes had taken place in the channel north of the island, so that in some portions of the year it
was easy to pass on foot from the island to the mainland.
The facts as they existed at the time of the cession .of Virginia to the United States in 17 8, and even at the time of the
admission of Kentucky into.the Union, have long since passed
beyond the memory of man, and therefore cannot be established by oral testimony As counsel says, the very grandchildren of men then living are now hoary with age. The
facts can only be established as a matter of inference from
general facts in regard to the condition of .the country, and
documentary evidence which in many cases rises little above
that of hearsay, such as notices by travellers and maps given
by them indicating the position of thk tract in question. Of
the latter it may be said that they all represent the tract as
an island in the river.

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Great changes in the bed of the river were to be expected
from the immense volume and flow from its vast water-sheds.
These water-sheds, according to the official report of the Tenth
Census of the United States, cited by counsel, comprise over
two hundred thousand square miles, and more than half of
the water from them comes from east of Green River Island,
and nearly all the great water-courses find their way to the
Ohio River. That vast changes should be made in the channel of that river from the volume of water thus received, and
its impetuous flow at certain seasons wearing away its banks
deepening some portions of the stream and filling up others,
was not surprising, and that where large vessels at one time
could easily float should have become dry ground many years
afterwards was but the natural effect of the tremendous forces
thus brought into operation.
We have not deemed it important to take up the testimony
of each of the numerous witnesses produced in the case by
the States of Indiana and Kentucky It would serve no useful purpose to attempt an analysis of the testimony of each,
and to show how little and how much weight should be
attributed to it. All the testimony is to be taken with many
allowances from imperfect recollection, from the confusion by
many witnesses of what they saw with what they heard, or
of what they knew of their own knowledge with what they
learned from the narrative of others. The clear and admitted
facts we have mentioned, corroborated as they are by nearly
everything of record presented, leave on our minds a much
more satisfactory conclusion than anything derived from the
oral testimony before us. The long acquiescence of Indiana
in the claim of Kentucky, the rights of property of private
parties which have grown up under grants from that State,
the general understanding of the people of both States in
the neighborhood, forbid at this day, after a lapse of nearly
a hundred years since the admission of Kentucky into the
Union, any disturbance of that State in her possession of the
island and jurisdiction over it.
Our conclusion is, that the waters of the Ohio River, when
Kentucky became a State, flowed in a channel north of the

THAW v. RITOCHE.
Syllabus.

tract known as Green River Island, and that the jurisdiction
'of Kentucky at that time extended, and ever since has
extended, to what was then low-water mark on the north
side of that channel, and the boundary between Kentucky
and Indiana must run on that line, as nearly as it can now be
ascertained, after the channel has been filled.

Judgment mfavor of the claam of -Yentucky will be entered
in conformsty wzth thts opmwn, and commissionerswill be
appointed to ascertan and Pun the boundary line as
herein designated, and to report to ths court, upon which,
appointment counsel of the parties will be heard on notice.
And it is so ordered.

THAW v. RITCEIE.
E

OR TO THE SUPREME COVT OF THE DISTICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 264.

Argued April 15, 16, 1890.-Decided May 23, 1890.

Under the statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-ch. 12, ยง 10, the orphans'
court of the District of Columbia had authority to order, a sale by a
guardian of, real estate of his infant wards for their maintenance and
education, provided that before the sale its order was approved by the
Circuit Court of the United States sitting in chancery.
The statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-ch. 12, ยง 10, is not repealed by
the act of Congress of March 3, 1843, c. 87.
The authority of the orphans' court of the District of Columbia under the
statute of Maryland of 1798, c. 101, sub-eh. 12, ยง 10, to order a sale of an
infant's real estate for his maintenance and education is not restricted to
legal estates, or to estates in possession.
A testator devised all his real and personal estate to his widow for life, in
trust for the equal benefit of herself an4 their two children or the survivors of them, and devised all the property remaining at the death of
the widow, to the children or the survivor of them in fee; and if'both children should die before the widow devised all the property to-her in fee.
Held, that the widow took the legal estate .n the real property for her
life; that she and the children took the equitable estate therein for her
life in equal shares; and that the children took vested remainders in fee,
subject to be divested by their dying before the widow.
The minute book of a court of chancery is competent and conclusive evidence of its doings, in the absence of an extended record.
Real estate devised to the testator's widow for life for the equal benefit of

