OCTOBER TERIM, 18S9.
Opinion of the Court.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 234. Argued March 27, 28, 1890. -Decided May 19, 1890.

The municipal corporation called the District of Columbia, created by the
act of June 11, 1878, 18 Stat. 116, c. 337 is subject to the same liabUity
for injuries to individuals, arising from the negligence of its officers in
maintaining in safe condition, for the use of the public, the streets,
avenues, alleys and sidewalks of the city of Washngton, as was the
District under the laws in force when the cause of action in Barnes v.
Distrzct of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540, arose.
Barnes v. District of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540, has never been questioned, and
is again affirmed.
Evidence that a medical man, who had been in the habit of contributing
articles to scientific journals was unable to do so by reason of injuries
caused by a defect in a public street is admissible in an action to recover
damages from the municipality, without showing that he received compensation for the articles.
The admission of incompetent evidence at the trial below is no cause for
reversal if it could not possibly have prejudiced the other party.
General objections at the trial below to thd admission of testimony without indicating with distinctness the precise grounds on which they are
intended to rest, are without weight before the appellate court.
The stenographic report of an oral opinoi of the court below, as reported
by the reporter of that court, cannot be referred to to control the record
certified to this court.
The charge of the court below correctly stated the rules of law applicable
to this case; and they are reduced to seven propositions, by this Court in
its opinion, and approved.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mer -HenryE. Damis for plaintiff in error.
JTIr James Coleman and .IJr J 31. Wilson for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTiCE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

Early in the evening of December 6, 1881, the defendant in
error, while passing on the sidewalk near the north entrance

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY.
Opmnon of the Court.

of the Riggs House on G Street in the city of Washington,
fell roto a hole, whereby he sustained personal injuries of a
serious character. Claiming that the sidewalk was not in a
safe condition for use by the public, and that the District
authorities had been grossly negligent in not keeping it in
proper repair, he brought this action to recover damages forsuch injuries. The plea was not guilty A verdict for fifteen
thousand dollars was returned against the.District, and a judgment in conformity therewith was entered. That judgment
having been affirmed by the general term the case has been
brought here for reexamination.
The question to be first considered is whether the District
of Columbia is, under any circumstances, liable in damages
for personal injuries resulting from the unsafe condition of
the avenues, streets andsidewalks in the city of Washington.
The charge of the court below proceeded upon the ground
that such liability existed. The District contends here, as it
did at the trial, for the opposite view And it insists that the.
question is not concluded by the decision an Barnes v Diszect
of Columbna, 91 U. S. 540. The argument in support of this
proposition assumes that the relations between the government
of the District and the public have been so materially changed
by legislation enacted since the Barnes Case, that the principles
therein announced have no application to the present case.
This suggestion renders it necessary to ascertain precisely
what was decided in the former case.
It arose under the act approved February 21, 1871, 16 Stat.
419, c. 62, creating the "District of Columbia" a body corporate for municipal purposes, with power to contract and
be contracted with, to sue and be sued, to plead and be
impleaded, to have a seal and to exercise all other powers of
a municipal corporation not inconsistent with the Constitution
and laws of the United States, or with that act. Provision
was made for the appointment by the President, with the
consent of the Senate, of a Governor, Secretary, Board of
Health, Board of Public Works and a Legislative Assembly
composed of two bodies, whose power of legislation extended
to all rightful subjects of legislation within the District, con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sistent with the Constitution of the United States and that
act. The streets, avenues, alleys and sewers of Washington,
together with all other works entrusted to their charge by
the Legislative Assembly or by Congress, were placed under
the entire control of the Board of Public Works with authority to make all regulations they deemed necessary for keeping
them in repair. It was also required to disburse "upon their
warrant all moneys appropriated -by the United States or the
District of Columbia. or collected from property-holders in
pursuance of law, for the improvements of streets, avenues,
alleys and sewers, and roads and bridges," and to "assess, in
such manner as shall be prescribed by law, upon the property
adjoining and to be specially benefited by the improvements
authorized by law and made by them, a reasonable proportion
of the cost of the improvement, not exceeding one-third of
such cost, which sum shall be collected as all other taxes are
collected."
It was contended in the Barnes Case that the Board of
Public Works was not a department or subordinate agency of
the District of Columbia, but a Federal Commission, having
exclusive power to make such regulations as it deemed necessary for keeping in repair the streets, avenues, alleys, sewers,
roads and bridges committed to their control. This view was
rejected by the court. Although that Board was dependent
upon both Congress and the Legislative Assemblv of the District, and was the hand and agent both of the United States
and of the District, it was held to be the representative and a
part of the munmcipal corporation created by the act of 1871,
and that its proceedings and acts in repairing and improving
public streets were the proceedings and acts of that corporation. The District was held liable for the injury there
complained of upon the principle, which the court declared to
be sound and supported by numerous and well-considered
adjudications in this country and in England, that a municipal
corporation, as distinguished from a corporation organized for
private gain, is liable for injuries to mdividuals arising from
negligence upon its part in the construction of works which it
was authorized to construct and maintain. And it was ex-

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

pressly declared that it was not of the slightest consequence,
in principle, by what means the officers of the District were
"placed in position, whether they are elected by the people' of
the municipality, or appointed by the President or a Governor.
The people are the recognized source of all authority, state
and municipal, and to tins authority it must come at last,
whether immediately or by a circuitous process." 91 U S.
545.
Has there been any such change in the government established for this District as will take the present case out of the
rule announced in the Barnes Case 9 In the revision of the
statutes relating to the District, the clause of the act of 1871,
declaring the District of Columbia (Rev Stat. Dist. Col. 2, §-2)
to be a body corporate for mumcipal purposes with power to
contract, etc., was retained. By the act of June 20, 1874, for
the government of the District and for other purposes, 18
Stat. 116, c. 337, previous statutes providing for the District a
Governor, Secretary, Legislative Assembly, Board of Public
Works and a Delegate in Congress were repealed, and all the
power and authority then vested in the Governor and Board
of Public Works, except as limited by that act, were vested in
a commission, composed of three persons, to be appointed by
the President with the consent of the Senate. But by the act
of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, c. 180, a permanent form of
government for the District was established. It provided that
"the District of Columbia shall remain and continue a municipal corporation, as provided in section two of the Revised
Statutes relating to said District," and that the Commissioners
therein provided for should "be deemed and taken as officers
of such corporation." Those Commissioners, consisting of two
persons, to be appointed by the President, with the consent
of the Senate, and an officer of the Engineer Corps, detailed
for that purpose, were vested with all the powers, rights, duties
and privileges, and all the property, estate and effects then
lawfully exercised by and vested in the Commissioners of the
District, including the power, among others, to apply the
taxes or other revenues of the District to the payment of its
current expenses, the support of the public schools, the fire

OCTOBER

TERAM, 1889.

Opinion of the Court.

department and the police, but making no contract nor incurring any obligation other than such as were provided in that
act, and should be approved by Congress, to collect taxes
theretofore lawfully assessed and due, or to become due, but
without anticipating taxes by selling or hypothecating them,
to abolish offices, consolidate two or more offices, reduce the
number of employes, remove from office and make appointments to any office under them authorized by law; and to erect,
light and maintain lamp-posts, with lamps, beyond the city
limits. §§ 1, 2, 3.
It was made their duty to submit annually to the Secretary
of the Treasury, for his examination and approval, a detailed
statement "of the work proposed to be undertaken by them"
during the then ensuing fiscal year, and the estimated cost
thereof, as well as the cost of constructing, repairing and
maintaining all bridges authorized by law across the Potomac
and other streams within the District, the cost of maintaining
all public institutions of charity, reformatories and prisons,
then belonging to or supported in whole or in part by the
District, and the expenses of the Washington Aqueduct and
its appurtenances, together with an itemized statement and
estimate of the amount necessary to defray the expenses of
the District for the then ensuing fiscal year. These estimates
it became the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to examme and approve or disapprove, or suggest such change in them
as the public interest demanded, the result to be certified to
the Commissioners, who were required to transmit the same,
with the original estimates, to Congress. The act provided
that "to the extent to which Congress shall approve of said
estimates, Congress shall appropriate the amount of fifty per
centum thereof, and the remaining fifty per centum of such
approved estimates shall be levied and assessed upon the taxable property and privileges in said District other than the
property of the United States and of the District of Columbia."

§3.
It also provides that when any repairs of streets, avenues,
alleys or sewers within the District are to be made, or when
new pavements are to be substituted in place of those worn

DISTRICT OF COLUMIA v. WOODBURY.
Opmion of the Court.

out, new ones laid, new streets opened, sewers .built, or any
work the total cost of which shall exceed $1000, the work
shall be given out upon advertisement, the lowest responsible
bid to be accepted by the Commissioners, though they have
the right, in their discretion, to reject all proposals made. It
further provides that the "United States shall pay one-half of
the cost of all work done under the provisions of this (5th)
section, except that done by railway companies, which payment shall be credited as part of the fifty per centum which
the United States shall contribute towards the expenses of the
District of Columbia for that year; and all payments shall
-be made by the Secretary of the Treasury on the warrant or.
order of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia or a
majority thereof, in such amounts and at such times as they
may deem safe and proper in view of the progress of the
work." The act places the police, schools, Board of Health
and sanitary inspectors of the District all under the charge
and control of the Commissioners.
We have made this extended analysis of the provisions of
the act of 1878, because of the earnest contention of the counsel for the defendant, that while the District of Columbia is
still a municipal corporation, under its present form of government it has not, "as a municipal corporation, the features
involving it in the liability under consideration." The reasons
assigned by counsel for this contention have been carefully
considered, with the result that, in our judgment, the municipal corporation created by the act of 1878 is subject to precisely the same -liability for injuries to individuals, arising
from the negligence of the Commissioners or of the officers
under them in maintaining in safe condition, for the use of the
public, the streets, avenues, alleys and sidewalks of the city of
Washington, as was the District under the laws in force when
the cause of action in the Barnes Case arose. It is said that
the present corporation, as a corporation, has nothing to do
with the streets. That could have been said with equal propriety in reference to the old corporation, When the streets
were under the control and supervision of the Board of Public
Works. Yet, that board was held to be a part of the munic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ipal corporation.
Its acts, within the scope of its powers,
were deemed the acts of the corporation. Its negligence, in
the care of streets, was held to be the.negligence of the municipal corporation of which it was a part. So, in this case, the
Commissioners, having full control of the streets, are under a
duty to keep the public ways of the city in such condition that
they can be used with reasonable safety Their neglect in that
matter is the neglect of the municipal corporation of which
they are the responsible representatives, although subject to
the paramount authority of Congress.
It is suggested that the District is without the means to perform the supposed neglected duty, that none of its officers can
pay a judgment against it, and that no process against it could
enforce payment, that even a mandamus against it to levy a
tax would be futile because neither the District nor. the Commissioners can levy a tax for any purpose, and that no judgment against it can be paid except by warrant upon the
Treasury, pursuant to an appropriation by Congress. We do
not perceive that these considerations materially affect the
principle upon which the decision in the Barnes Case rests.
That streets, avenues, pavements, sidewalks and sewers in
Washington are established, repaired and maintained, in part,
by appropriations made by Congress, and, in part, by taxation
upon private property, does not change the fact that, by an
express declaration of Congress, the District is created a body
corporate for municipal purposes. Because it was a municipal
corporation proper, as distinguished from a corporation established as an agency of the government creating it, this court.
held in the Barnes Case that it was responsible for such negligence of its officers having the care of streets, avenues and
sidewalks, as resulted in personal injuries to individuals. The
source from which the District obtains the means for maintaining public highways in the city is of no consequence, so long
as Congress has made it, and permits it to remain, a mere
municipal corporation, with such functions as pertain to
municipal corporations proper. This municipal feature was
emphasized in -YetropolitanRailroad v _Dstrit of Columbia,
132 U S. 1, 7, where it was said that the corporate capacity

DISTRICT OF COLUiMBIA v. WOODBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

and the corporate liabilities of the District remained as they
were before the act of 1878, and that its character as a mere
municipal corporation had not been changed. Having that
character, we held, in that case, that the District was subject
to the ordinary rules governing the law of procedure between
private persons, and was, therefore, embraced by the Maryland
statute of limitations of 1715.
It is further said that the fee-sinple'of the streets in the
city of Washington is in the United States, and that that fact
is entitled to great weight. This point was made in the
Barnes Case and distinctly overruled. The court there said
"1We do not perceive that the circumstance that the fee of the
streets is in the United States, and not in the municipal corporation, is material to the case. In most of the cities of this
country, the fee of the land belongs to the adjacent owner;
and upon the discontinuance of the street, the possession
would revert to him. The streets and avenues in Washington
have been laid out by competent authority The power and
the duty to repair them are undoubted and would not be different were the streets the absolute property of the corporatiop. The only questions can be as to the particular person
or body by which the power shall be exercised, and how far
the liability of the city extends."
Without further discussion, we adjudge, upon the authority
of Barnes v Dzstrct ofColumbza, that the District is liable
for such negligence upon the part of its officers as is charged
in the plaintiff's declaration. That case was determined in
1875, and has never been questioned by any subsequent decision in this court. On the contrary, its- authority was recognized in .Metropolitan Railroad v Distrwt of Colwmbia, and
in Brown v .Dzstrctof Columbza, 127 U. S. 579, 586, and the
principles announced in it were applied in Dsstrzot of Columbza v .Me-ligott, 117 U S. 621. If the rule announced in
the Barnes Case is not satisfactory to Congress, it can be
abrogated by statute.
We proceed to-examine the objections urged-by the District
to the admission of evidence. The first one relates to the
plaintiff's testimony in reference to Inis contributions to medi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

cal journals upon various medical subjects. At the trial below
he gave evidence tending to show that at the tine of the
accident he was, and had been since 1861, a resident practicing physician of Washington, that between eight and nine
o'clock of the evening of December 6, 1881, while walking
with his sister on the south side of G Street, between- Fourteenth and Fifteenth Streets northwest, he stepped on a board
covering a hole in the sidewalk adjoining the Riggs House,
and the board breaking or bending, he fell into the hole
underneath it, was severely and permanently injured, and his
ability to prosecute his studies and to pursue his profession
greatly impaired. While under examination-in-chief, his counsel propounded to him this question "State, Doctor, if you
please, whether or not you had at that time or prior to the
time of this accident been a contributor to any medical journal of this country or abroad-the old country- of any
articles or essays on diseases known to the profession." To
this question the plaintiff answered "I have been for years a
regular contributor in the Philadelphia Medical Times, also
to the Virginia Journal,,a medical monthly published in
Richmond, and other journals." The defendant at the time
objected to the question and answer, but the objections being
overruled, it excepted to the ruling of the court. At a subsequent stage of the trial the plaintiff, being recalled as a witness in his own behalf, offered to prove that he had in his
possession certain written articles for medical journals and
medical works on obstetrics and gynecology, and that he had
been quoted as an authority upon certain subjects, to which
the defendant objected, but the court overruled the defendant's objection ana permitted said testimony to be given as
follows: " Atkinson's Therapeutics of Gynecology and Obstetrics and Wood's Library Minor Surgical Gynecology, by
'Paul F Munde, (which books were produced and examined by
the witness before the jury,) are text-books in the medical
profession, and that, on pages 73 and 140 of said first-named
book, were articles written by himself, or reference made to
him, and also at page 217 of the last book referred to , also
that in the Virginia Medical Monthly for August, 1876, there

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY.
Opinion of the Court.-

is an article by the plaintiff on the therapeutic use of certain
remedies, and also in the American Journal of Obstetrics
there is an article by plaintiff on the 'Application of Nitric
Acid i Endocervicitis and Endometritis' and also a translation of one of plaintiff's articles in a French journal, entitled
' Annales de Gynecologie,' in April, 18,75, and also in a French
journal, ' The Review of Medical and Surgical Therapeutics,'
of May, 1875." To the action of the court in overruling the
defendant's objection and permitting this testimony to be
given and to the testimony itself, the defendant excepted.
This evidence was competent upon the issue as to damages.
It indicated the nature of the plaintiff's pursuits, and, in
connection with other evidence showing the serious and permanent character of the injuries received by him, that his
capacity to prosecute his studies, and to follow his ordinary
pursuits, was impaired. The defendant insists that the evidence should have been rejected because it did not appear
that the plaintiff had derived any income from his contributions to medical journals. This is not a sound view of the
question. Even if those contributions were made without
compensation, his inability to continue them by reason of the
injuries in question was a proper element in the inquiry as to
damages. That fact tended to show the extent of both his
mental and physical suffering, resulting from the injuries received. All evidence, tending to show the character of his
ordinary pursuits, and the extent to which the injury complained of prevented him from following those pursuits, was
pertinent to the issue. WTade v. Zeroy, 20 How 34, lVebraska
City v Campbell, 2 Black, 590, Yicksburg &c. Railroad Co.
v Putn.am, 118 ]U. S. 545, 554, City of 1?pon v Bittel, 30
Wisconshi, 614, -Ballouv Farnum, 11 Allen, 73, Caldwell v
fuTply, 1 Duer, 233, S. C. 1 Kernan, (5 N. Y.,) 416. The
authorities all agree that in cases of this character much latitude must be given to juries in estimating the damages sustained by the person injured. Physical suffering, resulting
from such injuries, is necessarily attended by mental suffering
in a greater or less degree. And as said- in Kennmon v Gilmer,
1-31 U. S. 22, 26, 27 "The action is for an injury to the per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

son of an intelligent being, and when the injury, whether
caused by wilfulness or negligence, produces mental as well as
bodily anguish and suffering, it is impossible to exclude the
mental suffering in estimating the extent of the personal injury
for which compensation is to be awarded." Railroad Co. v
Barron, 5 Wall. 90, 105, Penn. & Ohio Canal Co. v Grahaam, 63 Penn. St. 290, Smith v HZolcomb, 99 Mass. 552,
Holyoke v Grand Trunk Railway, 48 N. H. 541, Stockton
v .Fr
ey, 4 Gill, 406, Smqth v Overby, 30 Georgia, 241, Cox
v randerkleed, 21 Indiana, 164., Zynch v Knzght, 9 H. L.
Cas. 57T.
The next objection to the admission of evidence relates to
a certain entry in the books of the Adams Express Company
in reference to the dead-light placed at the hole into which
plaintiff fell. It should be stated in this connection.that there
was evidence before the jury on behalf of the plaintiff, tending to show that the sidewalk, where the accident happened,
was torn up for the purpose of putting in a new boiler for the
Riggs House, that after the boiler had been set, and the wall
around it bricked up, a hole was left for the purpose of putting
in a dead-light, that before the dead-light (in the procuring
of which there was some delay) was put in place, the hole was
covered by a board, that was kept there for fifteen or eighteen
days before the dead-light was put in, which was not done
until after the accident in question, that on the top of the
boiler was a safety valve that required the attention of the
engineer; that before the hole was covered, or the boiler set,
the engineer, in order to reach the safety valve, would take off
the board cover and go down, and that there was no attachment to the boards from below to prevent them from sliding,
but they were nailed together by two cleats. There was also
evidence tending to show that the boards constituted a reasonably sufficient covering for the hole. C. E. Luckett, a witness for the plaintiff, testified that he was a clerk in the
Adams Express Company in Washington, and its agent at
Georgetown in November and December, 1881, that he had
the company's book of delivery for those months, that the

entries in it under date of November 29, 1881, are in his

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY.

461

Opmion of the Court.

handwriting, were made by him in the regular course of
business for which the book was kept, and that on that date
there is an entry in the book of a delivery to Beckham &
iMiddleton, that he did not in person deliver the article mentioned to that firm, his duty being to write up the driver's
book, check off the way-bills that came in, and do all the clerical work of the office, and that the company's driver delivered
the article referred to, taking the book with him, the book
produced by witness being the one that the driver had. At
this point of the witness' testimony-in-chief he was asked
"Whether the book shows that this thing was received on the
29th of November." The question was objected to, and the
objection overruled. The witness answered "It was." To
this ruling of the court as to the question and answer the
defendant excepted. It was also in proof, in behalf of the
plaintiff, by Middleton, of the firm of Beckham & M[iddleton,
that on the book of the Adams Express Company, referred to
by Lucket, (and shown to the witness,) appeared his signature
under this entry, of date November 29, 1881 "1 casting,
Beckhain & Middleton, amount of charges, $1.60, Beckham
& M[iddleton ," that the casting referred to was ordered
from lNew York for Hutchins, who put in the boiler, and that
no other casting was delivered to him by witness or his firm
during N~ovember or December, 1881. To this evidence when
offered the defendant objected, but the objection -was overruled, and it excepted.
The principal object of this evidence in reference to the
dead-light was to show when it was-placed at the hole. We
will not stop to consider whether a proper foundation was
laid for the use of the above entry as evidence in itself, for it
was otherwise in proof and not questioned, that the dead-light
was not placed in position until- after the plaintiff had fallen
into the hole, and that the hole was unguarded by such a light
for some time prior to the accident. The point which concerned the District was. the length of time during which the
hole was left unguarded by a dead-light, or other sufficient signal, and not whether Beckham & Middleton, as between thempelves and fHutchins, were negligept in not procuring the

OCTOBER TERMIf, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

dead-lightsooner, or in not delivering it more promptly than
was done after it reached their hands. If the entry in the
books of the Express Company was incompetent as evidence,
in itself, of the facts stated in it, its use before the jury could
not possibly have prejudiced the defendant.
We will add, that the objections made by the District to the
evidence in relation to the plaintiff's contributions to medical
journals, as well as to the entry upon the books of the Express
Company, lose much of their force because they did not indicate with distinctness the precise grounds upon which they
were intended to rest. Such general objections were well calculated to embarrass the court, and put it at disadvantage in
its conduct of the trial. It was entitled to know the grounds
of the objection, so that the jury could be put in possession of
the real case to be tried. In Camden v Doremus, 3. How 515,
530, this court declined to consider objections made to the
admission of evidence which did not state the grounds upon
which they were made, and did not obviously cover the competency of such evidence nor point to some definite and specific
defect in its character. " We must," the court said, "consider
objections of this character as vague and nugatory, and, if
entitled to weight anywhere, certainly as without weight
before an appellate court." To the same effect are Burton v
Drtggs6 20 Wall. 125, 133, Patr ck. v G'ahcm, 132 U S. 627,
629. This rule is especially applicable in actions like the present one, in which no fixed rule can be prescribed for measuring the amount of damages, and in which the result must, of
necessity, depend upon the good sense and sound discretion of
the jury, as controlled by the special circumstances of the case.
At the close of the testinony on behalf of the plaintiff the
defendant asked the court to instruct the jury that the evidence did not show a case entitling the plaintiff to recover.
The court refused to so instruct the jury The defendant
having closed its evidence made numerous requests for instructions, each one of which was refused, and it excepted.
The charge of Mr. Justice Cox to the jury covered every
possible view of the case as made by the evidence. While it
is too lengthy to be here inserted, it will be proper to state

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY.

463

Opmlon of the Court.

the gqneral principles of law which the jury were instructed
to observe in their determination of the case. Those principles - preserving as far as possible the language of the charge
were as follows:
1. The District government, as a municipal corporation, is
charged with the duty of supervising the streets of Washington, and keeping them in a condition fit for convenient use
and safe against'accident to travellers using them. But it is
not under an absolute obligation to respond for every accident
a man may.suffer in its streets. It is simply bound to practise
due care and diligence in the exercise of its powers and in the
application of its resources towards the objects named. If due.
care is once exercised, and, notwithstanding, an accident occurs
and somebody is injured, it is the misfortune of the victim
and not the fault of the authorities. If its duty has been
fully performed in regard to any particular street and: that
street has been put m good condition, safe against all accidents that could be foreseen and provided for, and afterwards,
by some casualty; it falls into dilapidation ,nd becomes dangerous, as, for instance, by the caving ii of a sewer, and then
an accident happens; the rule is that the District government
is not responsible for the injury that results, unless it had
timely notice of the dangerous condition of the street, so that
it could be put in repair -andthe danger obviated. This notice
is either actual or constructive, the latter ,meaning that the
District authorities, within the scope of their opportunities
and money, being under an obligation to exercise a general
supervision of the streets, and to keep themselves informed
about their condition, if a street remains in a dangerous condition so long that the authorities could not help, in the
exercise of ordinary care and diligence, knowing that fact,
and did not know it because they failed to exercise proper
vigilance, then the law imputes notice to them, in other words,
they have notice in contemplation of law, and that is constructive notice.
2. No certain duration of a dangerous condition of a public
highway operates of itself as a notice. The law does not
require impossibilities of any person, natural or artificial, and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

it is impossible that all parts of all the streets should be under
constant inspection. Consequently, it could not be maintained that at the instant an accident happens to a highway the authorities are charged with notice and held liable
therefor if they do not put it instantly in repair. Every such
case must be determined by its peculiar circumstances. The
District would not be responsible for damages arising from
the bad condition of a street unless actual notice was brought
to them of the condition of the street, or unless the street
remained in an unsafe condition so long that they ought to
have known of it if they exercised ordinary care.
3. People must build houses, and, in order to do that, it is
necessary to excavate for cellars and areas, if needed, and to
dig trenches to connect with the water-mains, gas-pipes and
sewers. Nobody has a right to do this without a permit from
the authorities, and if any person undertakes to do it without
a permit, he would be responsible for any injury resulting,
but the District would not be, unless it had the notice already
spoken of. If a permit is granted, as is usually the case, the
fact is notice to the authorities that the work is in progress,
and then they are charged with the duty of seeing that it is
properly conducted.
4. These works are necessarily dangerous to life and limb,
and it is the duty of a person doing the work to protect it
against accident to travellers on the street, and the duty of a
private person is very much the same as that of the District
itself when it is prosecuting an improvement. If a private
individual fails to protect the excavation or hole, or whatever it may be, it is the duty of the District authorities to
see that it is protected, and they are held responsible that
he shall do it, for they were notified that he was going on
with the work when he obtained his permit. If the individual himself supplies the protection against danger then the
duty will have been discharged on his part, and that of the
District also will have been discharged just the same as in
the case of the works being constructed by itself. If, then,
by any unforeseen accident or the act of somebody that could
not be anticipated, the protection has been removed and new
danger supervenes, of course the law about notice applies.

)TSTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. WOODBURY.
Opinion of the Cburt.

5. The first question for the jury was a delicate and difficult one, namely, whether in the first instance a sufficient
protection was provided to guard the public against accident.
A mortar-board was placed over the hole and extended several
inches beyond the edges, and was the protection relied upon.
If there never was an adequate protection provided in the first
instance, then the duty of the builder never was fulfilled, and
it would not make the slightest difference whether it became
a little more dangerous by +he displacement of the cover
afterward or not, and the question of the notice about this
displacement would not arise at all. If it was an adequate
protection in the first instance, then comes the question of
notice of subsequent change.
6. It was for the jury to decide whether the boards placed
over the hole be sufficient to sustain the weight of an ordinary man travelling over them. It is not only necessary
that .the protectibn should be sufficient to sustain the weight of
persons passing along, but another element is the security of
the covering in its place over the hole to sustain the weight
of a heavy man walking over it. If it would be liable to
be kicked out of Place by persons passing along it might
not be deemed an -adequate protection. But that was for
the jury to decide. They must decide whether it was sufficient to sustain the'weight of a person passing over it; and
whether it was sufficiently secured, either by artificial appliances or by its own inherent weight, to hold it in its
proper place. It was not necessary that the board lplaced
over the hole should have been made absolutely safe.against
all interference, for no barrier or other safeguard could be
put there which codld not, be removed by some force, but
only that it should be safe agamst the consequences of the
ordinary use of the street - such contingencies as might fairly
have been anticipated and foreseen. If it was such a precaution as proper care, diligence and foresight ought to have
provided for, and the accident was not occasioned by any defect in the original appliance provided there, but that it was
subsequently, by some unforeseen occurrence or agency, or the
exertion of some individual, moved from its place and thereby
VOL. OXX

--30

O.CTOBER TERM, '1889.
Opinion of the Court.

made dangerous, then the above rules as to notice will apply
The burden is on the plaintiff to prove either that the thing
was originally dangerous or had become so long enough before
the accident for the authorities to have known it, so as to impose upon them the obligation to put it in proper condition.
In regard to the amount of damages, the court said "The
rule laid down in. the instructions asked on the part of the
plaintiff is to the effect that the plaintiff is entitled to recover,
if he is entitled to recover at all, for his loss of tune, the expenditure of money made necessary by his injury, and compensation for his sufferin in body and mind, and his whole
condition and prospects are to be considered in case you find
a verdict in his favor. It is impossible for me to say what
the compensation should be, as there is no mathematical rule
by which his losses can be estimated, and it is a matter for
sound judgment in this as in all cases."
As to so much of the charge as instructed the jury that it
was to be presumed that a permit had been given by the
defendant for doing the work in the sidewalk of the street,
and to so much as related to the liability of the defendant
incident to and consequent upon such permit, the defendant
excepted.
In reference to the entire charge to the jury, it is unneces,
sary to say more than that it correctly stated the rules of law
applicable to the case. It omitted nothing that ought to
have been said, and contained nothing that was inconsistent
with the principles announced in Barnes y Dstrct of Columbta, or that was not in harmony with the established rules of
evidence. We will not extend this opinion by comments
upon the instructions asked by the defendant, for the charge
to the jury covered all the issues, and gave, in clear language,
the whole law applicable to the case.
It is, also, assigned for error that the court below, in general
term, refused to consider that one of the grounds for a new
trial which stated that the verdict was against the weight of
the evidence, thereby, it is contended, disregarding the rule
announced in Metropolitan Railroad v Afoore, 121 U S. 561.
It is attempted to support this assignment by referring to the

DISTRICT OF COLUMfBIA v. WOODBURY.

467

Opimon of the Court.

stenograpaic report of the oral opinion of Mr. Justice Hagner,
speaking for the general term. It is to be found in 5 Mackey,
127, 143. This report cannot control the record of the case
as certified to us. It does not appear from-the record that the
general term declined to pass upon any question which it was
its duty to consider. This objection is, therefore, without any"
basis upon which to rest.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that no error of law
was committed by the court below, and the judgment~must be

A]1pme.

