UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Syllabus.

reasoning of the minority makes the contract of no validity,
except as to the sale of the scrip for thirty cents an acre, and
leaves only that amount as the fund for which the State- is
responsible. The reasoning is that the State was not authorized under the act to itself locate scrip on lands in another
State, and if the profits of the location were to belong to the
State, it would follow that the State was the beneficial owner
of the lands thus located, and therefore there was a direct
evasion of the act of Congress. Concede the force of that
reasoning, and who can take advantage of it 2 Can the State
which has received the proceeds of such location say that it
had no authority to receive them, and can it, after receiving
them, repudiate its liability as trustee for that which it. has
received as the proceeds of the trust property 2
It scarcely need be said that no subsequent legislation on
the part of the State of New York, and no agreement between
it and Cornell University as to the possession of these funds,
can have the effect to relieve the State from its liability as
trustee, or place the title to those funds elsewhere than in the
State.
UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
ORIGINAL.
No.3.

Original.

Argued April 2,1890.-Decided May 19,1890.

A State is not liable to pay interest on its debts, unless its consent to do
so has been manifested by an act of its legislature, or by a lawful contract of its executive officers.
On bonds of the State of North Carolina, expressed to be redeemable on a
day certain at a bank in the city of New York, with interest at the rate
of six per cent a year, payable half-yearly "from the date of this bond and
until the principal be-paid, on surrendering the proper coupons hereto
annexed;" and issued by the Governor and Treasurer of the State under
the statute of December 22, 1852, c. 10, which provides that the principal
of such bonds shall be made payable on a day named therein, that coupons
of interest shall be attached thereto, and that both bonds and coupons
shall be made payable at some bank or place in the city of New York, or
at the public treasury in the capital of the State, and makes no mention
of interest after the date at which the principal is payable; the State is
not liable to pay Interest after that date.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Tis was an action of debt, brought in this court, on November 5, 1889, by the United States against the State of North
Carolina, upon one hundred and forty-seven bonds under the
seal of the State, signed by the Governor, and countersigned
by the Public Treasurer, for one thousand dollars each, payable
in thirty years from date, with interest at the yearly rate of
six per cent, alleged in the declaration to be payable halfyearly :until payment of the principal, nineteen of the bonds,
dated January 1, 1854, and payable January 1, 1884, and seven
bonds dated January 1, 1855, and payable January 1, 1885,
issued under the statutes of North Carolina of January 27,
1849, and December 22 and 27, 1852, and the remaining one
hundred and twenty-one bonds, dated April 1, 1855, and payable April 1, 1885, issued under the statute of North Carolina
of February 14, 1855, and all these bonds, differing only in
date of execution and in day of payment, being in the following form
111t is heeby certified that the State of North Carolina
justly owes to the North Carolina Railroad Company or
bearer one thousand dollars, redeemable in good and lawful
money uf the United States at the Bank of the Republic,
in the city 'of New York, on the first day of January, 1884,
with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent per annum,
payable half-yearly at the said bank on the first days of January and July of each year, from the date of this bond and
until the principal be paid, on surrendering the proper coupons
hereto annexed.
"In witness whereof the Governor of the said State, in
virtue of the power conferred by law, hath signed this bond
and caused the great seal of the State to be hereto affixed, and
her Public Treasurer hath countersigned the same, this first
day ,of January, 1854."
The material provisions of the statutes under which the bonds
were issued are copied in the margin.'
I The act of January 27 1840, c. 82, entitled "An act to incorporate the
-North Carolina Railroad Company," contains the following provisions
"SEc. 36. Thatwhenever it shall appear to the Board of Internal Ir-

UIhTED STATES v. "NORTIH 0AROLI1A.
Statement of the Case.

The declaration alleged that, at the dates when the, bonds
became payable, payment of the principal was demanded ;by
provements of this State, by a certificate, under the seal of said coihpany,
signed by their treasurer and countersigned by their president, that dnethird have been subscribed for and taken, and that at least five-,hundred
-thousand dollars of said stock has been actually paid into the hands of said
treasurer of said company, the said Board of Internal Improvements:,shdi
be and they are hereby authorized and required to subscribe, on behalf -of
the State, for stock in said company to the amountof two millions of: dollars to the capital stock of said company; and the subscription shall bb
'paid in the following manner, to wit, the one-fourth part as sooniasithq
said company shall commence work, and one-fourth thereof every six
months thereafter, until the whole subscription in behalf of the State!1hall
be paid. 'Provided, the treasurer and president of said- compbiY'-shall,
before they receive the aforesaid instalments, satisfactorily assure&thb
Board of Internal Improvements, by their certificates, under the.sem of
said company, that an amount of the private subscription has been paid'n
equal proportion to the stock subscribed by the State.
"SEc. 37. That if in case the present legislature shall not provide !the
necessary and ample means to pay the aforesaid instalments on the stbk
subscribed for on behalf of the State, as provided for in the thirty-sixth
section of this act, and in that event, the Board of 'Internal ImprdVemdntg
aforesaid shall, and they are hereby authorized and empowered 'to borow
on the credit of the State, not exceeding two millions of dollars; as the
same may be needed by the requirements of this act.
"Szc. 38. That if in case it shall become necessary to borrow the.money
by this act authorized, the Public Treasurer shall issue the necessary certifl
cates, signed by himself and countersigned by the Comptroller, in stinis not
less than one thousand dbllars each, pledging the State for the payment-of
the sum therein mentioned, with interest thereon at the rate of interest not
exceeding six per cent per annum, payable semi-annually at such times and
places as the Treasurer may appoint, the principal of which certificates shall
be redeemable at the end of thirty years from the time the same are Issued;
but no greater amount of. such certificates shall be issued at any 6he-tYU
than may be sufficient tb meet the Instalment required to be paid by theState at thattime.
" SEC. 39. That- the Comptroller shall register the said certificates at
large in a book to be by him kept for that purpose, at the time he countersigns the same."
"Sgc. 41. That, as security for the .redemption of said certificates -of
debt, the public faith of the State of North Carolina is hereby pledged to
the holders thereof, and, in addition thereto, all the stock held byfthe
State m the North -Carolina Railroad Company hereby created shall be, and
the same Is hereby, pledged for that purpose; and any dividends of profits
which may, from time to time, be declared, on the stock held by the- Statd

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the United States and refused by the State of North Carolina.
The State of North Carolina pleaded payment of the prrnas aforesaid, shall be applied to the payment of the interest accruing on
said certificates; but until such dividends of profit may be declared, it shall
be the duty of the Treasurer, and he is hereby authorized and directed to
pay all such interest, as the same may accrue, out of any moneys ia the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
"Smc. 42. That the certificates of debt, hereby authorized to be issued,
shall be transferable by the holders thereof, their agents or attorneys,
properly constituted, in a book to be kept by the Public Treasurer for that
purpose; and in every instance, where a transfer is made, the outstanding
certificate shall be surrendered and given up to the Public Treasurer, and
by him cancelled, and a new one, for the same amount, issued in its place
to the person to whom the same is transferred." Laws of North Carolina
of 1848-49, pp. 153, 154, 155.
The act of December 22, 1852, c. 10, entitled "An act to regulate the
form of bonds issued by the State," contains the following provisions
"SEc. 1. That all certificates hereafter to be issued for any money to be
borrowed for the State,by virtue of any act now in force authorizing the
same, or of any act which may be hereafter passed for that purpose, shall
be signed by the Governor and countersigned by the Public Treasurer, and
sealed with the great seal of the State, and shall be made payable to
or bearer- and the principal shall be made payable by the State at a day
named ia the certificate or bond, and coupons of interest in such form as
iray be prescribed by the Public Treasurer, and to be attached to the certificate, and the certificates and coupons attached thereto shall be made
payable at such bank or place in the city of New York as he, the Public
Treasurer, may think proper, or at the office of the Public Treasury at
Raleigh,-if preferred by the purchaser; Provided, however, that no such
certificate shall beissued for a less sum than one thousand dollars, and no
certificate shall be sold for a less sum than par value.
"Sna. 2. That it shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer to enter in a
book, to be kept for that purpose, a memorandum of each bond or certificate, issued by virtue of this act, the numbers, date of issue, when and
where payable, to.whom issued, of to whom sold, and at what premium, if
any, the same was sold by him." Laws of North Carolina of 1852, pp.
45, 46.
By the act of December 27, 1352, c. 9, entitled "An act to increase the
revenue of the State by the sale of its bonds," "it shall be the duty of the
l'ublic Treasurer to have coupons attached to all the bonds of the State
hereafter sold by him." Laws of North Carolina of 1852, p. 45.
The act of February 14, 1855, c. 32, entitled "An act for the completion
of the North Carolina Railroad," contains the following"Snc. 1. That the Public Treasurer is authorized and instructed to subscribe, in behalf of the State, for ten thousand additional shares of capital

UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Statement of the Case.

cipal sums of the bonds after they became payable, together
with all interest accrued thereon to the days when they
became payable.
The United States moved for judgment, as by nil dicit,
because the plea did not answer so much of their demand as
was for interest after the bonds became payable.
The case was submitted to the decision of the court vpon
a case stated, signed by the Attorney General of the United
States, and by the Attorney General of North Carolina,
as follows
"The, parties to the above-entitled case stipulate that upon
the issue joined the facts are that payment of the bonds was
demanded and refused at the several times in the years 1884
and 1885 in the declaration alleged , but subsequently, upon
or about the 2d day of October, 1889, all coupons upon the
bonds were paid, and that, besides, $147,000 was paid upon
account of whatever might then remain due upon the bonds,
the United States then contending that because of interest at
six per cent per annum, which at that time had accrued upon
the principal of the bonds since their maturity, such payment
left still unpaid upon the debt the sum of $41,280, whilst the
State then contended that no interest had accrued upon the
principal of the bonds after their maturity, and therefore that
such payment was in full of such debt
"The parties submit to the court that, in case as matter
of law the principal of said bonds did so bear interest after
maturity, judgment is to be entered for the plaintiff for
$41,280, but that if it did not so bear interest, judgment is to
be entered for the defendant."
stock In the North Carolina Railroad Company, and that he make payment
for said stock, by issuing and making sale of the bonds of the State, under
the same provisions, regulations and restrictions prescribed for the sale of
the bonds heretofore issued and sold to pay the State's original subscription
In the stock of said company; and the same pledges and securities are
hereby given for the faithful payment and redemption of the certificates
of debt now authorized that were given for those issued under the direclion of said act: Provided, nevertheless, that the whole amount of principal money of such bonds or certificates of debt shall not exceed the sum
of one million of dollars." Laws of North Carolina of 1854-55, p. 64.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

Mr Attorney General (witli whom was Mr S. F Phils,
Mr J G Zachry and .fr .F .D .cMenney on the brief)
for plaintiff.
Mr T F Davtdson, Attorney General of the State of
North Carolina, and Mr S. G Ryan for defendant.
MR. JUSTiCE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in this court by the United States
against-the State of North Carolina upon bonds issued by the
State and held by the United States. By the case stated, it
appears that the State, some time after the maturity of the
bonds, paid the principal, together with interest thereon
to the time when the bonds became payable, and the only
question presented for our decision is .whether, as matter of
law, the principal of the bonds bore interest after maturity,
and according to our opinion upon this question judgment is
to be entered for the one party or the other.
Interest, when not stipulated for by contract, or authorized
by statute, is allowed by the courts as damages for the detention of money or. of property, or of compensation, to which
.the plaintiff is entitled, and, as has been settled on grounds of
public convenience, is not to be awarded against a sovereign
government, unless its consent to pay interest has been manifested by an act of its legislature, or by a lawful contract of
its executive officers. United States v Sherman, 98 U S. 565,
Angaca v Bayard, 127 U. S.251, 260, and authorities there
collected, In re Gosman, 17 Oh. D. 771.
In Gosman's Case, just cited, where the personal property of
a deceased person had been taken possession of by the Crown
for want of known next of kin, and was afterwards recovered
by petition of right by persons proved to be the next of kin,
who claimed interest for the time the Crown held the property, Sir George Jessel, Master of the Rolls, speaking for the
Court of Appeal, summed up the law of England in this short
judgment "There is no ground for charging the Crown with
interest. Interest is only payable by statute or by contract."

UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

In Unit-ed Stats v Skerman, the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina had certified
that there was probable cause for an act done by an officer of
the United States, for which juagment had been recovered
against him in that court, and consequently, by express acts
of Congress, "the amount .so recovered" was to "be provided
for and paid out of the proper appropriation from the treasury" Acts of-March 3, 1863,-c. 76, g 12, 12 Stat. '741, July
28, 1866, c. 298, ยง 8, 14 Stat. 329. This court -held that the
judgment creditor'was eiititled to receive from the United
States the amount of the judgment only, without interest,
and Mr. Justice Strong, in delivering the opinion, said "When
the certificate isgiven, the claim of the plaintiff in the suit is
practically converted into a claim against the government,
but not until then. Before that time, the government is
under no obligation, and the Secretary of the Treasury is not
at liberty to pay When the obligation arises, it is an obligation to pay the amount recovered, that is, the amount for
which judgment has been given. The act of Congress says
not a word about interest. Judgments, it is true, are by the
law of South Carolina, as well as. by Federal legislation;
declared to bear interest. Such legislation, however, has no
application to the government, aid the interest is no part of
the amount recovered. It accrues only after the recovery has
been had. Moreover, whenever interest is allowed either by
statute or by common law, except in cases where-there has
been a contract to pay interest, it is allowed for delay or
default of the debtor. iBut delay or default cannot be attributed to the government. It is presumed to be always ready
to pay what it owes." 98 U. S. 567, 568.
In .Angarzea v. Bayarcd, this court held that on money received by the Secretary of State from a foreign government
under an international award, invested by him in interest-bearing securities of the United States, and ultimately paid to the
petitioner, interest was not payable, because the money was
in effect withheld by the United States, and Mr. Justice
Blatchford, delivering judgment, said "The case, therefore,
flls within the well settled principle that the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

are not liable to pay interest on claims against them, in the
absence of express statutory provision to that effect. It has
been established as a general rule, in the practice of the
government, that interest is not allowed on claims against it,
whether such claims originate in contract or in tort, and
whether they arise in the ordinary business of administration,
or under private acts of relief, passed by Congress on special
application. The only recognized exceptions are where the
government stipulates to pay interest, and where interest is
given expressly by an act of Congress, either by the name of
interest or by that of damages." 127 U S. 260.
In Un'ted States v. MifcKee, where a claim against the United
States for moneys and supplies furnished during the Revolutionary War had been referred by Congress to the Court of
Claims with directions to be governed in its adjustment and
settlement "by the rules and regulations heretofore adopted
by the United States in the settlement of like cases," interest
was allowed by that court, and by this court on appeal, because Congress was shown to have allowed interest in many
private acts for the settlement of similar claims. 10 C. C1.
231, 235, 91 U. S. 442, 451.
In U vnted States v. Bank of MJetropolis, 15 Pet. 377, cited
at the bar, no question of interest was suggested by counsel,
or considered by the court.
In North Carolina, as elsewhere, in an action against a private
person, to recover a sum certain and overdue, interest may
doubtless be recovered, either according to the dictum in
-Devereauxv Burgwzn, 11 Iredell, 490, 495, on the ground of
a "promise to pay being implied from the nature of the transaction," or, as more accurately stated in other cases, as damages for nonperformance of the defendant's contract. State
v. Blount, 1 IHaywood, 4, ITunt v Jucks, 1 I-aywood, 173,
3IcKinlay v Blackledge, 2 Haywood, 28. See Young v
Gode, 15 Wall. 562, 565, liolden v Trust Co., 100 U S. 72,
74, Price v Great Western Railway, 16 XM.& W 244, 248,
Cook v Fowler, L. R. T I. L. 27, 32, 36; 37, Unton Institutionfor Savings v- Boston,71 29 Mlass. 82.
But it is equally well settled, by judgments of the Supreme

UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the. Court.

Court of North Carolina, that the State, unless by or pursuant to an explicit statute, is not liable for interest, even on a
sum certain which is overdue and unpaid.
In Attorney General v Cape Fear Haw gation Co., 2 Iredell
Eq. 444, 454, decided in 1843, in a suit on behalf of the State
to recover dividends due to it as a stockholder, the corporation, by way of set-off, claimed interest for the State's failure
to pay its subscription at the time when it was payable, and
Chief Justice Ruffin, in delivering judgment, laid down, as
undoubted law, that "the general rule is, that the State never
pays interest, unless she expressly engages to do so."
In Bledsoe v State, 64: No. Car. 392, 397, decided in 1869,
under a clause in the Constitution of the State providing that
"the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction to hear
claims against the State, but its decision shall be merely
recommendatory, no process in the nature of execution shall
issue thereon, they shall be reported to the next General
Assembly for its action," a claim was made for fuel and
provisions furnished to the State Insane Asylum, under written contract of the superintendent, from October, 1863, to
April, 1865, with interest from the times of delivery Upon
the question of interest, the court said "It was decided by
this court, in Attorney General v Cape FearNaiafaton Co.,
2 Iredell Eq. 444, that the State is not bound to pay interest,
unless there is a special contract to that.-effect. The contract,
in this case, must be understood to have been made with
reference to the law, as it then stood. But because of the
changes in and the disturbed condition of the government,
and because payment has been dela: ed for a long time, we
recommenid a departure from the rule, so far as to allow
interest from the end of the war, say May 1, 1865, until
January 1, 1869, when the plaintiff presented his claim to the
General Assembly"
Whether interest not stipulated for in a contract is to be
awarded as damages for nonperformance of the contract, or
on the ground of an implied promise to pay it, a private person is no less chargeable with interest on debts certain and
overdue for money or goods, than on promissory notes or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds obligatory; and the State is no more chargeable with
interest in the one case than in the other
The scope and effect of the bonds now sued on cannot be
determined without a careful consideration of the provisions
of the statutes from which the officers who executed the
bonds derived their .uthority
Under the original act of January 27, 1849, the obligations
of the State for money borrowed were required to be signed
by the Treasurer and countersigned by the Comptroller, "in
sums not less than one thousand dollars each, pledging the
State for the payment of the sum therein mentioned, with interest thereon at the rate of interest not exceeding six per cent
per annum, payable semi-annually at such times and places as
the Treasurer may appoint, the principal of which certificates
shall be redeemable at the end of thirty years from the time
the same are issued."
There is nothing in that statute to show that certificates
issued under it are to be negotiable from hand to hand, or
assignable by the mere act of the holder, so as to create a contract between the State and any assignee. On the contrary,
the statute requires that they shall be registered at large by the
Comptroller at the time of his countersigning them, and
the only transfer provided for is on the books of the Treasurer;
and by surrender of the old certificate and issue of a new one
instead thereof to the assignee.
In. that act, as no other date is mentioned for the payment
of the principal than the date at which it "shall be redeemable," it would be difficult (as is admitted by the learned counsel for the United States, citing Vermilye v Adams Exyress Co.,
21 Wall. 138, 145 to attribute to the word "redeemable" any
other meaning than "payable," and the provision that the
interest shall be "payable semi-annually at such times and
places as the'.Treasurer may appoint," naturally relates to interest before the date fixed for payment of the principal, and
could hardly be extended to imply an authority to the Treasurer and the Comptroller to bind the State to pay interest after
that date.
But any doubt upon this point is removed by the act- of "De-

UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the. Court.

cember 22, 1852, pursuant to the provisions of which the bonds
in suit were issued.
This act makes new requirements, differing in many respects
from, and in so far superseding, the requirements of the former
act. It requires all certificates, thereafter issued for money
borrowed by the-State, to be under seal of the State signed by
the Governor and countersigned by the Treasurer. It clearly
shows that they are to be neg6tia'ble, as well. by requiring
them to "be made payable to - or bearer," as by requiring
a registry of a memorandum of their-original -issue only It
omits the provision that the principal "shall be redeemable"
at the end of thirty years, and instead thereof prescribes that
"the principal shall be made payable by the State at a day
named in the certificate or. bond." It requires "coupons of
interest to be attached to the .certificates," and both the certificates and the coupons are required to be made payable,
either at such bank or place m the city of New York as the
Treasurer may designate, or at the public treasury in Raleigh,
if preferred by the purchaser.
From the general.principle that an obligation of .the State
to pay interest, whether as interest or as damages, on any
debt overdue, cannot arise except by the consent and contract
of the State, manifested by statute, or in a form authorized -by
statute, it appears to us to follow as a necessary consequence
that no authority to the officers of the State to bin& it by such
an obligation can be implied from tle act of 1852, requiring
the -certificates or bonds issued under it to be made payable
at a day named' in them, and to "have coupons of interest
attached to them, and making no mention whatever of interest after the date af which the principal is payable.
In the light of the provisions of this statute, the agreement
in the bonds sued on, that the principal sum shall be "redeeWable in good and lawful money" at the place and day therein
designated, must be deemed equivalent to an agreement that
they shall be payable on that day, and if the further provision by which interest is payable half-yearly "from the date
of this bond and until the principal be paid, on surrendering
the proper coupons hereto annexed," could, upon .the face of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the bonds, and without regard to the laws under which they
were issued, be construed to include interest after the date at
which the principal is payable, and for which interest there
were no coupons to be surrendered, it cannot be allowed such
an effect, because the State of North Carolina has never
authorized its officers to incur any such obligation in its behalf.
This disposes of all the suggestions made in behalf of the
United States, except the argument that, the bonds being
payable in New York, the payment of interest is to be governed by the law of New York, according to which it is said
that the State would be liable to pay interest, like a private
person. People v Canal Commtsswners, 5 Denio, 401.
But these bonds are obligations of the State of North
Carolina, they were executed, delivered and registered in
North Carolina by high officers of the State, the rate of annual interest is fixed at six per cent, the legal rate m North
Carolina, and not seven per cent, the then legal rate in New
York; and the fact that the bonds were made payable at
a particular bank in New York, pursuant to the authority
conferred by the statute of North Carolina upon its Public
Treasurer, instead of being made payable, as by that statute
they might have been, at Raleigh, the capital of the State,
cannot affect the extent of the obligation of the State of
North Oarolina. The manifest object of the alternative, allowed by the statute, of making the bonds payable either at
New York or at Raleigh, was to promote the convenience of
bondholders, and not to submit the obligation, the construction or the effect of the bonds to the operation of different
laws, according to the place at which they should actually
be made payable. The case, therefore, falls within the general rule, well established in this court, that contracts are
to be governed, as to their nature, their validity and their
interpretation, by the law of the place where they are made,
unless the contracting parties appear to have had some other
place in view Liverpool Steam Co. v Pkhcen= Ins. Co., 129
U. S. 397, 453.
Judgmentfor the defendant.
MI. JUSTICE MILLER, MR. JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUSTICE
HARx.w dissented.

