OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

CINCINNATI SIEMENS-LUNGREN GAS ILLUMINATING COMPANY v. WESTERN SIEMENS-LUNGREN
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 193. Argued January 6, 8, 1894. -Decided March 5, 1894.
The owner of an exclusive right to sell, place, and operate a patented invention within the limits of a State, conveyed to another party the like
exclusive right in certain specified counties in that State, and agreed
that during the period covered by the licenses and patents, the grantor
would not knowingly sell or permit others to sell the patented goods
within those counties, and further, that the grantor would supply the
patented articles to the grantee on specified terms and conditions. The
contract also guaranteed that the patented articles so supplied should
have a life service of five years, and the grantor agreed to defray the
expense of incidental repairs necessary thereto. The grantor then
assigned all its rights and interest in this contract to a third party. The
grantee continued to order the patented articles, as wanted, from the
grantor, and the assignee supplied the goods as ordered and they were
accepted. The assignee sued the grantee to recover the value of the
goods so delivered. The grantee denied all liability and set up as
counter claim, a claim for damage by reason of sales of the patented
article in the territory covered by the license. Held,
(1) That the defendant, having accepted the goods from the plaintiff,
was bound to pay for them;
(2) That his liability for them was to be measured by the contract
price, and not by the market rate;
(3) That with reference to the sale of the patented articles in the
licensed territory, the scienter was an essential part of the agreement, and, in the absence of proof of actual knowledge of the
sale, by the plaintiff, the defendant could not recover on his
counter claim;
(4) That as to sales which were shown to have been made with the
plaintiff's knowledge, the measure of damages was the plaintiff's
profits, and not the profits which the defendant might have made;
(5) That the defendant could recover, under the agreement as to the
life service of the patented articles supplied to him, only for such
repairs as he had been obliged to make, and not for estimated
repairs during the remainder of the period.

CINCINNATI GAS CO. v. WESTERNV SIEMENS CO. 201
Opinion of the Court.

ON February 25, 1889, the defendant in error, a corporation
of the State of Illinois, commenced its action in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio
to recover from the defendant, a corporation created under
the laws of Ohio, the sum of $6922.64 for goods and merchandise. The defendant appeared and filed an answer and cross
petition. A trial was had before a jury, which, on February
10, 1890, returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$5752.34. This amount was reduced by the plaintiff, in
accordance with the opinion of the court, by the sum of
$127.90, and for the balance, with interest, a judgment was
entered. To reverse such judgment defendant sued out a
writ of error from this court.
.if&. J. W. Warringtonfor plaintiff in error.
.r. Lowrey aokson for defendant in error.
Mr.

JUSTICE

BREwEr delivered the opinion of the court.

On November 9, 1887, the Siemens-Lungren Gas Illuminating Company of Chicago, a corporation of Illinois, which had
acquired by contract from the Siemens-Lungren Company, of
the State of Pennsylvania, the exclusive right and privilege of
selling, placing, and operating in the State of Ohio the
patented regenerative and other gas lamps, appliances, and
fixtures, made, owned, or controlled by the Pennsylvania
corporation, entered into a contract with certain individuals,
which contract was immediately thereafter transferred by
them to the defendant company, giving the like exclusive
rights for the counties of Hamilton, Butler, and Montgomery,
in the State of Ohio. This contract specified the terms and
conditions on which the Chicago company would supply the
articles for sale and use in those counties. The Chicago
corporation afterwards transferred all its franchises and property, including its rights and interest in this contract, to the
plaintiff. The Ohio company carried on its correspondence,
and sent its orders for goods to the Gas Illuminating Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, and, though notified of the transfer to the plaintiff,.
declined in its letters to recognize such transfer. At the same
time it received the goods, and did not return them; and
received them knowing that they were sent by the plaintiff.
Upon this the defendant invokes the rule laid down in A rkansa Valley Srelting Co. v. Belden .Mining Co., 127 U. S. 379,
and insists that the contract was of such a nature that it could
not be assigned by the Gas Illuminating Company to plaintiff
without the consent of defendant, which consent was positively refused. But that doctrine has no application under
the circumstances of this case. Defendant could not accept
these goods from the plaintiff, and then refuse to pay for
them. It is immaterial whether there was an assignment
from the Gas Illuminating Company to the plaintiff or not,
or whether, if there was one, it was ever assented to by the
defendant or not. When the defendant ordered the goods
from the Gas Illuminating Company, and the plaintiff forwarded the goods upon that order, the defendant might have
returned them, and declined to have any dealings with the
plaintiff ; but it could not accept the goods and use them, and
then say it never ordered the goods from the plaintiff, never
had any contract with it, and never assented to any assignment to the plaintiff of its contract with the Illuminating
Company.
Of course, if the plaintiff undertook to furnish goods on the
order of the defendant - an order based upon a contract between the defendant and the Gas Illuminating Companyit furnished them subject to all the terms of that contract, and
the defendant may rightfully invoke any stipulation thereof
as a defence in whole or in part to the action.
Another question arises on these facts. The contract hereinbefore referred to contained this clause:
"That during the entire period covered by the licenses and
patents now owned by the said Siemens-Lungren Company,
or which may hereafter be acquired on improvements and
reissues, the said Siemens-Lungren Gas Illuminating Company
will sell exclusively to said parties of the second part for use
in the counties before named all the burners, fixtures, and

CINCINNATI GAS CO. v. WESTERN SIEMENS CO.

20a

Opinion of the Court.

appliances, made by said Siemens-Lungren Company and will
not knowingly sell or permit other parties to sell for use in
said territory any burners, lamps, or goods made, owned or
controlled by said Siemens-Lungren Company, but will, upon
the contrary, to the best of their ability, prevent the sale of
any such articles for use within the territory named to any
other than the parties of the second part, their successors or
assigns."
There was testimony showing that after the execution of
this contract the Middletown Gas Company purchased nine
lamps from the plaintiff, and one hundred and twenty-two
lamps from the Pennsylvania corporation. Middletown, where
this gas company was located, is in Butler County, Ohio,
and within the limits of the territory sold to the Cincinnati
parties. There was no testimony tending to show that the
original Chicago corporation, or this plaintiff, knew of the sale
by the Pennsylvania corporation to the Middletown Gas Company. On the contrary, the testimony of plaintiff's two principal officers was that such sale was wholly unknown. Upon
this failure to show any knowledge of the sales made by the
Pennsylvania corporation the court struck out all the testimony as to such sales. In reference to the sale of the nine
lamps by the plaintiff, the court ruled that it was a technical
breach of the contract, and charged the jury to allow to the
defendant as damages, the profits received by the plaintiff
from such sales. There was no direct testimony that the
plaintiff was aware at the time of the sales of these nine lamps
that Middletown was within the territory which had been
sold to the Cincinnati parties, and the letters of the secretary
and president of the plaintiff company state that the sales
were made inadvertently and in ignorance of that fact, yet
the sales were held by the court to be in direct violation of
the terms of the contract, and, therefore, giving a right to the
defendant to damages. The contention now is, that the court
erred in restricting the damages to the profits made by the
plaintiff, and it is insisted that the defendant was entitled to
recover what it would have made had it sold and placed the
lamps in Middletown at the prices at which it was so selling

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and placing them, if not to a larger sum which the jury might
estimate were the damages resulting from this interference
with its monopoly in the purchased territory.
We cannot concur in these views,' and are of opinion that
the rulings of the trial court were correct. With reference
to the sale by the Pennsylvania corporation, the stipulation in
the contract is that the Chicago company "will not knowingly sell, or permit other parties to sell, for use in said territory, any burners, lamps," etc. The scienter is an essential
term in this covenant. There is no presumption and no evidence that the original Chicago corporation or the plaintiff
knew what the Pennsylvania company was doing, and if they
did not know of such a sale, the fact that one was made
involved no breach of the contract.
Neither was the defendant entitled to any other damages
by reason of the sale by the plaintiff than the profits which the
latter received. There is no presumption that the Cincinnati
company would have been able to sell or place any lamps in
Middletown at the prices it demanded. On the contrary, the
testimony of the president of the defendant company is that
the Middletown company refused to deal with it, and it is
against all the rules in respect to damages for a breach of contract to give to the defendant the profits of a sale which it
did not make, and which there is no reason to believe it ever
would have made. There is no pretence of any wanton and
wilful breach by the plaintiff; nothing that suggests punitive
damages, or that shows wherein the defendant was damnified
other than by the loss of the profits which the plaintiff received.
Pass beyond that, and there is only a domain of speculation a mere guess as to what might have happened. The case of
Seymour v. .3fcCormi, 16 H:ow. 480, 486, 490, is in point.
In that case the trial court, among other things, charged the
jury as follows:
"The general rule is, that the plaintiff, if he has made out
his right to recover, is entitled to the actual damages he has
sustained by reason of the infringement, and those damages
may be determined by ascertaining the profits which, in judgment of law, he would have made, provided the defendants
had not interfered with his rights.

CINCINNATI GAS CO. v. WESTERN SIEMENS CO. 205
Opinion of the Court.

"That view proceeds upon the principle, that if the defendants had not interfered with the patentee, all persons who
bought the defendant's machines, would necessarily have been
obliged to go to the patentee, and purchase his machine. That
is the principle on which the profits that the patentee might
have made out of the machines thus unlawfully constructed,
present a ground that may aid the jury in arriving at the damages which the patentee has sustained."
But this court was of a different opinion, saying:
"Actual damages must be actually proved, and cannot be
assumed as a legal inference from any facts which amount not
to actual proof of the fact. What a patentee 'would have
made, if the infringer had not interfered with his rights,' is a
question of fact and not 'a judgment of law.' The question
is not what speculatively he may have lost, but what actually
he did lose."
It is true that that was an action for an infringement, and
this for a breach of a contract, but still the rule of damages is
the same. Actual damages is what the law gave in case of an
infringement, Birdsall v. Coolidge, 93 U. S. 64; actual damages is all the law gives in case of a breach of contract. Indeed, the real difference between that case and this is not so
great as would be suggested by a description of the respective
causes of action. For here, under the contract made by the
plaintiff's assignor with the Cincinnati parties, the defendant
became vested with a monopoly of sales within the prescribed
territory of like nature to the monopoly given by the government for the whole territory of the United States whenever
it issues a patent; and the act of the plaintiff in making a sale
within that territory was an infringement similar to that of a
sale of a patented article made within the limits of the United
States in defiance of the rights of the patentee. Nevertheless,
it must be conceded that in the case at bar there is technically
a claim for a breach of a contract, and it is undeniable that in
some cases the profits that would have been made are proper
elements of damage in such an action. This matter has been
recently considered by this court in Howard v. Stillwell &
Bier"ce .Man facturing Co., 139 U. S. 199, 206, from the care-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ful opinion of Mr. Justice Lamar, in which case we quote as
follows:
"The grounds upon which the general rule of excluding
profits, in estimating damages, rests, are (1) that in the greater
number of cases such expected profits are too dependent upon
numerous uncertain and -changing contingencies to constitute
a definite and trustworthy measure of actual damages; (2) because such loss of profits is ordinarily remote and not, as a
matter of course, the direct and immediate result of the nonfulfilment of the contract; (3) and because most frequently
the engagement to pay such loss of profits, in case of default
in the lerformance, is not a part of the contract itself, nor
can it be implied from its nature and terms. Sedgwick on
Damages, 7th ed. vol. 1, p.. 108; The Schooner Lively, 1 Gallison, 315, 325, per Mr. Justice Story; The Anna Xaria, 2
Wheat. 327; The Amiable .Nancy,3 Wheat. 546 ; la Amistad
de Rues, 5 Wheat. 385; Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28; Parish
v. United States, 100 U. S. 500, 507; Bulkey v. United States,
19 Wall. 37. But it is equally well settled that the profits
which would have been realized had the contract been performed, and which have been prevented by its breach, are
included in the damages to be recovered in every case where
such profits are not open to the objection of uncertainty or
of remoteness, or where from the express or implied terms of
the contract itself, or the special circumstances under which
it was made, it may be reasonably presumed that they were
within the intent and mutual understanding of both parties at
the time it was entered into. United States v. Behan, 110
U. S. 338, 345, 346, 347; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Hall, 124
U. S. 44:4, 454, 456; Philadelphia,Wimington & Baltimore
Railroad Co. v. Howard,13 How. 307."
Tested by the rules here laid down, it is obvious that the defendant is not entitled to recover as damages the profits which
it would have received if it had made a sale of the nine lamps
at its price to the Middletown Gas Company, for it is wholly
uncertain that it would have been able to make such a sale.
Indeed, the testimony of its own president is flatly to the contrary. It does not follow because a party makes a purchase

,CINCINNATI GAS CO. v. WESTERN SIE ENS CO. 207
Opinion of the Court.

-at a lower price that he would have bought the same article
at a higher price. The price is the one thing which oftentimes
determines the question of purchase or no purchase. It is true
there may be cases in which a necessity compels the purchaser
to have the article, and then if he cannot buy it at one price
he must at another. But no such necessity appears here, and
although the gas company did purchase the nine lamps at a
particular price, it does not follow therefrom that it would
have purchased them at any higher figures. On the contrary,
it is reasonably certain that it would not.
Nor can it be assumed that profits, such as are claimed, were
"within the intent and mutual understanding of bot; parties."
It can hardly be presumed that the parties intended that the
defendant should receive as damages for breach of the contract the profits of a sale which it could not make, rather than
the profits of a sale that was made. There must indeed be
some special circumstances before it can be inferred that parties
intend that profits based upon a sale, which it is apparent
'could not have been made, should be the measure of damages.
Actual damage will generally be assumed to be the intended
measure of compensation, and all that defendant has shown in
this case is that the gas company did buy at a given price.
The profits at that price it lost by reason of the plaintiff's
sale, and that is the only actual damage which appears from
the transaction. We see no error in the rulings of the court
in this respect.
A third question arises upon the following stipulation in
the contract:
"That the said Siemens-Lungren Gas Illuminating Company guarantees the life service of any lamps furnished to be
five (5) years, exclusive of any globes broken or other damage
done through careless handling, and that it will defray the
expenses of any incidental repairs which may be necessary to
keep said lamps in good and serviceable condition during the
period named. And that upon the expiration of said period
-of five years they will, if the parties of the second part so
-desire, guarantee that the said lamps will be guaranteed
for an additional period of five years upon being paid the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

additional sum of three (3) dollars for each lamp thus guaranteed."
There was testimony tending to show what repairs had been
made by the defendant, and their cost, and the court charged
the jury that they should deduct from the plaintiff's claim
whatever amount the testimony disclosed to be the proper
cost of such repairs. Of this no complaint is made, but in
addition the defendant asked an instruction that the jury
should take into consideration the probable repairs to said
lamps for the balance of the period of five years, as guaranteed by said contract, which instruction the court declined
to give. It also during the trial sustained an objection to the
following question put to the president of the defendant company:
"Q. I will ask you to state whether or not, as the lamp
grows older and remains in service longer, there is an increase
in the cost and in the repairs ?"
Of these rulings the defendant now complains, and insists
that where damages are recoverable under a contract, such as
this, "to keep the patented articles in repair for a specified
time, the recovery should be allowed for the whole time
specified, and not merely up to the date of the trial."
A sufficient answer to this contention is that in the count in
the cross petition, in which damages are sought to be recovered for a breach of this covenant, the only allegation of
damage is in these words: "Defendant alleges that it has
paid out for such repairs to lamps so purchased by it, including those stated in the account attached to petition, to date,
the sum of sixteen hundred ($1600) dollars, no part of which
has been repaid to it." The only claim, therefore, which the
defendant made was for the sums which it had already paid
out, and the inquiry was, therefore, properly limited to that
which it claimed. The suggestion that at the close of the cross
petition there was a general prayer for judgment against the
plaintiff in the sum of $23,850 will not avail the defendant in
this respect, because that prayer commences with the word
"wherefore," thus referring to the prior allegations, and the
sum thus claimed is merely the aggregate of the separate

CINCINNATI GAS CO. v. WESTERN SIEMENS CO. 209
Opinion of the Court.

amounts of damage alleged in the six different counts of the
cross petition. It is unnecessary, therefore, to determine what
testimony the defendant might have offered as to future
repairs, if the claim in its cross petition had included them,
or whether, if any such testimony had been received, the cost
of such repairs could have been set off against the already due
demand of the plaintiff.
Again, the fourth count in the cross petition, after referring
to the agreement of the Chicago company to furnish defendant with the patented lamps of the Pennsylvania company,
alleges that "it did furnish to this defendant a large number
of lamps purporting to be said patented lamps furnished by
said Philadelphia company, but which were in fact an infringement thereof, and of such poor quality as to be unfit for use.
Upon trial of the lamps and the subsequent discovery of the
infringements thereof, defendant was compelled to retire from
use ninety-two lamps thereof which were in use, and they and
those having remained unused became useless and worthless
property. Defendant paid said Siemens-Lungren Illuminating Company of Chicago the sum of two thousand ($2000)
dollars for said lamps, no part of which has since been paid,
and that, by reason of its being compelled to remove the said
lamps and the consequent loss of business, it has been damaged
in the further sum of one thousand dollars."
It appears that, in January or February, 1888, the plaintiff
forwarded to defendant one hundred lamps, and it is in respect to these lamps that the claim of damages set forth in
this count arises. The testimony was conflicting as to whether
these lamps were manufactured by the Pennsylvania corporation or in Chicago, and also to what extent, if any, their construction was defective, or a departure from the form of the
patented lamp. It does appear, however, from the testimony
of the defendant's president, given at the trial in February,
1890, two years after the purchase, that ten or a dozen of
these lamps had been sold for $35 each, and were still in use,
having been used by the purchasers for a year and a half or
more; and the defendant's employ6, who handled these lamps,
stated that the trouble was only with the burner, and that
VOL. CLII-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

otherwise the lamps were all right. There was no direct testimony as to their value. There was no pretence that the
defendant had ever tendered them back to plaintiff, or even
that it made any complaint of them for many months after
their receipt.
In respect to this matter the court charged that "the rule
of damages in such a case is measured by the difference
between the contract price and the actual value of the thing
delivered." It is true that the court intimated that, according
to its recollection, the testimony was silent as to the actual
value, and said to the jury that, if that were the fact, the
defendant, having kept the lamps, could recover only nominal
damages, but an expression, of opinion by the judge as to the
scope or reach of testimony is, as is well known, no ground of
error in the Federal courts. There was no arbitrary direction
as to the amount which the jury should, or ought to, award,
and the rule, as stated above, was more than once repeated.
We see nothing in this of which the defendant can complain,
and this, whether the cross petition in this respect be regarded
as alleging a delivery of goods of a kind different from those
contracted for, or of goods coming within the terms of the
contract but defective in quality. Counsel insists that these
lamps were absolutely worthless, and that under those circumstances there was no necessity of a return, or of an offer to
return. We see nothing to justify any such contention, and
an instruction based upon the hypothesis that these goods
were absolutely worthless would have been in manifest disregard of that which is shown by even the defendant's testimony.
The final matter is this: In the latter part of July, 1888,
plaintiff furnished defendant two hundred and fifty lamps.
These lamps were fitted with solid metal burners instead of
tube burners used in those theretofore delivered. The contract provided that the plaintiff should furnish the most
approved form of lamps made by the Pennsylvania company,
and the claim was, on the part of the ,defendant, that the tube
burner was the only burner that could be used successfully in
those'lamps, that the solid burner was a failure, and that it

CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

would cost $3 each to make the exchange. On the other
hand, it was insisted by the plaintiff that the tube burner was
the one first used; and that the solid burner was a later

invention, and supposed to be an improvement, and so furnished in good faith. It does not appear that the burners
had ever been exchanged, or that the defendant had paid
any money for the purpose of maling an exchange, nor was
there any testimony showing how much less in value a lamp
with the solid burner was than one with the tube burner. If
the defendant never made an exchange of burners, and so
never expended any money therefor, and sold the lamp with
a solid burner for the same price as one with a tube burner,
it is difficult to see how it was damaged, even if it be conceded that the tube burner is a better appliance than the solid
burner. That is practically the state of the case, as shown by
the testimony and the charge of the court. The defendant
never changed burners; never paid the $3, and there was no
testimony showing the value of the lamp with the solid burner,
or how much less it was worth than one with a tube burner.
It does not appear that the *defendant ever sold a lamp for
less price on account? of the solid burner. In addition to all
this, a letter from the Pennsylvania corporation (while not
entirely clear in its language) seems to carry the idea that,
as soon as its bill for two hundred and fifty lamps is paid, it
will exchange burners free of cost.
These are all the questions of importance presented in the
trial of this case. We see no error in the rulings of the trial
court, and, therefore, the judgment is

Affl'med.
CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 100L

Argued January 15, 16,1S94. -Decided

Marcb 5, 1894.

The District Court of the United States in the District of Kansas had jurisdiction over a prosecution for the crime of perjury, in violation of the

