EL PASO WATER CONIPANY

v.

EL PASO.

157

Statement of the Case.

EL PASO WATER COMPANY v. EL PASO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 233. Submitted February 1,1894.-Decided March 5,1894.
In a suit in a Circuit Court by a water company, to which a municipal government has granted the exclusive right to supply it and its inhabitants
with water for fifteen years, against the municipality to prevent it from
establishing or maintaining other water works within the limits of the
municipality until after the expiration of said period, it did not appear
affirmatively that it was contemplated that the other works complained of
were to go into operation until after the expiration of that period; and
as it did not appear from the record that there was over $5000 in controversy, held, that this court had no jurisdiction.

THIs was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas, sustaining a
demurrer to the plaintiff's original and amended bills, and dismissing the same. The facts as alleged in the bills were sub,stantially these: By an ordinance passed May 7, 1881, the city
council of the city of El Paso, Texas, assumed to grant "the
sole and exclusive right, warrant and authority, for the period
of fifteen years, to manufacture, sell and furnish water to the
inhabitants of the city of El Paso, to both public and private
buildings, and for irrigation within the corporate limits of said
city," with "the sole and exclusive right, warrant, and authority for said period to lay pipes, mains, and conductors underneath the streets, alleys, lanes, and squares in said city, for the
purpose of conducting water," and by a subsequent ordinance
rented hydrants at a certain annual rent. By certain assignments and transfers these rights became vested in the plaintiff,
and in reliance thereon.it expended a large sum of money, to wit,
the sum of $150,000, in establishing its plant. The substance
of these ordinances, the acts of the plaintiff, and subsequent dealings between it and the city were stated at length in the bills,
but the sum of the whole matter lay in the fact of the alleged
exclusive right to supply water to the city for the term of fif-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

teen years, and to occupy the streets for the purpose of laying
mains, etc.
The wrong complained of was the passage of two ordinances
in 1889 and 1890, approved by a vote of the people, authorizing the issue of $25,000 and $75,000, respectively, of the bonds
of the city for the avowed and declared purpose on the part
of the council of sinking artesian wells and constructing a
system of water works to be owned and operated by said
council for supplying water to said city and inhabitants, for all
public and private purposes; and the relief prayed was that the
city be enjoined from establishing, maintaining, or operating
any water works within the limits of said city until the expiration of said period of fifteen years, and from selling or negotiating any bonds, or other securities, for that purpose.
It was also alleged that if the bonds are issued, the plaintiff
will be compelled to pay taxes on its property for the interest
on said bonds and to provide a sinking fund for the principal
thereof, but the amount of the tax which will be thereby cast
upon the plaintiff's property is not disclosed.
The appellee moved to dismiss the appeal for want of juriso
diction.
-Mr.Walter D. Davidge and Mr1. Leigh Clark for the motion.
Mr1. William Thompson and Mr. .Maurice fcleag opposing.
RhR.JUSTinC:

BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Probably the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer on the
ground that under the constitution of the State of Texas,
adopted in 1876, the attempt to grant exclusive rights in these
matters was beyond the power of the city, and that, among
other matters, is discussed at length by counsel in their respective briefs. That constitution (article 1, section 26) provides
that "perpetuities and monopolies are contrary to the genius
of a free government, and shall never be allowed." In the case
of Brenham v. The Brenham Water Works Co., 67 Texas, 542,
the Supreme Court of the State, construing this provision, held

EL PASO WATER COMPANY v. EL PASO.

159

Opinion of the Court.

that a contract similar to that made with the plaintiff was inhibited by the constitution, and that neither the city council
nor the state legislature had power to make or authorize such
a contract.
We do not deem it necessary to consider the important constitutional question thus presented, for it does not appear from
the record that there is over $5000 in controversy, as is
necessary to give this court jurisdiction. The bill is filed by
the plaintiff to protect its individual interests, and to prevent
damage to itself. It must, therefore, affirmatively appear
that the acts charged against the city, and sought to be enjoined, would result in its damage to an amount in excess of
$5000. So far as respects the matter of taxes which, by the
issue of bonds, would be cast upon the property of the plaintiff, it is enough to say that the amount thereof is not stated,
nor any facts given from which it can be fairly inferred.
With regard to the claim of exclusive rights, there is no
allegation in the bills of the time at which the city will, unless
restrained, commence the operation of its contemplated system
of water works, and thus interfere with the actual performance of its contract with the plaintiff so far as respects the
supply of water. Every averment would be satisfied by proof
that the city intended to begin the use of its proposed water
works on the day before the expiration of the fifteen years.
And the only distinct disclosure of damage in the bills, or by
the affidavits filed in this court, is that resulting from an
actual supply of water by the city and a failure to pay the
plaintiff for the use of its hydrants. So far as the mere construction of water works is concerned, that of itself is no violation of the terms of this contract. The time for which the
exclusive right, as claimed, was given, was fifteen years, and
the city would be guilty of no breach of any obligations if,
during the life of the contract, it proceeded to sink artesian
wells, to establish water works, and put itself in condition to,
in the future and after the termination of the fifteen years,
supply water for all public and private purposes. Suppose
that the very next day after the acceptance by the grantee of
these franchises the city had commenced the work of sinking

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Syllabus.

artesian wells and establishing a system of water works, and
had continued its labors in that direction during the entire life
of the contract: that would have been no breach of its obligations to the plaintiff. It might have affected pecuniarily the
value of the plaintiff's plant in that it carried a strong intimation that the moment the fifteen years expired the city would
itself engage in the work of supplying water, and thus take
from the plaintiff its business. So, preparations made by the
city, at the time stated in the bills, to wit, 1889 and 1890, for
the establishment of water works, may, and doubtless did,
have some effect upon the value of the plaintiff's property, but
the extent of the diminution of value thus caused is not alleged,
and cannot be inferred. The bills do not allege that the city
in terms denies the validity of its agreement to pay rent for
hydrants or otherwise, and the acts which they charge that
the city is about to do are acts which the city may do consistently with the continuance of the contract, and as a mere
matter of preparation for the discharge of a public duty after
the termination of that contract. Under these circumstances,
we are of the opinion that it is not affirmatively disclosed by
the record that the amount in controversy is a sum in excess
of $5000, and, therefore, for want of jurisdiction in this court,
the appeal must be

Disrnisse'.

MONTANA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING AND

MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO TE
No. 167.

SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
Submitted December 13, 1893.-

Decided March 5,1894.

The provision in section 376 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Montana,

which authorizes a court on the petition of a person interested in a lead,
lode, or mining claim which is in the possession of another person, after
notice to the adverse party, to order an inspection, examination, or
survey of the lode or mining claim in question, and that the petitioner
shall have free access thereto for the purpose of making such inspection,

