MICHIGAN v. FLINT & P1tRE MARQUETTE R'D CO. 363
Statement of the Case.

.MICHIGAN

v. FLINT AND PARE MARQUETTE
RAILROAD COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 1MfICHIGA-e
No. 913. Submitted January 29,1894-Decided March 12, 1894.
The decision of the highest court of a State, in a suit brought by the State'
to establish its title to lands within the State, claimed and occupied by
a railroad company, that the State was estopped by its acts, conduct,
silence, and acquiescence from setting up such claim, presents no Federal
question for revision by this court.
MOTION to dismiss. This was a bill of information filed on
behalf of the State of Michigan in the Ingham Circuit Court,
December 13, 1887, against the Flint and Pore Marquette
Railroad Company and others, claiming title to certain lands
under and by virtue of the grant by act of Congress of September 28, 1850, c. 84, commonly known as the swamp land
grant. 9 Stat. 519.
The claims of the respective parties appear in the pleadings,
which were in substance as follows:
The bill alleged that the grant transferred to the several
States named, and among others the State of Michigan, the
whole of the swamp and overflowed lands therein made unfit
for cultivation and remaining unsold on the 20th of September, 1850, and that it was the duty of the Secretary of the
Interior to make lists and plats of the land, and, at the request
of the governor of the State, to issue patents; that the effect
of the grant was to vest title in the State, and that the State
afterwards asserted title to all the land, and that such title
was recognized by the United States. It was further averred
that on or about November 21, 1850, certain instructions were
prepared relative to the designation and description of said
swamp lands by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
of which a copy was sent to the surveyor-general and another
copy to the governor, by which the surveyor-general waS
instructed to make out lists and to regard the field-notes on

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

file in his office as the basis thereof, if the State was willing
to adopt them, and if not, and the State furnished him with
satisfactory evidence that any lands were of the character
embraced by the grant, to so report them; that the surveyorgeneral transmitted a copy of his instructions to the governor
and desired information whether the state authorities would
accept the field-notes or conclude to have a survey "to determine the boundaries of the swamp and overflowed lands."
It was further alleged that the governor suggested delay,
and that on January 3, 1851, the surveyor-general gave his
opinion that the field-notes would show a greater amount of
swamp lands than an actual resurvey.
The bill then stated that the survey spoken of indicated the
sections or subdivision of sections of government lands which
were of a swampy character, and that pursuant to the propositions and suggestions aforesaid the legislature of Michigan
passed an act, approved June 28, 1851, adopting the notes of
the surveyor on file in the office of the surveyor-general, as
the basis upon which the State accepted the lands, and that
such legislation was well known to the Land Department in
Washington, and understood to be the basis agreed upon for
the adjustment of the lands granted by said grant.
That this proposition and these acceptances by the State
"operated and had the legal effect to perfect in the State of
Michigan full, complete, and absolute title to all the lands
shown by the surveyor-general's minutes to be swamp and
overflowed lands, and all subdivisions of land the greater
part of which appeared by said minutes to be of a swampy
nature."

It was further averred that the surveyor-general thereupon
proceeded to prepare plats, and designate upon said plats the
lands of a swampy nature and character which came within
the grant; that the maps and plats are now on file in the office
of the Michigan land commissioner, and are the identification
of the swamp lands granted to the State of Michigan by the
said act, and "which this informant submits are effective and
binding both upon the United States and all persons claiming
from them, as well as the State of Michigan;" that the action

MICHIGAN v. FLINT & PtRE MARQUETTE R'D CO. 365
Statement of the Case.

of the State and the lists were reported to the General Land
Office.
The bill then stated that the title of the State of Michigan
having been perfected in this manner, afterwards Congress,
by act of June 3, 1856, granted lands to Michigan to aid in
the construction of certain railroads, and, among others, the
Flint and Pore Marquette Railroad, and that a large quantity
of the lands selected by the railroad company were lands
which were shown by the minutes of the surveyor-general to
be swamp.
That the proposal by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office as to the method of identification, the action taken
thereon, and the selection of swamp lands, were with the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior; that by reason
thereof and sundry subsequent confirmatory acts of Congress
the title of the State became complete; and that by the
means particularly detailed in the bill these lands became
diverted from the swamp land grant, and passed to the railroad company as railroad lands. The prayer was that the
lands might be declared to be swamp lands, and that the railroad company had no right in them; that the title of the
State be confirmed, and that the defendants be required to
account for land and timber sold; and for an injunction to
prevent further sales.
The answer denied that the State of Michigan had any
power or control over the lands or any of them, and stated
that defendant trustees held the title for the railroad company;
that this title came from the United States through the State
of Michigan by an act of the legislature of February 14, 1857,
and sundry subsequent conveyances; denied that the effect of
the grant was, as stated in the information, to vest title in the
State prior to identification; and that the correspondence
spoken of in the bill could have the effect to increase the
rights of the State of Michigan beyond the terms of the act
of Congress granting said lands.
The answer further stated that it was a matter of common
knowledge that many of the surveys in Michigan were false
and fraudulent, in many cases surveys not having been made

-366

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

jn the field at all, but the field-notes and maps which were
returned being wholly false and fictitious; that in consequence
resurveys were made pursuant to the authority of Congress;
that Congress made appropriations for that purpose, and that
he notes of the resurvey, and the maps of the resurvey,
became the notes of the survey; that the Federal authorities
and the state authorities accepted the resurveys as the only
valid surveys, and had acted upon these resurveys as such
from that time until the filing of this bill.
It was denied that any of the lands mentioned and referred
-to inthe bill were in fact swamp or overflowed lands within
the meaning of the act of Congress; and stated that there
had been a reorganization of the Flint and Pore Marquette
Railroad Company, and that a new corporation had been
.organized to take the title of the original company, and that
.all the lands mentioned had been certified by the Secretary
,of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land
Office to the State of Michigan as lands identified as being
within the act of June 3, 1856, for the benefit of the Flint
and Pore Marquette Railroad Company.
It was further averred that no patents were issued under
the grant of June 3, 1856, to the railroad company, but that
the title passed by statute, which title was made complete
by the identification and certification of the United States
Land Office at Washington; that the greater portion of these
lands had been offered for sale for more than twenty years, and
more than four-fifths of them had been in fact sold, and that
many of the parcels had been occupied by purchasers for more
than fifteen years, and that the title of these purchasers had
never been questioned until the filing of this information.
The answer claimed that the certification of the lands
under the railroad grant was itself an adjudication by the
Secretary of the Interior that the lands were not of the
.character described in the Swamp Land Act of 1850, and
was a conclusive adjudication that said lands were included
within the railroad grant of 1856.
The answer further stated that if the State did become
-the owner, as specified in the bill, so much time had elapsed

MIICHIGANT v. FLINT & PARE M1ARQUETTE R'D CO. 36T
Counsel for Parties.
that the State was prohibited by law, by its own statute
of limitations, from bringing any suit for the recovery of
the lands; that the claim of the State was stale; and that
so much time had elapsed, and other rights had become so
involved by the issue of bonds by the railroad company
secured upon these lands, and by the sale of so large a portion of the lands to parties who bought in good faith, that
the State should be held estopped from now raising the
question at issue; and further, because the State of Michigan
had, by virtue of special acts of its legislature, caused lists
to be made of these lands and sent to the assessing officers,
.and that for many years, under the authority of the State of
'Michigan, they had been specially assessed as railroad lands,
.and the railway company had paid many thousands of dollars
for taxes imposed upon them under these acts of the legislature.
The answer also alleged that application was made by
the railway company in 1870 to the commissioner of the
state land office to know whether any of these lands were
claimed by the State as swamp lands, and the company was
then advised by the commissioner of the state land office
that the State did not lay any claim to any of the lands in
,question; and reiterated the averment of estoppel.
Proofs were taken and upon hearing a decree was entered
in the court below in favor of complainant, declaring the
title to be in the State; that the cloud thereon arising from
the claim of defendants be removed; and referring the cause
to a commissioner to take evidence of taxes paid by defend.ants on the lands and the value of the timber cut therefrom;
whereupon the cause was taken by appeal to the Supreme
Court of 'Michigan, which reversed the decree and directed
the bill to be dismissed with costs. State v. Flint & Pire
.Marquette Railroad,89 Michigan, 481. The cause was then
brought by writ of error to this court.
rA. WF I.

TFebber for the motion.

.Mr. A. A. Ellis, Attorney General
Mfichigan, opposing.

of the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLE-R,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held that the State might

be estopped by its acts, conduct, silence, and acquiescence;
that the only question necessary to be considered and determined was the question of estoppel; and, after a full consideration of the facts applicable to this branch 'of the case,
reached the conclusion that the claim of the State had no
foundation in equity, justice, or good conscience; that it had
become stale; and that the State was estopped to assert
title in itself to the lands in question. As its judgment thus
rested upon the decision of a question which was not Federal,

this court has no jurisdiction to review it, and the writ of
error must be dismissed. Adams County v. Burlington &
Missouri Railroad,112 U. S. 123; Israel v. Arthur, ante, 355.
,
TWrit of error dismissed.

IfAIDOCK v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 244. Argued February 1, 1894.-

Decided Mrch 12, 1894.

In construing a tariff act, when it is claimed that the commercial use of a
word or phrase in it differs from the ordinary signification of such word
or phrase, in order that the former prevail over the latter it must appear
that the commercial designation is the result of established usage in
commerce and trade, and that at the date of the passage of the act that
usage was definite, uniform, and general, and not partial, local, or personal.

THIs was an action to recover duties paid under protest.
The bill of exceptions, omitting formal parts, was as follows:
"The plaintiff imported in the year 1886 into the port of

New York certain goods, consisting of mugs, plates, cups, and
saucers, made of china, of small size, and claimed by him to
be dutiable as toys. Duty was assessed by the defendant and
paid by the plaintiff at the rate of sixty per cent ad valorem

