PRESSO

v. RUSSELL.

Statement of the Case.

260, providing that the section shall read as follows: "No
ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating liquor or liquors
of whatever kind shall be introduced, under any pretence, into
the Indian country. Every person who sells, exchanges, gives,
barters, or disposes of any ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or
intoxicating liquors of any kind to any Indian under charge
of any Indian superintendent or agent, or introduces or attempts to introduce any ardent spirits, ale, wine, beer, or
intoxicating liquors of any kind into the Indian country, shall
be punished by imprisonment for not more than two years,
and by fine of not more than three hundred dollars for each
offence."
This would seem to show that Congress regarded the act,
as it previously stood, as not including ale and beer in its
terms. At any rate, the temptation to the courts to stretch
the law to cover an acknowledged evil is now removed.
The judgment of the court below is
Reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to quash
the indictment and discharge the defendant.

PRESSON v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THn
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSEtTS.
No. 315. Submitted March 22, 1S94.- Decided April 9, 1894.

Dry salted codfish, never pickled, imported January 19, 1888, in dry flour or
sugar barrels, incapable of containing liquids, were subject to a duty of
25 per cent ad valorem, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 504, as other fish not specially enumerated or provided for; but, as the
importer's protest was not sufficient to notify the collector of his claim,
the judgment below is reversed, and a judgment ordered for defendant.

Tins was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
unlawfully assessed, and was tried by the Circuit Court, without a jury, upon the following agreed statement of facts:
VOL. CLII-37

OCTOBER TERMI,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

"The plaintiffs, on the nineteenth day of January, 1888,
imported from Montreal, Canada, into the port of St. Albans,
Vermont, one hundred barrels of dry salted codfish consigned to
John S. Story, to be by him entered at the custom-house at
St. Albans, and thence to be immediately transported in bond
to the port of Gloucester, Massachusetts, consigned to the plaintiffs. The goods were entered at the custom-house at St. Albans
on the nineteenth day of January, 1888, by Story, as ' one hundred barrels pickled cod,' and were immediately transported
in bond to Gloucester and entered by the plaintiffs at the custom-house in Gloucester. The fish were imported in dry flour
or sugar barrels, incapable of containing liquids, and had never
been pickled, but had been cured with dry salt, and were not
at the time of their importation what is known as 'pickled
fish,' but were dry salted fish; each barrel contained two
hundred and thirty-eight pounds of fish. The defendant,
then collector of customs for said port of Gloucester, demanded and collected upon each pound of said fish a duty of
one cent, amounting in the whole to the sum of two hundred
and thirty-eight dollars, a sum which the plaintiffs claimed was
not due and payable as duties, and exacted payment of the
same from the plaintiffs, who made payment thereof to the
said defendant under protest and in order to obtain possession
of said merchandise.
"The plaintiffs, being dissatisfied with the decision of the
collector assessing the said duty upon the said fish, gave to
him due and seasonable notice thereof in writing, setting forth
therein distinctly and specificallj the grounds of their objection thereto, and duly and seasonably appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed the said decision of the
said collector, and the plaintiffs seasonably brought this suit
to recover the said sum of one hundred and nineteen dollars,
so exacted and paid to the said defendant for customs duty
upon said fish.
"The writ and pleadings may be referred to, also annexed
copy of protest, and copy of invoice also annexed.
"Upon the foregoing facts it is agreed that the court may
enter such judgment as the law requires."

PRESSON v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

The protest read thus: "We understand that you have
assessed duties at the rate of one cent per lb. as ' pickled fish,'
whereas they are 'dry fish,' and the duty should be but onehalf cent per lb. We hereby protest against your assessment
of one cent per lb.," etc.
The invoice stated the actual cost of the fish at $523.60.
The Circuit Court held that salt fish in barrels were not subject to duty under the tariff act of 1883, and gave judgment
for the plaintiff in the sum of $238, to review which this writ
of error was brought.
XIr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
.JThr. -F'edericCunningham for defendant in error.
M-n. CHIEF JUSTOE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Schedule G of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 503, 504, contained, under the heading "Fish," these
paragraphs:
"Salmon, pickled, one cent per pound; other fish, pickled,
in barrels, one cent per pound.
"Foreign caught fish, imported otherwise than in barrels or
half barrels, whether fresh, smoked, dried, salted, or pickled,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, fifty cents
per hundred pounds."
"Salmon, and all other fish, prepared or preserved, and
prepared meats of all kinds, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act, twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
These fish were entered as "pickled cod," and were in
barrels, and the collector assessed them under the first of the
above three paragraphs, but as it was admitted on the trial
that the fish had never been pickled but had been cured with
dry salt, this must be treated as erroneous; and, being in
barrels, they were not within the second paragraph, which

OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Opinion of the Court.

applied only to fish "imported otherwise than in barrels or
half barrels."
As, however, the fish were preserved by being dry salted,
we are.of opinion that they came within the third paragraph,
and were subject to the ad valorem duty there specified.
But the action cannot be maintained if the statutory requirements in respect of notice were not complied with. Rev. Stat.
% 2931, 3011. While such protest need not be technically
precise, it must "definitely and specifically" set forth the
grounds of the importer's objections, to the end that the collector may have seasonable opportunity to remove them, and
that the importer may not raise other objections than those
on which he acted, after the business is closed and the money
paid into the Treasury. Eerrmaz v. 1?obertson, ante, 521.
This involves the designation in substance, though exact
accuracy is not required, of the provision under which the
importer insists the goods are dutiable, so as to comprehensively indicate the grounds of alleged error and afford the
means of rectification. The importers assumed to do this
here, and objected that the fish were not "pickled fish" liable
to a duty of one cent per pound, but were "dry fish" dutiable
at one-half cent per pound; or, in other words, the inference
from the duty specified was that the collector should have
assessed them under the second paragraph above quoted and
not under the first. The collector, who had classified the fish
in accordance with the entry, was thus notified that he should
have classified them under a clause which was in terms inapplicable. It was only from the connection of the words "dry
fish" with the rate named, that the collector could have
inferred that the importers meant that the fish were cured by
being dried; but the clause did not apply, and he was left to
conjecture as to whether the fish might not have been originally pickled and become subsequently dry. We do not say
that the protest need necessarily have stated that the fish had
never been pickled, but it was essential to its sufficiency that
it should amount to a notification that the importers claimed
that the fish were cured by being dried or salted, and not by
being pickled. Had the second paragraph applied, the protest

SEEBERGER v. SCHLESINGER.
Statement of the Case.

might be treated as definite enough; but, as the case stands,
it must be held to have been insufficient.
The judgment is reversed and the cause 7-emanded with a
direction to enterjudgment for the deendant.
Mr. JUSTICE JAcxKso did not hear the argument, and took
no part in the consideration and decision of the case.

SEEBERGER v. SCHLESINGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 274. Argued and submitted March 13, 1894. -Decided April 9,189.
Chinese goat skins, tanned with the hair on, so that the skin Is soft and
pliant, should not be classified for the assessment of customs duties as
"rugs," under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488.
The commercial designation of an imported article is not a matter of which
courts can take judicial notice, but is a fact to be proved by evidence.
When the court below makes special findings, no exception is necessary to
raise the question whether the facts support the judgment.
Shell-covered opera glasses, composed of shell, metal, and glass, Imported
under the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, were subject to be classed
as manufactures composed in part of metal, under &ehedule C, and were
dutiable at 45 per cent.

Tis was an action by the firm of Schlesinger & Mayer
against the collector of the port of Chicago to recover duties
paid upon certain importations of Chinese goat skins and pearl
opera glasses, entered for consumption at the custom-house at
Chicago.
The case was tried by the court, without a jury. The court
made a special finding of facts, and awarded the plaintiff
judgment for $113.60 for excess duties upon the goat skins,
and $6.60 upon the opera glasses.
Defendant sued out a writ of error from this court.

