ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. SCHUMACHER.

117

Syllabus.

contract was held to be a suit to recover the contents of a
ehose in action, and therefore could not be maintained under
the statute in question in a Federal court in the name of the
assignee, if the assignor could not have maintained such suit.
The complainant is not, it is true, designated in the pleadings or in any formal instrument as assignee of the contract
between the trustees of the internal improvement fund and
the defendant railway company, but the term "assignee"1 in
the statute covers not merely persons to whom is technically
transferred the contract in controversy, but any one who, by
virtue of any transfer to him, can claim its beneficial interest.
The contract under which the complainant claims, to wit, its
contract with the defendant company for the construction of
the road, transferred to it the beneficial interest of that company in the lands covered by its contract with the trustees,
and therefore brings the suit within the prohibition of section
629 of the Revised Statutes.
It follows that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of this
case in the name of complainant, but as the decree below dismissed the bill generally, that decree is reversed at the costs
of appellant, and the cause remanded with a direction to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction and without prejudice.

Di~missed.

ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY v. SCHUMACHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 239. Submitted February 1, 1894.- Decided March 5, 1894.

When the employ6 of a railroad company sues the company to recover
damages for injuries inflicted upon him while in its service by reason
of defective machinery, and it plainly appears that he was guilty of
contributory negligence, and there is no evidence of a wilful or intentional negligence on the part of the railroad company for the purpose of
injuring the plaintiff,there is nothing in the case to submit to the jury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

THis was an action by Schumacher to recover for personal

injuries received by him while in the employ of the defendant
railway company as a laborer upon a gravel train, which was
engaged in "surfacing" or ballasting defendant's tracks in the
Indian Territory.
The complaint alleged that the plaintiff boarded the train
at Tuscahoma, to aid in unloading the gravel when the car
should reach its destination; that when the train reached
Talihina, it was stopped on the main track to take on several
cars loaded with gravel which were then on the side track;
that after these cars were switched to the main track from
the side track, they were cut loose from the engine and run
with great force and violence down grade, until they struck
the train on which plaintiff was riding; that the brakeman
was unable to diminish the speed or check the cars, by reason
of a defective brake, of the condition of which the defendant
had notice, or might with proper diligence have had notice;
and that by reason of the negligence of the defendant in permitting such defective brake to be used, plaintiff was, by the
striking of the cars against the train on which he was riding,
violently thrown from the car upon the track, the wheels runnino' over his left foot and inflicting painful and serious injuries. In a supplemental complaint, plaintiff further charged
the defendant with negligence in failing to make and enforce
suitable regulations as to the manner of switching and making up trains, regulating the speed thereof, and providing a
sufficient number of brakemen to check and control the cars.
The answer put in issue all these allegations, and pleaded
contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff.
Upon the trial the case was submitted to jury, who returned
a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of $8000, upon which
judgment was entered, and defendant sued out this writ of
error.
-Yr. George 1?. Peck, 31r. A. T'. Briton,-Y. A. B. Browne,
and AXh. .D.A enna for plaintiff in error.

.M. A. -H.Garlandfor defendant in error.

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. SCHUMEACHER.

79

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRowN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We do not find it necessary to consider in detail the specification of errors assigned to the charge of the court in this
case, as we are of opinion that, upon the conceded facts, there
was such contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff
as required the court to direct a verdict for the defendant.
The testimony showed that plaintiff was employed as a
common laborer by defendant; that it was his duty to assist
in loading cars with gravel and then ride down on the train
to that portion of the track where the gravel was to be used,
and there to assist in unloading and placing the gravel between the ties. At the time of his injury- plaintiff was sitting
on the end of a loaded fiat car next to the caboose, with his
feet hanging over the side of the car. The train had stopped
at Talihina, a station between the gravel pit and its destination, to take up ten additional carloads of gravel, which were
standing upon a side track, the original train consisting of
four cars and a caboose. On arriving at Talihina, the engine
left the cars and caboose on the main track, went in on the
siding, coupled on thirteen cars that were standing on the side
track, three of which next the engine were not wanted. When
the engine and thirteen cars got on to the main track, the ten
cars that were wanted were cut loose from the engine, and
allowed to go down the grade. The grade proved to be a
little steeper than the brakeman in charge of the cars supposed, and, to use his own words,," The cars got the start of
me a little, and when I saw they were going to hit a little too
hard, I halloaed to the men 'Look out!' I saw they were
going to hit harder than I thought, harder than cars ought to
strike in making a coupling." They came in contact with:
that portion of the train on which plaintiff sat with a violent
jar or shock, which caused him to lose his balance, fall with
his feet upon the track, when the wheels passed over a portion
of his right foot, necessitating amputation.
The testimony showed that the train was manned by the
usual complement of trainmen, namely, a conductor, two

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

brakemen, an engineer, and a fireman, and that each was
competent. At the time of the injury, the conductor was
near the forward end of the four stationary cars for the
purpose of making the coupling. The engineer and fireman
were in their proper positions upon the engine. One brakeman was with the engine and three cars, which were being
replaced on the side track; and the other was on the ten cars
which were to be attached to the train. There was no
evidence of any defect in the brakes, machinery, or appliances,
or any failure to make or enforce suitable regulations, and
these issues were not submitted to the jury. There was
evidence tending to show that the place where the plaintiff
sat when he fell was a dangerous place to be in when cars were
being coupled, and plaintiff testified that he knew that they
were about to couple some cars, but was not watching and
did not see the other cars come down. There was evidence
tending to show that both the brakemen and the foreman
shouted to the men on the flat cars to look out, and that they
were distinctly heard by persons in a less favorable place to
hear than the plaintiff. There was also evidence tending to
show that the men had been warned by their foreman and
by the train master not to ride on the flat cars, but to ride
in the caboose, and that the conductor had told this same
gang of laborers that morning that they had better ride in
the caboose, and that there was plenty of room there. There
was also testimony that the men often rode on fiat cars with
the knowledge of the foreman and conductor.
The gist of all this testimony is that, notwithstanding the
foreman and the train master had warned the men not to ride
on the fiat cars, and had provided a caboose in which he was
told it was safer to ride, plaintiff selected a place he knew
to be dangerous, when cars were being coupled; sat with his
legs hanging over the side of the car in a position in which
he could 'be easily jostled off, and paid so little attention to
what he knew was going on that he not only did not watch
or see the other cars coming down, but failed to hear a warning shout heard by others in the vicinity, at least one of
whom was more remote than he. Under such circumstances,

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
Syllabus.

he has no right to call upon the company to pay him damages.
Had he been riding in the caboose, he would have been safe.
Had he taken the precaution to notice what was going on,
he could not have failed to see that a collision was imminent,
and could have jumped off. The only negligence chargeable
against the defendant was in backing the train down at too
great speed. But, giving to his own conduct as well as that
of the defendant the construction most favorable to the
plaintiff, there was no theory upon which it was proper to
submit the case to the jury. There was no negligence by the
defendant shown as occurring subsequent to the negligence
of the plaintiff, since his negligence was continuous down to
the moment of the injury. Neither was there any evidence
of a wilful or intentional negligence on the part of the
defendant for the purpose of injuring the plaintiff. None
such was averred in the complaint, and none such was shown
in the testimony.

The case of Railroad Co. v. Jones, 95

U. S. 439, is directly in point, and is decisive of this.

See

also St. Iouis & San Francisco Railway v. -Marker, 41
Arkansas, 542; Glover v. Scotten, 82 :Michigan, 369.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and
forfurtherproceedings in conformzity with this opinion.

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 225. Argued and submitted January 23, 24, 1894.-Decided March 5,1894.

An owner of grazing land in Texas, who stocks his land with cattle greatly
in excess of the number which can be fed upon it, and permits them to
go on and occupy and feed from the grass growing upon unoccupied
land of a neighboring proprietor, with no separating fence, becomes
liable to the latter for the rental value of his land so occupied.
VOL. cIr-6

