WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
Statement of the Case.

Statutes was still in force, and in view of the provision therein
made for suits against the collector.
We are of opinion that this action would not lie at common
law, the money being required by section 3010 to be paid into
the Treasury; that it was not authorized by statute; and that
the question of jurisdiction certified was properly answered
by the Circuit Court in the negative.
Judgment airmed.
M . JusTICE JACKSON was absent when this case was submitted, and took no part in its decision.

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 312.

Argued March 20, 21, 1894. -Decided

April 9, 1894.

The Mayor and City Council of Boston hid authority, in 1885, to authorize
the City Water Board, without previous advertisement, to contract for
the exchange of such pumping engines and machinery as were inadequate or of insufficient capacity for those of the capacity required by
plans and estimates for a high-service extension previously made, and
to direct that the expense of such exchange should be charged to the
appropriation for high-service extension; and the contract made by
the Water Board, in pursuance of such authority, and without previous
advertising, is binding on the city.

THE plaintiffs in error, as surviving partners of a firm doing
business under the name of Henry R. Worthington, brought
this action upon a written agreement concluded, May 19,
1885, between that firm and the Boston Water Board -the
latter assuming to act on behalf of the city of Boston.
This agreement involved the expenditure of a large sum of
money for pumping engines and machinery in connection
with the "high-service" extension of the water works of the
city, and was made without an advertisement for proposals
by bidders.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The court below tried the case without a jury pursuant to
a written stipulation of the parties, and, being of opinion
that without such advertisement the Water Board had no
authority to make the agreement, gave judgment in favor of
the city. 41 Fed. Rep. 23. Whether the Water Board had
such authority depends upon certain facts set forth in an
agreed statement of the parties. These facts are as follows:
The city of Boston previous to, and ever since, the year
1875 was authorized to take water from Lake Cochituate,
Sudbury River, and Mystic Lake, to build and maintain aqueducts, dams, reservoirs, and to lay pipes, establish hydrants,
and supply its inhabitants with water in such manner and by
such agents, officers, and servants as the city council should
from time to time direct; and previous to 1875 it had established the Cochituate Water Board and the Mystic Water
Board to exercise those powers, subject to the ordinances and
orders of the city.
By chapter 80 of the statutes of Massachusetts of 1875, it
was provided: "The city council of the city of Boston may
establish by ordinance a water board to be known as the
Boston Water Board, consisting of three able and discreet
persons to be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, and to receive such compensation
as the city council may from time to time determine. The
said board may be empowered by said city council to exercise
all or any of the powers conferred by the statutes of the
Commonwealth upon the city of Boston, with reference to
supplying said city with water, or of the, Cochituate and
Mystic Water Boards, and also to act as the agent of the city
of Boston in doing any and all things which the city is now
authorized to do in relation to the taking of lands, water
rights, and other property, and the establishment and maintenance of works and appliances for supplying the city of
Boston or other cities and towns with pure water, and the
said Boston Water Board shall, so far as the city council of
said city may by ordinance prescribe, succeed to all the
powers and duties formerly vested in the Cochituate Water
Board and Mystic Water Board."

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
Statement of the Case.

On the 22d day of March, 1876, the city council of Boston,
with the approval of the mayor, passed an ordinance that

was in force when the agreement in question was made, and
which, among other things, provided: "There

shall be a

board to be known as the Boston Water Board and to consist
of three members. Said board shall have and exercise all the
powers so far as such powers can be legally delegated by the
city council, which were granted to the city by or are held by
the city under chapter one hundred and sixty-seven of the
statutes of the Commonwealth of the year eighteen hundred
and forty-six, chapter one hundred and seventy-seven of the
said statutes of the year eighteen hundred and seventy-two,
and by or under any and all statutes in addition to either of
the before-mentioned chapters, subject, however, to the authority of the city council from time to time, by ordinances,
orders, or resolutions, to instruct said board, and to change
and limit their powers. Said board may, subject to the
approval of the mayor, sell or lease such of the property connected with the water works as they deem expedient, and all
necessary deeds and leases shall be executed by the mayor
and countersigned by the chairman of said board. No contract or purchase which is estimated to involve an expenditure of more than ten thousand dollars, except a contract
for the laying of pipe, shall be made by the said board until
they have advertised, as hereinafter provided, for sealed proposals thereof. . . . All proposals shall be publicly opened
at the time and place designated in the advertisement, and
the said board may reject any or all bids which are offered,
and it shall be their duty to reject the bids of all irresponsible
parties."
For several years prior to 1884 the question of extending
the high-service works of the Cochituate Water Department,
which comprised a part of the city water works, was before
the city council.
In 1881, the Water Board submitted to the council the following estimate of the cost of such extension: "For engine
buildings, wells, engine foundations, etc., $149,000; one engine,
capacity 10,000,000 gallons, $75,000; one relief engine, capac

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ity 5,000,000 gallons, (based on using one of Mystic pumpingengines,) $18,000; lands and reservoir, (No. 1,) capacity 15,000,000 gallons, $169,000; land damages for reservoir (No. 3)
and pipe lines, $28,000; pipe mains, force, and supply, $237,000; add 10 per cent for superintendence, engineering, and
contingencies, $67,600; total, $743,600."
The Water Board, November 17, 1884, submitted to the
council another estimate of the cost of such extension, as follows: "For engine buildings, wells, engine foundation, connection chamber, $142,000; one engine, capacity 10,000,000
gallons, $60,000; one relief engine, capacity 5,000,000 gallons,
$25,000 ; land and reservoir, capacity 15,000,000 gallons, including gate chamber, $210,000; land damages for reservoir No. 3,
$28,000; pipe mains, force and supply, $231,000; add 10 per
cent, engineering and contingencies, $69,600; total, $765,600."
On December 23, 1884, an order was duly passed by the
city council, and approved by the mayor, to this effect:
"Ordered, That the city treasurer be authorized to borrow,
under the direction of the committee on finance, and at such
a rate of interest as they shall determine, the sum of $766,000,
which sum is hereby appropriated, and the Boston Water
Board is authorized to expend the same for the extension of
the high-service works of the Cochituate Water Department."
On December 31, 1884, the City Engineer, Henry M.
Wightman, addressed to the Water Board a letter, in which
he said: "The board should determine the pumping engine it
will use, as such determination is necessary before a plan of
the pumping station can be made. I am of the opinion that
the improved Worthington engine will prove the most advantageous for the city, and as a three-million-gallon engine of
this type is running at the Worthington pump works in New
York, it would be advisable for the board to examine this
engine before any decision is made."
The Water Board adopted plans and specifications for the
proposed extension, requiring, among other things, two engines
of the daily capacity of five million and ten million gallons,
respectively, estimated by the board to cost from $85,000 to
$93,000, and the discontinuance of the pumping station on

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.

699,

Statement of the Case.

Elmwood Street, at the Highlands, and the engines and machinery therein. And on the third day of April, 1885, it sent
this communication to the city council: "The plans for the
extension of high service, as detailed by ex-City Engineer, Jos,
P. Davis, and the late City Engineer, Henry M. Wightman,
require the establishment of a new pumping station at Chestnut Hill of larger capacity than the present one at the Highlands, and the discontinuance of the latter. Mr. Wightman,
after a careful examination of the matter, concluded that it
would be advantageous for the city to exchange if possible
the small engines now in use for the larger ones required in the
extension of the high service, and so recommended to the
board. We therefore ask ' That the Water Board be authorized to exchange such pumping engines and machinery as are
inadequate or of insufficient capacity for those of the capacity
required by the plans and estimates of the new high-service
extension.'
On April 20, 1885, the following order, prepared by the
chairman of the Water Board, and which had duly passed
both branches of the city council, was approved by the mayor:
"Ordeeed, That the Water Board be authorized to exchange
such pumping engines and machinery as are inadequate or of
insufficient capacity for those of the capacity required by the
plans and estimates of the new high-service extension, the
expense of such exchange to be charged to the appropriation
for high-service extension."
On April 21, 1885, the Water Board visited New York and
examined the improved or high-duty Worthington engine, and
other engines in New York, Philadelphia, and Brooklyn, all
of which they had done several times before subsequently to
January 1, 1885, and on the previous visits had been accompanied by the City Engineer; and on April 24, 1885, received
from the firm of Henry R. Worthington the following proposal, sent at the suggestion of the chairman of the Water
Board in accordance with the recommendation of the City
Engineer as above set forth: "We beg leave to submit the
following proposal: For $106,575, will furnish and erect the
pumps, etc., ready for continuous service. Whole to the satis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

faction of the City Engineer, and under such specifications as
to details as may hereafter be agreed upon. Above price on
assumption that we are to receive other engines and boilers on
Elmwood Street. Boilers according to specifications accompanying-also feeding apparatus. We guarantee 100,000,000
foot pounds with 100 pounds of coal. Also materials and
labor shall be first-class and equal to any other work furnished
by us. We agree to complete work in eight months from date
of signing contract." On the same day the Water Board returned the following answer: "Your proposal of April 24,
1885, to furnish high-service pumping plant for the city of
Boston for the sum of one hundred and six thousand five hundred and seventy-five dollars ($106,575) is hereby accepted
under the conditions that the detailed specifications and terms
of the contract for the above-mentioned work shall be satisfactory to both parties concerned in the said proposal; it being
understood that the present pumping plant at the Elmwood
Station is to be exchanged, as per the terms of your proposition."
The "other engines and boilers" and "pumping plant" above
referred to were the engines and machinery of the pumping
station on Elmwood Street at the Highlands, that were to be
discontinued, and consisted of one small low-duty Worthington
engine, made in 1878, and of the daily capacity of 3,000,000
gallons, and one engine and two boilers made by the Boston
Machine Company, said engine being made in 1870, and of the
daily capacity of 1,800,000 gallons - all of the aggregate value
of $3500.
The distinguishing feature of the improved or high-duty
Worthington engine was a "high-duty" attachment, the'
patent for which was owned and used exclusively by the
plaintiffs. This device, so far as the parties to this suit knew,
was the only one beside a fly-wheel that secured high economy
of steam and fuel by enabling the steam to be cut off from the
cylinder at an early point in the stroke of the piston without
causing a loss of speed; the effect of plaintiff's device and of
the fly-wheel, together with the expansion of the steam left
in the cylinder, being to carry the piston through the re-

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
Statement of the Case.

mainder of its stroke without loss of speed. It avoided the
vibration on the water column incident to the use of a crank
and fly-wheel, and could be used on the duplex low-duty
Worthington engine the motion of which was such that a
fly-wheel could not be used with it. The duplex high-duty
or low-duty Worthington engine was the only form of engine
that secured an absolutely steady and regular flow of water,
and whose steadiness and regularity of flow was in no way
dependent on speed, and the low-duty duplex engine was,
January 1, 1885, and ever since has been, manufactured by
other parties besides the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs had knowledge of the above ordinance requiring advertisement for proposals, but were informed by the
chairman of the Water Board that the order of April 20, 1885,
avoided any necessity of advertising in this instance; and on
May 19, 1885, the Board, in the name of and claiming to act
for the defendant, and whose whole authority in the premises,
if any it had, was derived from the orders, ordinances, and
statutes referred to, and the plaintiffs' firm, without any
advertisement for proposals, entered into a contract the
material portions of which were that Worthington should
make and erect at Chestnut Hill reservoir two high-duty
Worthington pumping engines, one of ten million and one of
five million gallons daily capacity, and the boilers and appurtenances for the same; that the defendant should pay the
plaintiffs therefor the sum of $106,515, and the pumping
machinery, boilers, and all their appurtenances then located
in the Highland pumping station, and valued at $3500, were
to become the property of the contractors.
That agreement provided for payments to the contractors
as follows: Twenty per cent of the contract price to be paid
when the steam cylinders of the engines were cast; fifteen
per cent, when the water cylinders were cast; fifteen per cent,
when the steam cylinders of the engines were bored and
planed; fifteen per cent, when both engines were erected; and
fifteen per cent, when the boilers and engines were delivered
at the pumping station at Chestnut Hill reservoir in Boston;
such payments not to be made nor demanded unless the work

OCTOBER TERM, ,1893.
Statement of the Case.

was progressing faithfully and to the satisfaction of the city
.engineer. The balance of the money due the contractor was
to be paid, and the pumping machinery at the Highland
pumping station was to become the contractor's property,
upon the completion of the entire work according to the terms
of the agreement, and "its connection to the high-service
system of the city of Boston, all to the satisfaction of the said
engineer."
On the'date of the execution of the agreement a bond in
the sum of $25,000, with sureties, running to the city of Boston, was delivered to the Water Board to secure the faithful
performance of the contract. This bond was accepted for the
,city by the Board and attached to the contract, and, when
this action was brought, was in possession of the City
Auditor.
The pumping engines and machinery called for by the contract were of a capacity required by the plans and specifications for the new high-service extension, and were capable of
doing the work contemplated by the orders of December 23,
1884, and April 20, 1885. The expenditure for piping was less
than the estimate therefor, and the entire amount expended
.and agreed to be expended for the new high-service extension
by the Water Board did not exceed the whole sum appropriated for that purpose.
The plaintiffs, before the commencement of this action, had
performed so much of the work described in the contract as
entitled them to receive 65 per cent of the contract price, and
notified the defendant that they were ready and willing to
the engines and boilers and perform the remainder of
.deliver
the work described in the contract; but the defendant bad
refused to receive the same, or to pay any of the instalments
named in the contract, although requested so to do, and notified the plaintiffs .that it would not allow said engines and
boilers to be delivered, and would not pay for the same.
In the year 1877 the Water Board and Henry R. Worthington contracted for an engine, at a cost of $20,000, without
advertising therefor, ,and the price stipulated therein was paid
-by the city.

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

.r..

George F. Edmunds for plaintiff in error.

.31. Andrew J. Bailey for defendant in error.
1. The ordinances cited provide that the Boston Water
Board shall not make any contract estimated to involve more
than ten thousand dollars until it has advertised for proposals
therefor, and all persons having to do with the city must take
notice of the ordinance. Heland v. Lowell, 3 Allen, 407; S. C.
81 Am. Dec. 670; Taylor v. Lambertville, 10 Atl. Rep. 809.
II. The Boston Water Board not having complied with this
ordinance, the contract made by it was not the contract of the
city, and is not binding upon it. Brady v. X'ayor of Vew
York, 30 N. Y. 312; iYicholson Pavement Co. v. Painter,35
California, 699; Zottnan v..8an FfPrancisco, 20 California, 96;
S. C. 81 Am. Dec. 96; Dean v. Chariton, 23 Wisconsin, 590;
S. C. 99 Am. Dec. 205; The. Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666;
Petition of Zaura E. Eager, 46 N. Y. 100; Zowell Savings
'Bank v. ]Winchester, 8 Allen, 109; Palmer v. Haverhill, 98
Mass. 487; Baltimore v. Esclbach, 18 Maryland, 286; 3loran
v. Xiami County, 2 Black, 722; Agawarm iat. Bank v. South
fadley, 128 iass. 503; Horton v. Tlhompson, 71 N. Y. 513.
III. The fact stated in the sixteenth clause of the statement
of facts has no bearing on this case. Butler v. Charlestown,
7 Gray, 12; Sikes v. lafield, 13 Gray, 347.
IV. The order did not annul or repeal the ordinance.
Third IHat. Bank v. Hlarrison, 8 Fed. Rep. 721 ; Chicago &c.
Bailway v. United States, 127 U. S. 406; United States v.
Benson, 31 Fed. Rep. 896; Chew fleong v. United States, 112
U. S. 536; Gilson v. Emery, 11 Gray, 430.
V. Nor can there be any claim of a ratification by the city.
Turney v. Bridgeport, 55 Connecticut, 412.
Mr. JUSTICE HARLA_,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The facts, set forth in the written stipulation of the parties,
bring this case within very narrow limits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The grant of power to the Water Board, by the ordinance
of March 22, 1876, was subject to the right of the city council,
from time to time, by ordinances, orders, or resolutions, to
instruct the Board, and to change and limit its authority, and,
also, to the condition that no contract or purchase, estimated
to involve an expenditure of more than ten thousand dollars,
except a contract for the laying of pipe, should be made without an advertisement for sealed proposals in the mode prescribed by that ordinance.
The contract in question did involve an expenditure of more
than ten thousand dollars, and, therefore, was one not within
the authority of the Water Board to make, without first advertising for sealed proposals, unless, as the plaintiffs contend, the
city council intended, by the ordinance of April 20, 1885, to
dispense with advertising for proposals for exchanging such
pumping engines and machinery as were found to be inadequate or insufficient, for engines and machinery required by
the plans and specifications of the new high-service extension.
We are of opinion that the contention of the plaintiffs rests
upon a sound interpretation of the ordinance of 1885. The
city council was empowered by the statutes of the Commonwealth to create a Water Board with authority to exercise all
the powers the city could exercise for the purpose, of supplying the municipality with water, and to act as the agent of
the city in establishing and maintaining works and appliances
to that end. The city council having conferred upon the
Water Board, subject to the conditions named, all the authority the city had in respect to such matters, that Board could
have obtained, by exchange, the new engines and machinery
specified in the agreement in question, upon duly advertising
for sealed proposals. It would seem, therefore, that the only
object of the ordinance of 1885 could have been to enable the
Water Board to effect such exchange by contract, without
advertising for proposals.
And there were reasons why that course should be pursued,
if the intention was to secure, for the purposes of the highservice extension, the improved or high-duty Worthington

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

engine. The patent for that engine was owned and exclusively used by the firm of Henry R. Worthington, and the
beneficial results ordinarily attending sealed proposals by
competing bidders could not have been obtained in this instance by advertisement. Nothing could have been gained
for the city by competition among bidders, one of whom only
was entitled to use the patented engine it desired to obtain.
The city council had been fully informed by the Water
Board of the cost of the high-service extension. The City
Engineer had recommended the purchase of the improved
Worthington engine. And the city council could not have
been ignorant of the fact that the proposed new engines and
machinery would cost not far from $100,000, and that plans
and specifications, involving an expenditure of about that
amount, had been adopted by the Water Board with the
approval of the City Engineer. It was distinctly informed
by the Board that the City Engineer bad carefully cohsidered
the whole matter, and was of opinion that the public interests
would be promoted if the small engines then in use were dispensed with altogether, by "exchange if possible," and the
larger ones, required in the extension of the high service,
substituted for them. The city council was, therefore, asked
to give the board authority "to exchange" such pumping
engines and machinery as were inadequate or insufficient for
such as were required by the plans and estimates of the new
high-service extension- an authority that need not have been
specially conferred, if the Board was to pursue the method of
advertising for proposals. The authority asked was given, not
generally, but with express reference to particular plans and
estimates, the expense of the exchange to be charged "to the
appropriation for high-service extension." As that appropriation was based upon estimates furnished by the Water Board
to the city council; as those estimates upon their face showed
that the expense of engines and machinery required in the
high-service extension would be large in comparison with the
value of the small engines and machinery then in use and
which were to be discontinued, the suggestion that the city
council could not have contemplated an "exchange" of engines
VOL. CLI--45

OCTOBER TERME, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and machinery worth only $3500 for engines and machinery
worth over $100,000, is of little moment. It is manifest that
the city council was aware, when it passed the ordinance of
April 20, 1885, that the Water Board had in mind the new
improved or high-duty Worthington engine. Interpreting
that ordinance in the light of all the circumstances preceding
and attending its passage, we are not at liberty to doubt that
the city council was aware of the recommendations of the City
Engineer, or that the object of the ordinance was to enable
the Water Board, by contract, without advertising for sealed
proposals from bidders, to exchange the engines and machinery then in use for the new and improved Worthington engine,
exclusively manufactured by the firm of Henry IR. Worthington. The Water Board was authorized by that ordinance
to create a debt for engines and machinery, not without restriction as to cost, but of the capacity "required by the plans
and estimates of the high-service extension," lessened by such
amount as could be obtained, in exchange, for the insufficient
engines and machinery then in use. The city council thus bad
in view the value of the inadequate engines and machinery then
in use, and the value of the new engines and machines; the
cost of the latter being made known to them by the plans
and estimates submitted by the Water Board. The better
interpretation of the ordinance of 1885 is, therefore, that
the exchange, authorized to be made, was expected to be
accomplished without resorting to an advertisement for proposals.
This conclusion has been reached independently of the fact
that some years before the present transaction the city paid
the sum of $20,000 for an engine obtained by the Water Board
from Henry R. Worthington, by contract, without advertising
for proposals. A single instance of that kind, showing a departure from the ordinance regulating the subject of contracts and
purchases by the Water Board, cannot be allowed to operate
as a repeal of that part of the ordinance requiring an advertisement for proposals where the Board makes a contract or purchase involving an expenditure of more than ten thousand
dollars. We place our decision in the present case upon what

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.

707

Opinion of the Court.

we regard the fair interpretation of the ordinance under which
the exchange in question was made.
It was agreed that if, on the facts stated by the parties, the
city was liable, judgment should be entered in favor of the
plaintiffs for the sum of $35,000, with interest from April 15,
1889. We are of opinion the city is liable upon the contract
made by the Water Board.

The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded, with
directions to enter judgment in favor of the pZaintiffs
accordingly.

