OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. ROBERTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE. STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 230. Argued and submitted January 30, 1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

The original claim of the State of Kansas to the school-lands in townships
16 and 36 in that State, was rejected by Congress and abandoned by the
State, and the right of Congress was conceded to the absolute control of
the lands thus embraced and of lands set apart for the use of Indians
until such right should be extinguished by appropriate legislation.
By the act of July 26, 1866, c. 270, 14 Stat. 289, granting a right of way to
the company subsequently known as the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company across the public lands in the State of Kansas, the
title of the lands composing that right of way, including townships 16
and 36, when crossed by it, became vested in that company.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Air. Thomas IV. Sedgwic, (with whom was Air. 7ames
Hagerman on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Air. Nelson Case, for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MR. JUSTIcE FIELD stated the case and delivered the opinion

of the court.
This is an action of ejectment to recover possession of certain lands situated in section sixteen (16) of township thirtyfour (34) in the county of Labette, State of Kansas, occupied
and used by the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company
as part of its right of way, to which it claims title under the
act of Congress of July 26, 1866, granting lands to the State
of Kansas to aid in the construction of a southern branch of
the Union Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company from Fort
Riley, Kansas, to Fort Smith, Arkansas. Act of July 26,
1866, c. 270, 14 Stat. 289.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. ROBERTS. 115
Opinion of the Court.

The act declares that, for the purpose of aiding the Union
Pacific Railway Company, southern branch, 'that being a
corporation then organized under the laws of Kansas, to construct and operate a railroad from Fort Riley, in that State,
or near that military reservation, thence down the valley of
the Neosha River to the southern line of the State, with a
view to the extension of the same through a portion of the
Indian Territory to Fort Smith, Arkansas, there was thereby
granted to that State, for the use and benefit of the railroad
company, every alternate section of land or parts thereof
designated by odd numbers, to the extent of five alternate
sections per mile on each side of its road, and not exceeding
in all ten sections per mile; provided that in case it should
appear that the United States had, when the line of the railroad was definitely located, sold any sections, or any part
thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption
or homestead settlement had attached to the same, or that it
had been reserved by the United States for any purpose
whatever, then it should be the duty of the Secretary of the
Interior to cause to be selected for the purposes stated, from
the public lands of the United States nearest to the sections
specified, so much land as should be equal to the amount of
the lands sold, reserved, or otherwise appropriated, or to
which the right of a homestead settlement or preemption
had attached. But to the said act a proviso was attached
that any and all lands reserved to the United States by any
act of Congress or in any other manner, by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or other purposes whatever, were reserved and
excepted from the operation of the act, except so far as it
might be found necessary to locate the route of said road
through such reserved lands, in which case the right of way,
two hundred feet in width, was thereby granted, subject to
the approval of the President of the United States.
The Union Pacific Railway Company, southern branch, the
corporation designated in the act of Congress, was organized
by the legislature of Kansas, and incorporated on the 25th
day of September, 1865, under an act providing for the incor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

poration and regulation of railroad companies; and on the 3d
day of February, 1870, its name was changed to that of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, under which
designation it is one of the defendants herein.
Certain lands within the present State of Kansas were
reserved whilst it was still a Territory, and long previously,
by the United States, for the use and occupation of the Osage
Indians.
Such reservation was made by treaty between
them and the United States concluded as far back as June
2, 1825, and proclaimed in December following. 7 Stat.
(Indian Treaties) 240. From that time, and continuously
thereafter, the reserved lands were occupied by those Indians
until the treaty ceding the lands, or parts thereof, to the
United States, concluded in 1866, and proclaimed in January,
1867, (14 Stat. 687,) except such portion thereof as was appropriated and used as a right of way by the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Railway Company for its road under the grant of
July 26, :1866. Prior to June 6, 1870, that company located
its railroad through these reserved lands in Kansas, with the
approval of the President, and constructed its road in substantial conformity with the act of Congress. The right of
way for its road, two hundred feet in width, was granted to
the company unconditionally, subject only to such approval.
The title to the land for the two hundred feet in width thus
granted vested in the company either upon the passage of
the act of Congress, July 26, 1866, or upon the construction
of the road, and so far as the present case is concerned, it
does not matter which date be taken.
The United States had the right to authorize the construction of the road of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway
Company through the reservation of the Osage Indians, and
to grant absolutely the fee of the two hundred feet as a
right of way to the company. Though the lands of the
Indians were reserved by treaty for their occupation, the
fee was always under the control of the government; and
when transferred, without reference to the possession of the
lands and without designation of any use of them requiring
the delivery of their possession, the transfer was subject

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS R'Y 00. v. ROBERTS. 117
Opinion of the Court.

to their right of occupancy; and the manner, time and conditions on which that right should be extinguished were
matters for the determination of the government, and not
for legal contestation in the courts between private parties.
This doctrine is applicable generally to the rights of Indians
to lands occupied by them under similar conditions. It was
asserted in Buttz v. The Norhern Pacic Railroad Conzpany,
119 U. S. 55, and has never, so far as we are aware, been
seriously controverted. In that case, the lands were within
what is known as Indian country, where the right of the
Indians to the occupancy of their lands was recognized; and
in grants by the government of portions thereof for works of
internal improvement, there usually was a stipulation for its
extinguishment as rapidly as might be consistent with public
policy and the welfare of the Indians. Such a stipulation
was given when the grant under consideration in the case
cited was made, showing that the government intended the
grant to take effect notwithstanding any existing right of
occupancy by the Indians, and it was deemed a sufficient
expression of its intention to that effect. No such stipulation was made when the grant of the right of way tthrough
the Osage reservation was made, but the uses to which the
lands were to be applied necessarily involved their possession.
That grant was absolute in terms, covering both the fee and
possession, and left no rights on the part of the Indians to
be the subject of future consideration. Though the law as
stated with reference to the power of the government to
determine the right of occupancy of the Indians to their
lands has always been recognized, it is to be presumed, as
stated by this court in the Buttz case, that in its exercise the
United States will be governed by such considerations of
justice as will control a Christian people in their treatment
of an ignorant and dependent race, the court observing, however, that the propriety or justice of their action towards the
Indians, with respect to their lands, is a question of governmental policy, and is not a matter open to discussion in a
controversy between third parties neither of whom derives
title from the Indians. The right of the United States to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dispose of the fee of land occupied by them, it added, has
always been recognized by this court from the foundation of
the government. There are, however, certain well-established doctrines controlling the action of the government,
which can always be invoked to prevent hasty and improvident action against the Indians. It has always been held
that the occupancy of lands set apart by statute or treaty
with them for their use cannot be disturbed by claimants
under other grants of the government not indicating its
intention, either in express terms or by the uses to which the
lands are to be applied, to change the possession of the lands.
And the setting apart by statute or treaty with them of
lands for their occupancy is held to be of itself a withdrawal
of their character as public lands, and consequently of the
lands from sale and preemption.
The right and power of the government to dispose of the
fee of the lands in controversy occupied by the Osage Indians,
with their rights of occupancy, having been exercised, and a
grant of both fee and possession having been made to the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, it follows that
this dompany, the plaintiff in error, is entitled to a reversal
of the judgment unless the claim of the plaintiff below, the
defendant in error here, rests upon tenable grounds, and to
them we will now turn our attention. Roberts, the plaintiff
below, traces his title to the premises through a patent from
the State of Kansas to his grantor, dated May 25, 1871, and
by conveyance from him, claiming that they constituted a
portion of the lands ceded to the State for school purposes
prior to the grant of Congress to the railway company under
the act of July 26, 1866.
On the 30th of May, 1854, Congress passed an act (c. 59, 10
Stat. 277, 289) to organize the Territories of Nebraska and
Kansas. The sections of the act from the nineteenth to the
thirty-seventh inclusive, relate to the Territory of Kansas.
Section thirty-four (34) provided "that when the lands in the
said Territory shall be surveyed under the direction of the
government of the United States, preparatory to bringing
the same into market, sections numbered sixteen and thirty-

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS ,R'Y CO. v. ROBERTS. 119
Opinion of the Court.

six in each township in said Territory shall be, and the same
are hereby, reserved for the purpose of being applied to
schools in said Territory and in the States and Territories
hereafter to be erected out of the same."
If the reservation named was intended as a grant of the
sections sixteen (16) and thirty-six (36) to' the Territory and
to the States to be created out of them, or as a dedication of
them for schools, it could only apply to such lands as were
public lands, for no other lands in our land system are subdivided into sections, nor could it embrace lands which had
been set apart and reserved by statute or treaty with them
for the use of the Indians, as was the case with the lands
involved in this controversy, as we have already shown. As
early as 1839 it was held in Tilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498:
"That a tract lawfully appropriated to any purpose becomes
thereafter severed from the mass of public lands, and that no
subsequent law or proclamation will be construed to embrace
or operate upon it, although no exception be made of it."
The reservation referred to there was of land for military
purposes; and in Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733, 745, it was said that this
doctrine "applies with more force to Indian than to military
reservations. The latter," the court observed, "are the absolute property of the government. In the former other rights
are vested. Congress cannot be supposed to grant them in a
subsequent law, general in its terms. Specific language, leaving no room for doubt as to the legislative will, is required for
such a purpose."
The present constitution of Kansas was proposed by a
convention of people in the then Territory, July 29, 1859,
with specified boundaries. An ordinance of the convention,
preceding it, recites that, "whereas the Government of the
United States is the proprietor of a large portion of the lands
included in the limits of the State of Kansas as defined by this
constitution; and whereas the State will possess the right to
tax said lands for purposes of government and for other purposes: Now therefore, be it ordained by the people of Kansas
that the right of the State of Kansas to tax said lands is relin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

quished forever, and the State of Kansas will not interfere
with the title of the United States to such lands nor with
any regulation of Congress in relation thereto, nor tax nonresidents higher than residents, Provided always, that the
following conditions be agreed to by Congress," among which
conditions was the following: "That ' sections numbered sixteen (16) and thirty-six (36) in each township in the State,
i1noluding Indianreservationsand trust lands,shall be granted
to the State for the exclusive use of common schools; and
when either of said sections or any part thereof has been
disposed of, other lands of equal value, as nearly contiguous
thereto as possible, shall be substituted therefor.'" 1 Charters
and Constitutions, 629, 630.
Congress did not accept the proposed constitution with the
conditions designated, but on the contrary, in its act for the
admission of the State into the Union, passed on the 29th of
January, 1861, c. 20, 12 Stat. 126, 127, after declaring that the
State was admitted on an equal footing with the original
States in all respects whatever, and, describing its boundary,
added a clause, containing the following provisions among
others: "P'ovided, That nothing contained in the said constitution respecting the boundary of said State shall be
construed to impair the rights of person or property now
pertaining to the Indians in said territory, so long as such
rights shall remain unextinguished by treaty between the
United States and such Indians,

.

.

.

or to affect the

authority of the Government of the United States to make
any regulation respecting such Indians, their lands, property,
or other rights, by treaty, law, or otherwise, which it would
have been competent to make if this act had never been
passed." By this -provision Congress reserved to itself the
right to make all needful regulations for the government of
the Indians, and for the use and disposition of their lands
and other property. The Indians continued thereafter as
previously in possession of the lands, and their rights, whatever their nature and extent, were not extinguished by anything in the act of admission of the State into the Union, nor
at the time of the grant of a right of way by the act of July
26, 1866.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. ROBERTS. 121
Opinion of the Court."

Congress went further, and rejected in express terms the
claims of the State asserted in the ordinance accompanying
the proposed state constitution. By section 3 of the act of
admission it declared that the act of admission should not be
construed as an assent to all or any of the propositions or
claims contained in the ordinance accompanying the proposed
constitution or in the resolutions attached, but at the same
time it made certain propositions, which it offered to the
people of the State for compliance or rejection, and which, if
accepted, should be held obligatory upon the United States
and upon the State.
One of these propositions declared "that sections numbered
sixteen and thirty-six in every township of public lands in said
State, and where either of said sections or any part thereof
has been sold or otherwise been disposed of, other lands
equivalent thereto and as contiguous as may be, shall be
granted to said State for the use of schools." And the several
propositions were followed by the declaration that they were
offered "on the condition that the people of Kansas shall provide by an ordinance, irrevocable without the consent of the
United States, that said State shall never interfere with the
primary disposal of the soil within the same by the United
States or with any regulations Congress may find necessary
for securing the title in said soil to bona flde purchasers
thereof."
These several provisions were accepted by the State of
Kansas, by a joint resolution of its legislature, January 20,
1862, in this language: "That the propositions contained in
the act of Congress entitled 'An act for the admission of
Kansas into the Union,' are hereby accepted, ratified, and
confirmed, and shall remain irrevocable, without the consent
of the United States; and it is hereby ordained that this State
shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil
within the same by the United States or with any regulations
Congress may find necessary for securing the title to said soil,
to bona de purchasers thereof; and no tax shall be imposed
on lands belonging to the United States."
It is clear beyond any doubt from this statement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

legislation of Congress and of Kansas, and the accepted conditions upon which that State was admitted into the Union,
that her original claim to the school sections in townships sixteen and thirty-six of the State was rejected by Congress, and
abandoned by the State, and the right of Congress was conceded to the absolute control of the lands thus embraced and
of lands set apart for the use of the, Indians until such right
should be extinguished by appropriate legislation. This rejection by Congress of the original claim of Kansas to the school
lands in townships sixteen (16) and thirty-six (36), and its subsequent abandonment by the State itself, and the concession
to Congress of the right of absolute control of the lands until
such right should be extinguished by appropriate legislation,
distinguishes the case materially from that of Wisconsin, which
was considered in Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S.517, and upon
which the defendant in error principally relies. No such right
was relinquished until after the grant of the right of way
under the act of Congress of July 26, 1866, to the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway, and the title of the lands composing that right of way had become vested in that company.
It follows, therefore, that the Supreme Court of the State,
the court below, erred in sustaining the judgment of the inferior court of the State, in favor of the plaintiff in that court,
the defendant in error here, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court must therefore be
Rever'sed, and the cause rnemanded with dir'ections to take
further proceedings in accordance with this qoinion.
THE MAIN v. WILLIAMS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
No. 233. Argued January 30, 31, 1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

Under Rev. Stat. ยง 4283, the liability of a ship owner for the "freight then
pending" extends, (1), to passage money, and, (2), to freight prepaid at
the port of departure.

