DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

mencement of the suit by Secor. This seems to have been
the view taken by the Supreme Court of Missouri in Staford
v. Fizer, 82 Missouri, 393, in which that court held that
although the lien of the State for taxes ranks all other liens
whether prior or subsequent, yet in a suit to enforce such lien,
the holder of a junior incumbrance must be made a party, if
it is desired to divest him of his rights; otherwise he will be
entitled to redeem from the purchaser under the tax lien.
See also Gitchell v. -KHeidler, 84 Missouri, 472.
The decree of the court below was correct, and it is, therefore,

Afinmed.

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 209. Argued January 18, 1894.-Decided March 5, 1894.

A final decree of a Federal court, being unmodified and unreversed, cannot
be treated as a nullity when assailed collaterally by one who was a party
to the suit in which it was rendered.
In a suit by A to subject lands of B to sale in satisfaction of his claims, a
decree in the complainant's favor is final, if not appealed from, and B
cannot have the same issue retried in an independent suit, based upon
a title which he might have set up in the first suit, but did not.
When the Supreme Court of a State fails to give proper effect to a decree
of a Circuit Court of the United States, this court has jurisdiction over
its judgment to correct the error.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. B. F. Dowell and -Y. John H...Mitckell for plaintiff in
error.
.11r.J. N. Do1 h for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE HAMLAx delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the title to a tract of land in Douglas
County, Oregon, containing forty acres, part of what is known

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as the donation land claim of Jesse Applegate, number thirtyeight, in township twenty-two south, of range five west of the
Willamette meridian.
The defendant in error, Daniel W. Applegate, holds under
a deed executed to him by William H. H. Applegate and
wife, dated October 8, 1874, and recorded October 31,
1874. He brought this suit in the Circuit Court of Douglas
County, Oregon, to obtain a decree removing the cloud upon
his alleged title created by a deed made to the defendant
Dowell by a master in chancery, pursuant to an order of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Oregon,
in a suit determined by that court in which Dowell was plaintiff and Daniel W. Applegate was one of the defendants. At
a sale held in conformity with the final decree in that suit,
Dowell became the purchaser of the land in question. That
sale was duly confirmed, and a deed executed to him. From
that decree of sale no appeal was taken.
Dowell bases his claim to the land upon the decree and
orders in the above suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States; and the controlling question before this court is as to
the effect of that suit.
The state court did not give to the decree and orders in the
Federal court the effect claimed for them; and it is necessary
to a clear understanding of the grounds upon which it refused
to do so, that we ascertain the precise nature of the proceedings in the latter court.
From the recitals in a supplemental bill filed by Dowell
in the suit in the Federal court, it appears that that suit was
commenced on the 11th day of October, 1879, in the Circuit
Court of Douglas County, Oregon, and was subsequently
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Oregon. Upon whose application, or upon what
grounds, it was so removed, the record before us does not
clearly show. But it does appear that Dowell, on the 6th day
of April, 1881, in order to conform his pleadings to the
practice in the courts of the United States, sitting in equity,
filed a bill in the Federal court disclosing the grounds of his
suit. The defendants were Jesse Applegate, and his wife,

DOWELL v. APPLEGATF.
Opinion of the Court.

Cynthia Ann Applegate, William H. H. Applegate, Daniel
W. Applegate, Peter Applegate, Sallie Long, John C. Drain,
Jonas Ellensberg, and Charles Putnam.
The bill filed by Dowell made the following ease: In a suit
brought on the official bond of one May, Secretary of Staie
of Oregon, executed September 6, 1862,-his sureties betng
Jesse Applegate, 0. Jacobs, and James Kilgore, - judgment
was entered, June 24, 1874, in favor of the State for the sum
of $1622.50, and the costs, expenses, and disbursements of the
action. That judgment was unsatisfied in whole or in part
when Dowell brought his suit.
On the 4th day of August, 1874, in a suit instituted in the
Circuit Court of Marion County, Oregon, against Dowell and
Jesse Applegate, who were sureties on the official bond of
May, dated August 4, 1866, for another term of the office
of Secretary of State, the State recovered judgment for the
sum of $8929.85, together with the costs, expenses, and disbursements of the action. That judgment was duly entered
August 11, 1877, on the judgment-lien docket of Douglas
County. Prior to June 27, 1878, Dowell paid on it the sum
of $10,837.75; and, on that day, he recovered a judgment in
the Circuit Court of Douglas County against Jesse Applegate,
as his co-surety, for the sum of $4882.19, with costs, expenses,
and disbursements. That judgment was also, and on the
day of its rendition, entered on the judgment-lien docket of
Douglas County.
A balance of $1385.61 due the State on its judgment was
paid by Dowell, November 16, 1878. He gave notice, November 28, 1878, in conformity with the statutes of Oregon, that
he claimed the benefit of the judgment of the State against
Jesse Applegate for contribution for said sum, with costs and
expenses, and that notice was duly entered of record. An
execution was issued April 4, 1879, on the State's judgment,
with costs, etc., and under it the lands levied on were sold,
May 31, 1879, to Jesse Applegate for upwards of $1200. This
left due to Dowell on that execution $284.61, with interest
from May 31, 1879.
The amount due Dowell, January 1, 1881, from Jesse Apple-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

gate, on both of the above judgments, with interest and costs,
was $6584.09. Execution was issued, September 17, 1879, in
his favor for $4882.31, and was duly returned "no property
found." A second execution issued October 7, 1879, with a,
like result.
Jesse Applegate was, at one time, the owner in fee of thenorth half of a donation land claim, with a life estate in thesouth half that had been set apart to his wife -such claim
having been taken up in 1849 under the laws of the provisional
government of Oregon, and afterwards under the act of Congress, approved September 27, 1850, entitled "An act to create
the office of surveyor-general of the public lands in Oregon
and to provide for the survey, and to make donations to
settlers, of the said public lands.", The tract of land so taken
up contained 642 acres, and was known on the surveys and
maps of the United States as Jesse Applegate's donation land
claim No. 38, in township 22. He was, also, the owner of
other lands in Douglas County, Oregon.
Dowell's bill referred to deeds purporting to have been
executed in 1867 and 1869 by Jesse Applegate and wife to
W. H. H. Applegate, Daniel W. Applegate, Peter Applegate,
Sallie Applegate, and Charles Putnam -children and grandchildren of the grantors -for lands aggregating more than a
thousand acres, a large part of which was within the above
donation claim. It also referred to a deed executed June 24,
1871, by W. H. H. Applegate, conveying to Charles and John
C. Drain, for $2000 in cash paid, 200 acres in the south half
of that claim.
In respect of all of the above deeds the charge was that
they were fraudulent and void as against the State of Oregon
and Dowell; that the respective deeds to William H. H.
Applegate and Daniel W. Applegate, dated in 1867, were
antedated for the purpose of deceiving, cheating, delaying,
and defrauding the State and Dowell, and were, in fact, not
made and delivered until 1869. In respect to the deed of
June 24, 1871, the charge was that the price paid by the
grantee was $2000, "yet the deed, to conceal the value of the
land and to cheat and defraud the creditors of Jesse Applegate

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

and to make the price correspond with the said deed of Jesse'
Applegate and his wife to the said William H. H. Applegate,
on its face only expresses the consideration of $500, and it, in
place of having a revenue stamp of $2, as was required by the
act of Congress at the date of said deed, only has a revenue
stamp of 50 cents on it." Dowell's bill also averred that all
of said deeds were "illegal and a fraud under the statute of
the United States entitled ' An act to provide internal revenue
to support the government and to pay interest on the publicdebt,' approved 30th day of June 1864, and the amendmentsthereunto; that an inadequate consideration was expressed in
each of said deeds by the grantors and grantees with theintent of evading the provisions of said statute; that thegrantors and grantees well knew the land conveyed by each
deed was at the date thereof worth in cash more than $1000,
and each of them have a revenue stamp on them of 50 cents
and no more, not one-half the amount required by said act of
Congress, and the recording of each of them was in violation
of the spirit-meaning of sections 152, 156, and 158 of said
statute; that none of said stamps have been cancelled by
writing the date when the deed was so used or stamps affixed,
on the same, and none of them have the initials of the person
using them or affixing the same prior to the placing said deed
on the records of Douglas County in the State of Oregon."
The relief sought by Dowell was a decree declaring the
above-mentioned deeds to be illegal, fraudulent, and void as,
to him; ordering the sale of the lands described in the bill
under the judgments in favor of himself and the State; that
an account be taken of the rents, issues, and profits of each
tract for the six years preceding the commencement of the
suit; that the grantees be compelled to pay the rents, issues,
and profits on the tracts severally deeded to them; and that
plaintiff have such other relief as in equity and good conscience was "proper.
Daniel W. Applegate, May 2, 1881, filed an answer to
Dowell's bill, putting in issue most of its material allegations
and denying that Dowell was entitled to the relief asked for
in the bill. He denied that his deeds, or either of them, were

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"a fraud under the statutes of the United States or any statuie relating to internal revenue," or that the consideration
was expressed in either of them with an intent to evade the
provisions of that or any other statute. He admitted that
each deed made to him had on it a stamp of fifty cents only,
but alleged that stamps were put on each in good faith and
without any intent to evade the requirements of the statute
of the United States, and that the recording of such deeds
was not in violation of any law.
He made no reference in his answer to, and, so far as the
record before us discloses, did not introduce in evidence, the
deed for the forty acres made to him, October 8, 1874, by
William H. H. Applegate, although that deed is made by his
bill in the present action the foundation of his claim to that
tract.
By the final decree in Dowell's suit, rendered January 5,
1883, it was adjudged that on and prior to April 19, 1869,
Jesse Applegate and Dowell were jointly and severally liable
to the State of Oregon in the sum of five thousand and five
hundred and forty-six dollars, as sureties on the official bond
of August 4, 1866, of May, Secretary of State, by reason of
the defalcation of that officer, which sum was equal to the
value of all the property and assets then owned and possessed
by Jesse Applegate; that there was due to Dowel, on the
accounts mentioned in his bill, $7488.48, for which sum with
interest, he, by virtue of his judgment obtained June 27, 1878,
had a lien upon all the real property of Jesse Applegate, in
Douglas County, from and after the entry and docketing of
that judgment; that "on and prior to April 19, 1869, Jesse
Applegate was the owner in fee simple of 121.55 acres of the
north half of the donation claim numbered thirty-eight;" that
"the conveyance of said 121.55 acres by said Jesse Applegate
to his sons William H. H. Applegate and Daniel W. Applegate, by deeds dated April 19 and 20, 1869, respectively, was
voluntary, and without valuable consideration, and in fraud
of the rights of the plaintiff herein, and is, therefore, as to
him and his assigns, declared to be null and void." The
decree also declared void, as against Dowell and his assigns,

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

a deed to Peter Applegate for two tracts containing together
41.31 acres, deeds to Daniel W. Applegate and Peter Applegate for 225 acres in the south half of the above donation
claim, and a deed to Sallie Applegate.
The decree further provided that unless Jesse Applegate,
Peter Applegate, Daniel W. Applegate, William H. H. Applegate, and Sallie Applegate paid the sum adjudged to be due to
Dowell, within a named time, the master of the court should
sell, as upon execution at law, all the interest of Jesse A~ppegate in the above-mentioned tract of 121.55 acres, and in the
lands embraced in the deeds to Peter Applegate and Sallie
Applegate, containing, respectively, 41.31 and 160 acres, and
that the purchaser should be entitled to the possession of the
premises purchased, upon the receipt of the master's conveyance therefor. TIe tract in dispute is part of the tract of
121.55 acres. The bill was dismissed as to Putnam and
Ellensberg.
In respect to a conveyance to William H. H. Applegate for
160 acres in the north half of the donation claim numbered
38, and the conveyance of the same date to Daniel W. Applegate of 146 acres in the south half of that claim, they were
held to be valid, the court finding that they were made in
good faith, and at a time when the grantor was otherwise
able to meet his pecuniary obligations.
A sale took place iunder the decree of the Federal court on
the 26th of April, 1883, Dowell becoming the purchaser of the
lands, ordered to be sold, at the price of $7400. The sale was
in all things confirmed by the court, and the master, December 6, 1883, pursuant to its order, made and acknowledged a
deed to Dowell, which was duly approved, was acknowledged
March 28, 1884, and recorded August 19, 1884.
The present suit was brought by Daniel W. Applegate on
the 17th day of August, 1886, -more than three years after*
the decree in -the Federal court, - for the purpose, as we have
already stated, of obtaining a decree enjoining Dowell from
asserting any title or claim, by virtue of the latter's deed
under the decree of the Federal court, to the tract of 40 acres
conveyed to the plaintiff herein by William H. H. Applegate,

-'334

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

by deed dated October 8, 1874. The bill, admitting that that
.tractwas embraced in the deed made by the master to Dowell,
avers that the conveyance by William H. H. Applegate to
Daniel W. Applegate was prior in time to the commencement
of the suit in the Federal court, and its validity was in nowise
put in issue or determined by the decree of that court.
The answer of Dowell, in the present suit, as stated at the
outset, bases his claim upon the decree of the Federal court
and the sale under it at which he purchased. Referring to the
.deeds made by Jesse Applegate to his sons William H[. H.
Applegate and Daniel W. Applegate, the answer charges that
they were made with the intent to cheat, delay, and defraud
the State of Oregon and the defendant; and that those deeds,
,aswell as the deed from William H. H. Applegate to Daniel
W. Applegate, were without any valuable consideration whatever; and that defendant purchased the land in question
without any actual notice of the latter deed. The answer
further avers that the deed, under which plaintiff now claims
the tract of 40 acres, was put in issue in the suit in the Fed.eral court, and was determined by the decree of that court.
The reply of Daniel W. Applegate controverts all the
material allegations of Dowell's answer and denies that the
.Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Oregon
had any jurisdiction to hear and determine the suit brought
by Dowell, or to render the decree under which the lands
here in question were sold.
Upon the hearing of the present cause in the Circuit Court
.of Douglas County, the bill was dismissed, the court being
.of opinion that the decree of the Federal court in the suit
brought by Dowell was a bar to the present one. This decree
was reversed by the Supreme Court of Oregon. Applegate v.
.Dowell, 15 Oregon, 513. Upon a second trial of this cause
-in the court of original jurisdiction, there was a decree in
favor of Daniel W. Applegate, which decree, upon the appeal
of Dowell, was affirmed upon the authority of the previous
decision in the Supreme Court of Oregon. A"4pegate v.
Dowell, 17 Oregon, 299. Among the findings of the Circuit
.Court of .Douglas County, at the last trial of this case, were

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

the following: "That no evidence was offered or admitted
sustaining or tending to sustain the allegations in the answer
-of defendant [Dowell], that the plaintiff and his brother
William H. H. Applegate, at the time of the deed of Jesse
Applegate to William H. H. Applegate, and the pretended
deed from William H. H. Applegate to plaintiff, well knew
that Jesse Applegate was largely indebted to the State of
Oregon as one of the sureties of S. E. May, late Secretary
.of State, and both of said deeds were made with the intent
to cheat and defraud the State of Oregon and B. F. Dowell,
-one of Jesse Applegate's co-sureties, out of said debt; that
the said William H. H. Applegate and Daniel W. Applegate
received said deeds with the intent to cheat, delay, and defraud the State of Oregon and B. F. Do-well out of said debt;
that both of said deeds were made and delivered to William
H. H. Applegate and Daniel W. Applegate without any
valuable consideration whatever; and that the deed of
William H. H. Applegate to his brother Daniel W. Applegate
was made and delivered without any valuable consideration
whatever, or any of said allegations." The Circuit Court of
Douglas County, for that reason only, found those allegations
and each of them to be untrue.
From this history of the litigation between the parties, it
.appears that Dowell, in his answer in this suit, asserted his
right to the forty acres in dispute under and by virtue of the
decree and proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United
States. That right having been denied by the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Oregon, affirming the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Douglas County, it is necessary to
inquire -

First, whether the decree and proceedings in the Federal
court were, as claimed, void for the want of jurisdiction to
hear and determine the suit which was instituted by Dowell
in the Circuit Court of Douglas County, Oregon, and was
subsequently removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon;
Secondly, whether, if such decree and proceedings were not
void, the state court gave due effect to them, when adjudging

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that Dowell took nothing by his purchase of the lands in dispute under that decree.
If these questions be determined in favor of Dowell, then
the judgment below was erroneous in that it denied a right
specially set up and claimed by him under the authority of
the United States.
1. Dowell, we have seen, brought his suit in the Circuit
Court of Douglas County on the 11th day of October, 1879,
and his bill in the Federal court, which took the place of the
bill filed in the state court, was filed April 6, 1881. The
present transcript does not contain all the proceedings in
the Circuit Court of Douglas County prior to the removal
of the cause into the Federal court. Nor does it contain the
petition for removal. But the state court below had before
it, in the present suit, the bill filed by Dowell in the Federal
court, April 6, 1881, his supplemental bill of September 25,
1881, the answer of Daniel W. Applegate of M ay 2, 1881, and
the final decree of January 5, 1883. It was also informed,
by the findings of fact in the Circuit Court of Douglas County,
of the sale made by the master in chancery under that decree,
the confirmation of that sale by the court, the execution of
the deed to iDowell, and that the tract described in Applegate's complaint in this suit is a part of the premises described
in the above decree of sale and in the master's deed to
Dowell.
In the bill and supplemental bill of Dowell, he and the
defendants to the suit in the Federal court are described as
citizens of Oregon. But there is no finding, nor anything in
the present transcript, showing the citizenship of the parties
at the time Dowell brought his suit in the state court, nor at
the time of the filing of the petition for removal. It is therefore contended that this court cannot assume that the parties
to the suit in the Federal court were all citizens of Oregon at
the time that suit was brought, or when it was removed from
the state court. 1tevens v. Nichols, 130 U. S. 230; Crekore
v. Ohio & Miss. Railway, 131 U. S. 240; _La Conance Cornyagnie v. Hall, 137 U. S. 61.
If it be assumed that all the parties to Dowell's suit were

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

citizens of Oregon when it was commenced, as well as when
it was removed into the Federal court, - and such, probably,
was the case,--it is yet quite apparent that jurisdiction was
taken by that court on the ground that the deeds by Jesse
Applegate and wife which obstructed Dowell in his efforts to
reach the lands described in them, were charged to have been
insufficiently stamped under the acts of Congress then in force
providing internal revenue for the support of the government
and to pay the interest on the public debt, and that the failure
to put sufficient stamps on those deeds and to properly cancel
them was with the intent to evade such acts. We may
so interpret the record, because in the opinion of Judge
Deady, in Dowell v. Applegate, &c.,7 Sawyer, 232, 239, when
that case was before the Federal court upon demurrer interposed by some of the original defendants, he stated that the
removal to the Federal court was "on the ground that its
determination involved the construction of certain provisions
of the internal revenue act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat.
223, and the amendments thereto."
It thus appears, upon the face of the record of the suit in
the Federal court, that the case depended, in part, upon the
construction of certain acts of Congress, and upon the effect
of the alleged fraudulent omissions of the grantors in the
deeds attacked to conform to those acts. If all those deeds
were void, by reason of such omissions, then the difficulties in
the way of Dowell's reaching the lands embraced by them
would probably have disappeared.
If the Federal court erred in assuming or retaining jurisdiction of Dowell's suit, -a question not necessary to be examined, - would it follow that its final decree, being unmodified
and unreversed, can be treated as a nullity when assailed
collaterally by one who was a party to the suit in which it
was rendered?
Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 173, 185, it was
In Ke'es
said by Chief Justice Mxarshall that "all courts from which
an appeal lies are inferior courts, in relation to the appellate
court before which their judgments may be carried; but they
are not, therefore, inferior courts in the technical sense of those
voL. cLi-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

words. They apply to courts of a special and limited jurisdiction, which are erected on such principles that their judgments,
taken alone, are entirely disregarded, and the proceedings must
show their jurisdiction. The courts of the United States are
all of limited jurisdictfon, and their proceedings are erroneous
if the jurisdiction be not shown upon them. Judgments rendered in such cases may certainly be reversed, but this court
is not prepared to say that they are absolute nullities, which
may be totally disregarded."
In Skillernns Executors v. .Mty's Eoeutors, 6 Cranch, 267,
it appears that after the reversal by this court of a decree of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kentucky, and after the cause was remanded to the court
below, it was discovered to be one not within the jurisdiction
of that court. The question arose whether the court could
dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction, after this court had
acted thereon. It was held that "the merits of the cause
having been finally decided by it, and its mandate requiring
only the execution of its decree, the Circuit Court was bound
to carry that decree into execution, although the jurisdiction
of that court be not alleged in the pleadings."
In Cameron v. -McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591, a suit brought in
the District Court of Kentucky, then having the jurisdiction
of a Circuit Court, the pleadings stated that McRoberts, the
plaintiff, was a citizen of Kentucky, and that the defendant
Cameron was a citizen of Virginia. The citizenship of other
defendants was not stated. -The defendants all appeared and
answered, and a decree was pronounced for McRoberts.
Subsequently Cameron filed a bill of review, and moved to
set aside the decree and to dismiss the suit, "because the want
of jurisdiction appeared on the record," and upon the allegation that the parties to the bill were all citizens of Kentucky.
It was held that the court below had not power over its decree, so as to set the same aside on motion after the expiration
of the terra at which it was rendered, and that if a joint
interest vested in Cameron, and the other defendants, the
court had no jurisdiction over the cause, although jurisdiction
could be exercised as to Cameron, if a distinct interest vested

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

in him, so that substantial justice, so far as he was interested,
could be done without affecting the other defendants.
In McCorrniek v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192, 199, certain
defendants filed a plea in bar to a suit brought against them,
setting up the proceedings and decree in a former suit brought
by the plaintiffs in the District Court of Ohio, exercising the
powers and jurisdiction of a Circuit Court. A special replication to this plea was filed, setting forth the record of the
former suit, and alleging that the proceedings in that suit
were coran non judice, the record not showing that the complainants and defendants in that suit were citizens of different
States. This court said that the reason assigned in the replication why the former decree could not operate as a bar
"proceeds upon an incorrect view of the character and
jurisdiction of the inferior courts of the United States. They
are all of limited jurisdiction; but they are not, on that
account, inferior courts, in the technical sense of those
words, whose judgments, taken alone, are to be disregarded.
If the jurisdiction be not alleged in the proceedings, their
judgments and decrees are erroneous, and may, upon a writ
of error or appeal, be reversed for that cause. But they are
not absolute nullities." It was, therefore, held that the decree in the first suit, whilst it remained unreversed, was a
bar to the last suit as to the defendants who were also parties
to the first suit.
In Ex parte Tobias WTtkins, 3 Pet. 193, 207, Chief Justice
Marshall said that "it is universally understood that the judgments of the courts of the United States, although their jurisdiction be not shown in the pleadings, are yet binding on all
the world" and that an "apparent want of jurisdiction can
avail the party only on a writ of error."
Similar views were expressed in Bank of the United States
v. -lfoss, 6 How. 31, 39, and -Des Afoines NSav. Co. v. Iowa
Hcarnestea Co., 123 U. S.552, 551, 559, in the latter of which
cases it was said that "although the judgments and decrees
of the Circuit Courts might be erroneous, if the records fail to
show the facts on which the jurisdiction of the court rested,
such as that the plaintiffs were citizens of different States

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

from the defendant, yet they were not nullities, and would
bind the parties until reversed or otherwise set aside."
These cases establish the doctrine that, although the presumption in every stage of a cause in a Circuit Court of the
United States is that the court is without jurisdiction unless
the contrary affirmnatively appears from the record, Bdrs v.
Preston,111 U. S. 252, 255, and the authorities there cited, yet,
if such jurisdiction does not so appear, the judgment or final
decree cannot, for that reason, be collaterally attacked, or
treated as a nullity.
. These authorities, above cited, it is said, do not meet the
present case, because the ground on which, it is claimed, the
Federal court assumed jurisdiction was insufficient in law to
make this case one arising under the laws of the United
States. But that was a question which the Circuit Court of
the United States was competent to determine in the first
instance. Its determination of it was the exercise of jurisdiction. Even if that court erred in entertaining jurisdiction, its
determination of that matter was conclusive upon the parties
before it, and could not be questioned by them or either of
them collaterally, or otherwise than on writ of error or appeal
to this court. As said in Des AfoiAn8 .Yav. Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., above cited, if the Circuit Court "kept the case
when it ought to have been remanded, or if it proceeded to
adjudicate upon matters in dispute between two citizens of
Iowa, when it ought to have confined itself to those between
the citizens of Iowa and the citizens of :New York, its final
decree in the suit could have been reversed, on appeal, as
erroneous, but the decree would not have been a nullity. To
determine whether the suit was removable in whole or in part
or not, was certainly within the power of the Circuit Court.
The decision of that question was the exercise and the rightful exercise of jurisdiction, no matter whether in favor of or
against taking the cause. Whether its decision was right, in
this or any other respect, was to be finally determined by this
court on appeal."
This disposes of the first objection urged against the decree
in the Federal court under which Dowell purchased. That

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

decree cannot be treated, in this suit, as void for want of jurisdiction.
2. We now proceed to consider what effect should be given
to the decree and proceedings in the suit in the Federal court.
Although the bill in that suit refers to various deeds executed
by Jesse Applegate and wife for lands that Dowell sought to
have sold, and charged that they were made with the intent
to delay and defraud both the State of Oregon and Dowell,
the fundamental question presented was whether the lands
themselves, fully identified by the pleadings, could be rightfully sold in satisfaction of Dowell's demands. To that issue,
directly made, Daniel W. Applegate was a party. He met
all the material allegations of Dowell's bill by denials that
put upon the latter the burden of showing that he was entitled to the relief sought by him. The issue thus made was
determined adversely to Applegate as to some of those lands.
The court, as we have seen, adjudged that on and prior
to April 19, 1869, Jesse Applegate was the owner in fee of
121.55 acres of the north half of said donation claim, and that
the deeds of April 19 and 20, 1869, from Jesse Applegate to
W. H. H. Applegate and Daniel W. Applegate, covering
said 121.55 acres, were voluntary, without consideration, and
in fraud of the rights of Dowell, and, therefore, as to him
and his assigns, null and void. It was further adjudged that
all the interest of Jesse Applegate, on the 1st of January,
1869, in that 121.55 acres (and in other lands referred to
in the decree) be sold by the master commissioner of the
court. It cannot be said that this decree was not within the
scope of the pleadings in the suit in the Federal court. And
it certainly covered the lands now in dispute, for it is admitted that the 40 acres described in the deed of October
8, 1874, from W. H. H. Applegate to the present plaintiff
are part of the 121.55 acres directed by the decree of the
Federal court to be sold, and which was, in fact, sold-Dowell becoming the purchaser.
Upon what principle can it be held that that decree, being
unmodified and unreversed, does not conclude the parties to
the suit in which it was rendered, in respect to the liability

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the lands described in it for the demands of Dowell as
ascertained and settled by the court?. It is said that the
deed of October 8, 18-74, under which Daniel W. Applegate
claims the 40 acres, was not distinctly put in issue by the
pleadings or determined by the decree. But its validity was
involved in the larger question presented by the pleadings.
as to the right of Dowell to subject to his demands the in-terest of Jesse Applegate in all the lands referred to, those covered by donation claim numbered thirty-eight, and
those not within that claim. The decree directing the sale
of all the interest of Jesse Applegate in the 121.55 acres on
the 1st of January, 1869, was an adjudication, as between
Dowell and the defendants in that suit who asserted title to
those lands, that no claim asserted by either of them could.
stand against the right of Dowell to have those lands sold.
It is disclosed by the present suit that when Daniel W_
Applegate answered Dowell's bill he held the deed of October 8, 1874. If Daniel W. Applegate became, when taking
that deed, a bona flde purchaser of the 40 acres of. land
now in dispute, and if the title so acquired was superior to,
Dowell's right to have that land sold for his demands against
Jesse Applegate, it behooved him to assert that title in
defence of the suit brought against him. The very nature
of that suit required him to assert whatever interest he then
had in the lands or any part of them that was superior to
any claim of Dowell upon them, whether by judgment liens
or in any other form. So far from pursuing that course, he
forebore

-purposely,

as may now be inferred-to claim

anything in virtue of the deed of October 8, 1874, and long
after the decree under which Dowell purchased, he comes
forward with a new, independent suit, based alone upon that
deed, as giving him a superior title. His object is - certainly, the effect of his suit, if it be sustained, will be -to
retry the issues made in Dowell's suit so far as they involved the latter's claim to have the 40-acre tract subjected
to his demands. The decree in the Federal court was an
adjudication, as between all the parties to the suit in that
court, that Dowell was entitled in satisfaction of his

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

claims against Jesse Applegate, to subject to sale all the
lands his bill sought to reach, which the decree directed to
be sold. And that decree, never having been modified by
the court that rendered it nor by this court upon appeal,
necessarily concludes every matter that Daniel W. Applegate was entitled, -'nder the pleadings, to bring forward
in order to prevent the sale of the lands claimed by him, by
whatever title. Having remained silent as to the deed of
October 8, 1874, and having allowed the suit in the Federal
court to proceed to final decree upon the question as to
whether the lands described in the bill could be subjected
to Dowell's demands-which description included the 40
acres here in dispute -and having been defeated upon that
issue, and the decree having been fully executed, he cannot
have the same issue retried in an independent suit based
solely upon a title that he was at liberty to set up, but chose
not to assert, before the decree was rendered.
The argument to the contrary seems to rest principally, if
not altogether, upon the ground that the present suit is upon
a cause of action entirely different from that presented in the
suit in the Federal court. In that view, our attention is called
to the cases of Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351,
.Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606, and Bissell v. Sp'ing 'Valley
Town.hip, 124 U. S. 225, 231. Those cases hold that a judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction as to parties and
subject-matter is a finality in respect to the claim or demand
in controversy, "concluding parties and those in privity with
them, not only as to every matter which was offered and
received to sustain or defeat the claim oi demand, but as to
any other admissible matter which might have been offered
for that purpose." "Thus, for example," the court said in
Cromwell v. County of Sac, "a judgment rendered upon a
promissory note is conclusive as to the validity of the instrument and the amount due upon it, although it is subsequently
alleged that perfect defences actually existed, of which no
proof was offered, such as forgery, want of consideration, or
payment. If such defences were not presented in the action
and established by competent evidence, the subsequent allega-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of their existence is of no legal consequence. The judgment is as conclusive, so far as future proceedings at law are
concerned, as though the defences never existed." In that
case it was further held-and the same principle was announced in the other cases -that "where the second action,
between the same parties, is upon a different claim or demand,
the judgment in the prior action operates as an estoppel only
as to those matters in issue or points controverted, upon the
determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered."
To the same effect were prior decisions of this court. HIpkins
v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, 113; SmitA v. Ernochen, 7 How. 198,
217; Pennington, v. Gibson, 16 How. 65, 77; Lessee of Par"nisk v. Ferris, 2 Black, 606, 609. And the same doctrines
were subsequently reaffirmed in Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101
U. S. 638, 639, and Stout v. Lye, 103 U. S. 66, 71, and, at the
present term, in Johnson Company v. Wharton Company, ante,
252. To these we may add the case of Stockton v. Ford,18
How. 418, 420, in which it was said: "One of the questions
now sought to be agitated again is precisely the same as this
one in the previous suit, namely, the right of the plaintiff to
the judicial mortgage under the execution and sale against
Prior. The other is somewhat varied; namely, the equitable
right or interest in the mortgage of the plaintiff, as the
attorney of Prior, for the fees and costs provided for in the
assignment to J-ones. But this question was properly involved
in the former case, and might have been there raised and
determined. - The neglect of the plaintiff to avail himself of
it, even if it were tenable, furnishes no reason for another
litigation. The right of the respective parties to the judicial
mortgage was the main question in the former suit. That
issue, of course, involved the whole or any partial interest in
the mortgage. We are satisfied, therefore, that the former
suit constitutes a complete bar to the present."
So far from the above cases sustaining the decision of the
Supreme Court of Oregon, they support the views we have
expressed. The present suit is not a second one between the
same parties, upon a different claim or demand. It seeks, by
additional evidence, to reopen the controversy that arose, and

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

was determined, in the suit in the Federal court as to the
right of Dowell to have all the lands described in his bill subjected to his claims. While the position of the parties is
reversed, Daniel W. Applegate, who contested that right, in
the suit of the Federal court, - so far as that suit related to
the lands then claimed by him, including the 40 acres here in
dispute, - seeks, under the guise of a new suit, to obtain a reexamination of that question. And he seeks such reexamination, not upon any ground of fraud in obtaining that decree,
but in the light simply of the conveyance of October 8, 184,
from W. H. H. Applegate, which conveyance, although existing before Dowell commenced his suit, indeed, before Dowell
acquired any judgement lien of record, he deliberately refrained from bringing to the attention of the Federal court,
in some appropriate form, in support of his defence. The
presenting in this suit of the fact of that conveyance, for
the purpose of showing that the 40 acres in question should
not have been subjected to sale for Dowell's demands, does
not, within the rule announced in the cases above cited, make
a different claim or demand. On the contrary, the matter
now presented was embraced by the issues in the suit in the
Federal court, and was there determined, when that court,
upon final hearing, adjudged that the 121.55 acres (which
embraced the 40 acres now in dispute) should be sold to
pay Dowell's claims. This case, consequently, comes within
the rule, that "a judgment estops not only as to every
ground of recovery or defence actually presented in the
action, but also as to every ground which might have been
presented."
For the reasons given we are unable to concur in the views
expressed by the state court as to the effect to be given to
the decree of the Federal court. We are of opinion that due
legal effect is not accorded to it, unless it be adjudged, as this
court does now adjudge, that never having been modified and
being in full force and unreversed when the present suit was
institutea, that decree conclusively establishes, as between
Dowell and Daniel W. Applegate, that the former was entitled
to have the lands, now in dispute, sold for his demands; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

consequently, that the title acquired by Dowell, under that
decree, cannot be here questioned by Applegate.
Under this view, it is immaterial that Dowell did not, in
the present case, offer evidence in support of the allegations,
of fraud against Jesse Applegate in respect to the various.
deeds made by him, and to which reference was made in the,
suit and decree in the Federal court. That decree being conclusive, as between Dowell and Daniel W. Applegate, of the
question now presented, it was not incumbent upon Dowell to,
introduce any evidence in this case beyond the record of the
former suit.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Oregon failed
to give proper effect to the decree and proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Oregon,
and erred in not reversing the final judgment of the Circuit
Court of Douglas County, with directions to dismiss the complaint of Applegate.
The decree is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remandd
for further jroceedings in conformity with this opiniom.
Mi. JUSTICE FIELD dissented from the judgment in this case

WESTERN NATIONAL BANK v. ARMSTRONG.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOER

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 251. Argued February 2,1893.-Decided Mareh 12, 1893.

The borrowing of money, by a bank, though not illegal, is so much out of
the course of ordinary and legitimate banking business as to require
those making the loan to see to it that the officer or agent acting for the
bank had special authority to borrow money.
Whether a vice-president of a national bank who had, without authority
from the board of directors, paid into the bank a large sum of money
and received certificates of paid-up stock for a still larger amount could,
on the subsequent insolvency of the bank without ratification of such

