OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

property for himself, in the name of O'Donohoe, and that he
did not become aware of that fact until August, 1888. If this
complaint were well founded, the plaintiff, according to the
principles to which we have referred, and which are deeply
rooted in the law, would be entitled to a decree that would
deprive Polk of the fruits of his infidelity. But, as already
suggested, the evidence does not justify the conclusion that
O'Donohoe's purchase was, in fact, for the benefit of Polk.
It is proper to say that in our decision of this case, no controlling weight has been attached to the statements made by
Decree afflirmed.
O'Donohoe.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MRn. JUSTICE WHITE did not hear

the argument, and took no part in the decision of the case.

o

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. DANIELS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 165. Argued and submitted March 13, 1894. -Decided

April 16, 1894.

When a defendant, after the close of the plaintiff's evidence, moves to
dismiss, and, the motion being denied, excepts thereto, and then proceeds
with his case, and puts in evidence on his part, he thereby waives the
exception, and the overruling of the motion to dismiss cannot be assigned
for error.
A railroad company is bound to see to it, at the proper inspecting station,
that the wheels of the cars in a freight train about to be drawn out upon
the road are in a safe and proper condition; and if the servants to whom
it delegates this duty perform it so negligently as to permit a car to go
into service on the train, one of the wheels of which has an old crack in
it some twelve inches long, flled.with grease, rust, and dirt, but which
could have been detected without difficulty, and in consequence of that
wheel's giving way while the train is in motion an accident takes place
by which another servant of the company is injured, the company is
liable therefor.

THIs was an action brought by William Daniels against the
Union Pacific Railway Company, in the District Court for

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. DANIELS.

685

Statement of the Case.

the Third Judicial District of the Territory of Utah, to
recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have been
sustained because of defendant's negligence. During the
pendency of the writ of error in this court, Daniels died and
his administrator was substituted.
The complaint alleged that plaintiff was an employ6 of the
defendant company as brakeman on a. freight train ; that the
company by its negligence and carelessness allowed a wheel
of one of its freight cars to become defective through a large
open crack in it, which rendered the car unsafe; that the crack
was an old one, and could have been easily discovered by a
proper inspection of the wheels; that it was the duty of the
defendant to inspect the wheels of all cars used by it and running on its road, at stations at short intervals along the line
of the road; that an inspecting station was established at
Green River, Wyoming, at which point the defect would have
been discovered had the company's inspection service at that
point been suitable and sufficient; that the company negligently and wrongfully employed incompetent agents in that
service; that they did not employ sufficient in number; that
those employed negligently inspected; that the defect by
which the accident and ensuing injuries were caused was not
discovered by reason of the company's negligence; and that
plaintiff, without fault or negligence on his part, was injured
by the breaking of the defective wheel and the train being
thereby thrown from the track.
The answer denied the essential averments of the complaint.
Plaintiff recovered a verdict and defendant moved for a new
trial, which was overruled, and judgment rendered, from which
an appeal was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of Utah Territory, where it was affirmed. The opinion is reported 6
Utah, 357. To review that judgment this writ of error was
sued out.
The errors assigned and relied on at the bar were that the
court erred in overruling defendant's motion for a non-suit
made at the close of plaintiff's testimony; that the court erred
in giving each of the following instructions:
"8th. In this case, if you find that the plaintiff was injured

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

in consequence of the wreck of the train caused by a crack and
break in one of the wheels of the car on a train operated by
the plaintiff, if you find that by the exercise of proper care
and caution in inspecting the wheels the crack was of such
a nature that it might have been discovered by the agents or
servants of the defendant employed for that purpose, then such
neglect to discover the crack was negligence on the part of the
defendant and for which it may be held liable in this action.
"9th. If you find that there was a want of care and diligence
on the part of the persons engaged in inspecting the wheels
of the cars of defendant, and that the accident was caused
thereby, it is not a defence for the defendant to show that it
used proper diligence and care alone and only in the selecting
of such agents, but the defendant is responsible for the acts
of his employ~s in repairing and inspecting machinery to the
same extent as if he were himself present doing the act;"
and that the court erred in refusing to give each of the following instructions requested by the defendant:
"Fourth. The plaintiff by his contract of hiring was held
to assume the risks of injury from the ordinary dangers of the
particular employment and the nature of the business engaged
in, and if you find from the evidence that the accident causing the injury in question was one of the perils incident to
the employment, your verdict should be for the defendant.
"Fifth. The presumption of the law in this case is that the
defendant exercised proper care and diligence in employing a
competent and sufficient number of servants to safely carry on
its several departments of labor and in furnishing safe machinery and appliances with which the plaintiff was to do his
work, and the burden of proof to show the contrary is on the
plaintiff.
"You are further instructed that as between employer and
servant, as in this case, negligence on the part of the former is
not proven nor to be inferred from the existence of a defect
which caused the injury.
"Sixth. Although the inspector of the defendant at Green
River station, whose duty it was to inspect the said broken
wheel, was guilty of negligence in making the inspection, and

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. DANIELS.

687

Opinion of the Court.

that negligence resulted in the wrecking of the train on which
the plaintiff was, and the injury of which he complains, still
he cannot recover in this action 'unless it appears from the
evidence that the defendant was guilty of negligence either in
the appointment of such inspector or retaining him in his position, and to establish such negligence on the part of the defendant not only the incompetence of such inspector must be
shown, but it must also be shown that defendant failed to
exercise ordinary care to ascertain his fitness for that service
prior to his appointment, or failed to remove him after his incompetency had come to the notice of the defendant or to
some officer or agent of defendant having power to remove
him, or after such incompetency could have been ascertained
by the exercise of ordinary care on the part of the defendant
or such agent or officer.
"Seventh. To render the negligence of the inspector whose
duty it was to inspect the said broken wheel the negligence of
the defendant, or to render the defendant liable therefor, it is
incumbent on the plaintiff to prove that the said inspector was
appointed to or retained in his said position with knowledge
on the part of the defendant, or some officer or agent of it
having the power of appointment and removal, that he was incompetent, or that such knowledge might have been obtained
by the use of reasonable and ordinary care and diligence
on the part of the defendant or of such officer or agent."
31-r. Artenas

. Holmes, (with whom was .Xl&. John F.

Dillon on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Mr&. A'dhu, Beown, for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
M . CHIEF JUSTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

1. At the close of the plaintiffs evidence, the defendant
moved to dismiss the complaint, which motion was denied,
and defendant excepted. Thereupon the defendant proceeded

OCTOBER TERf 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

with its case and adduced evidence on its part. This waived
the exception, and the action of the court in overruling the
motion to dismiss cannot b6 assigned for error. Columbia &
Puget Sound Railroadv. Hawthorne, 144 U. S. 202; Brown
v. Southern Pacific Co., 7 Utah, 288, 291.
2. The evidence tended to show that Daniels was a brakeman in the employment of the company, and in the discharge
of his duties as such, April 3, 1887, on a freight train made up
at Green River, and running thence westward; that he was
ordered on top of the train to set the brakes at different points
going down a long hill, and was so engaged when the train
was suddenly wrecked, and he was severely injured; that a
wheel on one of the cars of the train had an old crack in it,
some twelve inches long, which rendered it unsafe; that the
wheel gave way by reason of the fracture and thus the disaster
occurred; and that, although the crack, being old, was filled
with greasy dirt and rust, it could have been detected without difficulty if the wheel had been properly examined at
Green River, which was an inspecting station, at which trains
were made up.
Upon the inferences properly deducible from such evidence,
the rule applied, which requires of the master the exercise of
reasonable care in furnishing suitable machinery and appliances
for carrying on the business for which he employs the servant,
and in keeping such machinery and appliances in repair, including the duty of making inspections, tests, and examinations at
the proper intervals. As observed in Hough v. Railway Co., 100
U. S. 213, 218, the duty of a railroad company "in that respect
to its employ~s is discharged when, but only when, its agents,
whose business it is to supply such instrumentalities, exercise
due care as well in their purchase originally, as in keeping and
maintaining them in such condition as to be reasonably and adequately safe for use by employ6s;" and the company "cannot in
respect of such matters interpose between it and the servant, who
has been injured, without fault on his part, the personal responsibiity of an agent who, in exercising the master's authority,
has violated the duty he owes, as well to the servant as to the
corporation." Hough v. Railway Co., and Niorthern Pacifw

UNION PAOIFIC RAILWAY 00. v. DANIELS.

689

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad v. ]erbert, 116 U. S. 642, to the same effect, were
cited in Balt. & Ohio Railroadv. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 386,
and it was said: "A master employing a servant impliedly engages with him that the place in which he is to work and the
tools or machinery with which he is to work, or by which he is to
be surrounded, shall be reasonably safe. It is the master who
is to provide the place and the tools and the machinery, and
when he employs one to enter into his service he impliedly
says to him that there is no other danger in the place, the
tools and the machinery, than such as is obvious and necessary.
Of course, some places of work and some kinds of machinery
are more dangerous than others, but that is something which
inheres in the thing itself, which is a matter of necessity, and
cannot be obviated. But within such limits the master who
provides the place, the tools, and the machinery owes a positive duty to his employ6 in respect thereto. That positive
duty does not go to the extent of a guarantee of safety, but
it does require that reasonable precautions be taken to secure
safety, and it matters not to the employ6 by whom that safety
is secured, or the reasonable precautions therefor taken. He
has a right to look to the master for the discharge of that
duty, and if the master, instead of discharging it himself, sees
fit to have it attended to by others, that does not change the
measure of obligation to the employ&, or the latter's right to
insist that reasonable precaution shall be taken to secure safety
in these respects. Therefore it will be seen that the question
turns rather on the character of the act than on the relations
of the employ~s to each other." And see _Fuller v. Jewett, 80
N. Y. 46; Rogees v. Ludlow .Mfg. Co., 144 Mass. 198; Spicer
v. South Boston Iron Co., 138 Mass. 426.
There can be no doubt that under the circumstances of the
case at bar the duty rested upon the company to see to it, at
this inspecting station, that the wheels of the cars in this
freight train, which was about to be drawn out upon the road,
were in safe and proper condition, and this duty could not be
delegated so as to exonerate the company from liability to its
servants for injuries resulting from the omission to perform
that duty or through its negligent performance.
VOL. CLU-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The rulings of the court in giving the eighth and ninth
instructions for plaintiff, and in refusing to give the sixth and
seventh instructions requested on the part of defendant, were
not, therefore, open to the exceptions taken. The sufficiency
of the number of inspectors and their competency furnished
no defence, nor the contrary, the ground of recovery, though
some of the averments of the complaint may have indicated
that cause of action.
The trial court charged the jury, among other things, that
the defendant was required to "use a reasonable care, consistent with the nature and extent of the business, and provide
proper machinery; but it is not responsible for hidden defects,
which could not have been discovered by a careful inspection;"
that "the burden of proof is in this case, as in all other cases
like it, upon the plaintiff, to make out his case to your satisfaction. The law is well settled, both here and in England,
our mother country, that the employer should adopt such
suitable implements and means to carry on the business as are
proper for that purpose; and where there are injuries to its
servants, or its workmen, and they happen by reason of improper or defective machinery or appliances in the prosecution
or carrying on the work which they are employed to render,
the employer is liable, provided he knew, or might have
known, by the exercise of reasonable skill, that the apparatus
was unsafe and defective. If, by reasonable and ordinary
care and prudence, the master may know of the defect in the
machinery which he operates, it is his duty to keep advised
of its condition, and not needlessly expose his servants to peril
or danger;" that "in employing the plaintiff, the corporation
defendant did not become an insurer of his life or his safety.
The servant takes the ordinary risks of his employment. The
duty of the defendant towards him was the exercise of reasonable care in furnishing and keeping its machinery and appliances, about which he is required to perform his work, in a
reasonably safe condition. It was the defendant's duty also
to use like ordinary care in selecting competent fellow-servants,
and in a sufficient number, to insure that the work would be
safely done; and this duty was discharged by the defendant

SCHOENFELD v. HENDRICKS.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

if the care disclosed by it in these several matters accorded
with that reasonable skill and prudence and care which careful,
prudent men, engaged in the same kind of business, ordinarily
exercise."
And that, "as between employer and employ6, between
master and servant, as in this case, negligence on the part of
the former is not proven, or to be inferred, simply from the
existence or occurrence of the accident which caused the injury
complained of."
The defendant had no reason to complain because the fourth
and fifth instructions, which it asked, were not otherwise
given than as contained in the views thus expressed by the
Judgment af2imed.
court.
AIR. JUSTICE JTAoKSON did not hear the argument, and took
no part in the decision of this case.

SCHOENFELD v. HENDRICKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1067. Submitted March 5, 1894. -Decided

April 16, 1894.

An action cannot be maintained against a collector of customs, either at
common law or under the statutes of the United States, to recover duties
alleged to have been illegally exacted, in 1892, upon an importation of
merchandise, appraised according to law, no reappraisement being asked
for, and the duties being assessed upon the valuation so arrived at.
A Circuit Court of the United States is without jurisdiction to hear and
determine a suit against a collector raising such issues.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.31r. TFriMokham Smitk for plaintiffs in error.

.t&. Solioitor General for defendant in error.

