OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MoDONALD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 224. Argued January 23,1894. -Decided March 5, 1894.

A railway company which operated a coal mine near one of its stations in
Colorado, was in the habit of depositing the slack on an open lot between
the mine and the station in such quantities that the slack took fire and
was in a permanent state of combustion. This fact had been well known
for a long time to the employ6s and servants of the company, but no
fence was erected about the open lot, and no efforts were made to warn
people of the danger. A lad 12 years of age and his mother arrived by
train at the station and descended there. Neither had any knowledge of
the condition of the slack, which, on its surface, presented no sign of
danger. Something having alarmed the boy, he ran towards the slack,
fell on and into it, and was badly burned. Suit was brought to recover
damages from the railway company for the injuries thus inflicted upon
him. Held,
(1) That the company was guilty of negligence, in view of the statutory
obligation to fence;
(2) That the lad was not a trespasser, under the circumstances, and had
not been guilty of contributory negligence;
(3) That the case was within the rule that the court may withdraw a case
from the jury altogether and direct a verdict, when the evidence is
undisputed, or is of such conclusive character that the court would
be compelled to set aside a verdict returned in opposition to it.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

ir. Samuel Skellabarger and Air. A. A. Hoeling, J'., (with
whom were .lr. John F. -Dillon and Ar. JT. X. Wilson on
the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
ir. Li Warner Hlls for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE HAaLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The Union Pacific Railroad Company seeks the reversal of
the judgment below for the sum of $7500, the amount assessed
against it, by the verdict of a jury, as compensation to the

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McDONALD. 263
Opinion of the Court.

defendant in error for personal injuries alleged to have been
sustained by him in consequence of the want of due care upon
the part of the company in managing and controlling certain
premises belonging to it, on which the plaintiff received such

injuries.
The evidence, on behalf of the plaintiff, tended to establish
the following facts: At the time and before the injuries in
question were received the defendant owned and operated a
railroad, immediately on the line of which was the village of
Erie, Colorado, containing about six hundred inhabitants.
Within a few hundred feet of its depot at that village the
company operated a coal mine. Between the shaft-house of
the mine and the depot building were the tracks of the railroad. A narrow, rough, uneven foot-path to the coal mine
extended from the depot building, over the railroad tracks,
and close to a slack pit or trench. In working the mine, the
company's agents and employs had deposited along and close
by the track, between the shaft-house of the coal mine and
the depot building, a very large quantity of coal slack, which
extended up and down the track. The slack was piled up so
as to generate heat and cause it to take fire underneath by
spontaneous combustion, and was not spread out in thin layers
upon the surface of the ground. It was in a long trench
formed on the east side of the railroad in excavating and
throwing up dirt for the track, and the top of which was on
a level with, the ground around it. The path, above referred
to, was described by a witness as "a little bit above the fire,
sort of rim running around the fire, about eighteen inches
wide."
For a long time prior to the injuries complained of this
slack burned continuously under its surface. A few inches
below the surface was a bed of burning coals, extending nearly
the whole length of the pit. The surface was a mere covering
of ashes, sufficient in depth to conceal from view the fire
underneath. Except when there was rain, snow, or wind, no
smoke would be emitted from the slack pit, nor would there
be any visible indications of the existence of the burning coals
under the ashes covering the slack.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The burning portion of the slack, thus concealed and covered
by what appeared to be dead ashes, was within two or three
hundred yards of the most populous part of the town, and

came within a few feet of the platform of the depot building.
In 1884 the fire burned within twenty feet of the depot

building.
For some time, perhaps as long as two years, before the day
on which the plaintiff was injured, the company's agents and
officers had knowledge of the existence of this slack pit, and
of its dangerous condition as above stated. Cattle had been
known to stray into it and get burnt. This fact was known
to the company's agents.
The children of the miners were accustomed to go to the
mine just as it suited them. They were allowed to pick up
coal and carry it to their homes. A witness, who was a coal
miner and had worked on this mine, testified that "he had
frequently, nearly every day, seen children play around there,
and they were allowed to go around the machinery where the
shaft was; and this was allowed during all the years this mine
was operated. During the time he worked there, he never
heard of any objections to children coming on the premises, or
of their being driven off." Another witness who had worked
in the mine in 1884, and had been acquainted with it before and
after that time, and who was asked to state what he knew
about strangers, men and women, being allowed to go about
the mine, said: "Well, in general, strangers coming to the
town, about the first look they take is over to the mine and
engine; they are so near the town, and for curiosity they
often walk over; never heard of anybody, children or others,
being driven away from the works; the slack pile was covered
with ashes and the fire could not be seen ; the path was about
18 inches wide and near the level of the trench; it was rough
and slanting down toward the fire." On cross-examination
this witness stated that "the pile had been burning in that
way for about two or three years, and the path above it could
not be easily seen; that while you would undoubtedly see it,
still a person could not follow it clearly, plainly, and easily,
and ladies going to the graveyard would avoid it and did not

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. M cDONALD. 265
Opinion of the Court.

want to travel it; when on the path the heat from the burning
slack could be felt only when the wind blew; the defendants
used to dump their fine slack in there from time to time and
burn it, and continued to burn it in that way."
The slack pit had no fence around it, nor was it guarded
in any way. There was nothing in its appearance, when the
weather was clear, to indicate that there was fire beneath the
surface of ashes.
On the 3d of September, 1884, the plaintiff, a lad about 12
years of age, visited Erie with his mother. Neither the mother
nor the child had any knowledge of this slack pit. After dinner of that day, in the afternoon, the plaintiff obtained the
consent of his mother to visit the coal mine in company with
a "trapper" boy of the town, with whom he had become
acquainted. While at or near the shaft-house his attention
was attracted to a man in the act of sending a pair of mules
down the shaft. About that time five or six boys came from
the coal pit, having lamps on their hats, and dirty faces. One
of them yelled, "Let's grease him," another, "Let's burn him."
They started towards the plaintiff, who, becoming frightened,
ran away, intending to take the small path that skirted the
slack pit, the only one leading from the mouth of the coal pit
or from the shaft-house to the depot building and the village.
In attempting to pass some persons who happened to be on
the bank or near the edge of the slack pit, he slipped and fell
into the burning slack, breaking through the covering of ashes.
He came very near sinking with his entire body into the bed
of fire underneath the ashes, and would have perished instantly,
if he had not been pulled out by a grown person near by at the
time.
The person who rescued him testified that the day was a
nice, calm one; that he, witness, started for his home, and
hearing some one screaming, he saw the boy fall into the burning slack while running from the trappers who had scared him.
"These trappers," the witness said, "were boys down in the
mine for the purpose of leading the mules. The boy, George
McDonald, was running in the direction of the path that led
to the town. He ran into the fire, and fell onto his hands and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

face. He [witness] was standing about four feet off from him
in the foot-path. He went in and pulled him out, and found
his hands all burned, skin hanging from the hands and fingers,
and was burned in his back and clothes; that he helped carry
him to the hotel, the boy not being able to walk; that at the
time of the accident there was nothing to indicate that there
was any fire there; that a man who had never seen it would
walk right in it; would not know there was any fire, nothing
but brown ashes; came up within forty feet of the depot.
Children used to go around there at all hours of the day; some
to get coal, others to bring their fathers' dinner, and some
would go over just to see the place, and this condition of
affairs was so allowed or conducted during all the time witness
was there; that the path was up and down and on a slant
toward the slack pile. The Jackson, M arfell & Mitchell mines
used to throw their slack out, but they used to scatter it so it
would not burn." On cross-examination the same witness
stated that the path was used by the miners in going to and
from town to the shaft, and that there was no other path;
that when the boy fell into the fire he was running toward the
town.
As the result of the injuries received by him, the plaintiff's
hands and arms became weakened and in part disabled, and
his face badly scarred and disfigured. His general health was
greatly and permanently impaired. His kidneys became
seriously weakened and diseased. He suffered intense pain,
and was confined to his bed for a long period of time, disabled in the use of his hands in any way.
At the time the plaintiff was injured there was in force a
statute of Colorado, passed May 3, 1877, entitled "An act to
compel owners of coal mines to fence their slack piles and
abandoned pits." That statute was as follows: "§ 1. That
the owner and operators of coal mines from which fine or
slack coal is taken and piled upon the surface of the ground,
in such quantities as to produce spontaneous combustion, shall
fence said ground in such manner as to prevent loose cattle or
horses from having access to such slack piles. § 2. All owners
of lands having abandoned coal pits or shafts on the same, of

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. IMfcDONALD. 267
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient depth to endanger the life of cattle, horses, or other
stock, shall fence or fill said pits or shafts in such a manner
as to afford permanent protection to all such stock endangered
thereby. § 3. Every person violating sections one (1) and
two (2) of this act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined in a sum not less than twenty (20) dollars
nor more than one hundred (100) dollars, to be collected as
other fines are collected, and shall be further liable to any
party injured thereby in the amount of the actual injury sustained." Gen. Laws Colorado, 1877, p. 126, §§ 137, 138, 139;.
Mills' Annotated Stats. §§ 3202, 3203, 3204
The defendant examined two witnesses. Neither of them
testified to any material facts inconsistent with those above
stated. They were introduced for a purpose to which we
shall presently refer.
At the close of all the testimony the defendant asked the
court to instruct the jury "that there is not sufficient evidenceto warrant the jury in finding that the plaintiff has received
any permanent injuries or impairment of his capacity to earn
wages, and that because such serious injuries, if any, are not
shown to have followed after the other is not sufficient to
warrant the jury in finding that the one is the cause of the
other."
The court, in its charge to the jury reviewed the evidence,
and said : "It is not claimed the plaintiff had any notice or
knowledge of the fact that there was any fire in the place
where he received his injury, or that by the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence he could have seen or discovered
the fire. The law made it the duty of the defendant to fence
its slack pit, and if it did not do so, and as a result of its
negligence in failing to comply with its legal duty in this
regard the plaintiff received the injuries complained of, the
defendant is liable. Persons are entitled to the protection
which would accrue from a compliance with the statute, and
the plaintiff had a right to presume the space between the
railroad tracks was not a burning slack pit because it was not
fenced. It was the legal duty of the defendant to fence
the burning slack, and its omission to do so was negligence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant being guilty of negligence, your next inquiry
will be whether the plaintiff was guilty of any such negligence
as will prevent him from recovering, for it is a principle of
law that one injured by the negligence of another cannot
recover damages for such injury if by his own negligence he
contributed to the injury. Upon the undisputed facts of the
case it was not an act of negligence for the plaintiff to visit
the defendant's coal mine as he did, and he was not a trespasser there in a sense that would excuse the defendant for
the acts of negligence by which he was injured, and which
I have heretofore adverted to; nor was it an act of negligence
for the plaintiff under the circumstances to run away from
the miners. A boy may lawfully run to avoid injury or when
frightened or in play; and the fact that the plaintiff was
running on the occasion of his injury does not constitute
negligence on his part. He undoubtedly had a right to run
toward the hotel where his mother was stopping. Nor was
it negligence in him when he did run not to follow exactly
a rough, irregular, and narrow path leading-from one railroad
track to the other. There was nothing in the surroundings
to inform him, or any other person having no previous knowledge of the facts, that he would incur any risk or danger in
not keeping in the path in crossing the space between the
railroad tracks, and if you find he did not see the fire and
could not, with the exercise of reasonable diligence, discover
it, and did not know it was there, and that the surface of the
pit apparently presented a safe footing and passage, then he
was not guilty of any negligence in attempting to run across
it. The disputed issue in the case is the question of damages;
what damages you shall award; and first, gentlemen, you
will compensate the plaintiff for the pain and suffering he
endured by reason of the injuries he received on this occasion."
After instructing the jury in respect to the measure of
damages, the court said: "The plaintiff's attorney has said
to you, gentlemen, that he claimed, and that you ought to
award, more than a compensation. He is not content with
compensatory damages -that is, the damages you shall find

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McDONALD. 269
Opinion of the Court.

and award to him for his pain and his suffering, for his expenses, for his loss of time, for the disability that he sustained,
if any. He says those are not elements enough, and that, in
addition, you should award him damages as a punishment to
this defendant for not having complied with the statute.
That you cannot do, gentlemen. That claim is not supported
by the law. It is, moreover, in the very teeth of the statute
of the State under which it is claimed, for that statute in
terms says that the persons or the corporation neglecting to
fence these slack pits shall be liable to any party injured
thereby in the amount of the actual injury sustained, thus in
s
terms cutting off exemplary damages."
The defendant excepted "to the refusal of the court to instruct that there was not sufficient evidence as to the question
of serious or permanent injury, and leaving the question of
serious impairment to them, and also to the instruction not
given, and to the giving of the instruction as to all questions
connected with permanent injury, and to the withdrawing the
question of negligence of defendant and contributory negligence of the plaintiff from the jury." 35 Fed. Rep. 38.
Before examining the grounds of defendant's exceptions to
the action of the court below in giving and refusing instructions, we will consider the general question presented by the
case, namely, whether the owner or occupant of premises is
liable, under any circumstances, and, if so, under what circumstances, for injuries received by a person while on such
premises, and by reason of their dangerous condition.
In Bennett v. Railroad Cormpany, 102 U. S. 577, 580, it was
said that "the owner or occupant of land who, by invitation,
express or implied, induces or leads others to come upon his
premises, for any lawful purpose, is liable in damages to such
persons -they using due care -for injuries occasioned by the
unsafe condition of the land or its approaches, if such condition was known to him and not to them, and was negligently
suffered to exist, without timely notice to the public, or those
who were likely to act upon such invitation." This rule, the
court said, was founded in justice and necessity, and was illustrated by many cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In the present case there was no express invitation to the
plaintiff to come upon the premises of the railroad company
for any purpose. But if the company left its slack pit without a fence around it, or anything to give warning of its really
dangerous condition, and knew or had reason to believe that
it was in a place where it would attract the interest or curi.osity of passers-by, can the plaintiff, a boy of tender years, be
regarded as a mere trespasser, for whose safety and protection
while on the premises in question, against the unseen danger
referred to, the railroad company was under no duty or obli.gation whatever to make provision ?
A leading case upon this subject, cited and approved by this
.and many other courts, is Lynch v. Nurdi, 1 Q. B. 29, 35, 36.
The facts in that case were these: The defendant's carman
went into a house, leaving his horse and cart standing in a
:street for about half an hour, Without any person to take care
of them. The plaintiff, a lad about seven years of age, with
:several other children, were playing with the horse around the
.cart. During the carman's absence he got upon the cart.
Another boy led the horse on while the plaintiff was attempting to get off the shaft. The plaintiff fell and was run over
by the wheel, and his leg broken. The court was asked to
-direct the jury that there was no evidence in support of the
plaintiff's case, his own negligence having brought the mis-chief upon him. This request was refused, and it was left to
the jury to say, first, whether it was negligence in the defendant's servant to leave the horse and cart for half an hour in
the manner disclosed; and, secondly, whether that negligence
-occasioned the accident. The case came before the Queen's
Bench upon a rule nis for a new trial on the grounds of mis.direction, and because the verdict was against the evidence.
Lord Denman, Chief Justice, delivering judgment, referred
to the contention that the mischief was not produced by the
,mere negligence of the servant, but, at most, by that negliogence in combination with two other active causes, namely,
the advance of the horse in consequence of his being excited
by the other boy, and the plaintiff's improper conduct in
-mounting the cart, and so committing a trespass upon the

UNIO

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McDONALD. 271
Opinion of the Court.

defendant's chattel. On the former of these causes he deemed
it unnecessary to dwell at length, observing: "For if I am
guilty of negligence in leaving anything dangerous in a place
where I know it to be extremely probable that some other
person will unjustifiably set it in motion, to the injury of a
third, and if that injury should be so brought about, I presume
that the sufferer might have redress by action against both or
either of the two, but unquestionably against the first." He
then referred to the additional fact, appearing in that case,
that the plaintiff had no right to enter the cart, and, if he
had abstained from doing so, would have escaped injury, and
proceeded to inquire whether the plaintiff, being thus a cooperative cause of his own misfortune, was thereby deprived
of his remedy. He said: "The legal proposition that one
who has by his own negligence contributed to the injury of
which he complains cannot maintain his action against another in respect of it, has received some qualifications. Indeed, Lord Ellenborough's doctrine in Butterf,ld v. Fo-rester,
11 East, 60, which has been generally adopted since, would
not set up the want of a superior degree of skill or care as
-a bar to the claim of redress. Ordinary care must mean that
degree of care which may reasonably be expected from a per-son in the plaintiff's situation; and this would evidently be
very small indeed in so young a child. But this case presents
more than the want of care: we find in it the positive miscon-duct of the plaintiff an active instrument towards the effect."
After reviewing the adjudged cases, and observing that the
.question of negligence must depend upon the circumstances
of each case, he said that the jury "would naturally inquire
whether the horse was vicious or steady; whether the occasion
required the servant to be so long absent from his charge, and
whether, in that case, no assistance could have been procured
to watch the horse; whether the street was at that hour
likely to be clear, or thronged with a noisy multitude; espe.cially whether large parties of young children might be reasonably expected to resort to the spot. If this last-mentioned
fact were probable, it would be hard to say that a case of
.gross negligence was not fully established. But the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

remains, can the plaintiff, consistently with the authorities,
maintain his action, having been at least equally in fault?
The answer is, that supposing that fact ascertained by the
jury, but to this extent, that he merely indulged in amusing
himself with the empty cart, then we think that the defendant cannot be permitted to avail himself of that fact. The
most blamable carelessness of his servant having tempted the
child, he ought not to reproach the child with yielding to that
temptation. He has been the real and only cause of the mischief. He has been deficient in ordinary care; the child, acting with prudence or thought, has, however, shown these
qualities in as great a degree as he could be expected to possess them. His misconduct bears no proportion to that of the
defendant which produced it." Upon these grounds the action
was held to be maintainable by the infant.
We have referred quite fully to the case of Lynch v.
Nurdin, because it was cited in Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17.
Wall. 657, 661, in connection with other cases in support of
the rule, laid down in that case, that while a railway company
is not bound to the same degree of care in regard to mere
strangers who are unlawfully upon its premises that it owes
to passengers conveyed by it, it is not exempt from responsibility to such injuries arising from its negligence or from its
tortious acts.
In Railroad Co. v. Stout, the principal question was whether
a railroad company was liable for an injury received by an
infant, while upon its premises, from idle curiosity, or for
purposes of amusement, if such injury was, under the circumstances, attributable to the negligence of the company. The
facts in that case were these: The railway company owned
and used for its roadbed and depot grounds a tract of unenclosed land, in the town of Blair, Nebraska, upon which the
company had its depot house, a quarter of a mile from which
was a turn-table belonging to it. The plaintiff, a boy a little
over six years of age, together with one or two other boys,
went to the company's depot, about a half a mile distant,
without any definite purpose in view. Upon arriving there,
the boys, at the suggestion of one of them, proceeded to the

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McDONALD. 273
Opinion of the Court.

turn-table, about a quarter of a mile distant, travelling along
the defendant's roadbed or track. When they reached the
turn-table, which was not attended or guarded, nor at that
time fastened or locked, revolving easily on its axis, two of
the boys commenced to turn it. The plaintiff's foot, while
he was attempting to get on it, was caught between the end
of the rail on the turn-table, as it revolved, and the end of the
iron rail on the main track of the defendant's road, whereby
it was badly cut and crushed, resulting in a serious and permanent injury. It appeared in evidence by one of the employ~s of the company that he had previously seen boys
playing at the turn-table, but this fact was not communicated
to the officers of the company having charge of the turn-table.
The plaintiff had never been at the turn-table before.
Judge Dillon, Circuit Judge, in his charge to the jury, after
observing that negligence was the omission to do something
that a reasonable, prudent man, guided by those considerations that ordinarily regulate the conduct of human affairs,
would do, or doing something that a prudent or reasonable
man would not do under all the circumstances of the particular
transaction under judicial investigation, and that if the turntable, in the manner it was constructed and left, was not
dangerous in its nature, the defendants would not be guilty
of any negligence in not locking or guarding it, said: "The
machine in question is part of the defendants' road and was
lawfully constructed where it was. If the railroad company
did not know, and had no good reason to suppose, that children would resort to the turn-table to play, or did not know,
or had no good reason to suppose, that if they resorted there
they would be likely to get injured thereby, then you cannot
find a verdict against them. But if the defendants did know,
or had good reason to believe, under the circumstances of the
case, that the children of the place would resort to the turntable to play, and that if they did they would or might be
injured, then, if they took no means to keep the children away,
and no means to prevent accidents, they would be guilty of
negligence, and would be answerable for damages caused to
children by such negligence."
VOL. CL-18

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

That charge was held by this court to be an impartial and
intelligent one. And after observing that the jury were at
liberty to find for the plaintiff, if from the evidence it could
justly be inferred that the railroad company, in the construction, location, management, or condition of the turn-table, had
omitted that care and attention to prevent the occurrence of
accidents which prudent and careful men ordinarily bestow,
Mr. Justice Hunt, delivering the unanimous judgment of this
court, said: "That the turn-table was a dangerous machine,
which would be likely to cause injury to children who resorted
to it, might fairly be inferred from the injury which actually
occurred to the plaintiff. There was the same liability to
injure him, and no greater, that existed with reference to all
children. When the jury learned from the evidence that he
had suffered a serious injury by his foot being caught between
the fixed rail of the roadbed and the turning rail of the table,
they were justified in believing that there was a probability
of the occurrence of such accidents. So, in looking at the
remoteness of the machine from inhabited dwellings, when it
was proved to the jury that several boys from the hamlet
Wvere at play there on this occasion, and that they had been
at play upon the turn-table upon other occasions, and within
the observation and to the knowledge of the employ4s of the
defendant, the jury were justified in believing that children
would probably resort to it, and that the defendant should
have anticipated that such would be the case. As it was, in
fact, on this occasion, so it was to be expected that the amuse-"
ment of the boys would have been found in turning this table
while they were on it or about it. This could certainly have
been prevented by locking the turn-table when not in use by
the company. It was not shown that this would cause any
considerable expense or inconvenience to the defendant. It
could probably have been prevented by the repair of the
broken 'latch. This was a heavy catch whioh, by dropping
into a socket, prevented the revolution of the table. There
had been one on this table, weighing some eight or ten
pounds, but it had been broken off and had not been replaced.
It was proved to have been usual with railroad companies to

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McDONALD. 275
Opinion of the Court.

have upon their turn-tables a latch or bolt, or some similar
instrument. The jury may well have believed that if the
defendant had incurred the trifling expense of replacing this
latch, and had taken the slight trouble of putting it in its
place, these very small boys would not have taken the pains
to lift it out, and thus the whole difficulty would have been
avoided. Thus reasoning, the jury would have reached the
conclusion that the defendant had omitted the care and attention it ought to have given; that it was negligent; and that
its negligence caused the injury to the plaintiff."
The principles announced in .Railroad Co. v. Stout have
been approved in many adjudged cases. In K-iefe v. JEIil'waukee & St. Paul Railway, 21 Minnesota, 207, 211, which
was also the case of an injury received by a child of tender
years, while playing upon an unfastened and unguarded turntable of a railroad company, the court, overruling a motion
based on the pleadings for judgment rendered in favor of defendant, said: " N ow, what an express invitation would be to
an adult, the temptation of an attractive plaything is to a
child of tender years. If the defendant had left this turntable unfastenedfor thepurose of attracting young children
to play upon it, knowing the danger into which it was thus
alluring them, it certainly would be no defence to an action
by the plaintiff, who had been attracted upon the turn-table
and injured, to say that the plaintiff was a trespasser, and
that his childish instincts were no excuse for his trespass.
It is true that the defendant did not leave the turntable unfastenedfo-r the _puirose of injuring young children;
and if the defendant had no reason to believe that the unfastened turn-table was likely to attract and injure young children, the defendant would not be bound to use care to protect
from injury the children that it had no good reason to suppose
were in danger. But the complaint stated that the defendant
knew that the turn-table, when left unfastened, was easily
revolved; that, when so left, it was very attractive, and,
when put in motion by them, dangerous to young children;
and knew also that many children were in the habit of going
upon it to play. The defendant, therefore, knew that by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

leaving this turn-table unfastened and unguarded, it was not
merely inviting young children to come upon the turn-table,
but was holding out an allurement, which, acting upon the
natural instincts by which such are controlled, drew them by
those instincts into hidden danger." It was held that, under
the circumstances, the child was not in fault in following the
temptation set before it, and that the company violated its
duty in not protecting him against the danger into which the
child was thus led.
The Minnesota case is referred to by Judge Cooley in his
Treatise on Torts. Alluding to the doctrine of implied invitation to visit the premises of another, he says: "In the case
of young children, and other persons not fully sui juris,an
implied license might sometimes arise when it would not on
behalf of others. Thus, leaving a tempting thing for children
to play with exposed, where they would be likely to gather
for that purpose, may be equivalent to an invitation to them
to make use of it; and, perhaps, if one were to throw away
upon his premises, near the common way, things tempting to
children, the same implication should arise." c. 10, p. 303.
An instructive case upon the general subject is Powers v.
Jarlow, 53 Michigan, 507, 514, 515. That was an action by
an infant to recover damages for injuries received while he
was on the premises of the defendant, a small parcel of which
was under lease to the boy's father. The defendant had
sometimes used dynamite for removing stumps that obstructed
the cultivation of his lands. This dynamite was put up in
boxes, in which were smaller boxes, containing exploders.
One of these boxes was placed by the defendant's servant in
a temporary shed on his farm. There was no enclosure about
the shed. The word "powder" was written on the box, but
neither the plaintiff nor his father could read, nor had either
been told that anything dangerous was stored there. The
shed was distant from any public highway, but of the
several parcels of land leased by the defendant, the one leased
by the plaintiff's father was nearest to the shed, (within ten
rods or less,) and to the farm road used by the defendant's
lessees in reaching the parcels respectively cultivated by them.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY C0. v. MoDONALD. 27t
Opinion of the Court.

According to the facts the lessor had not restricted the lessee
to any particular route in reaching the part leased by him.
The tenant was within the limits of his right if he did not
depart altogether from the direct line between the end of the
farm road and the lot which had been leased to him. The
defendant's superintendent went to the box in the shed for
dynamite and exploders as he had occasion to use them. The
evidence also tended to show that the handling of the exploders by persons who were ignorant of their nature, or were
careless, or under circumstances rendering them liable to accidental concussion, would be extremely hazardous.
The Supreme Court of Michigan, speaking by Chief Justice
Cooley, said: "Under the circumstances disclosed in this case
the invitation to the tenant to come upon the land was an invitation which embraced his family also. The tenant was a
laboring man, apparently of small means; and it is customary
for such men to be assisted in their manual labor by the
members of their families; and the defendant must have
understood that the persons who rented of him these small
patches of land would be likely to avail themselves of the
services of their children in cultivating them." Again, in the
same case: "Children, wherever they go, must be expected
to act upon childish instincts and impulses; and others who
are chargeable with a duty of care and caution towards them
must calculate upon this, and take precautions accordingly.
If they leave exposed to the observation of children anything which would be tempting to them, and which they
in their immature judgment might naturally suppose they
were at liberty to handle or play with, they should expect
that liberty to be taken. . . . A man of ordinary prudence,
if told that so dangerous an article was so carelessly stored,
might well have deemed the statement incredible. We cannot under these circumstances say that the plaintiff's father
was chargeable with fault in not suspecting danger and warning his children away from it, or that the child himself was
blameworthy in acting upon the childish instincts and propensities which combined with the negligence of defendant's servant to bring the danger upon him." To the same general

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

effect are many other, cases, some of which, for convenience
of reference, are given in the margin.' In nearly all of those
cases that of Lynch v. Nurdin is cited with approval.
It has been sometimes said that the case of Lynch v.
_2'urdin was overruled by Jangan v. Atterton, L. IR. 1 Ex.
239; S. C. 4 H. & C. 388. But, in reference to the latter
case, Lord Chief Justice Cockburn, with whom concurred
Manisty, J., said in Clark v. Oharnbers, 3 Q. B. D. 327, 338
(1878): "The defendant had there exposed in a public
market place a machine for crushing oil cake without its being
thrown out of gear or the handle being fastened, or any person
having the care of it. The plaintiff, a boy of four years of age,
returning from school with his brother, a boy of seven, and
some other boys stopped at the machine. One of the boys
began to turn the handle. The plaintiff, at the suggestion of
his brother, placed his hand on the cogs of the wheels, and
the machine being set in motion, three of his fingers were
crushed. It was held by the Court of Exchequer that the
defendant was not liable, first, because there was no negligence on the part of the defendant, or, if there was negligence, it was too remote; and, secondly, because the injury
was caused by the act of the boy who turned the handle and
of the plaintiff himself, who was a trespasser. With the
latter ground of the decision we have in the present case
nothing to do; otherwise we should have to consider whether
it should prevail against the cases cited, with which it is

I Robinson v.

Cone, 22 Vermont, 213; Daley v. Vorwich & WorcesterRail-

road, 26 Connecticut, 591; Rauch v. Lloyd, 31 Penn. St. 358; Gillis v.
Pennsylvania Railroad, 59 Penn. St. 129, 142; Hydraulic Works v. Orr, 83
Penn. St. 332, 335; Nbofolk & PetersburgRailroadv. Ormsby, 27 Gratt. 455,
476; Morrison v. Cornelius, 63 N. C. 346, 349; Morgan v. Cox, 22 Missouri,
373, 378; Borland v. Missouri Railroad, 36 Missouri, 484, 490; Walsh v.
Miss. Valley Transp. Co., 52 Missouri, 434, 439; Macon & Western Railroad
v. Davis, 18 Georgia, 679, 686; Government Street Railroad v. Hanlon, 53
Alabama, 70, 79; Fralerv. Sears Union Water Co., 12 California, 555, 559;
Richmond v. Sacramento Valley Railroad, 18 California, 351, 356; Bellefontaine & Indiana Railroad v. Snyder, 18 Ohio St. 399, 410; Morris v. Litchfield, 35 N. H. 271, 278; Weick v. Lander, 75 Illinois, 93, 97; CentralRailroad
Co. v. Moore, 4 Zabr. (24 N. J.Law) 824.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY

0.

v. McDONALD. 279

Opinion of the Court.

obviously in conflict. If the decision as to negligence is in
conflict with our judgment in this case, we can only say
we do not acquiesce in it. It appears to us that a man who
leaves in a public place, along which persons, and amongst
them children, have to pass, a dangerous machine which may
be fatal to any one who touches it, without any precaution
against mischief, is not only guilty of negligence, but of
negligence of a very reprehensible character, and not the
less so, because the imprudent and unauthorized act of
another may be necessary to realize the mischief to which
the unlawful act or negligence of the defendant has given
occasion."
We adhere to the principles announced in Railroad Co. v.
,Stout, supra. Applied to the case now before us, they require
us to hold that the defendant was guilty of negligence in
leaving unguarded the slack pile, made by it in the vicinity
of its depot building. It could have forbidden all persons
from coming to its coal mine for purposes merely of curiosity
and pleasure. But it did not do so. On the contrary, it
permitted all, without regard to age, to visit its mine, and
witness its operation. It knew that the usual approach to
the mine was by a narrow path skirting its slack pit, close
to its depot building, at which the people of the village, old
and young, would often assemble. It knew that children
were in the habit of frequenting that locality and playing
around the shaft-house in the immediate vicinity of the slack
pit. The slightest regard for the safety of these children
would have suggested that they were in danger from being
so near a pit, beneath the surface of which was concealed
(except when snow, wind, or rain prevailed) a mass of burning coals into which a child might accidentally fall and be
burned to death. Under all the circumstances, the railroad
company ought not to be heard to say that the plaintiff, a
mere lad, moved by curiosity to see the mine, in the vicinity
of the slack pit, was a trespasser, to whom it owed no duty,
or for whose .protection it was under no obligation to make
provision.
In Townsend v. Waren, 9 East. 277, 281, it was held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

if a man place dangerous traps, baited with flesh, in his own
ground, so near to a highway, or to the premises of another,
that dogs passing along the highway, or kept in his neighbor's premises, would probably be attracted by their instinct
into the traps, and in consequence of such act his neighbor's
dogs be so attracted and thereby injured, an action on the
case would lie. "What difference," said Lord Ellenborough,
0. J., "is there in reason between drawing the animal into
the trap by means of his instinct which he cannot resist, and
putting him there by manual force?" What difference, in
reason we may observe in this case, is there between an express license to the children of this village to visit the defendant's coal mine, in the vicinity of its slack pile, and an
implied license, resulting from the habit of the defendant to
permit them, without objection or warning, to do so at will,
for purposes of 'curiosity or pleasure? Referring to the case
of Towmsend v. Wathen, Judge Thompson, in his work on the
Law of Negligence, Vol. I, p. 305 n., well says: "It would
be a barbarous rule of law that would make the owner of
land liable for setting a trap thereon, baited with stinking
meat, so that his neighbor's dog, attracted by his natural instincts, might run into it and be killed, and which would
exempt him from liability for the consequences of leaving
exposed and unguarded on his land a dangerous machine, so
that his neighbor's child, attracted to it and tempted to intermeddle with it by instincts equally strong, might thereby
be killed or maimed for life." Indeed, the present case is
stronger than the one supposed by the writer, in that the
defendant was aware of the fact that children often visited
its mine.
The evidence of the two witnesses, introduced by the defendant, that a boy was warned off the coal shaft on the
morning of the day when plaintiff fell into the slack pit, had
no reference to the plaintiff. The boy to whom they referred
was one who was at the shaft-house in the forenoon. The
plaintiff did not go there until the afternoon. Both of these
witnesses saw the plaintiff, at the time of the trial, and were
unable to identify him as- the boy to whom the warning

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McDONALD.

281

Opinion of the Court.

was given. But if this warning was given to the plaintiff,
it had reference only to the danger of his being on the platform of the shaft-house, and not to any danger of his being
near that house or the vicinity of the coal mine.
Nor is there any force in the suggestion that the plaintiff
was negligent in falling into the burning slack. The conduct
of the persons who 6ame out of the coal pit, with lamps upon
their heads and with dirty faces, yelling "Let's grease him,"
"Let's burn him," frightened the lad, and caused him to run
in the direction of the town where his mother was staying.
He ran towards the only path that was open to him, and
made such efforts as he could to escape those who threatened
to harm him. His falling into the slack heap was accidental,
and in no proper or just sense the result of negligence. The
question of- negligence upon the part of an infant must be determined with reference to his age and to the situation in
which, at the time of the injury, the circumstances placed
him. The authorities cited -indeed, all the adjudged cases
agree, as declared by the Court of Appeals of New York,
that in applying the rule that a person who seeks to recover
for a personal injury, sustained by another's negligence, must
not himself be guilty of negligence that substantially contributed to the result, the law discriminates between children and
adults, the feeble and the strong, and only requires of each
the exercise of that degree of care to be reasonably expected
in view of his age and condition. Reynokds v. f. F. Central
&. Rail'oad, 58 N. Y. 248, 252. And so, as declared by
the same court, persons in sudden emergencies, and called to
act under peculiar circumstances, are not held to the exercise
of the same degree of caution as in other cases. Thurber v.
Harlem Bridge &c. Railroad, 60 N. Y. 326, 336. Even in
the case of an employ6 of a railroad company, claiming to
have been injured as the result of the company's negligence,
this court has said that in determining whether he has recklessly exposed himself to peril, or failed to exercise the care
for his personal safety that might be reasonably expected,
regard must always be had to the exigencies of his position,
indeed, to all the circumstances of the particular occasion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.Yane v. Northern Oentral Railroad Company, 128 U. S. 91r
95. Where human life or personal safety is involved, and the
issue is one of negligence, the law will not lightly impute
negligence to an effort, made in good faith, to preserve the
one or to secure the other, unless the circumstances, under
which that effort was made, show recklessness or rashness.
Equally without merit is the suggestion that the motherwas negligent in permitting the plaintiff to visit the coalmine. There was, in fact, very little danger, under ordinary
circumstances, in visiting the mine, except that which camefrom its contiguity to the burning slack pile. But of the
existence of that concealed danger both the plaintiff and his,
mother were ignorant. If the negligence of a parent can beimputed to the child so as to prevent the latter from maintaining an action for personal injuries received by him from others,.
upon which question we express no opinion, - it is sufficient
to say that negligence cannot be attributed to the plaintiff'&
mother because of her consenting that her son might visit the
coal mine in company with one of the trapper boys of the
village, who was, presumably, capable of caring for him while
away from the mother.
At the close of the charge by the court there was a general
exception to the withdrawal from the jury of the questions
of the defendant's negligence and the plaintiff's contributory
negligence.
The court correctly said that there was no controversy
about the leading facts of the case, and that the defendant
was guilty of negligence. As the facts were undisputed, the
question of liability upon the ground of negligence was one
of law, and as the facts showed negligence by the railroad
company, which was the primary, substantial cause of the
injury complained of, it was not error in the court to so
declare.
The only question that could arise upon this part of the
case is whether the court should have instructed the juryas, in effect, it did -that the failure of the company to put
a fence around the slack pit, as required by the statute of
Colorado, was negligence, of which the plaintiff could com-

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. MoDONALD. 28W
Opinion of the Court.

plain in this action for personal injuries sustained by him.
Primarily, that statute was intended for the protection of
cattle and'horses. But it was not, for that reason, wholly
inapplicable to the present case upon the issue as to negli-gence. In Hayes v. .Michigan Central Railroad, 111 U. S.
228, 240, which was an action by an infant for personal
injuries sustained by the alleged negligence of a railroad
company in not properly guarding its line within the limits
of the city of Chicago, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Matthews, said: "In the analogous case of fences required'
by the statute, as a protection for animals, an action is given
to the owners for the loss caused by the breach of the duty.
And although in the case of injury to persons by reason of
the same default, the failure to fence* is not, as in the case
of animals, conclusive of the liability, irrespective of negligence, yet an action will lie for the personal injury, and this
breach of duty will be evidence of negligence. The duty is.
due, not to the city as a municipal body, but to the public,
considered as composed of individual persons; and each person
specially injured by the breach of the obligation is entitled
to his individual compensation, and to an action for its recovery." The non-performance by the railroad company of
the duty imposed by statute, of putting a fence around its
slack pit, was a breach of its duty to the public, and, therefore, evidence of negligence, for which it was liable in this
case, if the injuries in question were, in a substantial sense,
the result of such violation of duty.
Nor did the court err in saying to the jury that the disputed
issue was the question of damages. Looking at all the facts,
there was an entire absence of any just ground for imputing
contributory negligence to the plaintiff. If the jury had so
found, the court could properly have set aside the verdict as
being against the evidence. Upon the question of negligence,
the case is within the rule that the court may withdraw a case
from the jury, altogether, and "direct a verdict for the plaintiff or the defendant, as the one or the other may be proper,
where the evidence is undisputed or is of such conclusive
character that the court, in the exercise of a sound judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

discretion, would be compelled to set aside a verdict returned
in opposition to it." Delaware, Zaokawanna &c. Railroad
v. Converse, 139 U7. S. 469, 472, and authorities there cited;
Elliott v. Chicago, i7 ilwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 150 U. S.
245; Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227,
241.
Judgment afflrmed.
UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 135.

Argued December 14, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

Congress contemplated by the act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, "granting
lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
Lake Superior to Puget's Sound, on the Pacific coast, by the northern
route" the construction of a main trunk line, which would not touch at
any point at or near Portland, and the western end of which would be
east and northeast of a direct line between Portland and Puget's Sound;
and also of a branch line leaving the main trunk line at some suitable
place, not more than three hundred miles from its western terminus, and
extending, via the valley of the Columbia River, to a point at or near
Portland.
As to Portland, the purpose of Congress by the passage of that act was, to
connect it with the east by a branch road through the valley of the
Columbia that would strike a main trunk line connecting Puget's Sound
with Lake Superior, and not to connect Portland with Puget's Sound by
the most eligible route between those places.
The grant to the Oregon Central Railroad Company by the act of May 4,
1870, c. 69, 13 Stat. 94, had taken effect before the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company by the joint resolution of May 31, 1870, 16
Stat. 378, was made, and consequently the lands in question in this case
were not included in that grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
When the lands so grante&to the Oregon Central Railroad Company were
forfeited to the United States, they were thereby restored to the public
domain, and did not pass to the Northern Pacific Company by the said
grant of May 31, 1870.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

