McKITTRICK v. ARKAN SAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

473

Statement of the Case.

MoKITTRIOK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 248. Argued February 2, 1894.-

Decided March 19, 1894.

The act of the State of Arkansas of July 21, 1868, (Laws of 1868, 148,) "to
aid in the construction of railroads," and the act of April 10, 1869, (Laws
of 1868-9, 147,) " to provide for paying the interest upon the bonds issued
to aid in the construction of railroads," taken together created no lien
upon the property of a railroad company for whose benefit the state bonds
had been issued, notwithstanding the provisions contained in the act of
March 18, 1867, (Laws of 1866-7, 428,) as that act had no force in this
respect after the adoption of the state constitution of 1869.
Toinpkins v. _fort Smith Railway Corapany, 125 U. S. 109, affirmed and
followed.
The sale of the Arkansas Central Railway in the foreclosure proceedings
under the mortgage to the Union Trust Company, and the deed made in
pursuance thereof, passed the property to the purchaser free from any
claims of the creditors of the railway company.
The alleged frauds of the president of that railway company are examined
and held not to invalidate that sale.
Neither the State of Arkansas, nor the holders of the bonds of the State
issued in aid of the construction of that railway, were necessary parties to
that foreclosure suit.

Tns appeal brought up the final decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, sustaining a demurrer to a bill filed by the appellant, and dismiss-

ing such bill for want of equity.
The appellant, who was the plaintiff below, was a citizen of
Great Britain. He sued on behalf of himself and all holders

of bonds issued to the Arkansas Central Railway Company by
the State of Arkansas, under the provisions of an act of the
general assembly of that State, entitled "An act to aid in the
construction of railroads," approved July 21, 1868. The
defendants were the Arkansas Central Railway Company, a
corporation* of Arkansas; the Arkansas Midland Railroad

Company, a corporation of the same State; and the Union

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Trust Company of New York, a corporation of the State of
New York.
The bill was of unusual length, and it is difficult to present
the case properly without a full statement of its allegations.
According to those allegations - which, upon demurrer, must
be taken to be true-the case made by the bill was as follows:
By section 6, article 10, of the constitution of Arkansas, in
force in 1868, it was provided that "the credit of the State or
counties shall never be loaned for any purpose without the consent of the people expressed through the ballot-box." 1 Charters and Constitutions, 148. For the purpose of loaning the
credit of the State, and in order to encourage the building of
railroads within its limits, the general assembly of Arkansas.
passed the above act of Tuly 21, 1868, by the first section of
which act it was provided: "For the purpose of securing such
lines of railroad in this State as the interest of the people may
from time [to time] require, the faith and credit of the State of
Arkansas are hereby irrevocably pledged, and the proper authorities of the State will and shall issue to each railroad company or corporation, which shall become entitled thereto, the
bonds of this State, in the sum of one thousand dollars [$1000]
each, payable in thirty [30] years from the date thereof, with
coupons thereto attached for the payment of interest on the
same in the city of New York, semi-annually, at seven per cent
per annum, in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars [$15,000J
in bonds for each mile of railroad which has not received a
railroad land grant from the United States, and ten thousand
dollars [$10,000] in bonds for each mile of railroad which has
received a land grant from the United States, on account of
which such bonds shall be due and issuable as provided." Laws
of Arkansas, No. 48, 1868, 148.
At an election held November 3, 1868, under the provisions
of this act, the people of the State voted upon the proposition
submitted by it, and a majority of the votes cast at such election voted in favor of it, and "For Railroads."
By the second section of the act, it was made *the duty of
the board of railroad commissioners to receive applications from

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

475,

Statement of the Case.

railroad companies for the loan of the credit of the State, and
to designate the companies entitled to such aid. The fourth
section provided that any railroad company having existence
under the laws of the State and desiring to receive the aid
referred to in the act might signify the same by application to
the board of railroad commissioners, signed by its president
and attested by the seal of the company, setting forth its character, organization, capital stock, a map of the line or lines of road
proposed to be built, the progress made thereon, the financial
condition and resources of the company, with such other information as the case required, and if the board of commissioners
found such corporation to be organized according to law, with
resources adequate to the purpose, and that the construction of
the proposed line or lines of road would be of public benefit, and
the board consented to approve and to grant such application,
then and thereafter the company or corporation should be
entitled to and have a right to ask for and receive the bonds
of the State in the act mentioned.
The president of the Arkansas Central Railway Company
(which had not received a land grant from the United States)
applied to the railroad commissioners for a loan of the credit and
bonds of the State, as provided in the act of 1868; and on the
25th of April, 1870, the board awarded to that corporation
such aid for a distance of 150 miles and at the rate of $15,000
per mile. Of that action notice was given to the railway
company.
The railway company was authorized by its charter to construct, maintain, and operate a railroad from Helena, in the
county of Phillips, through the counties of Phillips, Monroe,
Arkansas, Prairie, and Pulaski to Little Rock, all in the
State, the line so located, exclusive of side tracks, being one
hundred miles in length, and also a branch road from a point
on its main line at or near Aberdeen to Pine Bluff, in the
county of Jefferson.
On the date last mentioned, upon proof being duly made
and filed in the proper office, the governor of Arkansas, on
an award of the loan of the State's credit, caused to be issued
and delivered to the Arkansas Central Railway Company 150

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

bonds of $1000 each, numbered from 1 to 150, both inclusive.
Subsequently, from time to time, at different dates between
April 25, 1871, and July 12, 1873, inclusive, on similar proof,
the board of railroad commissioners caused to be issued and
delivered to the railway company other bonds, 1350 in number
and of $1000 each.
Each of the bonds thus issued and delivered certified, by the
Governor and auditor, and attested by the secretary and treasurer, under the seal of the State, that the State of Arkansas
was indebted "unto the Arkansas Central Railway Company
or bearer in the sum of one thousand dollars, lawful money of
the United States of America, redeemable, at the city of New
York, thirty years from the date hereof, with interest at the
rate of seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, at the
city of New York, on the first day of April and October in
each year, on the presentation of the proper coupons hereto
annexed. The faith and credit of the State are hereby solemnly and irrevocably pledged for the payment of the interest
and the redemption of the principal of this bond, issued in
pursuance of an act of the general assembly of the State of
Arkansas, approved July 21, 1868, entitled 'An act to aid in
the construction of railroads,' the said act having been submitted to and duly ratified by the people of the State at the
general election held on November 3, 1868."
Each of the bonds at the time of their issue had sixty interest coupons attached thereto, separately numbered, calling for
the payment "to the bearer of thirty-five dollars, in the city
of New York, on the first day of October, 1871, 'being semiannual interest due on bond No. -. "
The Arkansas Central Railway Company, on delivery of the
bonds to it, caused and authorized its president to endorse officially upon each bond a special guaranty in the words following: "For a valuable consideration the Arkansas Central Railway Company hereby guarantee to the holder of the within
bond the payment of the principal thereof when due, and of
the interest thereon, as the same accrues, by the State of
Arkansas; and on default of said State of Arkansas to pay'
such principal or interest, or either, as the same shall become

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS

CENTRAL RAILWAY.

477

Statement of the Case.

due, the Arkansas Central Railway Company agree to pay the
same to said holder upon delivery of the within bond, or of the
coupon for the interest thereon, upon which a default of payment shall have been made."
Under the seventh section of the act referred to, it became
the duty of the legislature from time to time to impose upon
the railroad company, to which its bonds were issued, a tax
equal to the amount of the annual interest on such bonds at
the time outstanding and unpaid, and after the expiration of
five years from the completion of the road to impose an additional special tax of 2 - per cent per annum upon the whole
amount of the state aid granted to the company, such taxation
to continue until the amount of bonds issued to any company
with the interest thereon should be paid by it, in which case
the railroad was entitled to be discharged from all claims or
liens on the part of the State.
The railway company had not, when this suit was brought,
discharged said lien, nor had it been discharged by any one
else for or on its behalf.
It was further provided by the eighth section of the act that
in case a company should fail to pay the taxes imposed by the
seventh section, when the same became due, and for sixty
days thereafter, it should be the duty of the treasurer of the
State, by a writ of sequestration, to seize and take possession
of its income and revenues until the amount of its defaults
was fully paid up and satisfied, with costs of sequestration,
after which the treasurer was authorized to release any further
revenues to its proper officers.
Before the award of the loan of the credit of the State and
at the first meeting of the legislature after the election at
which the act of 1868 was voted upon and ratified, and before
any bonds were issued under it to said railway company, the
general assembly of Arkansas passed an act to provide for the
prompt payment of the interest upon the bonds which it might
thereafter issue to railroad companies. That act is entitled
"An act to provide for paying the interest on the bonds issued
to aid in the construction of railroads," and was approved
April 10, 1869. Laws of Arkansas, No. 73, 1868-1869, 14T.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the -Case.

In that apt it was provided that the auditor of the State
should, on or before the 1st of June in each year, certify
to the state treasurer the amount of bonds issued to each
-company, with the amount of semi-annual interest to accrue
thereon, that is to say, the amount of interest the State would
have to pay on the 1st of October of that year on the bonds
issued to each company, and the amount of tax required from
-each to pay the same, such tax to be due and payable on the
30th day of June of that year.. The auditor was required in
like manner, on or before the first day of December in each
year, to certify to the treasurer of the State the amount of
-semi-annual interest the State would have to pay on the bonds
on the first day of April in the ensuing year, issued under the
act of 1868, and the amount of the tax required from each
company to pay the same, such tax to be due and payable
December 31 of that year.
It was made the duty of the treasurer, upon receipt of the
auditor's certificate, to cause notice to be served upon each
railroad company on or before the 20th day of June and December of each year, specifying the amount of tax to be paid, which
amount should be the interest on the bonds for that period,
.and demanding the payment of the same into the treasury
upon the 30th day of June and the 31st day of December,
respectively, in conformity with the provisions of the acts of
July 21, 1868, and April 10, 1869.
If, at the expiration of sixty days after the tax became due
-and payable, the railroad company should fail to make payment, it became the duty of the treasurer, through the attorney general, to make and file a petition in the Chancery Court
,of Pulaski County, setting forth the amount due and the fact
,of default, praying the issue of the writ of sequestration contemplated in the act of 1868, and the appointment of a receiver
to take the revenue and income of the company for the purpose specified in that act. The receiver, upon such writ being
issued, was required to take possession of the incomes and
revenues of the defaulting company, with authority to demand
_and receive all moneys coming to it from the operation of its
road. The officers of the defaulting company were required

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

4:79

Statement of the Case.

to pay over to the receiver all moneys coming into their possession as revenue and income, or from operating the railroad;
and they were required to submit all necessary books and
papers to the receiver for examination. All moneys received
and all moneys coming into the hands of the receiver, after
meeting proper operating expenses, were directed by the act
to be applied to the payment and discharge of the tax due and
unpaid. The receivership was to continue until the amounts
in default were paid, with the reasonable costs of sequestration. When such payments had been made, the receiver was
to be discharged and to withdraw from the management of
the affairs of the company.
After the award to the Arkansas Central Railway Company
of the loan of the State's credit, to wit, on the 3d day of July,
1871, that company executed a mortgage or deed of trust to
the Union Trust Company of New York, as trustee, to secure
the payment of $1,200,000, evidenced by coupon bonds bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum. This
mortgage embraced all the property and appurtenances of the
railroad company. It was not filed for record or recorded in
the county of Pulaski until some time in 1871, nor was it filed
for record in the other counties through which that railway
was to be constructed, operated, and maintained until after
that date. Under that mortgage or deed of trust one thousand
bonds of $1000 each, and four hundred of $500 each, were
executed and delivered to the trustee. It was provided in the
mortgage or trust deed that none of said bonds should be
deemed issued under the mortgage or otherwise entitled to the
benefit or security thereof, or be in any wise obligatory upon
the railway company as an evidence of debt, or otherwise,
unless or until there should be endorsed thereon a certificate
signed by the Union Trust Company, through its proper
officer or its successor in trust, authenticating them as being
duly and lawfully issued and secured. Mortgage bonds were
signed, certified, and issued by the Union Trust Company to
the amount of $720,000.
In April, 1873, the railway company cancelled and caused
to be destroyed the remaining bonds unissued, to wit, 480 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the denomination of $1000 each, and on the same day executed and delivered to the Union Trust Company its second
mortgage or deed of trust on the same property and appurtenances to secure the payment of 960 bonds, each for the sum of
$500, with interest coupons attached, representing the interest
to become due thereon semi-annually at the rate of I per cent
per annum. It was provided in the latter mortgage that
none of the bonds should be deemed issued under it or entitled
to the benefit or security thereof, or be in any wise obligatory
on the railway company as an evidence of debt or otherwise,
unless or until there should be endorsed thereon a certificate
signed by the Trust Company through its proper officer,
authenticating them as being duly and lawfully issued and
secured. The second mortgage bonds issued, signed, and certified amounted to $480,000.
On the 6th of September, 1876, a suit in equity was instituted
in the court below under the style of the Union Trust Company of New York v. Arkansas Central Railway Company.
The bill in that case contained, among other things, the following : "Twelfth. Your orator further shows that the State of
Arkansas has or pretends to have some claim or lien on said
railway and the other property of said Arkansas Central Railway Company so mortgaged to your orator as aforesaid, the
particulars and nature of which are unknown to your orator,
and therefore your orator cannot more particularly state the
same." Its prayer was "that it may be ascertained and
adjudged what, if any, estate or interest the State of Arkansas
has in the said mortgaged property, and also whether the
same is prior and superior to or subsequent and subject to the
rights, estates, and interest of your orator under the two said
several mortgages herein described."
Neither the State of Arkansas nor any of the holders of the
bonds issued by the State to the Arkansas Central Railway
Company, nor the holders of the coupons attached thereto,
were represented in or were parties to that suit; nor was any
decree therein rendered which in any manner determined the
priority of said bonds, or whether the lien of the State to and
for the use and benefit of the holders of the state aid bonds

AlcKITTRIOK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

481

Statement of the Case.

was subordinate in point of time or equity to that of the
bonds issued under the mortgage as aforesaid. A copy of the
decree was attached to the bill in this case. In that suit the
railway company, being duly served with process, and neither
appearing, answering, nor demurring to the bill of complaint,
a decreepro confesso was taken and entered January 1, 1877.
Subsequently, on March 17, 1877, a final decree was passed
against the railway company. It was decreed, among other
things, that the whole amount of bonds issued under said
mortgage, with the interest thereon, was due; that unless the
said defendant paid or caused to be paid to said complainant
Trust Company, on or before a day certain named, the sum
thereof, being the said principal and interest, with costs of
suit, the mortgages should be foreclosed, and the equity of
redemption of the railway company thenceforth barred from
all equity of redemption under said mortgage, and in default
of payment the mortgaged premises mentioned in the bill be
sold.
The railway company having failed within the time limited
to pay the amount of the decree referred to, the mortgaged
property was sold July 26, 1877, by a master commissioner of
the court, for the sum of $40,000, to S. H. Horner as trustee.
Pending that foreclosure proceeding, a receiver was appointed
to take charge of the railway, its property and appurtenances,
and he did take such charge. By authority of the court
betterments were placed upon the railway and property acquired to the extent of $25,000, or about that sum. At that
time the railway was completed, equipped, and in operation
for a distance of forty-eight miles, and was worth more than
$400,000.
Before the sale, to wit, on the 28th of June, 1877, the
Lombard Syndicate, Limited, a corporation of England, by
and through which the railway company had sold and
negotiated many or all of the state bonds issued to the
Arkansas Central Railway Company, and which was then the
holdei of some of them, filed in court a notice and protest,
which was in words as follows:
"We, the undersigned, having by public subscription offered
VOL. CLII-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and allotted the bonds of the State of Arkansas given in aid
of the Arkansas Central Railway and issued to this railway
under the act of the State of 21st July, 1868, which issue was

made on April 1, 1870, therefore prior to the so-called first
mortgage, bearing date July 3, 1871, and the above-mentioned
bonds being endorsed by the railway as follows: 'Special
guarantee endorsed by the railway company on each bond:
For a valuable consideration the Arkansas Central Railway
Company hereby guarantee to the holder of the within bond
the payment of the principal thereof when due and of the
interest thereon as the same accrues by the State of Arkansas,
and in default of said State of Arkansas to pay such principal or interest, or either, as the same shall become due, the
Arkansas Central Railway Company agree to pay the same
to said holder upon the delivery of the within bond or of the
coupon for the interest thereon upon which a default in payment shall have been made.'
"We, on our own behalf and in behalf of the holders of
these bonds, hereby solemnly protest against the sale of this
railway, as ordered by the court, except due provisions are
made for the priority of the above issue, and hereby give
notice to all purchasers or intended purchasers that they will
buy the road subject to the above claims. This protest has
been executed in triplicate, one of which has been forwarded
to the registrar of the court to bring it to the notice of the
court, one to the receiver, and the third to M essrs. Tappan and
Horner, with a request to read it publicly at the time and place
of sale."
This protest and notice came to the hands of the receiver
and to said Horner before the foreclosure sale, and was read
at and before the sale in the presence and in the hearing of
said Horner and his alleged cestuis que 'ust.
By the first section of an act of the general assembly, approved
May .29, 1871, it was provided: "That an act entitled 'An
act to provide for paying the interest of bonds issued to aid
in the construction of railroads, approved April 10, 1869,' be,
and the same is hereby, repealed." After the passage of that
act the officers, agents, and attorneys of the State neglected

MoKITTIICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

483

Statement of the Case.

and refused, and, at the commencement of the present suit,
still refused, to take any steps towards enforcing the payment
of the interest on the bonds issued to the Arkansas Central
Railway Company.
The Arkansas Midland Railroad Company was incorporated
by an act of the general assembly of Arkansas, approved
January 20, 1855, with authority to construct a railroad from
Helena to Little Rock. It was empowered by its charter to
make a lawful contract for uniting its road with any other
road having the same terminus or which might at any intermediate point approach its line. On the 8th of IMarch, 1869,
there was filed in the office of the Secretary of State at Little
Rock, under the general railroad incorporation law of the
State, articles of association incorporating the Little Rock and
Helena Railroad Company, the purpose of which was to construct a railroad from the city of Little Rock to Helena. By
resolution of the board of directors of the Arkansas Midland
Railroad Company, adopted August 31, 1870, that company
was consolidated with the Little Rock and Helena Railroad
Company under the name of the Arkansas Central Railway
Company. This action of the board of directors of the Arkansas Midland Railroad Company, changing the name of its
road to that of the Arkansas Central Railway Company, was
confirmed at a meeting of the stockholders of the former company. At a meeting of the directors of the Little Rock and
Helena Railway Company, held January 20, 1871, a resolution
was passed declaring: "That we hereby agree to consolidate
with said company under the name and style of the 'Arkansas
Central Railway Company,' and do hereby authorize and
empower W. H. Rogers, the president of this company, to
convey unto said Arkansas Central Railway Company all the
rights, privileges, and immunities that we have or may have
had or by any means may hereafter become entitled to under
or by virtue of said organization, and after said conveyance
made this company shall utterly cease to exist."
The conveyance referred to in that resolution was, in fact,
made, and the rights, privileges, and immunities of both companies were assumed, possessed, and controlled by the Arkan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

sas Central Railway Company, the president of the Arkansas
Midland Railroad Company becoming president of the former
company, which, formed and continued as aforesaid, is one of
the defendants in this suit.
The bill further alleged that A. I. Johnson was the president of the Arkansas Central Railway Company for a long
time, and up to the date of the foreclosure aforesaid; that he
"brought about" that foreclosure, and became the receiver
of said road in that suit, acting as such for a long time; that
he subsequently conspired with one W. W. Bailey and J. J.
Horner to secure possession and control of said railroad, of
which 48 miles had been completed and were in operation;
that to that end he procured Bailey to be appointed receiver
in his place and stead, all the while himself drawing the salary
of receiver; that in pursuance of that confederation Bailey
appointed Johnson superintendent of the railroad, for which
the latter was separately paid, giving him certain contracts,
whereby Johnson became the holder and owner of receiver's
certificates to a large amount, such certificates becoming
a charge upon the road superior to any of the mortgage bonds
then being foreclosed; that J. J. Horner was, at that time,
one of the attorneys of the Union Trust Company in the foreclosure suit and a party to the proceedings in that suit; that
S. H. Horner was the brother of J. J. Horner, and pretended
to have purchased the railroad at the foreclosure sale, as
trustee for Johnson; that afterwards, Johnson and J. J.
Horner, pretending to be stockholders of the Arkansas Midland Railroad Company, and claiming that it was never consolidated in the manner stated, and was an independent
corporation, met, and with others, whom they pretended to
have qualified by issuing to them a few shares of stock in
that company, assumed to elect themselves as directors; that
as such pretended directors they again met, and by common
consent selected from among themselves the officers of the
company as follows: Johnson, president and general manager;
John J. Horner, vice-president; and S. H. Horner, secretary.
S. H. Horner, who had purchased as aforesaid and then
held the said railroad and appurtenances in his capacity as

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

485

Statement of the Case.

trustee, thereupon assigned, conveyed, set over, and delivered
the same to the Arkansas Midland Railroad Company, the
consideration expressed being $600,000, but, in fact, no part
of that consideration was ever paid to or received by him as
trustee or otherwise, directly or indirectly. A copy of that
conveyance was attached to the bill in this case. J. J.
Horner, without any consideration whatever, in pursuance of
the scheme aforesaid, and as a reward for his services, had
conveyed to him a third interest in the railway property, and
to S. I. Homer, under like circumstances and for the same
consideration, a sixth interest.
By reason of the refusal of the State, its officers, agents, and
attorneys, to take any step towards enforcing the payment of
the interest on its bonds issued to the Arkansas Central Railway Company, the Arkansas Midland Railroad Company was
daily receiving the income and revenue from the operation of
the said railroad and was appropriating and had appropriated
that income and revenues to its own use and to the use of
Johnson and J. J. Homer, and no portion thereof to the payment of the past due interest on the bonds issued by the State
to the said railway company.
The plaintiff IMcKittrick was the owner and holder for value
before maturity of coupons attached to five bonds of $1000
each, issued by the State to the Arkansas Central Railway
Company, all of which were then due and payable, with interest from the maturity of each coupon until paid. These
coupons aggregated more than $5000.
The Arkansas Central Railway Company was hopelessly
insolvent, and by the foreclosure and sale heretofore referred
to was left entirely without property of any kind from which
income or revenue might or could be derived. The corporation was practically dissolved, its directory abandoned, and
its property in the hands of the former president and vicepresident, who repudiated the liens that had theretofore existed
on it.
The bill alleged that under the acts of July 21, 1868, and
April 10, 1869, aforesaid, under which said bonds were issued
by the State, it was not contemplated by said acts or the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

railway company or the State of Arkansas that the latter
should pay the same or the interest thereon out of its own
revenues; that as between said State of Arkansas and said
railway company said bonds and coupons were accommodation paper, and, in point of fact and in equity, the obligation
of said railway company; that the acts of July 21, 1868, and
April 10, 1869, aforesaid, were printed and public acts of the
State of Arkansas; that the only consideration received by
the issuing of said bonds passed to and was received by the
said railway company; that the only value the bonds possessed arose out of the fact that the income and revenue of
the railway company were pledged for the ultimate redemption of the principal and interest thereof, and that the remedy
by sequestration was provided to enforce the prompt payment
of the same; and, further, that by virtue of the special guaranty, hereinbefore referred to, endorsed on the several bonds,
the Arkansas Central Railway Company equitably appropriated and assigned its income and revenue, as contemplated by
said acts, to the payment of the principal and interest thereof,
and there then existed in favor of the plaintiff and other holders
of said bonds an equitable lien or charge upon said railroad
property and its earnings to the extent necessary to discharge
the interest due and unpaid, and that such equitable lien or
charge continued to attach as the interest matured from time
to time until the same, together with the principal amounts
of said bonds, have been fully paid; that said special guaranty
operated substantially and in effect to raise a trust that bound
the railway property and its earnings, and the defendants, who
took the same with notice thereof, were in equity obliged to
fulfil said trust.
The plaintiff further alleged that Johnson and J. J. Horner,
although well advised as officers and stockholders as to the
condition and affairs of the Arkansas Central Railway Company, in order to obtain the issue to the company of said railroad aid bonds, made and caused to be made a statement under
oath, conformably to the requirements of the act aforesaid, on
the 21st day of April, 1871, to the effect that the available
resources of the railway company in subscriptions of capital

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

487

Statement of the Case.

stock, in moneys, lands, and other means, were sufficient to
prepare one hundred consecutive miles of railroad for the iron
rails, when, in truth and in fact -as said Johnson and Homer
then well knew-the railway company did not possess the
available resources aforesaid. He charged that said statement
was made with the fraudulent intent to impose on and mislead
the state authorities and to secure from the State of Arkansas,
without legal right or authority, ostensibly for the railway
company but really and in fact for themselves and for their
own private gain and profit, the issuing of said railroad aid
bonds; that by means of such false and fraudulent statement
the bonds were awarded to and obtained by the railway company; that in and by said act it was provided that, after the
showing aforesaid as to available resources, the governor of
the State should be authorized to issue to the president of the
railway company the said aid bonds upon the completion and
preparation for the iron rails of each succeeding ten miles or
more of road until the entire line should be completed; and,
further, the president of said railway company was required
to file his official receipt for each issue of bonds, accompanied
by the affidavit of himself and at least four directors that the
bonds or the avails of them should be disposed of solely for
the purpose of providing for the ironing, equipping, building,
and completing of said road. And the plaintiff alleged that
notwithstanding the said defendants, as officers and stockholders as aforesaid, by means of false and fraudulent statements
made and caused to be made by them as to the completion of
consecutive sections of railroad ready for the iron rails, whereby
the state authorities were deceived, procured, without right or
authority, the issuance to said railway company of the whole
amount of $1,350,000 of aid bonds as aforesaid, and that no
part of said railroad was built or completed ready for the iron
rails when the said bonds or any instalments thereof were
applied for and issued, and although the said railway company, by and through said defendants, solemnly obligated
itself to devote the avails and proceeds thereof as above stated
and required by said act, the same were fraudulently diverted
from such purpose and appropriated to the use and advantage

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of said defendants, with the exception of the first forty-eight
miles of road then in operation.
The bill further alleged that said railway company, by putting said state bonds on the market with the recitals therein
contained, -that they were issued under and in pursuance of
an act of the general assembly of the State of Arkansas approved July 21, 1868, entitled "An act to aid in the construction of railroads, the said act having been submitted to and
duly ratified by the people of the State at the general election
held November 3, 1868,"-and by the guarantee endorsed
thereon as aforesaid, solemnly declared to all persons receiving
said bonds that the remedies therein mentioned and the liens
thereby created existed and could be enforced, and the same
estopped it, as well as all persons claiming under them or it
whose claims were junior in time, from denying the validity of
the acts aforesaid or the bonds issued thereunder; "that the
said S. HF. Horner, A. H. Johnson, J. J. Horner, and the said
Arkansas Midland Railroad Company were well advised of
the award of the state aid granted to said railway company
by the said board of railroad commissioners, as aforesaid,
before they or any of them acquired said railroad and appurtenances at said foreclosure sale, and that said J. J. Horner
and A. H. Johnson were officers of said railway company,
applied for and received said state aid, and they, and each of
them, and said Arkansas Midland Railroad Company, were, in
law and in equity, estopped from denying the validity of said
acts of July 21, 1868, and April 10, 1869, and the bonds so
issued by the State as aforesaid.
"Your orator submits that while it may be held that the
act of July 21, 1868, is not sufficient to sustain the issue of
the bonds therein described, and that while the same may be
held to be unconditional, that the credit of the State being in
jeopardy, it was competent for and within the powers of the
general assembly of the said State to provide against any and
all emergencies, and to create means for the payment of the
bonds and the interest thereon, which were then issued or to
be issued, and by said act of April 10, 1869, the general assembly did in fact provide by law means to enforce payment of

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

489

Statement of the Case.

the principal and interest on the bonds issued or to be issued
under said act of July 21, 1868; that said act of April 10,
1869, was and is a public act, enacted before the granting of
aid to said Arkansas Central Railway Company, and before
the execution of the mortgage to the Union Trust Company
aforesaid, and constituted a public and statutory notice of the
matters and things therein contained, and of the liens, rights,
and remedies therein provided for the enforcement of the
payment of the interest and principal of said bonds, and that
the said railroad and appurtenances, its income and revenue,
were pledged for the payment of said state aid bonds, and
was also notice to all persons holding bonds secured by said
trust deed to said Union Trust Company of a prior right, lien,
and equity to that of persons claiming by, under, or through
said mortgage or trust deed. Your orator submits that the
attempt made by the general assembly of the State of Arkansas
to deprive him of the benefit and provisions of the act of
April 10, 1869, aforesaid, by the passage of the act of May 29,
1874, is an attempt to impair the obligation of the contracts
of his said bonds and deprive him of a valuable remedy for the
enforcement thereof, and the same is therefore unconstitutional
and void. Your orator shows that said Arkansas Midland
Railroad is not worth exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and that the Arkansas Midland Railroad Company has no other property, and by reason of the large issue
of said state aid bonds as aforesaid, and of its other obligations, it is hopelessly insolvent, and that it has been and still
is misappropriating its income and revenues."
The relief sought was the appointment of a receiver to take
possession and custody of the property, income, and revenue
of the railroad property and appurtenances in the possession
of the Arkansas M idland Railroad Company, and which it
acquired by or through the said S. HI. Horner, purchaser at
the foreclosure sale; and that such receiver continue in possession until he shall have received an amount of income and
revenue to pay the costs and expenses of sequestration, and
income and revenue sufficient to pay the amount of said coupons
-due and payable on the bonds issued by the State and deliv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

ered to the Arkansas Central Railway Company, and which
may hereafter become due pending such receivership. The
bill asked that an account be stated of revenues and incomes.
received by the defendant railroad company since it went into,
possession of the property of the Arkansas Central Railway
Company down to the filing of the bill, and that the amount
so found be directed to be paid to the plaintiff and such other
persons, holders of state aid bonds as aforesaid, as might
become parties to this suit. In default of such payment by
a day named, the bill asked that the amount or so much as
might be found due to the plaintiff and other parties to the
bill be decreed a lien on the railroad appurtenances and property aforesaid, to be satisfied if necessary by a sale thereof.
If it be held that the plaintiff have a lien junior to said mortgages and incumbrances, the relief asked was a decree that
the plaintiffs and others holding such bonds might be decreed
to have an equity of redemption in and to such railroad, its
appurtenances and other property, and that such equity be
declared, and the amount to be paid accurately ascertained.
The bill also asked for such other relief as might seem meet in
the premises and as equity and good conscience require.
Mr. -M.X. Cohn, (with whom was .r.
for appellant.

J. Erb on the brief,)

I. The questions raised in this case were not considered in
Ton pkins v. Little Rock & Fort Smith Railway Co., 126
U. S. 109, and therefore that case is not decisive of this. The
acts of 1868 and 1869 are couched in language sufficiently
explicit to indicate that the income and revenues of the companies obtaining the state aid were to stand pledged for the
payment of the state bonds. In discussing this point the
counsel cited: White Water 7alley Canal Co. v. 'Fallette, 21
How. 414; Beall v. White, 94 U. S. 382; Gregory v. forris,
96 U. S. 619; Wilson v. Boyce, 92 U. S. 320; Amoskeag Bank
v. Ottawa, 105 U. S. 667; Leavenworth County v. Barnes, 94
U. S. 70; South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260; Gut v.
Minnesota, 9 Wall. 35 ; Hamilton Bank v. -Dudley,2 Pet. 492;

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS

CENTTRAL RAILWAY.

49I

Argument for Appellant.

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge, 10 How. 511; Elmwood v..
Marcy, 92 U. S. 289 ; IWalnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683; Brown
v. Barry, 3 Dall. 365; Gardner v. Collector, 6 Wall. 499 Johnson County v. January, 94 U. S. 202; Anderson County
v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227; Railroad Companies v. Schutte, 103U. S. 118; Ellis v. .fartih, 60 Alabama, 394; Smith v. Fields&,
79 Alabama, 335 ; Spanglerv. Jacoby, 14 Illinois, 297 ; English
v. Oliver, 28 Arkansas, 317; Shepardson v. .Ailwaukee &
Beloit Railroad,6 Wisconsin, 605; State v. Burton, 11 Wisconsin, 50; TimAs v. State, 26 Alabama, 165; Sullivan v,
Adams, 3 Gray, 476; Devoy v. -New York City, 36 N. Y. 449;.
Camnpar v. Detroit, 14 Michigan, 276; Childs v. Shower, 18Iowa, 261; State v. Blend, 121 Indiana, 514; Exparte Davis,
21 Fed. Rep. 396; Alexander v. State, 9 Indiana, 337; United
States v.
, 1 Brock. 195; United States v. Brown, Gilpin, 155; Skunk v. .Miller, 5 Penn. St. 250; Walker v. Chapman, 22 Alabama, 116; Howie v. State, 1 Alabama, 113; Hale
v. Cushing, 9 Pick. 395; Harper v. Rowe, 55 California, 132;.
3fyer v. Hart,40 Michigan, 517 ; Bulloch v. Taylor, 39 Michigan, 137; Gaar v. Louisville Banking Co., 11 Bush, 180.
II. There is another feature which distinguishes this casefrom the Tompkins case. Here the primary liability isregarded as in the railroad company. In this respect it
resembles the case of Railroad Conanies v. Schutte, 103.
U. S. 118.
The right to enforce security, given for the payment of
negotiable paper, passes to all holders of the paper, pending
maturity, even though the security has not been formally
transferred or delivered. Carpenterv. Longan, 16 Wall. 271;
American File Co. v. Garrett,110 U. S. 288; Pierce v. Faunce,
47 Maine, 507; Taylor v. Page, 6 Allen, 86; Green v. Hart,1
Johns. 580; Jackson v. Blodgett, 5 Cow. 202; Bloomer v.
Henderson, 8 Michigan, 395; Judge v. Fogel, 38 Michigan,
568; Croft v. Bunster, 9 Wisconsin, 503.
The recital of an unconstitutional act in the bonds could, of
itself, have no effect. Lippincott v. Pana, 92 Illinois, 24;
School District v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183.
Nor was the State a necessary party to the litigation. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

bill recites a repudiation of the debt by the State and its
refusal to proceed further in regard thereto. And the mere
fact that the State might choose to assert some interest would
not oust the court of jurisdiction. United States v. Peters,
5 Cranch, 115. The State not being liable, we had a right
to proceed against the:Railroad Company. Railroad Corn*panies v. Schutte, 103 U. S. 118; Railroad Co. v. Howard, 7
Wall. 392.
Inasmuch as the Arkansas Central Railway Company was
estopped by its guaranty to question the validity of the bonds,
and inasmuch as it agreed, "on default of the State of Arkansas to pay the principal or interest of the bonds, or either, as
the same shall become due," . . . "to pay the same to
the holder," etc., it cannot say that the bonds and coupons
were .not valid under the act of 1867, no matter what the
recitals of the bonds were -and although they might on their
face have referred to an act that never had taken effect. The
railway company, by sending out the bonds, with its guaranty,
proclaimed that they were duly and properly issued, under a
valid law, and that if the State did not pay them, it would do
so immediately upon the State's default.
III. The present owners are answerable as trustees. .Drury
v. Cross, 7 Wall. 299; Jackson v. Iudeling, 21 Wall. 616;
.AcGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Co., 146
U. S. 536; Richardson v. Green, 133 U. S.30; Railroad Co.
v. Howard, 7 Wall. 392.
.Ai&. John J. flornor for the Arkansas Midland Railroad
Company and the Union Trust Company, appellees.

IMR.JusTicE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. The principal question in this case is whether the acts of
July 21, 1868, and April 10, 1869, taken together, created any
lien upon the property of a railroad company for whose benefit state bonds were issued. That question was determined in
Tompkins v. Fort Smith Railway Co., 125 U. S. 109, 126,
127.

McKITTRIOK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

493

Opinion of the Court.

After observing that if the statutes in question, read in the
light of the circumstances attending their passage, disclosed
an intention to charge the road of any company to which
bonds were issued with liability for the repayment of any loan
to it, a court of equity should enforce that charge, Chief Justice Waite, delivering judgment in that case, said: "But after
a careful consideration of the statutes, and construing them
liberally in favor of the State, we have been unable to find
that any such intention did in fact exist. There was a plain
and simple way in which such a lien could be created, and
that was by providing in express terms for it. That way had
been adopted by the State in a statute passed March 18, 1867,
and it was the way usually adopted by other States when granting similar aid to their own companies. The wide departure
which Arkansas made in this statute from the accustomed form
of proceeding, both at home and elsewhere, is strongly indicative of an intention to waive security any further than was
embraced in the reserved power of sequestration. The constitution of the State gave authority to issue bonds in aid of
such works of internal improvement if assented to by the
people. If the people gave their consent, then the bonds
when issued became the debt of the State, and there was
power in the general assembly, under the constitution of 1868,
to levy taxes for their payment, if necessary. This disposes
of the cases and renders it unnecessary to consider any of the
other questions discussed at the bar or in the briefs. In our
opinion, the new companies took the roads free from incumbrance in favor of the State, and neither the State nor its
bondholders are entitled to a sequestration of the income and
revenue arising therefrom in their hands."
An attempt is made to distinguish this case from Tompkins
v. Fort Smith Railway Company, upon the ground that the
act of March 18, 1867, referred to in that case, and entitled
"An act loaning the faith and credit of the State in aid of the
construction of railroads," was in force when the bonds here
in question were issued, and that the plaintiffs and those in
whose behalf he sues could avail themselves of the lien given
by that act for securing the payment of bonds issued by the

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

;State in aid of the construction of railroads. The section
-of the act of 1867 giving the lien referred to is in these
words: "Sxc. 5. That the receipt of any railroad company
for the bonds loaned to it by the State shall immediately
.operate as a lien upon the road, its rights, franchises, and all
its property of every description, real and personal; and this
lien shall be a mortgage on all the property, rights, and credits
.of the road, and shall have priority over any and all other
.debts, contracts, or liabilities of said road; and said mortgage
-shall continue until the entire amount loaned to the said road
,by the State shall have been paid off." Laws of Arkansas,
1866-7, No. 166, pp. 428, 430.
The suggestion that the act of 1867 was in force after the
-passage of that of 1868 is based upon the 12th section of the
latter act, which provides: "At the next general election to be
holden under the provisions of section three of article fifteen
.of the constitution of this State, the proper officers having
•charge of such election shall, upon a poll, as in other cases,
take and receive the ballots of the electors qualified to vote
for officers at such election for and against this act, in compliance with section six of article ten of the constitution;
:such ballot to contain the words ' For :Railroads ' or ' Against
Railroads,' and if it appears that a majority so voting have
voted 'For Railroads,' this act shall immediately become
.operative and have full force, and all laws heretofore passed
for loaning the credit of this State in aid of railroads shall
.cease and be void, but if a majority shall be found to have
voted 'Against Railroads,' this act shall be void and of no
.effect." In Arkansas v. Little Rock, .fississii & Texas
Railway, 31 Arkansas, 701, 721, it was held that the election
in 1868 at which the people of Arkansas voted "For Railroads" was a nullity, having been held before the act of 1868
-took effect under the constitution of Arkansas, and, consequently, any bonds based upon that election were void. The
state court, in its opinion, also suggested reasons why the act of
1868 might be held void as not having been read the requisite
number of times, on different days, as required by the state
.constitution. But it disclaimed any purpose to rest its decision

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

495

Opinion of the Court.

upon that ground, and placed it upon the one above stated,
.observing that "the bonds of the State of Arkansas, issued
by the governor of the State, her agent, are void, even in the
hands of innocent purchasers, because the authority to contract did not exist at the time the bonds were issued."
Upon basis of this decision of the state court it is contended
argument being
that the act of 1867 was not repealed -the
that the laws in force at the date of the act of 1868 authorizing the credit of the State to be loaned in aid of the construction of railroads, were to "cease and be void" only when the
act of 1868 became operative and in full force, which, according to the terms of that act, could not, it is claimed, occur until
a majority of the qualified electors voting should, at a valid
election, have voted "For Railroads."
This argument would be entitled to consideration-if the act
-of 1867 was in force after the adoption of the state constitution of 1868, which provided that "the credit of the State or
counties shall never be loaned for any purpose without the
,consent of the people thereof, expressed through the ballotbox." Art. 10, § 6. The state constitution of 1864-, in force
when the act of 1867 was passed, contained no such restriction
upon legislation. As that act authorized the loaning of the
,credit of the State in aid of the construction of railroads, without first ascertaining by vote the will of the people upon the
'subject, no bonds could be issued under it, after the adoption
of the constitution of 1868, without popular sanction given at
a valid election. The express prohibition in that constitution
against loaning the credit of the State for any purpose with,out the previous assent of the people, expressed at the polls,
had the effect to withdraw all authority given in previous statutes to lend the credit of the State without first obtaining the
-consent of the people. Aspinwall v. Daviess County, 22 How.
864; Wadszwortk v. Supervisors, 102 U. S. 534. In this view,
it is unnecessary to consider whether the act of 1868 was void as
not having been passed in conformity with the constitutional
provision declaring that "every bill and joint resolution shall
be read three times, on different days, in each house, before the
final passage thereof, unless two-thirds of the house where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

same is pending shall dispense with the rules." Const. Arkansas, 1868, Art. 5, § 21. Even if that act became a law, and if
the election of 1868 was valid, still no lien was given by the act
of 1868 upon the road of any company receiving bonds from
the State. Such was the express decision in the Tompkins
case, and we again so adjudge upon the authority of that case.
What has been said shows that the plaintiff cannot take
anything on account of the act of April 10, 1869, which assumed to make provision for the payment of the interest on
the bonds issued under the act of 1868, in case a company receiving bonds failed to meet such interest at maturity. That
act authorized the treasurer of the State to obtain a writ of
sequestration, and also the appointment of a receiver who
should take the income and revenues of the defaulting company and all moneys arising from the operation of its road.
Upon this point, it is quite sufficient to say that it was
adjudged in the Tompkins case that the companies that subsequently took a road under foreclosure proceedings, took it
"free from incumbrance in favor of the State, and that
neither the State nor its bondholders are entitled to a sequestration of the income and revenues arising therefrom in their
hands."
2. Apart from any question of lien upon the road of the defendant, does the bill disclose any ground for the relief asked
by the plaintiff ? Undoubtedly the Arkansas Central Railway
Company, to which the bonds were delivered, became liable
under its guaranty, endorsed on each bond, of the payment by
the State of the principal and interest as they respectively
became due. But that only made each holder of bonds a general creditor of the company, without any lien for their security upon its property or revenues. The existence of this
liability did not prevent the company from giving a mortgage
upon its property to secure any bonds it might issue. The bill
shows that the Arkansas Central Railway Company executed
to the Union Trust Company in 1871 a mortgage or deed of
trust, covering all of its property, to secure the payment of coupon bonds amounting to $1,200,000, and that that mortgage
was foreclosed, and the property sold in 1877 in a suit brought

McKITTRICK v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

497

Opinion of the Court.

by the mortgagee against the mortgagor. We find nothing in
the bill impeaching the validity of that sale, or that would
justify the court in holding that the title to the mortgaged
property did not pass to the purchaser, S. H. Homer, trustee,
free from any claims upon the part of the company's creditors.
It is true that the bill charges that Johnson was president of
the railway company as well when the foreclosure proceedings were instituted as while they were pending, and that he
"brought about" the foreclosure. By what means did he
bring about such foreclosure? Upon that point the bill is
silent. It is not suggested that the railway company was able
to meet the interest on the bonds secured by the mortgage to
the Union Trust Company, or that it was possible for Johnson,
or any one else connected with the railway company, to have
prevented a foreclosure and a sale of the mortgaged property.
So that the charge that Johnson "brought about" the foreclosure does not necessarily impute to him any fraud of which
the general creditors of the railway company could complain,
or which would affect the integrity of the purchase at the sale
in the foreclosure suit. If, then, the purchase by S. H. Horner,
trustee, could not be impeached by the holders of state bonds,
the payment of which had been guaranteed by the railway
company, it is of no consequence to those holders what the
purchaser did with the property, or to whom he sold it. So
far as the bill discloses, the purchaser took title free from any
claim upon it by any creditor of the railway company.
We attach no consequence to the allegation that S. H.
Horner "pretended" to have purchased the road as trustee
for Johnson. If the former, in fact, purchased for Johnson,
and if that circumstance could have affected the validity of
Iorner's purchase, as against the creditors of the railway
company, the allegation upon this subject should have been
more direct and positive. Besides, if the sale of the road was
not "brought about" by Johnson in violation of his duty as an
officer of the company, his official relations to the company
prior to the foreclosure did not prevent him from bidding for
the property, or from being interested in its purchase by S. H.
Horner trustee. So far as is disclosed by the bill, the sale, under
VOL. CL-32

OCTOBER TERM:, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the decree in the suit brought by the Union Trust Company,
was fairly conducted, with full opportunity to all persons to
become bidders.
Nor is the fact that Johnson was the holderof receiver's
certificates, which became a charge upon the property superior
to the mortgage bonds in suit, material in the present inquiry;
for it does not appear that, if there had been no such certificates in existence, anything would have been left for the
general creditors of the railway company after satisfying the
holders of mortgage bonds. There is no suggestion in the bill
that any receiver's certificates were issued that ought not to
have been issued, or in respect to which the court was not fully
informed. The mere fact that Johnson obtained receiver's certificates- even assuming that his ownership of them was inconsistent with the relations he held to the mortgaged propertydoes not affect the validity or integrity of the foreclosure
proceedings and the sale of the property under the decree of
the court.
Some stress is placed upon the fact that neither the State
nor the holders of its bonds were parties to the suit brought
by the Union Trust Company. The State could not have
been made a party defendant without its consent. Besides, it
had, as we have seen, no lien upon or interest in the property,
and was under no liability in respect to the bonds issued under
the act of 1868. Clearly, the holders of bonds were not necessary parties. They had no lien upon the property, and, at
most, were only creditors of the company in virtue of its
guaranty endorsed upon the bonds. The only necessary
parties were the mortgagee and mortgagor companies.
In respect to the charge that Johnson and J. J. Horner
fraudulently procured the issuing by the State of the bonds
in question, we do not perceive how such conduct upon their
part can constitute a ground for the relief asked in this case.
The wrong charged was a wrong to the State of which it
could have complained, if the bonds, so fraudulently procured
to be issued, had become valid obligations. But, as we have
seen, the bonds were invalid as against the State. The fraud
alleged to have been practised in procuring the issuing of

HACLAY. v. EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SO'TY. 499
Statement of the Case.

them had no connection, in law, with the mortgage executed
by the railway company to the Union Trust Company, under
which the property was purchased by S. H. Horner at public
sale ordered by the decree of a court that had full jurisdiction
of the parties and the subject-matter.
Looking at all the allegations of the bill, we are of opinion
that the plaintiffs were not entitled to the relief asked.

Decree a.fflrmed.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

MACLAY v. EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURAIE
SOCIETY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 281. Argued and submitted March 14,1894. -Decided

March 26, 1894.

A guardian of a minor, to whom a policy of life insurance on the tontine
dividend plan is payable, is authorized, after the completion of the tontine dividend period, and upon receiving its actual surrender value, to
discharge the policy, without any order of court; notwithstanding the
provisions of the statutes of Mississippi, authorizing him to obtain an
order of court for the sale of personal property, or for the sale or compromise of claims.

THIS was an action, brought February 12, 1889, in the civil
district court for the parish of Orleans in the State of Louisiana, by Robert P. Maclay, a citizen of Louisiana, and tutor
of Mason Snowden, a minor child and sole issue of Samuel
H. Snowden and Mary Louisa, his wife, against the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United States, a corporation
of New York; and removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana; to recover the sum of $10,000, with accrued dividends, less any amounts due for premiums, upon a policy,
dated July 6, 1870, by which the defendant, in consideration
of the sum of $67.70 paid by Mrs. Snowden, and of quarterly

