DUNCAN v. MISSOURI.
Syllabus.

limited his personal knowledge of usage in the trade to his
own practice; he could not say that they were not bought
and sold in trade and commerce as upholstery nails; and he admitted that they were sometimes so bought and sold as French,
chair, and furniture nails. The evidence of a definite, general,
and uniform usage was so slight, if any at all, that a verdict
based upon it would be set aside, and the Circuit Court committed no error in striking it out and in directing a verdict for
defendant as to these particular nails.
Something was said about the lack of precision in the
motion "to strike out the testimony as to the fact that they
were called ' gilt nails,'" and the effect of not making it until
the conclusion of the testimony of the witness; but as no
further evidence was offered, the motion practically amounted
to a demurrer to evidence, and if it was not sufficiently comprehensive, that was cured by the direction of the verdict.
The Circuit Court was right, and the judgment is
A firmed.

M . JusTicE GRAY was not present at the argument, and

took no part in the decision of this case.

DUNCAN v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
INo. 1038. Submitted January12, 1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, protected
by the Fourteenth Amendment, are privileges and immunities arising out
of the nature and essential character of the Federal government, and
granted or secured by the Constitution.
Due process of law, and the equal protection of the laws are secured if the
laws operate on all alike, and do not subject the individual to an arbitrary
exercise of the powers of government.
An expost facto law is one which imposes a punishment for an act which
was not punishable at the time it was committed; or an additional
punishment to that then prescribed; or changes the rules of evidence by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
which less or different testimony is sufficient to convict than was then
required; or, in short, in relation to the offence or its consequences,
alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage.
The prescribing of different modes of procedure, and the abolition of courts
and creation of new ones, leaving untouched all the substantial protections with which the existing law surrounds the person accused of crime
are not considered within the constitutional prohibition.
To give this court jurisdiction over a judgment of the highest court of a
State, the title, right, privilege, or immunity relied on must be specially
set up or claimed at the proper time and in the proper way, and the decision must be against it; whereas, in this case, the question was not
suggested until after judgment, and after an application for rehearing
had been overruled, and only then in the form of a motion to transfer
the cause.
MOTION to dismiss. Under the constitution of Missouri, in
force at the time of the commission of the homicide to which
this case relates, the judicial power of that State was vested
in a Supreme Court and other inferior courts as therein mentioned, the Supreme Court consisting of five judges, any three
of whom constituted a quorum. Constitution of Missouri,
1875, Art. VI.
In 1889 the general assembly of Missouri passed a concurrent resolution submitting to the qualified voters of the State
an amendment to the constitution, concerning the judicial
department, to be voted upon at the general election to be
held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in
November, A.D. 1890, which vote was had accordingly, and
the amendment ratified and adopted. This amendment provided among other things as follows:
"SEoTION 1. The Supreme Court shall consist of seven judges,
and, after the first Monday in January, 1891, shall be divided
into two divisions, as follows: One division to consist of four
judges of the court and to be known as division number one;
the other to consist of the remaining judges and to be known
as division number two. The divisions shall sit separately for
the hearing and disposition of causes and matters pertaining
theieto, and shall have concurrent jurisdiction of all matters
and causes in the Supreme Court, except that division number
two shall have exclusive cognizance of all criminal cases pending in said court: Povided, That a cause therein may be

DUNCAN v. MISSOURL
Statement of the Case.

transferred to the court as provided in section four of this
amendment. The division of business of which said divisions
have concurrent jurisdiction shall be made as the Supreme
Court may determine. A majority of the judges of a division
shall constitute a quorum thereof, and all orders, judgments,
and decrees of either division, as to causes and matters pending before it, shall have the force and effect of those of the
court."
"SEC. 4. When the judges of a division are equally divided
in opinion in a cause, or when a judge of a division dissents
from the opinion therein, or when a Federal question is involved, the cause, on the application of the losing party, shall
be transferred to the court for its decision; or when a division
in which a cause is pending shall so order, the cause shall be
transferred to the court for its decision." Laws Missouri,
1889, 322.
All provisions of the constitution of the State and all laws
thereof, not consistent with the amendment, were declared
rescinded upon its adoption.
In accordance with the amendment, the Supreme Court
became thereafter composed of -seven members, (two being
added as provided,) divided into divisions one and two.
Harry Duncan was indicted at the January term, 1891, of
the St. Louis Criminal Court, for the murder of one James
Brady, October 6, 1890, and, after he had been arraigned and
pleaded not guilty, the cause was removed, on his application,
to the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, wherein it was tried
at September term, 1892, and resulted in his conviction and
sentence to death. From this judgment he prosecuted an
appeal to the Supreme Court, where the cause was heard by
Division No. 2. The errors assigned on Duncan's behalf
embraced the various points which had been saved upon the
trial, but no Federal question was raised either in the appellate or the trial court. The Supreme Court, Division No. 2,
on May 16, 1893, delivered an opinion discussing the errors
relied on, (reported in advance of the official series, 22 S. W.
Rep. 699,) and affirmed the judgment. On May 26, Duncan
applied for a rehearing, which was denied May 30. No

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

reference to any Federal question was made in the opinion or
in the application for a rehearing.
Thereupon, June 7, a motion was filed on behalf of Duncan
for the transfer of the cause to the Supreme Court in bane,
upon the grounds that the cause was determined solely by a
minority of the Supreme Court; that a Federal question was
involved in that the amendment to the constitution of M issouri was in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States; that the offence with which Duncan stood charged
was committed October 6, 1890, and before the adoption of
the amendment, and that said amendment and the proceedings
thereunder were in violation of section 10, article 1, of the
Constitution of the United States inhibiting the passage of ex
.ost facto laws; and in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment in that thereby the privileges and immunities of
appellant were abridged; he was denied the equal protection
of the laws; and would be deprived of life without due process
of law; and that such amendment and proceedings were
in conflict with fundamental principles. The motion was
denied, and, subsequently, this writ of error was allowed by
the Chief Justice, and now comes before the court on a motion
to dismiss.
Mr. R. F. Walker, Attorney General of the State of Missouri, for the motion.
A&.

. X21.
Hewlett and .r.

Walter

. Farmeropposing.

MR. CHIEF JusTmE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The amendment to the constitution of the State of Missouri
provided for the separation of the Supreme Court into two
divisions for the transaction of business, and that when a
Federal question was involved, the cause, on the application
of the losing party, should be transferred to the full court for
decision. Doubtless, the particular division would direct, of
its own motion, the transfer of cases involving a Federal ques-

DUNCAN v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

tion without a hearing in the first instance, as was also allowed
by the amendment, but to justify transfer, whether before or
after judgment, the question must be involved in the sense of
arising for decision.
But it is conceded that the record in this cause as it came
into the Supreme Court, Division No. 2, disclosed no Federal
question to be determined, thereby inviting the division to
transfer the cause, or, after the disposal of which, the losing
party would be entitled to such transfer. On the contrary,
the contention is in effect that division number two had no
jurisdiction whatever, because the amendment, if operative on
Duncan, was unconstitutional; and this involved the conclusion that there was no appellate court to which the case could
be taken, as the prior provision in that regard had been
repealed. Yet the objection was not raised before or at the
hearing on the merits, nor on the application for rehearing,
but was first taken, after judgment affirmed and application
denied, on a motion to transfer the cause and as a reason for
the transfer, although that motion, in respect of the question
sought to be raised, could derive no force from the amendment whose validity was denied. Indeed, if the motion had
been granted, and the judgment of the Circuit Court had
thereupon been affirmed by the full bench, it is difficult to see
why plaintiff in error might not as well then have questioned
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, as constituted with
seven judges under the amendment, as he now does the power
of division number two with three judges.
A writ of error from this court to review a final judgment
in any suit in the highest court of a State in which a decision
in the suit could be had can only be maintained under the
circumstances defined in section 709 of the Revised Statutes.
The judgment brought up by the writ in this case is the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, entered by Division No. 2, and it is obvious that the validity of the constitutional amendment was not drawn in question in the cause on
the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution of the 'United
States, and its validity sustained by that decision. But the
question of validity arises, if at all, in connection with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

claim that a right, title, privilege, or immunity under the Constitution of the United States was specially set up by plaintiff
in error, and denied.
The argument seems to be that the constitution secured to
plaintiff in error the right to have his case adjudicated on appeal
by a Supreme Court of five judges, as provided by the state
constitution at the time of the commission of the offence with
which he stood charged, although his motion accepted the jurisdiction of a bench of seven, and he objects that that right
was denied to him in the adjudication of his case by a court
composed of three judges in accordance with the amendment.
And he insists that the amendment is as to him obnoxious to
the objections that it denies due process and the equal protection of the laws, and abridges his privileges and immunities in
contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. But the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, are privileges and immunities arising out of the nature and essential character of
the Federal government, and granted or secured by the Constitution; and due process of law and the equal protection of
the laws are secured if the laws operate on all alike, and
do not subject the individual to an arbitrary exercise of the
powers of government; and there is no suggestion of deprivation in these regards, except as covered by the point really
pressed, that the amendment to the state constitution was, as
to Duncan, e"postfacto, and therefore void.
It may be said, generally speaking, that an expostfacto law
is one which imposes a punishment for an act which was not
punishable at the time it was committed; or an additional punishment to that then prescribed; or changes the rules of evidence by which less or different testimony is sufficient to
convict than was then required; or, in short, in relation to
the offence or its consequences, alters the situation of a party
to his disadvantage;

Cummings v. Atissouri, 4 Wall. 277;

Ering v. Missouri,107 U. S. 221 ; but the prescribing of different modes of procedure and the abolition of courts and creation
of new ones, leaving untouched all the substantial protections
with which the existing law surrounds the person accused of

DUNCAN v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

crime, are not considered within the constitutional inhibition.
Cooley Const. Lim. (5th ed.) 329.
Accordingly, in State v. Jackson, 105 Missouri, 196, the precise questions sought to be raised here were decided by the
*Supreme Court of Missouri, at April term, 1891, of that court,
adversely to the position taken by plaintiff in error, the case
having been transferred to the court in bane in order that these
questions, which were raised by motion for rehearing in division number two, where the judgment of the lower court had
been affirmed, (105 Missouri, 201) might be considered by a
full bench. The case had been before the Supreme Court on two
former occasions, (95 Missouri, 623; 99 Missouri, 60,) and the
constitutional amendment in question was adopted after the
appellant took his last appeal. The Supreme Court held that
it could not "be doubted that it was entirely competent for the
people to adopt such a change in their organic law as to take
away from this court as a whole all cognizance of criminal
causes, and to confer such jurisdiction on a portion or division
of this court, though less in numbers and different in personnel
from this court as organized when the crime in question was
committed;" and that the amendment was not contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment nor to section ten of article one
of the Federal Constitution as applied to one convicted of
murder, who had appealed before the amendment took effect.
But we are not called on to place our decision upon concurrence in that view, since we are of opinion that the plaintiff
in error did not bring himself within the provisions of section
109 of the Revised Statutes. To give jurisdiction to this court,
the title, right, privilege, or immunity relied on must be specially set up or claimed at the proper time and in the proper
way, and the decision must be against it; whereas, in this case,
the question was not suggested until after judgment, and after
an application for rehearing had been overruled, and only
then in the form of a motion to transfer the cause. Whether
that motion was held to come too late for the purposes of
transfer we are not informed, but its denial was in no aspect
equivalent to a decision against a right under the Constitution
of the United States specially set up or claimed at the proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

time and in the proper way. Texas & Paci§o Railway v.
Southern Pacific Co., 137 U. S. 48; Caldwell v. Texas, 137
U. S. 692, 698; Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52; Leeper v. Texas,
139 U. S. 462.
The writ of error is
.Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
UNITED STATES v. STAHL.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 885, 886. Petitions
for rehearing. Distributed March 3,1894.-Decided March 19, 1694.

Under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473, an officer in the navy,
who resigns one office the day before his appointment to a higher one,
though in a different branch of the service, is only entitled to longevity
pay as of the lowest grade, having graduated pay, held by him since he
originally entered the service.
United States v. Alger, 151 U. S. 362, and United States v. Stahl, 151 U. S.
366, reaffirmed.

THESE were petitions for a rehearing of two cases decided
January 22, 1894, and reported in 151 U. S.362 and 366.
In Alger's case the petition said: "In this case the claimant
was appointed cadet midshipman September 22, 1876; graduated June 22, 1882, and promoted to midshipman the same
day; commissioned ensign June 26, 1884. He resigned November 10, 1890, and on November 11, 1890, was appointed
professor of mathematics, to rank from November 1, 1890.
The claimant was given credit on his commission as ensign
for his service as cadet midshipman and midshipman, and was
paid the pay of an ensign after five years of service, from
June 26, 1884, to the date of his resignation, but claims that
he has not been allowed credit under the act of March 3, 1883,
in the lowest grade, having graduated pay since he entered
the navy as professor of mathematics. The claimant sues for
the pay of a professor of mathematics in the third five years

