OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

discretion, would be compelled to set aside a verdict returned
in opposition to it." Delaware, Zaokawanna &c. Railroad
v. Converse, 139 U7. S. 469, 472, and authorities there cited;
Elliott v. Chicago, i7 ilwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 150 U. S.
245; Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227,
241.
Judgment afflrmed.
UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 135.

Argued December 14, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

Congress contemplated by the act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, "granting
lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
Lake Superior to Puget's Sound, on the Pacific coast, by the northern
route" the construction of a main trunk line, which would not touch at
any point at or near Portland, and the western end of which would be
east and northeast of a direct line between Portland and Puget's Sound;
and also of a branch line leaving the main trunk line at some suitable
place, not more than three hundred miles from its western terminus, and
extending, via the valley of the Columbia River, to a point at or near
Portland.
As to Portland, the purpose of Congress by the passage of that act was, to
connect it with the east by a branch road through the valley of the
Columbia that would strike a main trunk line connecting Puget's Sound
with Lake Superior, and not to connect Portland with Puget's Sound by
the most eligible route between those places.
The grant to the Oregon Central Railroad Company by the act of May 4,
1870, c. 69, 13 Stat. 94, had taken effect before the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company by the joint resolution of May 31, 1870, 16
Stat. 378, was made, and consequently the lands in question in this case
were not included in that grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
When the lands so grante&to the Oregon Central Railroad Company were
forfeited to the United States, they were thereby restored to the public
domain, and did not pass to the Northern Pacific Company by the said
grant of May 31, 1870.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RlD CO. 285
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error.
-Mr. James -MaNaught,(with whom was XIlr. Fred. Z21.
Dudley on the brief,) for defendants in error.
:MR.

JUSTicE

hA.RLAx delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a judgment in favor
of the defendants in error in an action brought by the United
States to recover the value of certain lumber manufactured
from logs alleged to have been unlawfully out and removed
by them, in the year 1886, from the public lands, namely, from
the northwest quarter of section seven, township eight north,
range five west of the Willamette meridian, in the then Territory of Washington. It was adjudged below, upon a special
finding of facts, that, at the time of the alleged wrong, the
title to these lands had passed from the United States, and that
the defendant, Aaron Kinney, was then the owner of them.
41 Fed. 1Rep. 842. If the title had so passed, the judgment
must be affirmed; otherwise, reversed.
From the special finding, based upon a written stipulation
between the parties, the case is as follows:
By an act of Congress, of July 2, 1864, the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company was incorporated, with authority to construct and to maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph
line, "beginning at a point on Lake Superior, in the State of
Minnesota or Wisconsin, thence westerly by the most eligible
railroad route, as shall be determined by said company, within
the territory of the United States, on aline north of the fortyfifth degree of latitude, to some point on Puget Sound, with a
branch via the valley of the Oolumnbia River, to a point at or
near Portland,in the State of Oregon, leaving the main trunk
line at the most suitable place, not more than three hundred
miles from its western terminus." The same act granted to
the company every alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections of land per mile, on each side of its line, as the
company should adopt, through the territories of the United

,286

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

States, and the alternate sections per mile where the road
passes through any State, "and whenever on the line thereof
-the United States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or
otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption, or other
.claim or rights, at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed, and a plat thereof fied in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office; and whenever, prior to said time,
-anyof said sections or parts of sections shall have been granted,
.sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted,
.or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected by said
company in lien thereof, under the direction of the Secretary
.of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd
.numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said
-alternate sections." By the sixth section it is provided that
"the President of the United States shall cause the lands to
be surveyed for forty miles in width on both sides of the entire
line of said road, after the general route shall be fixed, and as
fast as may be required by the construction of said railroad;
and the odd sections of land hereby granted shall not be liable
to sale, or entry, or preemption before or after they are surveyed, except by said company, as provided in this act." 13
Stat. 365, c. 211, §§ 1, 3, 6.
On the 6thday.of March, 1865, Josiah Perham, president of
-the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, addressed to the
Secretaty of the Interior a communication in these words:
"Under authority from the board of directors of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, I have designated on the ac.companying map, in red ink, the general line of their railroad
from a point on Lake Superior, in the State of Wisconsin, to a
point on Puget Sound in Washington Territory, via Columbia
River, adopted by said company as the line of said railroad,
,subject only to such variations as may be found necessary
,after more specific surveys; and I respectfully ask that the
same may be filed in the office of the Commissioner of the
-General Land Office, together with a copy of the charter and
.organization of said .company, and that under your directions
.the lands granted ,to said company may be marked and with,drawn from sale :ia conformity to law."

iUNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO.

287

Opinion of the Court.

The route indicated by the map was entirely north of the
45th degree of north latitude, and within the territory of the
United States, but no action was taken by the Secretary of
the Interior in respect to that map or the request contained
in the communication of Mr. Perham.
By a joint resolution of Congress, approved April 10, 1869,
it was provided that "the Northern Pacific Railroad Company be, and hereby is, authorized to extend its branch line
from a point at or near Portland, Oregon, to some suitable
point on Puget Sound, to be determined by said company,
and also to connect the same with its main line west of the
Cascade -Mountains in the Territory of Washington; said
,extension being subject to all the conditions and provisions,
and said company in respect thereto being entitled to all the
rights and privileges conferred by the act incorporating said
company, and all acts additional to and amendatory thereof:
P'ovided, That said company shall not be entitled to any
:subsidy in money, bonds, or additional lands of the United
States in respect to said extension, of its branch line as aforesaid, except such lands as may be included in the Pight of way
on the line of such extension as it may be located: And pro-videdfurther, That at least twenty-five miles of said extension
shall be constructed before the second day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy-one, and forty miles per year thereafter, until
the whole of said extension shall be completed." 16 Stat. 57.
On the 4th day of M[ay, 1870, Congress, for the purpose "of
aiding in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from Portland to Astoria, and a suitable point of junction
near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River near M cMinnville, in
the State of Oregon, granted to the "Oregon Central Railroad
'Company, a corporation of Oregon, then engaged in constructing said road, and to their successors and assigns, a right
of way, etc.; . . . and, also, each alternate section of the
public lands, not mineral, except coal or iron lands, designated by odd numbers, nearest to said road, to the amount of
ten such alternate sections per mile on each side thereof, not
-otherwise disposed of or reserved or held by valid pregmption
-or homestead right at the time of the passage of this act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

And in case the quantity of ten full sections per mile cannot
be found on each side of said road, within the said limits of

twenty miles, other lands designated as aforesaid shall be
selected under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior
on either side of any part of said road nearest to and not
more than twenty-five miles from the track of said road to
make up said deficiency." That act further provided: "That
the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall cause the
lands along the line of the said railroad to be surveyed with
all convenient speed. And whenever and as often as the
-said company shall file with the Secretary of the Interior
maps of the survey and location of twenty or more miles of
said road, the said Secretary shall cause the said granted lands
adjacent to and coterminous with such located sections of road
to be segregated from the public lands; and thereafter the
remaining public lands, subject to sale within the limits of
the said grant, shall be disposed of only to actual settlers at
double the minimum price for such lands." The company
was required to file within one year after its passage, and
with the Secretary of the Interior, its assent to the act; and
it was made a condition of the grant that a section of twenty
or more miles of the proposed railroad and telegraph line be
constructed within two years, and the entire road and telegraph line within six years from the same date. 16 Stat. 94,
c. 69.
The Oregon Central Railroad Company filed with the
Secretary of the Interior its acceptance of the above grant on what day the findings of fact do not state - and on the
31st of January, 1872, filed its map of definite location of a
proposed line of road from Astoria to Castor Creek, near
Forest Grove. It is stated in the findings of fact that the
only provision in the charter of the Oregon Central Railroad
Company, at the time of the above grant to it, conferring
power or right to locate and construct a railroad, was that
contained in the following clause: "The object and business
of the corporation shall be to construct and operate a railroad
from the city of Portland through the Willamette Valley to
the southern boundary of the State, under the laws of Oregon

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. 289
Opinion of the Court.

and the law of Congress recently passed granting lands in aid
of such purpose."
On the 31st day of May, 1870, twenty-seven days after the
date of the above grant to the Oregon Central Railroad Company, Congress passed a joint resolution providing: "That
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company be, and hereby is,
authorized to issue its bonds to aid in the construction and
equipment of its road, and to secure the same by mortgage on
its property and rights of property of all kinds and descriptions, real, personal, and mixed, including its franchise as a
corporation; . . . and also to locate and construct, under the
provisions and with the privileges, grants, and duties provided
for in its act of incorporation, its main road to some point on
Puget Sound via the valley of the Columbia River, with the
right to locate and construct its branch from some convenient
point on its main trunk line across the Cascade Mountains to
Puget Sound; and in the event of there not being in any
State or Territory in which said main line or branch may be
located, at the time of the final location thereof, the amount
of lands per mile granted by Congress to said company,
within the limits prescribed by its charter, then said company
shall be entitled, under the directions of the Secretary of the
Interior, to receive so many sections of land belonging to the
United States, and designated by odd numbers, in such State
or Territory, within ten miles on each side of said road, beyond
the limits prescribed in said charter, as will make up such
deficiency, on said main line or branch, except mineral and
other lands as excepted in the charter of said company of
eighteen hundred and sixty-four, to the amount of the lands
that have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead
settlers, preempted, or otherwise disposed of subsequent to the
passage of the act of July two, eighteen hundred and sixty-four.
And that twenty-five miles of said main line between its western terminus and the city of Portland, in the State of Oregon,
shall be completed by the first day of January, Anno Domini
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, and forty miles of the remaining portion thereof each year thereafter until -the whole
shall be completed between said points." 16 Stat. 378.
VOL. CLII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The Northern Pacific Railroad Company filed with the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office on the 13th day of August, 1870, another
map, showing the general route of its main line from a point
on Puget Sound, following almost identically the same route
as that indicated on the map filed by it on the 6th day of
March, 1865; and on the day of the filing of the last map, to
wit, August 13, 1870, twenty sections of land per mile on each
side of the line indicated on it were withdrawn from sale for
the benefit of the company. And on the 13th day of September, 1873, the company duly filed its map of definite location
of the line of its road from Kalama to Tenino, in Washington Territory, a distance of sixty-five miles.* No road has
been constructed by that company down the Columbia River.
But during the years 1871, 1872, and 1873 it constructed its
line from Kalama, on the Columbia River in Washington
Territory, in a northerly direction to Tenino, forming a portion of a direct line of road since that time extended and
completed to Puget Sound at Tacoma, the western terminus
of the Northern Pacific Railroad. The road from Tacoma to
Portland runs for about one-half the distance up the valley of
Columbia River to the last-named point, the entire length of
that line being 105 miles.
During the years 1872 to 1880 a line of road was constructed by the Oregon Central Railroad from Portland southward through the Willamette Valley towards the southern
boundary of the State to Corvallis in that valley, a distance
of about ninety-seven miles, which road, so constructed,
passed through -McMinnville and near Forest Grove. But
no line was ever constructed by that company from a point
of junction near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River or elsewhere.
The land from which the logs in question were cut lies
north of the 45th degree of latitude within twenty miles
of the line indicated upon the map filed, January 31, 1872, by
the Oregon Central Railroad Company with the Secretary of
the Interior; is within forty miles of the line selected by the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company for the main line of its

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. 291
Opinion of the Court.

road from Lake Superior to Puget Sound by way of the
valley of the Columbia River, as indicated upon the map forwarded to the Secretary of the Interior by that company on
the 6th of March, 1865, as well as of the line selected by it,
after the passage of the joint resolution of May 31, 1870, as
the main line of its road down the Columbia River to Puget
Sound, as indicated upon the map filed with the Secretary of
the Interior on the 13th day of August, 1870 ; and is within the
same distance of the line of road as constructed from Kalama
to Tenino.
Congress, by an act approved January 31, 1885, forfeited
to the United States, and restored to the public domain, so
much of the lands granted to the Oregon Central Railroad
Company by the act of May 4, 1870, as were adjacent to
and coterminous with the uncompleted portions of that company's road and not embraced within the limits of the grant
to that company for the completed portions. 23 Stat. 296,
1
c.46, § 1.
The lands in question (and other tracts) were listed by the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company on Mxarch 31, 1885, but
the General Land Oice, November 9, 1885, rejected the listing. Upon appeal to the Department of the Interior that
action was confirmed October 29, 1887. 6 L. Dec. 292.
After the withdrawal of the above lands in the interest of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in August, 1870,
and up to November 9, 1885, the Land Office and the Department of the Interior refused all applications for settlement upon lands north of the Columbia River within' the
limits of the grant to that company.
The Northern Pacific Railroad had located, constructed,
and was operating its road from Portland to Tacoma at the
time it executed a deed for this land to J. B. Montgomery,
the "grantee" of the defendant Aaron Kinney.
The general conclusion of law from the above facts was
declared by the Circuit Court to be that upon the filing its
map of general location, and the subsequent completion by
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company of its road, the title
to the land in question vested indefeasibly in that corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, and by subsequent conveyances passed to the defendant
Kinney.
The first and principal question is, whether the act of July
2, 1864, contained a grant of lands in aid of the construction
by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company of a railroad and
telegraphic linefrom Portlandto Puget Sound?
Although that act allowed the company to adopt the most
eligible route, within the territory of the United States,
north of 'the forty-fifth degree of latitude, it is clear that
Congress contemplated the construction of a main trunk line
between Lake Superior and Puget Sound, which would not
touch any point "at or near Portland," and the western end
of which would be east and northeast of a direct line between
Portland and Puget Sound, and, in addition, a branch line
leaving the main trunk line, at some suitable place, not more
than three hundred miles from its western terminus, and
extending "via the valley of the Columbia River to a point
at or near Portland." If the main line, as originally indicated by the act of 18641, had been established on the route
between Portland and Puget Sound, the branch line could
not have left the main line at some point not more than
three hundred miles from its western terminus, and extended
via the valley of Columbia River to a point at or near Portland. The authority given to the company to adopt the
most eligible route did not authorize it, by a map of general
route, to cover an unlimited extent of country, north of the
forty-fifth degree of latitude. On the contrary, as said in
St. Paul & Pacifiv Railroadv. NYorthern Pacifc Railroad,
139 U. S. 1, 13, "when the termini of a railroad are mentioned, for whose construction a grant is made, the extent of
which is dependent upon the distance between those points,
the road should be constructed upon the most direct and
practicable line. No unnecessary deviation from such line
would be deemed within the contemplation of the grantor,
and would be rejected as not in accordance with the grant."
It may be that the indefiniteness of the map of general route
presented by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in
1865 constituted the reason why that map was not accepted

-UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. 293
Opinion of the Court.

by the Interior Department. Besides, it is not found as a
fact in this case that the most eligible railroad route for the
main line, between Lake Superior and Puget Sound, looking
at the purpose of Congress in making the grant of 1864, was
down the Columbia River and via some point at or near
Portland. It is clear that the" purpose of Congress, by the
act of 1861, was not to connect Portland with Puget Sound,
by a road established upon the most direct or eligible route
between those places; but, so far as Portland and its vicinity
were concerned, to connect them with the east by a branch
road, through the valley of the Columbia River, that would
strike the main trunk line connecting Puget Sound and Lake
Superior. There was no purpose, by that act, to make a
grant of lands for a road to be located and constructed from
a point "at or near Portland" to Puget Sound.
This interpretation of the act of 1864 is supported by the
joint resolution of April 10, 1869, authorizing the Northern
Pacific Railroad to extend "its branch line from a point at
or near Portland, Oregon, to some suitable )oint on Puget
Sound," and "also to connect the same with its main line
west of the 0ascade Mountains, in the Territory of Fashington." By the same resolution it was expressly declared that
the company should not be entitled to any subsidy in money,
bonds, or additional lands of the United States, in respect to
that extension of its branch line, except such lands as might
be included in the right of way on the line of such extension.
It is said that the company did not take action under this
resolution, and did not accept it in any form. Be this as it
may, - upon this point tlie finding of facts being silent, - the
resolution of 1869 shows that Congress, at that time, to the
knowledge, it must be presumed, of the railroad company,
interpreted the act of 1864 as not containing a grant of lands
to aid in the construction of a road from Portland to Puget
Sound.
Coming next to the joint resolution of May 31, 1870, which
was accepted and acted upon by the company, we find, in
connection with authority to issue bonds in aid of the construction and equipment of its road, to be secured by mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

gage, that express authority was given, for the first time, to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company "to locate and construct under the provisions and with the privileges, grants,
and duties provided for in its act of incorporation, its main
road to some point on Puget Sound, via the valley of the
Columbia River, with the right to locate its branch from some
convenient point on its main trunk line across the Cascade
Mountains to Puget Sound." Again, in the same resolution:
"And that twenty-five miles of said main line between its.
western terminus and the city of Portland, in the State of
Oregon, shall be completed by January 1, 1872, and forty
miles of the remaining portion thereof each year thereafter
until the whole shall be completed between said points." Undoubtedly, this resolution gave authority to locate and construct
a main road via the Columbia River Valley to Puget SoundA road so located and constructed would, or might, have,
passed the city of Portland. But if, as the company now
insists, the act of 1864 gave ample authority to locate and
construct a road extending from Lake Superior to Puget
Sound, along the valley of the Columbia River, and by the
way of Portland or its vicinity, the resolution of 18T0 was
entirely unnecessary in so far as it gave authority to the company to locate and construct its road through the Columbia
River Valley to some point on Puget Sound. We cannot agree
that this resolution is to be held, in this respect, as simply a
recognition by Congress of an existing right, in the company,
to locate and construct a road from Portland to Puget Sound,
with the right to obtain lands, in aid thereof, as provided in
the act of 1864:. On the contrary, it should be regarded as
giving a subsidy of lands in aid of the construction of a new
road, not before contemplated, that would directly connect
Portland and its vicinity with Puget Sound.
This view is supported by the action of the Interior Department in the case of the IY2'orthern, Pacic Railroad Co. v. .- c
Rae, 6 L. Dec. 400. The question there was, whether the
company had a grant of lands for its road frorn, Portlandto
Puget Sound. The Commissioner of the Land Office held
that the company had no grant for that portion of its road

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. 295
Opinion of the Court.

from or near Portland to Puget Sound. Upon appeal by the
company to the Secretary of the Interior, that ruling was reversed. Mr. Justice Lamar, then Secretary of the Interior,
after referring to the act of 1864, and to the joint resolution
of May 31, 1870, well said: "By this resolution the designation of the lines of the road were changed; that which by
the granting act was known as the branch line (via the valley
of the Columbia River to a point at or near Portland in the
State of Oregon) was changed to main road, or main line, and
that which had been designated as main line (across the Cascade :Mountains to Puget Sound) was changed to branch line.
So, by the joint resolution of 1870 the company was authorized to locate and construct its main line via the valley of the
Columbia River, through some point at or near Portland, Oregon, to a suitable point on Puget Sound, with the privileges,
grants, and duties provided for in its act of incorporation.
Now, the grant provided for in its act of incorporation is
every alternate section of public land not mineral, (except
coal and iron,) designated by odd numbers, to the amount of
twenty alternate sections per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any State. I am clearly of
opinion that by the joint resolution of May 31, 1870, Congress
intended that the grant of twenty sections per mile on each
side of the road to aid in the construction of said road should
be extended to the whole line of the road including that part
of the main line via the valley of the Columbia River through
Portland to Puget Sound. This conclusion, based alone upon
the language of the joint resolution, would be confirmed, if
confirmation were necessary, by the debates in Congress upon
said resolution while it was pending, and make clear the manifest purpose of said resolution."
It cannot be inferred from the opinion of -Mr. Justice
Lamar' that the company, in the case before him, contended
I The part of the opinion of Mr. Justice Lamar which refers, in detail, to
the debates in Congress on the resolution of lay 31, 1870, is as follows:
"In the course of the debate Senator Howard said: ' It asks no more at
the hands of Congress, as I said before, than what is promised to them in
their original charter of 1864 -not a single acre, I repeat, with the excep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that it had a grant of land for any line, whether main or
branch, between Portland and Puget Sound, except that made
by the joint resolution of May 31, 1870.
But does the grant contained in the resolution of 1870 embrace the particular land in dispute ? The act of 1864 granted
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company only public land,
to which the United States had full title, not reserved, sold,
granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption or other claims or rights at the time its line of road was
definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office. And by the resolution of 1870 it was declared that if at the time of the final
tion of the new donations upon the line from Portland to Puget Sound,
which is authorized by this resolution. That line from Portland to Puget
Sound was not embraced in the original charter. It was authorized and the
right of way given to this company at the last session of Congress, (joint
resolution of April 10, 1869,) but simply the right of way and no lands
to enable the company to build it. On that line, and on that alone, are
lands required additional to those contemplated in the original charter.'
Cong. Globe, 41st Congress, 2d Sess. p. 2546. As reported from the committee, the resolution contained this language: ' Under the provisions and
with the privileges and duties provided for in its act of incorporation and
amendment thereto.' During the debate in the Senate, Mr. Howard said:
' I now move to strike out in the fifteenth line the words, "and the amendments thereto," so as to make it sure that this new line, which is to pass from
Portlandto Puget Sound, will be entitled to the subsidy in lands; otherwise
it might leave it very uncertain.' The amendment was agreed to. (Page
2583.) Subsequently, Senator Howard moved to amend the sentence,
' under the provisions and with the privileges and duties provided for in
its act of incorporation,' by inserting after the word ' privileges ' the word
'grants,' saying, ' so as to remove any ambiguity that might arise.'
"In the House, in reply to the question, How much additional land will
be granted should this bill become a law ? Mr. Wheeler said: ' That depends upon the fact whether the lines will be longer than the original ones.
This can only be determined by actual survey. If more land is taken, it will
be only for the additional distance and for the quantity per mile granted
by the charter.' (Page 3263.) Mr. Wilson said: ' This is no increase of
land over that which has already been given to this road. It only gives
them additional land for an additional piece of road, which they now propose to construct from Portland up to Puget Sound. The old grant is not
increased one acre.' (Page 3266.) I am clearly of the opinion that the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company has a grant of lands from Portland to
Puget Sound, (Tacoma,) and your decision is, therefore, reversed."

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC R 'D 00. 297
Opinion of the Court.

location of the company's main line or branch there were not
enough lands per mile within the prescribed limits, the defioiency could be supplied from lands, within ten miles beyond
those limits, other than mineral and other lands, as excepted
in the charter of the company, "to the amount of the lands
that have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, preempted, or otherwise disposed of subsequent
to the passage of the act of July 2, 1861." It is, therefore,
clear that no public land disposed of after the passage of the
act of July 2, 1864, was intended to be embraced in the grant
of May 31, 1870.

The lands here in question were disposed of by the United
States after the passage of the act of 1864, and before the
In addition to what appears in the opinion of Mr. Justice Lamar, it may
also be stated that Senator Stewart of Nevada, in supporting the resolution,
said: "There is no grant additional to that contained in the original law,
eccept in the extension of the road on the western end from Portland to Puget
Sound." 41st Cong. 2d Sess. Pt. 3, p. 2543. Senator Sherman: "The first
part of this bill gives the company authority to make a mortgage,
and it also provides for a newo land grant from Portlandto Puget Sound." In
answer to inquiries by Senator Thurman, Senator Howard, having the resolution in charge, stated that its passage was earnestly desired by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. Senator Thurman inquired whether, if the
proposed resolution passed, "the main line must diverge down the Columbia River at the same point at which the branch would diverge under the
original charter?" To this Senator Howard replied: "I think that would
be the construction to be given to the two acts together, the charter and
the present resolution." He then said: "I now move to strike out, in the
fifteenth line, the words and amendrments thereto, so as to make it sure that
this new line, which is to pass fi-om Portlandto Puget Sound, will be entitled
to the subsidy in lands." This motion was adopted. Ib. p. 2546. In the
House of Representatives, Mr. Wheeler, Chairman of the Committee on
Railroads, from which the resolution was reported, said, in explanation of
its provisions: "Second.
The company wants to change the route of the
main line and branch as defined by the original act of incorporation. It
wants now to build its main line by the way of the valley of the Columbia
River instead of over the Cascade .3ountains,as intended at the outset. .
'The route by the valley of the Columbia River is far the more feasible, and
can be built in much shorter time and with the means which this bill will enable the company to command. This change takes the road direct to Portland, thus giving it business when it is completed to that point, and
enabling it to use the river for the transportation of materials during the
progress of construction." 41st Cong. 1st Sess. Pt. 4, p. 3263.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

passage of the joint resolution of May 31, 1870; for they
are within twenty miles of the line of the Oregon Central
Railroad Company, as shown on its map of definite location,
filed January 31, 1872, and based upon the grant to it of May
4, 1870. It is true that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, on the 13th day of August, 1870, acting under the joint
resolution of May 31, 1870, filed a map of the general route of
its main line from a point on Puget Sound; that, on the sameday, twenty sections per mile on each side of the line indicated on it were withdrawn from sale for the benefit of thecompany; and that this was followed by a map, filed September 13, 1873, of the definite location of its line from Kalama to
Tenino. But it is well settled that, in respect to the public
lands, within, at least, common granted or primary limits,
priority of grant, not priority of location, determines the
question of ownership, as between parties claiming the same
lauds under different grants. Mlissouri, Yansas and Texas
Railway v. Eansas Pacifc Railway, 97 U. S.491; United
States v. .Missouri &c. Railway, 141 U. S. 358, 369; United
States v. Southern PaciicRailroad,146 U. S. 570, 598, 606.
So that the rights of the Oregon Central Railroad Company,
whose grant preceded that to the iNorthern Pacific Railroad
Company of May 31, 1870, by nearly one month, attached, as.
of the date of its grant, although the latter company filed a
map of general route before the former filed a map of definite
location. The lands in question had been disposed of by the
United States prior to the passage of the joint resolution of
May 31, 1870, namely, by the act of May 4, 1870, granting
lands to the Oregon Central Railroad Company in aid of
the construction of its road. And as they were embraced by
the latter grant, and were not included in any other grant
then existing, they were not public lands within the meaning of the grant of May 31, 1870, to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, and were, consequently, excepted out of
that grant as having been previously disposed of by the
United States.
When, therefore, Congress by the act of 1885, forfeited to
the United States and restored to the public domain so much

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC

ID CO. 299'

Opinion of the Court.

of the lands gfanted by the act of May 4, 1870,for the benefit
of the Oregon Central Railroad Company, as were adjacent
to and coterminous with the uncompleted portions of the road,
the United States was reinvested with the title for its own
benefit exclusively. And the title did not pass to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company by reason of the failure of the
Oregon Central Railroad Company to construct its road, or
because of the subsequent forfeiture of the latter's rights by
the act of 1885. The restoration to the public domain of the
lands so forfeited took from the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company no lands granted to it by the act of 1870. In United
States v. Southern Pacijfc Railroad Co., 146 U. S. 570, 606, in
which one of the questions was as to the right of the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company to appropriate lands that had been
previously granted to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, but which lands were forfeited by Congress, after the
date of the grant to, and the filing of the map of definite
location by, the former company, this court said: "So when
intent is to be considered, the question is whether Congress
intended, the title having once vested in the Atlantic and
Pacific, that the Southern Pacific Company should stand
waiting to take the lands at some future time, however distant, when the Atlantic and Pacific Company's title should
fail. Again, there can be no question, under the authoritiesheretofore cited, that if the act of forfeiture had not been
passed by Congress, the Atlantic and Pacific could yet construct its road, and that, constructing it, its title to these
lands would become perfect. No power but that of Congress
could interfere with this right of the Atlantic and Pacific,
No one but the grantor can raise the question of a breach of
a condition subsequent. Congress, by the act of forfeiture of
July 6, 1886, determined what should become of the lands
forfeited. It enacted that they be restored to the public
domain. The forfeiture was not for the benefit of the Southern Pacific; it was not to enlarge its grant as it stood prior
to the act of forfeiture. It had given to the Southern Pacific
all that it had agreed to in its original grant; and now, finding
that the Atlantic and Pacific was guilty of a breach of a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dition subsequent, it elected to enforce a forfeiture for that
breach and a forfeiture for its own benefit."
One other point pressed by the defendant deserves notice.

It is that the Oregon Central Railroad Company was without
power under its charter to construct a railroad from Portland
to Astoria, and, therefore, could not obtain the benefit of the
grant made by Congress of the lands in dispute. That corporation is not here seeking the aid of the court to invest it
with title to real estate it could not legally acquire for the
purposes of its charter. If it were, it might be the duty of
this court to inquire as to its right, under the laws that created
it, to take and hold such title. Case v. .Kelly, 133 U. S. 21.
The question is whether Congress embraced these lands in its
grant to that company of May 4, 1870. If it did, then the
title passed to it from the United States, subject to be defeated
by breach of condition subsequent and subject, it may be, to
any proceeding the State of Oregon might institute to compel
a corporation created by its laws to keep within the limits of
the powers granted to it. Whether the Oregon Central Railroad Company could, under its charter, take title to those
lands was and is a matter that concerned only that corporation
and the State of Oregon. It is sufficient, for this case, to say
that the lands here in dispute were not included in the grant
of 1864: or in that of May 31, 18,70, to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company. If, as we hold, Congress did not intend
to include them in the latter grant, and even if we should also
hold that the Oregon Central Railroad Company was incompetent, under its charter, to take title to them, the lands,
never having been granted prior to May 4, 1870, to any corporation, would not, contrary to the intention of Congress,
have fallen under the grant of May 31, 1870, to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, but would have remained part of
the public domain.
It results that the court below erred, and that judgment
should have been rendered for the United States.
The decree is 'eversed, and the cause remanded witA directions to enter judgment for the United States, upon the
.pecial finding of facts.

