HUTCHINSON INVESTMLENT CO. v. CALDWELL.

65

Statement of the Case.

389, 393; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53: People v. New
Y'ork & Staten Island Ferry, 68 IN. Y. 71; State v. Sargent,
45 Conn. 358. Such harbor lines, in order to fulfil their purpose, must be established according to a general system, having in view not only the convenience of approach to the water
from the shore, but the effect of the daily ebb and flow of the
tide in keeping clear or filling up the harbor. The establishment of general harbor lines, of itself, takes or injures no one's
property, and cannot, consistently with the interests of the
public, or with the principles of equity, be restrained by injunction. If the State of Washington, or the city of Tacoma,
or any public officer or private individual, shall hereafter
take active measures, or bring suit, so as to injure or affect
the supposed title or rights of the plaintiff, or its use and enjoyment thereof, the dismissal of this bill will not stand in the
way of a full and fair trial of the title and rights claimed.
.Decree reversed, and bill dismrissed, without prejudice.
?MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR.

JUSTICE

JAcKsoN were not

present at the argument and took no part in the decision of
this case.

HUTCHINSON INVESTMIENT COMPANY v.
CALDWELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 190.

Argued January 3, 4,1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

In States whose laws permit illegitimate children, recognized by the father
in his lifetime, to inherit from him, such children are "heirs" within the
meaning of Rev. Stat. § 2269, which provides that when a party entitled
to claim the benefits of the preemption laws of the United States dies
before consummating his claim, his executor or administrator may do
so, and the entry in such case shall be made in favor of his heirs, and
the patent, when issued, inure to them as if their names had been
specially mentioned.

THIS was an action brought by John Caldwell against
D. B. Miller (for whom the Hutchinson Investment Company
VOL. Cii-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

was substituted) and L. B. Miller in the District Court for
iReno County, Kansas, to have his title established and recover

possession of the northeast quarter of section twelve, township
twenty-three south, range six west, in that county. The case
was submitted to the District Court for trial, a jury being
waived, and the court made special findings of fact and gave
judgment in favor of the defendants, whereupon the cause
was taken on error to the Supreme Court of Kansas. The
Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the court below and
'remanded the cause with a direction to enter judgment upon
the findings of fact in favor of Caldwell and against the
defendants for an undivided thirteen twenty-eighths of the
land and damages for its detention, and thereupon this writ
of error was brought.
The facts necessary to be stated were in brief these: Robert
Titus was married to Phoebe Thomas in Vermont in 1809,
and the sole issue of this marriage was Alden W. Titus, born
in October, 1810. After the birth of this son, Robert Titus,
having gone into the war of 1812, abandoned both wife and
child, and, in 1818, without having obtained a divorce, had a
marriage ceremony performed between him and Miriam Lee
in the State of New York. By her he had five children, of
whom the youngest was a daughter, Lois, who married D. B.
Miller. From 1850, Robert Titus lived with Mr. and Mrs.
Miller, and in 1871 the family went to Reno County, Kansas,
and settled there. July 10, 18'11, Robert Titus made a preemption entry upon the land in controversy, but died before
consummating his preemption claim. After his death, D. B.
Miller, administrator of his estate, filed the necessary papers
to complete the preemption, paying the price thereof, four
hundred dollars, to the United States, with his own money,
and April 20, 1874, a patent to the land was issued, to the
effect that "the United States of America, in consideration of
the premises and in conformity with the several acts of Congress in such cases made and provided, have given and
granted, and by these presents do give and grant, unto the
said heirs of Robert Titus, deceased, and to their heirs, the
tract above described; to have and to hold the same, together

HUTCHINSON INVESTMENT CO. v. CALDWELL.

67

Opinion of the Court.

with all the rights, privileges, immunities, and appurtenances
of whatsoever nature belonging, unto the said heirs of Robert
Titus, deceased, and to their heirs and assigns forever." The
children of Robert Titus and Miriam Lee were notoriously
recognized by Robert Titus ds his own, and no question was
ever raised as to their legitimacy until in this suit. D. B.
Miller claimed the fee simple title to the land by conveyances
from the heirs of Alden W. Titus, as the only heir of Robert
Titus, deceased; and if the children of Robert Titus and
Miriam Lee were heirs within the meaning of section 2269 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, then Caldwell was
entitled to recover an undivided thirteen twenty-eighths of
the land and damages.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas, by Horton,
0. J., is reported in 44 Kansas, 12.
Mr. Almerin Gillett for plaintiffs in error.
i. S. B. Bradford and 21r. G. A. Euron, for defendant
in error, filed a brief on his behalf, but the court declined to
hear them.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

By the statutes of Kansas, which was the State of the
domicil of Robert Titus at the time of his death, and of the
location of the real estate in controversy, illegitimate children
could inherit from their father when they had been recognized
by him, provided such recognition was general and notorious,
or in writing. Gen. Stat. Kansas, 786, c. 33, §§ 22, 23. Under
the circumstances disclosed on this record, therefore, the
grantees in a deed to the heirs of Robert Titus and to their
heirs would have embraced the children of Miriam Lee and
their heirs, and this Would be so as respects this patent, unless
section 2269 of the Revised Statutes, under which it was
issued, provided otherwise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The section reads: "Where a party entitled to claim the
benefits of the preemption laws dies before consummating his
claim, by filing in due time all the papers essential to the
establishment of the same, it shall be competent for the executor or administrator of the estate of such party, or one of
the heirs, to file the necessary papers to complete the same;
but the entry in such cases shall be made in favor of the heirs
of the deceased preemptor, and a patent thereon shall cause
the title to inure to such heirs, as if their names had been
specially mentioned." We are unable to concur with counsel
for plaintiffs in error that the intention should be ascribed to
Congress of limiting the words "heirs of the deceased preemptor," as used in the section, to persons who would be
heirs at common law (children not born in lawful matrimony
being therefore excluded) rather than those who might be
such according to the Zex rei sitw, by which, generally speaking,
the question of the descent and heirship of real estate is exclusively governed. If such had been the intention, it seems
clear that a definition of the word "heirs" would have been
given, so as to withdraw patents issued under this section
from the operaton of the settled rule upon the subject.
That rule was thus referred to by this court in United States
v. Fox, 94: U. S. 315, 320: "It is an established principle of
law everywhere recognized, arising from the necessity of the
case, that the disposition of immovable property, whether by
deed, descent, or any other mode, is exclusively subject to the
government within whose jurisdiction the property is situated;" and although Congress might have designated particular grantees to whom the land should go in the first instance,
it did not do so, nor make use of words indicative of any
intent that the law of the State should not be followed.
But it is contended that the word "heirs" was used in its
common law sense, and it is true that technical legal terms
are usually taken, in the absence of a countervailing intent,
in their established common law signification, but that consideration has no controlling weight in the construction of
this statute. Undoubtedly the word "heirs" was used as
meaning, as at common law, those capable of inheriting, but

HUTCHINSON INVESTMENT CO. v. CALDWELL.

69

Opinion of the Court.

it does not follow that the question as to who possessed that
capability was thereby designed to be determined otherwise
than by the law of the State which was both the situs of the
land and the domicil of the owner.
The object sought to be attained by Congress was that those
who would have taken the land on the death of the preemptor,
if the patent had issued to him, should still obtain it notwithstanding his death, an object which would be in part defeated
by the exclusion of any who would have so taken by the
local law if the title had vested in him. In other words,
Titus intended to acquire the title and had complied, or was
proceeding to comply, in good faith, with the requirements
of the law to perfect his right to it, and by this statute that
right could be perfected after his death for the benefit of those
who would have been entitled if his death had occurred after
patent instead of before. If the provision admitted of more
than one construction, that one should be adopted which best
seems to carry out the purposes of the act. Bernier v. Bernier,
147 U. S. 242.
In this view, it was held in Brown v. Belmarde, 3 Kansas,
41, that the words "heirs of deceased reservees" in the act of
Congress of May 26, 1860, c. 61, (12 Stat. 21,) which operated
as an original grant to certain reservees and their heirs, designated the persons who were capable of inheritance by the law
of the State when the act of Congress took effect. And see
Clark v. Lord, 20 Kansas, 390.
So the usual rule was recognized in Lamb v. Starr, Deady,
350. By the fourth section of the Oregon Donation Act, of
September 27, 1850, c. 76, (9 Stat. 496,) it was provided that
if either the settler or his wife died before the issue of the
patent, "the survivor and children or heirs of the deceased"
should be entitled to the share or interest of the deceased in
equal proportions; and the late Judge Deady, referring to the
disposal of the share of a deceased wife, said that at the time
of her death "there was no statute in Oregon regulating the
descent of real property, or declaring who should be the heirs
of an intestate, and, therefore, the subject was regulated by
the common law. By this rule her children were her heirs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The Donation Act does not prescribe who shall be considered
the heirs of a deceased settler any more than it prescribes who
shall be considered the wife of a settler. Both of these are left
to the local law -the law of Oregon. If the law of Oregon
at the time of Nancy's death had prescribed that brothers and
sisters should be heirs to the intestate, either exclusive or inclusive of the children, it appears to me that, under the Donation Act, then the children would take to the exclusion of the
brothers and sisters. Congress seems to have intended to secure the share of the deceased to her children, if any, whether
the law of Oregon made them heirs or not. Beyond this it
left the matter to the local law, by providing the alternative,
that in default of children, such share should go to her heirs,
whoever they might be. Who would be entitled to claim as
heir of the deceased would, in all cases, depend upon the law
of Oregon at the time of the death, but persons claiming as
children are by the Donation Act preferred to those claiming
simply as heirs by the local law." And in Davenport v.
Lamb, 13 Wall. 418, 427, it was pointed out that the act of
Congress of 'May 20, 1836, c. 76, (5 Stat. 31, Rev. Stat. § 2448,)
providing that where patents had been issued to persons who
had died, the title should inure to and become vested in "the
heirs, devisees, and assigns" of the deceased, made the title
inure in a manner different from that provided by the Donation Act, upon the death of either owner before the issue of
the patent, because the survivor of the husband or wife was
not his or her heir by any law of Oregon at the time of the
death in that case.
There is nothing to the contrary in 1cCool v. Smithlt, 1
Black, 459, which was a case coming to this court from Illinois, in which it was held that the meaning of the words
" next of kin" was to be determined by the common law of
England, because the common law in that regard was then in
full force in that State.
The language of the acts of Congress has not been uniform
in the matter of the disposition of the public domain, after the
death of the principal beneficiary. Thus under section 2443,
in respect of bounty lands granted to officers and soldiers of

PLANT INVESTMENT CO. v. KEY WEST RAILWAY.

71

Opinion of the Court.

the Revolutionary War or soldiers of the War of 1812, the
patent when applied for by part of the heirs was to be issued
in the name of the heirs, generally, and to inure to the benefit
of the whole in such portions as they were severally entitled
to by the laws of descent in the State or Territory of the
decedent's domicil; and other illustrations might be given.
These differences, however, cannot affect our conclusion
here, which, under the circumstances, accords with that of
the Supreme Court of Kansas.
Judgment a2ff'med.

PLANT INVESTMENT COMPANY v.
VILLE, TAMPA AND KEY WEST
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

JACKSONRAILWAY

NITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
1No. 226. Argued January 24, 1694.-Decided March 5,1894.

A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction over a suit to enforce a contract for the conveyance of land brought in the State where
the land is situated by the assignee of one party to the contract against
the other party, if both parties to the contract are citizens of the same
State, although the assignee is a citizen of a different State.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John P.
E,
rtridge, (with whom was Mir. 1?. G. Erwin
on the brief,) for appellant.
Air. Charles i. Cooper, (with whom was Mr. J. C. Cooper
on the brief,) for the trustees of the internal improvement
fund of Florida, appellees.
JUsT E FIELD stated the case, and delivered the opinion
of the court.
Mr.

