SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SELEY.

145

Statement of the Case.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SELEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 119. Argued November 2T, 1893. -Decided

March 5,1894.

After serving as a brakeman in the employ of a railroad company, S. became a conductor on the same railroad, and as such had been engaged at
a depot yard at one of its stations at least once a week, and usually
oftener, for seven years. While making up his train at that yard, preparatory to running out with it, after the chief brakeman had failed in
an attempt to make a coupling he tried to make it. There was an unblocked frog at the switch where the car was. He put his foot into
this frog, and was told by the brakeman that he would be caught if he
left it there. He took it out, but put it in again, and, being unable to
extricate it when the cars came together, he was thrown down and killed.
In an action brought by his administratrix against the railroad company
to recover damages, held, that S. must he assumed to have entered and
continued in the employ of the railroad company with full knowledge of
any danger which might arise from the use of unblocked frogs; that he
was guilty of contributory negligence; and that the company was entitled
to a peremptory instruction in its favor.

THIS was an action in the District Court for the First
Judicial District of the Territory of Utah against the Southern Pacific Company, a railroad corporation, brought by
Isabella Seley, administratrix of William B. Seley, deceased,
to recover damages for the death of her husband caused by
the alleged negligence of the defendant company. The
Southern Pacific Company was incorporated under the laws
of the State of Kentucky, and is engaged in operating the
Central Pacific Railroad, running between the city of Ogden
in Utah and a point in California.
Seley was, for seven years prior to his death, a conductor
upon freight trains on the lines of the Southern Pacific Company and of its predecessor, the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, and before that time had been a brakeman in the
same employ. In the course of his business he was engaged
in the depot yard at Humboldt Wells at least once a week and
usually oftener.
voL. CLHr-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The accident in which Seley met his death took place on
July 7, 1887, at this depot yard, while he was making up his
train, preparatory to running out with it.
The chief brakeman, named Hardy, had met with some
difficulty in coupling a car, and had twice failed to make the
coupling. The other brakeman had also failed in an attempt
to couple the car. Seley undertook to effect the coupling.
His first effort was a failure, the link slipping. At this time,
Hardy testifies that he warned Seley to take his foot out of
the frog -that he would be caught.
Seley made a second attempt, and, while endeavoring to
make the coupling, again put his foot into the frog, from
which he was unable to extricate it when the cars came
together. He was thrown down by the break-beam, the
wheel passed over him, and he was instantly killed.
At the close of the plaintiff's evidence, the defendant moved
for a nonsuit. This was refused and an exception was allowed.
At the close of the entire evidence, the defendant asked the
court to instruct the jury to find a verdict for the defendant.
This was refused, as were likewise certain instructions prayed
for. A verdict for $7500 was rendered in favor of the plaintiff, on which judgment was entered, a motion for a new trial
having been overruled. This judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory, to whose judgment a writ of
error was brought to this court.
.Mr. Maowell Evarts, for plaintiff in error, cited: Washington & Georgetown Railroadv. .reDade, 135 U. S.554; Tuttle
v. Detroit & -Milwaukee Railway, 122 U. S. 189; Kohn v.
Me.fulta, 147 U. S. 238; Bunt v. Sierra Butte Gold , ining
Co., 138 U. S. 483; O'Rorke v. Union Paoijc Railway, 22
Fed. IRep. 189; The Afaharojah, 49 Fed. Rep. 111; .iraylor
v. HSew York Central Railroad, 33 Fed. Rep. 801; The
Luckenbach, 53 Fed. Rep. 662; Appel v. Buffalo, Eew York
&c. Railroad, 111 N. Y. 550; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacfio
Railway v. Lonergan, 118 Illinois, 41; Williams v. Central
Railroad,43 Iowa, 396; Rush v. Missouri Pacie Railway,
36 Kansas, 129; Wilson v. lWinona &c. Railroad, 37 Min-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMNPANY v. SELEY.

147

Argument for Defendant in Error.

nesota, 326; Lake Shore &c. Railway v. 3cC'ormick, 74
Indiana, 440; Haas v. Buffalo, N. Y. & P. Railroad, 40
Hun, 145; Woodley v. Metropolitan District Railway, 2 Ex.
D. 384; Wfalsh v. TFhiteley, 21 Q. B. D. 371; Thomas v.
Quartermaine, 18 Q. B. D. 685; Cunningham v. Chicago,
Hilwauwee &c. Railroad, 17 Fed. Rep. 882; Railroad Co. v.
Jones, 95 U. S. 439; Randall v. Balt. & Ohio Railroad,109
U. S. 478; The Seraois, 51 Fed. Rep. 91; Townsend v.
.Langles, 41 Fed. Rep. 919; Schroeder v. Michigan Car Co.,
56 Michigan, 132; Sweeney v. Berlin & Jones .Enveloye Co.,
101 N. Y. 520.
Nr. A. A. Iloeling, Jr., and Mr. J. .M. Milson, (with whom
was M>. Samuel Shellabarger on the brief,) for defendant in
error.
I. It was negligence on the part of the plaintiff in error to
provide, in the construction, such a frog. The deceased did
not take the risk of injury because thereof, and was not
chargeable with notice of danger, nor with negligence, in
making the coupling at the place, and under the circumstances,
as shown in this record.
There is no evidence that plaintiff in error ever used blocked
frogs on its road, but there is evidence that it used at that
time a castiron frog, in which the space between the rails at
the apex of the frog is filled with cast iron. In this frog a
man's foot could not get caught. It is also in evidence that
the Union Pacific and some other railroads used blocked frogs,
and that they have been used for at least ten or twelve years
in this country; that blocking the frog would make such an
accident as the present almost impossible, and that it is more
generally the custom to block frogs in yards (such as this,
where the accident occurred) than on the main line.
It is important here to note the difference between a blocked
frog and a frog that is blocked. A blocked frog is one made
of iron, and so constructed that the space is filled with iron;
while a frog blocked is one in which there is no iron in the
space, but that space is filled with wood - the object being the

OCTOBER TERM4, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

same in both cases, to prevent injuries by catching the foot
between the rails; and on this road the blocked frog, that is,
one in which the space is filled with iron, was used, and also
the open frog which was not blocked, by inserting the wood,
to prevent injury, as above.
This is mentioned here as throwing light not only upon the
question under immediate consideration, but also upon the
question of notice hereafter to be considered.
The court below, in passing upon this same question of the
risks assumed by the deceased in entering the employ of the
defendant, cites, with approval, the case of Pattersonv. Pittsburgh & Connellsville Railroad,76 Penn. St. 389, 393.
In that case, the court, per Gordon, J., says: "If the instrumentality by which he is required to perform his service is
so obviously and immediately dangerous that a man of common prudence would refuse to use it, the master cannot be
held liable for the resulting damage. In such case, the law
adjudges the servant guilty of concurrent negligence, and will
refuse him that aid to which he otherwise would be entitled.
But where the servant, in obedience to the requirement of the
master, incurs the risk of machinery which, though dangerous,
is not so much so as to threaten immediate injury, or where it
is reasonably probable it may be safely used by extraordinary
caution or skill, the rule is different. In such case, the master
is liable for a resulting accident." See also Conroy v. fulcan
Iron Wtorks, 62 Missouri, 35; Pennsylvania Co. v. Boy, 102
U. S. 451 ; Lawless v. Connecticut River Railroa(., 136 Mass. 1.
II. The employer is bound to provide suitable physical
means and agencies for the conduct of his business. The
employ6 does not take the hazard of any negligence of the
employer in that regard. The employ6 only takes the risks
of the dangers which ordinarily attend, or are incident to, the
business in which he engages, and which cannot be avoided
by extreme diligence and the highest skill, and what are the
ordinary risks depends upon the special circumstances of the
particular case. Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; WTabash
Railway v. .cDaniels, 107 U. S. 454; 8now v. -Housatonic
Railroad, 8 Allen, 441; . 0. 85 Am. Dec. 720; Cayzer v.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SELEY.

149

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Taylor, 10 Gray, 274; S. C. 69 Am. Dec. 317; Seaver v. Boston
&- Xaine Railroad, 14 Gray, 46,6; Bartonshill Coal Co. v.
Reid, 3 Macq. App. Cas. 266.
III. Where, in an action against a common carrier to
recover damages for injuries, there is uncertainty as to the
existence of either negligence or contributory negligence, the
question is not one of law, but of fact, and is to be settled by a
jury; and this whether the uncertainty arises from a conflict
in the testimony, or because, the facts being undisputed, fairminded men will honestly draw different conclusions from
Richmond & Danville Railroad v. Powers, 149
them.
U. S. 43; Washington & Georgetown_Railroad v. AtoDade,
135 U. S. 554; Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213;
.Delaware, Lackawanna &c. Railroad v. Converse, 139 U. S.
469; Railroad Co. v. Stout; 17 Wall. 657; 2 Thompson on
Negligence, 1178; Gates v. Pennsylvania Railroad,154 Penn.
St. 566.
The court is not permitted to take from the jury these
questions of negligence, and to decide them, unless the evidence shows that the negligence of the defendant in error was
gross and wilful. If it was less than that, then the questions
of negligence were for the jury, and are all settled in favor of
defendant in error by the verdict.
It is, we submit, impossible fairly to contend, in the present
case, that any of the alleged contributory negligence of the
defendant in error was of this kind.
Therefore, the verdict has settled, in favor of the defendant
in error, both the question of the negligence of plaintiff in
error, and the absence of contributory negligence on the part
of the defendant in error.
In this case it cannot be conclusively presumed that the
defendant knew the dangerous character of these frogs. The
most that can be said of it is that the inference may be drawn
that he did know it from the length of his service on the road
as an employ6; and yet, from the nature of that service,
reasonable men might also infer that in discharging his duties
he would not observe matters that appertained wholly to the
construction of the road; that his attention was directed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the movement of his train. Reasonable men might conclude
that he had not such knowledge of the conditions at this place
as to charge him with neglect, and especially under the
circumstances, where there was difficulty in making this
particular coupling, three efforts having been made by brakemen and one by himself before this injury occurred, that it
was not negligence for him in his effort to make this coupling
under such circumstances to fail to observe this particular
frog, which happened to be at the very place where this duty
necessarily was performed. It was, therefore, preeminently
a case to be submitted to the jury, and the finding of the jury
on that subject under the authorities above alluded to will not
be reviewed by the court.
MR. JusrIO

SmAs, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The theory upon which the plaintiff proceeded in the court
below was that Seley lost his life by reason of the negligence
of the defendant, a railroad company, in using in its switches
what is called an "unblocked frog."
A frog, in railroad parlance, is a section of a rail, or of
several rails combined, at a point where two railways cross,
or at the point of a switch from a line to a siding or to
another line, and its function is to enable a car or train to be
turned from one track to another. In a blocked frog the
point of space between the rails, at the point where the car
is switched from one track to another, is filled with wood
or other material, so that the foot will not be held. There is
a form of cast-iron frog, in which the space between the rails
at the apex of the frog is filled with cast iron. But the
evidence clearly was that the defendant company used the
unblocked frog, although at some places the cast-iron frog
was used. The weight of the evidence, as we read it in the
bill of exceptions, plainly was that on the other great railroad
systems of the West the unblocked frog was generally used.
There was evidence tending to show that the unblocked frog
is the better form-that the blocked frog is liable to be
broken, get out of place, and throw the train from the track.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SELEY.

151

Opinion of the Court.

In this disputable state of the facts the defendants asked
the court to charge the jury as follows:
"The jury are instructed that if they find from the evidence
that the railroad companies used both the blocked and the
unblocked frog, and that it is questionable which is the safest
or most suitable for the business of the roads, then the use of
the unblocked frog is not negligence, and the jury are instructed not to impute the same as negligence to the defendant, and they should find for the defendant."
This prayer should have been given by the court.
In the case of Schroeder v. .Michigan Car Co., 56 Mich. 132,
133, the Supreme Court of Michigan, per Cooley, J., said:
"From this statement of facts it will appear that if the
defendant has been guilty of any negligence contributing to
the injury, it is to be found in the fact that a machine is made
use of which is not so constructed as to guard as well as it
might against similar accidents. Had the machine been constructed with a shield over the cog wheels, this particular
accident would probably not have occurred; and any one
whose attention was drawn to the danger of such accidents
would probably have perceived the desirability of such a
shield. But the machine is shown by the evidence to be
manufactured and sold by a prominent and reputable house,
and much used throughout the country, and the defendant
cannot be said to be exceptionally wanting in prudence in
purchasing and making use of it. Such danger as would
result from making use of it was perfectly apparent, and
would seem to be easily avoided."
Walsh v. TRhiteley, 21 Q. B. D. 371, 378, 379, was a case where
the plaintiff was employed in defendant's mill, and it was his
duty to put a band upon a vertical wheel while in motion. The
disk of the wheel was not solid throughout, but had a number
of holes in it. While putting the band on the wheel the
plaintiff's thumb slipped into one of the holes, and was cut off.
It appeared on the trial that these wheels were made sometimes with and sometimes without holes. The plaintiff's
witnesses stated generally that the wheels with holes were
dangerous. The plaintiff never made any complaint to his

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

employers. He recovered a verdict, but the judgment was,
on appeal, reversed, Lindley and Lopez, JJ., saying: "Is there
any evidence of the machine being defective, even in the
abstract? It was perfect in all respects. It was not impaired
by use. The only suggestion is that the wheel, which might
have been solid, had holes in it; and that, if the wheel had
been solid, the plaintiff could not have put his thumb where
he did? and the accident would not have happened.
But the plaintiff had used the same kind of machine for thirteen years, and had sustained no injury. . . . In these
circumstances we can see no evidence of any defect in the
condition of the machine, even apart from the negligence of
the employer. It may be that a solid wheel would have been
safer, but it would be placing an intolerable burden on employers to hold that they are to adopt every fresh improvement in machinery. . . . It seems to us that in this case
there is not a particle of evidence of any defect arising from
the negligence of the employer. It was a machine generally
used, used by the plaintiff for thirteen years without any complaint or mischief arising."Sweeny v. Berlin & Jones 3fianufactl ring Co., 101 N. Y.
520, 524, was a case where the plaintiff was injured by some
sort of a press worked by steam. It was old-fashioned and
with no modern improvements. The court said: "He knew
as much about it and the risk attending its use as the master.
The defendant could not be required to provide himself with
other machinery or with new appliances, nor to elect between
the expense of doing so and the imposition of damages for
injuries resulting to servants from the mere use of an older or
different pattern. In the absence of defective construction,
or of negligence or want of care in the reparation of machinery
furnished by him, the master incurs no liability from its use.
The general rule is that the servant accepts the service subject
to the risks incidental to it, and where the machinery and
implements of the employer's business are at that time of a
certain kind or condition and the servant knows it, he can
make no claim upon the master to furnish other or different
safeguards." IHodgkins v. Eastern Railroad,119 Mass. 419,
is to the same effect.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COM1PANY v. SELEY.

153

Opinion of the Court.

Our own cases speak the same language. Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478, 482, was a case where
the plaintiff was injured in the course of his employment as a
brakeman. It appeared on the trial that he was hurt, while
unlocking a ground switch, by a train other than his own.
It was alleged that the defendant company was negligent in
that it did not have an upright switch instead of a ground
switch, as the former was safer. This court, affirming the
judgment of the court below, said: "There was no sufficient
evidence of any negligence on the part of the railroad company
in the construction and arrangement of the switch to warrant
a verdict for the plaintiff on that ground. The testimony of
the plaintiff and his witness was too slight. A railroad yard,
where trains are made up, necessarily has a great number of
tracks and switches close to one another, and any one who
enters the service of a railroad company, in any work connected with the making up or moving of trains, assumes the
risk of that condition of things. . . . The switch was of
a form in common use, and was, to say the least, quite as fit
for its place and purpose as an upright switch would have
been."
In WVashington & Georgetown Railroad v. .cDade, 135
U. S. 554, 570, this court used the following language:
"Neither individuals nor corporations are bound, as employers,
to insure the absolute safety of the machinery or mechanical
appliances which they provide for the use of their employ~s.
Nor are they bound to supply the best and safest or newest of
these appliances for the purpose of securing the safety of those
who are thus employed."
In the case of Tattle v. Detroit & .Milwaukee Railway,
122 U. S. 189, 194, it was claimed that a brakeman, who was
injured in coupling cars, had a right to go to the jury on the
question whether the defendant company was not negligent
in having too sharp a curve in its road where it entered a yard;
but this court, by Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "Although it
appears that the curve was a very sharp one at the place
where the accident happened, yet we do not think that public
policy requires the courts to lay down any rule of law to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

strict a railroad company as to the curves it shall use in its
freight depots and yards, where the safety of passengers
and the public is not involved; much less that it should be
left to the varying and uncertain opinions of juries to determine such an engineering question. . . . It is for those
who enter into such employment to exercise all that care
and caution which the perils of the business in each case
demand. The perils in the present case, arising from the
sharpness of the curve, were seen and known. They were not
like the defects of unsafe machinery which the employer has
neglected to repair, and which his employ~s have reason to
suppose is in proper working condition. Everything was
open and visible, and the deceased had only to use his senses
and his faculties to avoid the dangers to which he was exposed.
One of these dangers was that of the draw bars slipping and
passing each other when the cars were brought together. It
was his duty to look out for this and avoid it. The danger
existed only on the inside of the curve. This must have been
known to him. It will be presumed that, as an experienced
brakeman, he did know it, for it is one of those things which
happen, in the course of his employment, under such conditions
as existed here."
It was not pretended in the present case that the frog in
which Seley had put his foot was defective or out of repair.
The contention solely is that there is another form of frog,
not much used, and which, if used by the defendant, might
have prevented the accident.
In view of these cases and many others of similar import,
which it is unnecessary to cite, we think it is plain that the
defendant was entitled not merely to the instruction prayed
for, if the case went to the jury, but that, upon the whole
evidence, the prayer for a peremptory instruction in the defendant's favor ought to have been granted.
The evidence showed that Seley had been in the employ of
the defendant for several years as brakeman and as conductor of
freight trains; that his duty brought him frequently into the
yard in question to make up his trains; that he necessarily
knew of the form of frog there in use; and it is not shown

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SELEY.

155

Opinion of the Court.

that he ever complained to his employers of the character
of frogs used by them. He must, therefore, be assumed to
have entered and continued in the employ of the defendant
with full knowledge of the dangers asserted to arise out of
the use of unblocked frogs.
Appel v. Bufalo, . . Y. &c. Railroad, 111 N. Y. 550, was
a case where the plaintiff's intestate was a brakeman employed
in coupling cars in the yards of the defendant at Buffalo,
N. Y., and while so engaged his foot was caught in an unblocked frog, and he was run over and killed ; and the Court of
Appeals held that, "in accepting and continuing in the employment, the deceased assumed the hazard of all known and
obvious dangers, and that he was chargeable with notice of
the difficulty in removing the foot when caught in the frog,
and of the danger to be apprehended therefrom, and therefore that a cause of action was not made out, and a refusal to
nonsuit was error."
In the case of TFashington & Geor'getown Railroad v.
McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570, this court said, through Mr.
Justice Lamar: "If the employ6 knew of the defect in the
machinery from which the injury happened, and yet remained
in the service and continued to use the machinery without
giving any notice thereof to the employer, he must be deemed
to have assumed the risk of all danger reasonably to be apprehended from such use, and is entitled to no recovery."
In Tuttle v. Detroit & )Wilwaukeg Railway, 122 U. S. 189,
this court approved the action of the court below in holding
that the plaintiff was precluded from a recovery by negligence
of his own, and added that the judge was right in directing a
verdict for the defendant on the broader ground that a person
who enters into the service of another in a particular employment assumes the risk incident to such employment.
In EZahn v. .Afvulta, 147 U. S. 238, 241, the case was that
of a brakeman who was injured while coupling cars, and who
alleged negligence in the defendant company in permitting
cars of another road to be brought on defendant's road,
which cars had bumpers of unusual length ; and it was said
by this court: "It is not pretended that these cars were out of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

repair, or in a defective condition, but simply that they were
constructed differently from the Wabash cars in that they had
double deadwoods or bumpers of unusual length to protect
the draw bars. But all this was obvious even to a passing
glance, and the risk which there was in coupling such cars
was apparent. It required no special skill or knowledge to
detect it. The intervenor was no boy, placed *by the employer in a position of undisclosed danger, but a mature man,
doing the ordinary work which he had engaged to do, and
whose risks in this respect were obvious to any one. Under
those circumstances he assumed the risk of such an accident
as this, and no negligence can be imputed to the employer."
That Seley was guilty of contributory negligence, and
therefore not entitled to recover, we think is also obvious.
Knowing, as he did, the character of the frog, and the liability of being caught in it, and after having been specially
warned by the assistant brakeman, he yet persisted in exposing himself to an obvious danger. His object to couple the
cars might have been successfully accomplished without placing his foot in the frog.
Recklessness could hardly go further. The evidence would
warrant no other conclusion than that he took the risk of the
work in which he was employed, and that his negligence in
the course of that work was the direct cause of his death.
The court should have directed a verdict for the defendant.
Ramdall v. Balt. & Ohio 7ailroad,109 U. S. 478; Schofield v.
Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway, 114 U. S. 615; Gunther v.
Liverpool & Globe Ins. Co., 134 U. S. 110; Bunt v. Sierra
Butte Gold Mining Co., 138 U. S. 483.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the cause
is remanded with directions to award a new trial.

