OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. SHEA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 396. Submitted January 8, 1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

S. agreed with a Deputy Quartermaster-General, who acted on behalf of the
United States, to provide and furnish whenever called upon during the
coming fiscal year, such vessels as might be required for a specified service in the harbor of New York. Each vessel was to have an engineer
and fireman, the remainder of the crew to be supplied by the United
States when required, and the fuel to be supplied by them. The payment, if employed by the day, was to be at the rate of $67 per diem for
each vessel. The government was to have the management and control
of the vessels iwhile in its service. Under this contract S. furnished a
vessel called the Bowen on the requisition of the quartermaster, which
was accepted by the government, and went into its service. While in
government employ a collision occurred, whereby the Bowen was so
damaged that it had to be laid up for repairs for 61 days. During the
most of this time S., at the government's request, furnished another vessel called the Stickney, which was accepted. He hired this vessel, paying $55 a day, and received from the government the contract price of
$67 for its use. When the Bowen resumed service after the completion
of the repairs, S. claimed compensation for it for the 61 days at the rate
paid by him for the Stickney. .Held,that the contract was one for hiring,
and not for service, and that the government, during its possession of
the vessel, was a special owner, and bound to pay rent for it until returned to $.

THE facts of this case are stated in the findings of the Court
of Claims. The first is that on May 28, 1886, the petitioner
entered into a contract with the Deputy Quartermaster-

General of the Army for and in behalf of the United States,
the important articles of which are as follows:
"ATICLE 1. That the said Daniel Shea shall provide and
furnish to the party of the first part, whenever called upon
during the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred
and eighty-seven, such vessels of the descriptions hereinafter
given as may be required to take the place of the vessels now
performing service for the U. S. Army between New York
City and Governor's Island, New York, Governors Island and
Sandy Hook, and New York Harbor generally, respectively,

UNITED STATES v. SHEA.
Statement of the Case.

the steamers Atlantic, Ordnance, and Chester A. Arthur; that
the vessels furnished as aforesaid must each have an engineer
and fireman, and conform to the following conditions, viz.:
The steamer to take the place of the Chester A. Arthur must
be of about the size and the character of the Chester A.
Arthur, and the steamers to take the places of the Atlantic
and Ordnance, respectively, must have the capacity for freight
and passengers and be of the size and character of the steamer
James Bowen; and that all the vessels furnished must be
staunch, in first-class order in every respect, well equipped,
and conform fully to the requirements of the law.
"It is further agreed that the fuel required by said vessels
so furnished while in service, under this agreement, shall be
supplied by the government, and that this contract shall commence on the first day of July, eighteen hundred and eighty-six.
"And it is further agreed that the party of the second part
shall furnish, when required, the remainder of the crew, consisting of a captain, a mate, two deck hands, and a fireman.
"ART.4. That for and in consideration of the faithful per-

formance of the stipulations of this agreement the party of
the second part shall be paid, at the office of the disbursing
quartermaster U. S. Army, at New York City, as follows:
The sum of sixty-seven (67) dollars per day for each vessel
employed, including the engineer and the fireman, when employed by the day, and the sum of ten (10) dollars per hour
for each vessel employed, including the engineer and the fireman, when employed by the hour; and for the said remainder
of the crew, when required, the sum of thirteen dollars per day.
"ART. 5. That in case of failure of the said party of the
second part to comply with the stipulations of this contract,
according to the true intent and meaning thereof, then the
party of the first part shall have the power to hire vessels
elsewhere in open market at the sole expense and charge of
the party of the second part."
The second and third findings are as follows:
2. "After the making of said contract, and before the expiration of the fiscal year, (June 30, 1887,) upon being called

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

upon by the quartermaster's department therefor, the claimant
provided and furnished a vessel called the James Bowen, then
staunch, in first-class order in every respect, well equipped,
and conforming fully to the requirements of the law, and with
such part of the crew as the claimant was required by the
contract to furnish, and the same was accepted and used by
the defendants.
3. "On the first day of January, 1887, while in the service
and under the exclusive management and control of the
quartermaster's department, and having an unlicensed captain or pilot, said vessel was damaged in a collision with a
ferry-boat, in consequence of which she was necessarily laid
up for repairs until March 2 of the same year, when, on the
next day, she resumed work.
"The collision occurred during a fog, and the supervising
inspectors, on an investigation, found that it was accidental
and was not due to inattention, unskilfulness, or lack of precaution on the part of the pilots. The cost of repairs was
paid by the claimant.
"During the time said vessel was undergoing repairs, the
claimant, being called upon therefor, furnished another vessel
under said contract, for which he paid $55 a day. During
said time the engineer and fireman of the claimant were on
the vessel watching and superintending the work."
There is no express finding that any sum was ever paid to
the petitioner on account of this contract. It appears, however, from the fourth finding, that, on April 1, 1887, the
Deputy Quartermaster-General forwarded to the Quartermaster-General a voucher, of which the following is a copy:
The United States to Daniel Shea, Dr.
Place and date.

Dols.

Cts.

N. Y. City, April
1, 1887 ... For hire of the steamer James Bowen,
from Jan'y 1st to March 2d, 1887,
inclusive, 61 days, at $55 per day... $3355.00
427.00
Engineer and fireman, 61 days, at $7.00
$3782.00

UNITED STATES v. SHEA
Statement of the Case.

which voucher was accompanied with a recommendation that
authority be granted to pay the same, and with the following
explanation:
"The facts are as stated herein. The James Bowen was
under charter to the quartermaster's department, and, as the
Quartermaster-General is aware, was, on the 1st of January,
1887, on one of her trips between the Battery and Governor's Island, run into by the Brooklyn ferry-boat Atlantic.
"The James Bowen was at the time under the exclusive
control and management of the government, being manned
and navigated by employ~s of the quartermaster's department.
"In the collision the -ames Bowen was very badly
damaged, and while undergoing repairs her owner was compelled to hire a vessel in her stead. The within claim is made
for reimbursement of that expense. I regard it as perfectly
proper, reasonable, and just, and therefore recommend its payHENRY 0. HODGES,
ment.
".Dep uty Q. -f Gen. U. 1S.Army, Depot Quartermaster."
That on April 6, 1887, the Quartermaster-General called
upon the Deputy Quartermaster-General for further particulars, and received in response a letter, copied at length, the
latter part of which is as follows:
"The James Bowen was under charter to and employed by
the quartermaster's department at the time of the collision
under the contract of Daniel Shea, dated May 28, 1886.
Immediately after the collision the contractor was called upon
to furnish another vessel under this contract. He furnished
the steamer E. H. Webster, one of his own boats. That
vessel, although a very staunch, good boat, was not entirely
satisfactory for the service, and, upon search, the Joseph
Stickney was found and put on the duty by the contractor.
The E. H. Webster was on duty from January 1 to 4, inclusive, and the Joseph Stickney from January 5 to March 2,
1887. During this time the James Bowen was undergoing
repair of the damage done in the collision. As the James
Bowen was at the time wholly in charge and under the management and control of the quartermaster's department, I was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

under the opinion, and am still, that the department was
bound to save the contractor from loss on accoun of the
damage and to pay for her time under the contract until
restored to her owner upon completion of the repairs.
"With this in view she was reported on my report of persons and articles for January, at the contract rate, viz., $67
per day, including an engineer and a fireman. Upon further
reflection, however, I concluded to allow for the Bowen's time
only at the rate which her owner was obliged to pay for the
vessel put in her stead. One of these, the E. H. Webster,
was his own and was in service, as before stated, from January
1 to 4, and the other, the Joseph Stickney, was hired by
him at $55.00 per day, and was in service from January 5
to March 2. So the matter stands thus:
"The E. H. Webster was in service from January 1 to 4,
and the Joseph Stickney from January 5 to March 2, and has
been paid for. The James Bowen was laid up from January
1 to March 2, inclusive, and her time has not been paid for,
but I recommend that her owner be paid at the rate of $55.00
per day for the vessel. I enclose herewith a voucher covering
the time, as well as the item for an engineer and a fireman,
embraced in Shea's claim in article 1 of this letter. If the
Quartermaster-General desires, supplementary reports of persons and articles covering this service will be prepared and
forwarded immediately."
On May 17 the Quartermaster-General transmitted the
claim and voucher to the Third Auditor of the Treasury for
adjudication and settlement.
The fifth finding is that on "November 29, 1887, the Auditor reported against paying the claim, on the alleged ground
that the boat was wholly under the control of the owner and
his agents and employ~s, and if the injury had been due to
the negligence of any one connected with the management
of the James Bowen, and not due to the ferry-boat, (with
which the collision occurred,) the United States could not be
charged with that negligence. The Second Comptroller on
the same day concurred with the Auditor in disallowing the
claim, and it has not been paid."

UNITED STATES v. S]HEA.
Argument for Appellants.

On these facts thus found the Court of Claims decided as a
conclusion of law that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the
sum of $4087.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and .Mr. Conway
Robinson for appellants.
The first question is, whether this contract constituted a
mere hiring of the use of this vessel to do certain work, or a
complete demise sufficient to divest ownership for the time.
What is the proper construction of the contract of May 28,
1886? The court below has treated it as though it was a
demise of the steamer James Bowen to the United States for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1887, and made the United
States her special owner for said year. And such is the contention of the appellee. But this, it is submitted, is not the
true or proper construction of that contract.
To have that effect a contract must be such as of itself to
transfer the title and ownership of some particular vessel to a
party as grantee or lessee for a voyage or for some definite
period or time of service mentioned in the contract. It must
give the grantee or lessee a right to that particular vessel for
and during the time specified as against the grantor or lessor.
This court has said: "Unless the ship herself is let to hire,
and the owner parts with the possession, and command and
navigation of the same, the charterer or freighter is not to be
regarded as the owner for the voyage. . . . Courts of justice are not inclined to regard the contract as a demise of the
ship if the end in view can conveniently be accomplished without the transfer of the vessel to the charterer." Reed v. United
States, 11 Wall. 591.
The language in which this contract is couched was clearly
intended to permit the contractor to furnish any vessels he
pleased, and to change them whenever he pleased, so long as
they performed the service contracted for and came up to the
standard and conformed to the requirements of the contract,
and 'were such as the contract called for. Had it been contemplated that the government should by this contract acquire

OCTOBER TERIV, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

any right, title, or ownership in any particular vessel during
the fiscal year, or during any part of said year, it would
necessarily have been couched in different language.
Could the government have insisted that any particular
vessel which had entered upon the contract service should
continue to perform the contract service during the rest of the
year if the owner did not wish her to do so, and desired to
withdraw her, and was ready and willing to furnish another
vessel such as the contract called for? It is submitted that
the government could not insist upon anything of the kind,
and 'for the obvious reason that it would have no right to or
ownership in any particular vessel.
Even where words of demise are used, yet it must appear
that the instrument taken as a whole was intended to operate
as such or it will not be so construed. "When the party
enters into that, which on the face of it appears to be an
agreement, though there are words of present demise, yet
if you collect on the face of the instrument the intent of the
parties to give a future lease, it shall be an agreement only."
Christie v. Lewis, 2 Brod. & Bing. 410, 436; 2lorgan v.
Bissell, 3 Taunt. 65.
Where, as in the case at bar, the contract contains no words
of demise, and especially where its provisions are inconsistent
with an intention to give any ownership to the hirer, it will
be held to be a mere contract of affreightment or bailment for
hire at most. Saville v. Campion, 2 B. & Ald. 511; Christie
v. Lewis, 2 Brod. & Bing. 410; Marcardier v. Chesapeake
ins. Co., 8 Cranch, 39; Clarkson v. Edes, 4 Cowen, 476; Lecsry
v. United,States, 14 Wall. 607.
The construction of the contract of May 28, 1886, which
the appellant contends for, namely, that it is not a demise of
the James Bowen and does not make the appellant special
owner during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1887, or during
the time of service, is borne out by all the other covenants
and provisions of the contract.
The vessels are to be employed "by the day" or "by the
hour." The contractor, Daniel Shea, covenants and agrees
that "all the vessels furnished must be staunch, in first-class

185

UNITED STATES v. SHEA.
Argument for Appelants.

order in every respect, well equipped, etc.," and that he "shall
provide and furnish

.

.

.

such vessels

.

.

.

whenever

called upon during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1887."
And it is also covenanted and agreed "that in case of failure
of the said party of the second part to comply with the stipulations of this contract, according to the true intent and
meaning thereof, then the party of the first part (the appellants) shall have the power to hire vessels elsewhere in open
market at the sole expense and charge of the party of the
second part." The service which the government was to
receive was such that it could be secured by hiring other

vessels.
Can it be pretended for a moment that the contractor could
provide and furnish to the government any vessels of which
the government had the special ownership? He would not
be providing and furnishing the government a vessel if the
government already had that very vessel. He could only do
so upon.the theory that the government did not have ownership under said contract. The requirement that the contractor
should furnish such vessels whenever called upon during the
fiscal year is entirely inconsistent with the idea of any ownership in the government.
It cannot be contended for a moment that the entire possession and control of the vessels were surrendered by claimant.
At all times his engineer and fireman were at least in partial
possession, as evidenced by their management of the repairs.
In conclusion, we submit that, taking this contract of May
28, 1886, as a whole, sounding as it does in contract and covenant merely, containing no words of letting, designating no
particular vessel, designating no definite time of service, and
with its covenants and provisions inconsistent with the idea of
any special ownership in any particular vessel being given to
the government, it is clear that it should be construed not to
be a demise of the James Bowen, and should be held to be a
mere contract of affreightment, or bailment for hire at most.
The appellant did -not in said contract undertake any
responsibility beyond that which may be implied by the law
of bailment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the-Court.

-Mr. Franklin HT Mackey and .Mr. Tohn F. Butterfteld for
appellee.
MnR. JUSTICE BrEWE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the construction to be given to the
contract of Mlay 28, 1886, taken in connection with the action
of the parties thereunder. Was this a contract of hiring or
for service? In Reed v. United States, 11 Wall. 591, 600, it
was said by Mr. Justice Clifford, speaking for the court:
"Affreightment contracts are of two kinds, and they differ
from each other very widely in their nature as well as in their
terms and legal effect.
"Charterers or freighters may become the owners for the
voyage without any sale or purchase of the ship, as in cases
where they hire the ship and have by the terms of the contract, and assume in fact, the exclusive possession, command,
and navigation of the vessel for the stipulated voyage. But
where the general owner retains the possession, command, and
navigation of the ship, and contracts for a specified voyage,
as, for example, to carry a cargo from one port to another,
the arrangement in contemplation of law is a mere affreightment sounding in contract and not a demise of the vessel, and
the charterer or freighter is not clothed with the character or
legal responsibility of ownership.

.

.

.

Courts of justice

are not inclined to regard the contract as a demise of the ship
if the end in view can conveniently be accomplished without
the transfer of the vessel to the charterer, but where the
vessel herself is demised or let to hire, and the general owner
parts with the possession, command, and navigation of the
ship, the hirer becomes the owner during the term of the
contract, and if need be he may appoint the master and ship
the mariners, and he becomes responsible for their acts."
And subsequently, in Leary v. United States, 14 Wall. 607,
610, Mr. Justice Field thus discussed the question:
"If the charter party let the entire vessel to the charterer
with a transfer to him of its command and possession and

UNITED STATES v. SHEA.
Opinion of the Court.

subsequent control over its navigation, he will generally be
considered as owner for the voyage or service stipulated.
But, on the other band, if the charter party let only the use
of the vessel, the owner at the same time retaining its command and possession, and control over its navigation, the
charterer is regarded as a mere contractor for a designated
service, and the duties and responsibilities of the owner are
not changed. In the first case the charter party is a contract
for the lease of the vessel; in the other it is a contract for a
special service to be rendered by the owner of the vessel.
All the cases agree that entire command and possession
of the vessel, and consequent control over its navigation, must
be surrendered to the charterer before he can be held as
special owner for the voyage or other service mentioned.
The retention by the general owner of such command, possession, and control is incompatible with the existence at the
same time of such special ownership in the charterer."
See also rooe v. Groverman, 1 Cranch, 214, in which these
words in the charter party, "doth grant and to freight let
the whole tonnage of the vessel," were held the
operative words, and indicating in connection with other language a contract for service rather than a demise of the vessel.
.Mareardier'
v. Insurance Company, 8 Cranch, 39, 49, in which
Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the court, said: "A person
may be owner for the voyage, who, by a contract with the
general owner, hires the ship for the voyage, and has the exclusive possession, command, and navigation of the ship. Such
is understood to have been the case of 'Vallejo v. lWeeler,
Cowp. 143. But where the general owner retains the possession, command, and navigation of the ship, and contracts to
carry a cargo on freight for the voyage, the charter party is
considered as a mere affreightment sounding in covenant, and
the freighter is not clothed with the character or legal responsibility of ownership." Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 605;
.feb yre v. Bowne, 1 Johns. 229; Hallett v. Columbia Insurance Comapany, 8 Johns. 272; 0iarkson v. Edes, 4 Cowen, 470;,
1 Parsons on Maritime Law, 232, c. 8, ยง 2.
These authorities, although not all touching the question of

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

rent, bring out clearly the essential differences between the
two kinds of affreightment contracts- the one in which there
is a demise of the vessel, a parting with all possession and control, and the other in which the owner, retaining the possession and control, contracts simply for service -it
may be the
entire service of the vessel.
If the contract is one of the former kind, then rent is payable until the end of the stipulated term and the return of the
vessel. In Havelock v. Geddes, 10 East, 555, 566, there was a
demise of a vessel for a term of twelve months, and longer if
the defendant should think fit to keep the same. There was
a stipulation that the plaintiff, the owner of the vessel, should
keep it tight, staunch, etc., and a reduction was sought of rent
for the time occupied by defendants in making repairs during the term of the demise. Lord Ellenborough held that no
such reduction could be allowed, saying: "The question then
is, whether, because the plaintiff has undertaken to keep the
vessel tight, etc., the defendants liave a right to deduct anything out of the freight they are to pay, in respect of the
time which may be taken up in making good such defects
as may occur during the period for which the vessel is
hired? And we are of opinion they are not. From the accidents to which ships are liable, it was in the ordinary course
of things to expect that this ship might want repairs in the
course of her voyage; and when the defendants were making
their bargain they should have stipulated to deduct for the time
which might be exhausted in making those repairs, if they
meant to make that deduction. Without such a stipulation,
we think the true construction of the charter party is, that
whilst those repairs are going on, the ship is to be considered
as in the defendants' srvice, and the defendants liable to continue their payments."
To like effect is the case of R-ipley v. Scile, 5 B. & C. 167,
169, in which Abbott, 0. J., said:
"There is in the charter party an express stipulation for the
payment of freight from a certain day, for six months certain; and so much longer as the vessel should be employed
by the plaintiffs. There not being any other stipulation for

UNITED STATES v. SHEA
Opinion of the Court.

the case of repairs, I think that the ship was in the employ
of the plaintiffs whilst those repairs was going on, and that
they were liable to pay freight during that period."
See also Spaford et al. v. Dodge et al., 14 Mass. 66, in which
a vessel was hired to make a certain voyage "at the rate of
three dollars a ton per month, and so in proportion for a less
time, as the said brig should be continued in the service of
the defendants." While making that voyage she was captured as a prize and detained for several months, but was
finally restored, and arrived at her port of destination. It
was held that the owner was entitled to rent for the full term
of her absence without deduction for the time of the detention
in consequence of the capture. And this is but an application of the same rule which controls in other cases of demise.
If premises are rented for a term of years at a stipulated rent
per year, and no provision for reduction in case of the destruction or injury of the buildings by fire be inserted in the lease,
the rent is payable for the entire term and until the premises
are returned, and this though the buildings may be injured,
or even destroyed by fire. In short, a demise is not ended
until the property is returned to the owner, and so long as
that demise continues rent is payable at the stipulated price
unless there be some provision for a reduction.
No technical words are necessary to create a demise. It is
enough that the language used shows an intent to transfer the
possession, command, and control. Now by this contract it
was stipulated that the petitioner should "provide and furnish
to" the government, whenever called upon, during a specified
year, "such vessels of the descriptions hereinafter given as
may be required to take the place of the vessels now performing service, etc.," and that in case of his failure so to do the
government should have "the power to hire vessels elsewhere
in open market" at his "sole expense and charge." These are
the operative words: The contract is for vessels, and not for
any use of them. The vessels are to be furnished to the government; they are to take the place of other vessels, presumably belonging to the government, engaged in a certain
service, and if petitioner fails to furnish the needed vessels, the

OCTOBER TER.11, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

government may go elsewhere and hire them. There is no
stipulation which in terms, or by implication, casts upon the
petitioner the management or control of any vessel accepted
by the government. That the time for which the vessels
were to be employed might be limited by the wishes of the
government does not affect the question as to whether, while
so employed, they were to be under its exclusive control and
management. A demise may be for a day as well as for
a year, and may be terminable at the will of the lessor. The
pay, by the fourth article, was to be "for each vessel
employed."
Not only this, but the conduct of the parties in the execution of the contract removes all obscurity as to its scope and
meaning. As the findings show, the vessel, the James Bowen,
was furnished by petitioner, and was accepted and used by
the defendants. During the time of its use it was under the
exclusive management and control of the defendants. The
very condition resulted which is the purpose and effect of
a demise- the transfer of the exclusive possession, management, and control. The vessel was not, when injured,
returned to the petitioner, but when the repairs were finished,
"resumed work." It is insisted by the defendants that there
was no demise because, as claimed, the petitioner did not contract to furnish one vessel for any length of time, and could,
if he wished, change vessels. It is doubtful whether that is
a correct interpretation of the instrument, and whether it was
in the power of the petitioner, after a vessel had been tendered and accepted by the government, to substitute another
therefor. But even if it were so, the substituted vessel would
pass into the exclusive possession of the government, the same
as the vessel for which it was substituted.
We think little significance is to be attached to the provisions in reference to furnishing a crew or supplying fuel.
They were matters of detail affecting the price to be paid, but
throwing no particular light on the question of hiring or control. If it be said that the clause requiring the government
to furnish fuel was unnecessary in case there was a demise, it
may also, in like manner, be said that the further clause as to

SNELL v. CHICAGO.
Syllabus.

the petitioner's furnishing a crew was unnecessary if he was
to retain the management and control. Any possible inference
from one clause may be set off against a different inference
from the other, but neither of them destroys the significance
of the operative words of transfer, nor outweighs that of the
action of the parties in the execution of the contract.
The claim when presented to the department was rejected
on the ground that the "boat was wholly under the control
of the owner and his agents and employ~s." But the findings
of fact show that that alleged ground is a mistake; that it was
wholly under the management and control of the quartermaster's department. Nothing more need be said. While
the question is not free from doubt, yet in view of the fact
that the petitioner was to provide and furnish a vessel; that
this vessel, when tendered, was accepted, and was not only in
the service, but under the exclusive management and control
of the quartermaster's department at the time of the accident,
we think that it must be adjudged that the case presented is
one of a contract of hiring, and not for service, and that the
government, during this possession of the vessel, was a special
owner, and bound to pay rent for the vessel until returned to
petitioner.
The judgment will be

Afflrmed.
The CHEF JUSTIoE and MR.
this opinion and judgment.

TUSTICE

JA1oxsox dissented from

SNELL v. CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 242. Submitted February 1, 1894.-Decided March 5, 1894.

The decision by the highest court of a State, that the conveyance by a
corporation existing under the laws of the State (and acting in this
respect under a statute of the State) to an individual, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, of "all the property of said company,

