CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

would cost $3 each to make the exchange. On the other
hand, it was insisted by the plaintiff that the tube burner was
the one first used; and that the solid burner was a later

invention, and supposed to be an improvement, and so furnished in good faith. It does not appear that the burners
had ever been exchanged, or that the defendant had paid
any money for the purpose of maling an exchange, nor was
there any testimony showing how much less in value a lamp
with the solid burner was than one with the tube burner. If
the defendant never made an exchange of burners, and so
never expended any money therefor, and sold the lamp with
a solid burner for the same price as one with a tube burner,
it is difficult to see how it was damaged, even if it be conceded that the tube burner is a better appliance than the solid
burner. That is practically the state of the case, as shown by
the testimony and the charge of the court. The defendant
never changed burners; never paid the $3, and there was no
testimony showing the value of the lamp with the solid burner,
or how much less it was worth than one with a tube burner.
It does not appear that the *defendant ever sold a lamp for
less price on account? of the solid burner. In addition to all
this, a letter from the Pennsylvania corporation (while not
entirely clear in its language) seems to carry the idea that,
as soon as its bill for two hundred and fifty lamps is paid, it
will exchange burners free of cost.
These are all the questions of importance presented in the
trial of this case. We see no error in the rulings of the trial
court, and, therefore, the judgment is

Affl'med.
CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 100L

Argued January 15, 16,1S94. -Decided

Marcb 5, 1894.

The District Court of the United States in the District of Kansas had jurisdiction over a prosecution for the crime of perjury, in violation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
provisions of Rev. Stat. § 5392, committed in what is now the Territory
of Oklahoma before the passage of the act creating that territory,
although the indictment was not found until after the passage of that act.
Within the scope of Rev. Stat. § 5392, local land officers, in hearing and
deciding upon a contest in respect of a homestead entry, constitute a
competent tribunal, and the contest so pending before them is a
case in which the laws of the United States authorize an oath to be
administered.
False swearing in a land contest before a local land office, in respect of a
homestead entry, is perjury within the scope of Rev. Stat. § 5392.
The courts of the United States take judicial notice of rules and regulations
prescribed by the Department of the Interior, in respect of contests
before the Land Office.
Wherever, by the express language of any act of Congress, power is entrusted to either of the principal departments of government to prescribe
rules and regulations for the transaction of business in which the public
is interested, and in respect to which they have a right to participate,
and by which they are to be controlled, the rules and regulations prescribed in pursuance of such authority become a mass of that body of
public records of which the courts take judicial notice.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. F ed. Beall and Mr. Z. Michener for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry E. Asp, .Mr. John W. Shartel, Afr. George Gard,
ner, and Mr. W. T. Dudley were on briefs for same.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Whitney for defendants in
error.
MkR. JusTIcE

BRwEw R delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes on error from the District Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas. On March 31, 1893,
plaintiff in error, having been found guilty of' the crime of
perjury by the verdict of a jury, was sentenced to confinement
in the Kansas state penitentiary for a term of two years, and
to pay a fine of ten dollars.
The questions are these: The indictment was returned
September 22, 1892. It in two counts charged the defendant
with the crime of perjury committed on January 3, 1890, in
the land office at Kingfisher, Oklahoma, in falsely testifying

CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that he was on a sand bar in the South Canadian River at
12 o'clock noon on the 22d of April, 1889; that this false
testimony was given in a contest then pending in the land
office, in which one Thomas Burch contested defendant's
homestead entry on the ground that he had violated the act
of Congress of March 2, 1889, and the President's proclamation, by entering upon and occupying the lands opened to
settlement under such proclamation prior to 12 o'clock noon
of the day named therein, to wit, April 22, 1889.
The two counts are similar, the only material difference
being that in the first count the oath is charged to have been
administered by J. V. Admire, the receiver of the land office,
and in the second by J. C. Roberts, the register of the land
office, each being, as averred, authorized to administer the
oath by the laws of the United States and the regulations of
the land office. To this indictment a demurrer was presented,
which, after argument, was overruled, and the first matter for
consideration is this ruling. The gi'ounds of the demurrer,
still insisted upon, are, first, that the court had no jurisdiction
over the alleged offence; and, secondly, that the indictment
stated no public offence.
As to the first of these grounds: it is not disputed that
the District Court of Kansas had, at the time of the commission of the alleged offence, jurisdiction generally of offences
against the criminal laws of the United States committed
in the country known as Oklahoma, the place where this
offence is charged to have been committed; but on the 2d
of May, 1890, Congress passed an act creating the Territory
of Oklahoma, 26 Stat. c. 182, p. 81. In section 9 is found this
provision:
"Each of the said District Courts shall have and exercise,
exclusive of any courts heretofore established, the same
jurisdiction in all cases arising under the Cnstitution and
laws of the United States as is vested in the Circuit and
District Courts of the United States.

.

.

.

All acts

and parts of acts heretofore enacted, conferring jurisdiction
upon United States courts held beyond and outside of the
limits of the Territory of Oklahoma as herein defined, as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

all causes of action or 6ffences in said territory, and in that
portion of the Cherokee Outlet hereinbefore referred to, are
hereby repealed, and such jurisdiction is hereby given to the
Supreme and District Courts in said Territory; but all actions
commenced in such courts, and crimes committed in said
Territory and in the Cherokee Outlet, prior to the passage
of this act, shall be tried and prosecuted, and proceeded with
until finally disposed of, in the courts now having jurisdiction
thereof, as if this act had not been passed."
The contention is that by this section jurisdiction was given
to the District Courts of Oklahoma, the indictment not having
been found until September, 1892, and the reservation of jurisdiction to the Kansas court being limited to the cases in which
prosecutions had already been commenced. We do not so understand the provision. The general grant of jurisdiction to
the Oklahoma courts is prospective in its operation. Such is the
ordinary rule of construction, and the repeal of the act vesting
jurisdiction in the Kasas court is limited by a proviso which
includes not only "actions commenced," but "crimes committed." Counsel lay stress upon the words "having jurisdiction thereof," and argue that courts have no jurisdiction of
crimes, but only of actions for the punishment of crimes. But
this is placing too much stress upon a subordinate part of the
sentence. If the scope of the sentence be as thus contended
for, the words "crimes committed" are superfluous, and it
would have been sufficient to have said "all actions commenced in such courts prior to the passage of this act," etc.
For the word "actions" may include both civil and criminal
proceedings. But Congress went further, and provided not
only that all "actions commenced in such courts," bat also
that all "crimes committed in said Territory" prior to the
passage of the act should be "tried, prosecuted, and proceeded
with until finally disposed of." Grammatically, "crimes committed in said Territory" is an independent nominative, and
refers to matters different from those embraced within the
term "actions commenced in such courts." It is fair, under
such cases, in order to determine the meaning, to omit the one
nominative and read the sentence as though the other only

CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

were present, and so it will read "all crimes committed in
said Territory prior to the passage of this act shall be tried,
prosecuted, and proceeded with until finally disposed of in the
courts now having jurisdiction thereof, as if this act had not
been passed." So reading, the meaning cannot be doubtful.
Whatever of jurisdiction the District Court of Kansas had at
the time of. the alleged offence remained unaffected by the act
of Yfay 2, 1890.
Neither can it be doubted that the District Court of Kansas
had jurisdiction over a prosecution for the crime of perjury
committed at the place named in violation of the provisions
of Rev. Stat. § 5392. That section, and under it this indictment was found, reads as follows:
"Every person who, having taken an oath before a competent tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of
the United States authorizes an oath to be administered, that
he will testify, declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any
written testimony, declaration, deposition, or certificate by
him subscribed is true, wilfully and contrary to such oath
states or subscribes any material matter which he does not
believe to be true, is guilty of perjury," etc.
This statute is one of universal application within the territorial limits of the United States, and is not limited to those
portions which are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
national government, such as the District of Columbia. Generally speaking, within any State of this Union the preservation of the peace and the protection of person and property
are the functions of the state government, and are no part of
the primary duty, at least, of the nation. The laws of Congress in respect to those matters do not extend into the territorial limits of the States, but have force only in the District
of Columbia, and other places that are within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the national government. It was in reference
to such body of laws that § 2145, Rev. Stat. was enacted, and
the argument which is sought to be drawn by the counsel
therefrom against the jurisdiction of the District Court of
Kansas has no foundation. It is enough that § 5392 has
uniform application throughout the territorial limits of the

OCTOBER TERM]f, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

United States; that by § 563 the District Courts are given
jurisdiction generally "of all crimes and offences cognizable
under the authority of the United States committed within
their respective districts;" and that by the act of January 6,
1883, c. 13, § 2, 22 Stat. 400, the territory in question was
annexed to and made a part of the United States judicial
district of Kansas.
Neither is it necessary to consider whether § 5 of the
act of March 3, 1857, c. 116, 11 Stat. 250, remained in force
after the revision of 1873. The first three sections of that
chapter were reenacted in the Revised Statutes; the fifth was
omitted, and there is some discussion in the briefs as to
whether, under §§ 5595 and 5596 Rev. Stat., said § 5 still remains in force. But, as we said, it is unnecessary to enter into
such a discussion. The indictment was returned under § 5392,
and its sufficiency is to be determined by the provisions of
that section.
Do the facts stated in this indictment constitute an offence
under that section ? It will be remembered that the perjury
is charged to have been committed in a contest in the land
office in respect to the validity of a homestead entry, the
oath having been administered by one or other of the land
officers before whom the contest was carried on. And the
contention is that the statute makes no provision for such a
contest before those officers; that, as the statute does not
authorize any such contest, it cannot be said that the oath
was taken in a "case in which a law of the United States
authorizes an oath to be administered." If such a contest
before the local land officers is not in terms provided for, it
is certainly recognized in the statutes. Section 2273, Rev.
Stat. is as follows:
"1When two or more persons settle on the same tract of
land, the right of pregmption shall be in him who made the
first settlement, provided such person conforms to the other
provision of the law; and all questions as to the right of preimption arising between different settlers shall be determined
by the register and receiver of the district within which the
land is situated; and appeals from the decision of district

CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

officers, in cases of contest for the right of preemption, shall be
made to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, whose
decision shall be final, unless appeal therefrom be taken to the
Secretary of the Interior."
Obviously, here is expressly authorized a contest before the
local land officers in respect to preemption entries. And while
the same provision is not found in reference to homestead
entries, the rightfulness of such a contest before such a tribunal
is recognized in the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, § 2, 21 Stat.
140, 141, as follows:
"In all cases where any person has contested, paid the land
office fees, and procured the cancellation of any preemption,
homestead, or timber-culture entry, he shall be notified by the
register of the land office of the district in which such land is
situated of such cancellation," etc.
Regnacted substantially in 1892. Act of July 26, 1892,
c. 252, 27 Stat. 270. See also act of M arch 3, 1891, c. 561,
§ 7, 26 Stat. 1095, 1097, and the recent act of January 11, 1894,
§ 1. It is evident from these references that, even if there be
no statute in terms authorizing a contest before the local land
office in respect to homestead entries, the validity of such contest has been again and again expressly recognized by Congress.
Further, we find in the Revised Statutes these sections:
"SEc. 441. The Secretary of the Interior is charged with
the supervision of public business relating to the following
subjects:

.

.

.

Second. The public lands, including mines.

"S.c. 453. The Commissioner of the General Land Office
shall perform, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, all executive duties appertaining to the surveying
and sale of the public lands of the United States, or in anywise
respecting such public lands, and, also, such as relate to private
claims of land, and the issuing of patents for all [agents]
[grants] of land under the authority of the government.
" SEc. 2478. The Commissioner of the General Land Office,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, is authorized to enforce and carry into execution, by appropriate regulations, every part of the provisions of this Title not otherwise
specially provided for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 2246. The register or receiver is authorized, and it
shall be their duty, to administer any oath required by law or
the instructions of the General Land Office, in connection with
the entry or purchase of any tract of the public lands."
General rules of practice have been adopted and promulgated by the Interior Department, which rules of long standing
were codified by Commissioner Sparks, and approved by Secretary Lamar, August 13, 1885, and, as so codified, are still
the regulations in force. By these rules of practice express
provision is made for a contest before the local land officers in
respect to homestead as well as preemption entries, and for
the taking of testimony before such officers, and a regular, formal trial, with the right of appeal to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and therefrom to the Secretary of the
Interior.
We have, therefore, a general grant of authority to the Land
Department to prescribe appropriate regulations for the disposition of the public land; a specific act of Congress authorizing
contests before the local land offices in cases of preemption;
rules and regulations prescribed by the Land Department for
contests in all cases of the disposition of public lands, including
both preemption and homestead entries; and the frequent
recognition by acts of Congress of such contests in respect to
homestead entries. Clearly then, within the scope of § 5392,
the local land officers in hearing and deciding upon a contest
with respect to a homestead entry constituted a competent tribunal, and the contest so pending before them was a case in
which the laws of the United States authorized an oath to be
administered.
This is not a case in which the violation of a mere regulation of a department is adjudged a crime. United State' v.
Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, is in point. There was an act of Congress
making false testimony in support of a claim against the United
States perjury, and the defendant in that case was indicted for
making a false affidavit before a justice of the peace of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in support of a claim against the
United States. It was contended that the justice of the peace,
an officer of the State, had no authority under the acts of Con-

CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

gress to administer oaths, and that, therefore, perjury could
not be laid in respect to a false affidavit before such officer.
It appeared, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury had
established, as a regulation for the government of his departmnent and its officers in their action upon claims, that affidavits
taken before any justice of the peace of any of the States should
be received and considered in support of such claims. And
upon this the conviction of perjury was sustained, Mr. Justice
McLean alone dissenting. It was held that the Secretary had
power to establish the regulation, and that the effect of it was
to make the false affidavit before the justice of the"peace perjury within the scope of the statute, and this notwithstanding
the fact that such justice of the peace was not an officer of the
United States. Much stronger is the case at bar, for the tribunal was composed of officers of the government of the United
States; it was created by the Land Department in pursuance
of express authority from the acts of Congress. This perjury
was not merely a wrong against that tribunal or a violation
of its rules or requirements; the tribunal and the contest only
furnished the opportunity and the occasion for the crime, which
was a crime defined in and denounced by the statute.
Nor is there anything in the case of United States v. Eaton,
144 U. S. 677, 688, conflicting with the views herein expressed.
In that case the wrong was in the violation of a duty imposed
only by a regulation of the Treasury Department. There was
an act entitled "An act defining butter; also imposing a tax
upon and regulating the manufacture, sale, importation, and
exportation of oleomargarine," which contained several sections forbidding particular acts, and imposing penalties for
violatioii thereof. And in addition there was a general provision in section 18 that "if a party shall knowingly, or wilfully, omit, neglect, or refuse to do, or cause to be done, any
of the things required by law in the carrying on or conducting of his business, or shall do anything by this act prohibited,
he shall pay a penalty," etc. There was authority
given to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to make all
needful regulations for carrying into effect the act. In pursuance of that authority the Commissioner required the keep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of a book in a certain form, and the making of a monthly
return - matters which were in no way referred to in the various sections of the statute prescribing the duties resting upon
the manufacturer or dealer in oleomargarine, although subsequently to this statute, and subsequently to the offence coiuplained of, and on October 1, 1890, Congress passed an act, by
section 41 of which wholesale dealers in oleomargarine were
required to keep such books and render such returns in relation thereto as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue should
require. It was held by this court that the regulation prescribed by -the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, under that
general grant of authority, was not sufficient to subject one
violating it to punishment under section 18. It was said by
Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for the court:
"It is necessary that a sufficient statutory authority should
exist for declaring any act or omission a criminal offence; and
we do not think that the statutory authority in the present
case is sufficient. If Congress intended to make it an offence
for wholesale dealers in oleomargarine to omit to keep books
and render returns as required by regulations to be made by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, it would have done so
distinctly, in connection with an enactment such as that above
recited, made in section 41 of the act of October 1, 1890.
"Regulations prescribed by the President and by the heads
of departments, under authority granted by Congress, may be
regulations prescribed by law, so as lawfully to support acts
done under them and in accordance with them, and may thus
have, in a proper sense, the force of law; but it does not follow that a thing required by them is a thing so required by
law as to make the neglect to do the thing a criminal offence
in a citizen, where a statute does not distinctly make the
neglect in question a criminal offence."
This, it will be observed, is very different from the case at
bar, where no violation is charged of any regulation made by
the department. All that can be said is that a place and an
occasion and an opportunity were provided by the regulations
of the department, at which the defendant committed the
crime of perjury in violation of section 5392. We have no

CAHA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

doubt that false swearing in a land contest before the local
land office in respect to a homestead entry is perjury within
the scope of said section.
Some objection is made by counsel to the form of the indictment, in that in its caption there is nothing to show the organization of the court, or who composed it or who were present
as constituent parties thereof when the indictment was returned;
and nowhere any express recital that it was found by the concurrence of at least twelve jurors; and further, that it was
signed by the assistant United States district attorney instead
of by the district attorney himself. The record shows that at
a term of the District Court the grand jurors of the United
States in and for said district came into open court, and, through
their foreman, presented the bill of indictment, and that the
bill was endorsed "a true bill," with the signature of the foreman immediately thereunder. With reference to all these
objections it is enough to refer to section 1025 of the Revised
Statutes, as follows:
"1No indictment found and presented by a grand jury in any
District or Circuit or other court of the United States shall be
deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment, or other
proceeding thereon be affected by reason of any defect or
imperfection in matter of form only, which shall not tend to
the prejudice of the defendant."
Clearly, there was nothing in any of these matters which
tended to the prejudice of the defendant, or rendered it doubtful by what body he was charged with the crime, in what
court he was to be tried, or the exact nature of the offence
with which he was charged.
Another matter is this: The rules and regulations prescribed
by the Interior Department in respect to contests before the
Land Office were not formally offered in evidence, and it is
claimed that this omission is fatal, and that a verdict should
have been instructed for the defendant. But we are of opinion
that there was no necessity for a formal introduction in evidence of such rules and regulations. They are matters of
which courts of the United States take judicial notice. Questions of a kindred nature have been frequently presented, and

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Syllabus.

it may be laid down as a general rule, deducible from the
cases, that wherever, by the express language of any act of
Congress, power is entrusted to either of the principal departments of government to prescribe rules and regulations for the
transaction of business in which the public is interested, and
in respect to which they have a right to participate, and by
which they are to be controlled, the rules and regulations
prescribed in pursuance of such authority become a mass of
that body of public records of which the courts take judicial
notice. Without attempting to notice all the cases bearing
upon the general question of judicial notice, we may refer to
the following: United States v. Teschmaker, 22 How. 392,
405; Romero v. United States, 1 Wall. 721; Armstrong v.
United States, 13 Wall. 154; Jones v. United States, 131 U. S.
202; night v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161,
169; Jenkins v. Collard, 145 U. S. 546.
These are all the matters which we deem of importance,
and in them appearing no rror, the judgment is
Aftbmed.

KING v. AMY AND SILVERSMITH MrINING
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND

IN ERROR TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 169. Argued December 14, 15, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

'The side lines of the location of a lode claim, under Rev. Stat. § 2322, are
those which run on each side of the vein or lode, distant not more than
300 feet from the middle of such vein.
A line in such a location which does not run parallel with the course of the
.vein, but crosses it, is an end line.
When, in making such a location, the claimant calls the longer lines, which
cross the vein, side lines, and the shorter lines, which do not cross it,
end lines, this court will disregard, in its decision, the mistake of the
locator in the designation of the side and end lines, and will hold the
locator to the lines properly designated by him, as it cannot relocate
them for him.

