OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Syllabus.

artesian wells and establishing a system of water works, and
had continued its labors in that direction during the entire life
of the contract: that would have been no breach of its obligations to the plaintiff. It might have affected pecuniarily the
value of the plaintiff's plant in that it carried a strong intimation that the moment the fifteen years expired the city would
itself engage in the work of supplying water, and thus take
from the plaintiff its business. So, preparations made by the
city, at the time stated in the bills, to wit, 1889 and 1890, for
the establishment of water works, may, and doubtless did,
have some effect upon the value of the plaintiff's property, but
the extent of the diminution of value thus caused is not alleged,
and cannot be inferred. The bills do not allege that the city
in terms denies the validity of its agreement to pay rent for
hydrants or otherwise, and the acts which they charge that
the city is about to do are acts which the city may do consistently with the continuance of the contract, and as a mere
matter of preparation for the discharge of a public duty after
the termination of that contract. Under these circumstances,
we are of the opinion that it is not affirmatively disclosed by
the record that the amount in controversy is a sum in excess
of $5000, and, therefore, for want of jurisdiction in this court,
the appeal must be

Disrnisse'.

MONTANA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING AND

MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO TE
No. 167.

SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
Submitted December 13, 1893.-

Decided March 5,1894.

The provision in section 376 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Montana,

which authorizes a court on the petition of a person interested in a lead,
lode, or mining claim which is in the possession of another person, after
notice to the adverse party, to order an inspection, examination, or
survey of the lode or mining claim in question, and that the petitioner
shall have free access thereto for the purpose of making such inspection,

MONTANA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. 161
Statement of the Case.
examination, and survey, and that any interference with him while acting
under such order, shall be contempt of court, is not in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On November 6, 1889,
the defendant in error filed in the District Court of the county
of Lewis and Clarke, in the then Territory of Montana, its
petition praying an order for the inspection of certain mines
alleged to be the property and in possession of the Montana
Company (Limited). Notice was given, the defendant appeared and answered, a hearing was had, and on the 7th qf
December, 1889, an order for an inspection was made by the
judge of said court. This order recited the giving of the
notice, the hearing of the application, the production of evidence, and the arguments of counsel; finds that an inspection
is necessary for the ascertainment, enforcement, and protection of the rights and interests of the petitioner in the mining
claim owned by it; appoints the inspectors, and directs that
they make an inspection, examination, and survey. It limits
the survey to the vertical planes of the end lines of the petitioners' claim, forbids the removal of any ore or minerals,
or entrance to the mine unless accompanied by three representatives of the defendant, and in general makes suitable
provisions to prevent any unnecessary interference with the
defendant's working of the mine. By subsequent proceedings
in the way of contempt, Rawlinson T. Bayliss, the general
manager of the Montana Company (Limited), became a party
to this litigation, and upon an adverse termination thereof
in the District Court a review was sought in the Supreme
Court of the State, the Territory having been admitted into
the Union intermediate the filing of the application and the
final disposition of the case in the District Court. By that
court the proceedings were sustained, and on February 4,
1890, it entered a judgment of affirmance. To review this
judgment the defendants sued out a writ of error from this
court. The statute under which the proceedings were had is
section 376 of the Code of Civil Procedure, (Compiled Statutes,
p. 162,) and is in these words:
VOL. CLM-I

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Whenever any person shall have any right to or interest
in any lead, lode, or mining claim which is in the possession
of another person, and it shall be necessary for the ascertainment, enforcement, or protection of such right or interest that
an inspection, examination, or survey of such mine, lode, or
mining claim should be had or made; or whenever any inspection, examination, or survey of any such lode or mining claim
shall be necessary to protect, ascertain, or enforce the right
or interest of any person in another mine, lead, lode, or mining
claim and the person in possession of the same shall refuse for
a.period of three days after demand therefor in writing, to
allow such inspection, examination, or survey to be had or
made, the party so desiring the same may present to the
district court or a judge thereof of the county wherein the
mine, lead, lode, or mining claim is situated a petition under
oath setting out his interest in the premises, describing the
same, that the premises are in the possession of a party,
naming him, the reason why such examination, inspection,
or survey is necessary, the demand made on the person in
possession so to permit such examination, inspection, or survey,
and his refusal so to do. The court or judge shall thereupon
appoint a time and place for hearing such petition and shall
order notice thereof to be served upon the adverse party,
which notice shall be served at least one day before the day
of hearing. On the hearing either party may read affidavits,
and if the court or judge is satisfied that the facts stated in
the petition are true, he shall make an order for an inspection,
examination, or survey of the lode or mining claim in question
in such manner, at such time, and by such persons as are
mentioned in the order. Such persons shall thereupon have
free access to such mine, lead, lode, or mining claim for the
purpose of making such inspection, examination, or survey,
and any interference with such persons while acting under
such order shall be contempt of court. If the order of the
court is made while an action is pending between the parties
to the order, the costs of obtaining the order shall abide the
result of the action, but all costs of making such examination
or survey shall be paid by the petitioner."

MONTA-NA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MIINING &c. CO. 163
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Xr. IF.E. Cullen, _Mr. A. IT Garland,and .l'. H. J.
.May for plaintiffs in error.
The statute under which this proceeding is brought, while
not entirely without precedent, seems to be one of unusual
hardship, and one which might be made the instrument of
much oppression and injustice. Its operation, it is true, is
confined to mining claims, but if the principle is a good one,
no reason is perceived why it might not be extended to any
other species of property. The title which a miner obtains to
his mining claim differs in no essential respect from that by
which any other property is held, so far as the right to equal
protection of law is concerned. If, as in the case at bar, a
person, who is about to bring an action of some sort against
a mine owner, is to be entitled to go into the premises to
make a survey of them to ascertain what development work
has been done on them, and what ore has been extracted, then
it would seem that it would be only even-handed justice to
allow one about to commence an action of ejectment against
another for a farm, to go upon the demanded premises for the
purpose of surveying them that he may get an accurate
description for insertion in his complaint, or for the purpose
of enabling him to determine what have been the mesne
profits, to allow him to go into the bins and granaries of the
defendant and measure their contents. No right of this kind
existed at common law, nor is such procedure authorized by
statute in any State in the Union with reference to any other
species of property than mining claims.
To justify the making of an order for an inspection, examination, or survey, the petitioner must establish the fact that
he has "a right to or interest in" the lead, lode, or mining
claim so to be examined or surveyed, or that he is the owner
of another mining claim, and that it is necessary for the purpose of protecting, ascertaining, and enforcing his rights in
such claim that he should be permitted to inspect, examine,
or survey another mining claim belonging to his neighbor.
In either case there is a question of ownership -of right or
title to real estate to be found by the court. The issue is as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

material and substantial in all respects as if it were presented
in an action of ejectment or trespass. No reason is perceived
why the final order made should not have the binding force,
as to this issue, of a judgment or decree, and be conclusive
between the parties. To say the least of it, this is a very considerable encroachment on the right of trial by jury secured
by the Constitution.
It is safe to say that section 376 of the Montana Code of
Civil Procedure is a very pernicious and dangerous piece of
legislation, and one liable to great abuse. It engrafts upon
the judicial system a principle not known to the common law,
and one not found in the laws of any State or Territory
in the Union, with two exceptions. Nowhere is it made
applicable to aay other species of real estate except mining
claims, and under its terms the tenure of this class of property
is rendered most precarious. A mine-owner on an ex parte
hearing, or at best on barely one day's notice, may have possession of his property taken from him, and be kept out of
possession of it indefinitely. And this can be done without
any security being given for the payment of his inevitable
damages, perhaps without even a cause of action against the
petitioner for damages, and without that orderly ascertainment of his rights in a court of justice which is the birthright
of every freeman. We do not believe that a miner thus holds
his property under the ban of the law, and we do believe that
the constitution of Montana extends to it a just and equal protection; and if it does not, surely the Constitution of the
United States does. And we submit there was no mistake in
our designating, in the first part of this brief, this statute as
special, harsh, innovating and summary, as well as unconstitutional.
It is useless to consume time in examining and analyzing
the decisions in the English courts of equity, as these courts,
with their great powers, make and mould their process, and
deal with these questions as equity requires. But here is a
statute giving a certain power,- which, construed, we say is
cruel, and violates the organic law of the nation, and these
English cases do not and cannot enlighten us on this point.

MONTANA COMPA-NY v. ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. 165
Opinion of the Court.

At'. E. TF Toole and .Mi'. John B. Clayberg for defendant
inerror.
M . JUsTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The decision of the Supreme Court of the State ends all inquiry as to a conflict between the 'statute or the proceedings
had thereunder and the state constitution. The only question
we may consider is whether there is any violation of the provisions of the Federal Constitution.
In the petition filed for the writ of error the plaintiffs in
error alleged as the basis thereof that "the validity of said
statute is drawn in question on the ground of its being repugnant to that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, which prohibits any State
from depriving any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."
In the brief it is said that the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of the State, in his opinion, summarized exactly what
they insist upon, as follows:
"It is contended that this statute is unconstitutional, and
authorizes the inspection, examination, and survey of the mining property of the Montana Company (Limited) upon the
petition of the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company of
Montana, and before the commencement of any action by the
parties. The obnoxious features are pointed out in the brief,
and may be summarized under the following heads: This law
may be made an instrument of oppression and injustice; the
quality of the interest of the petitioner is not defined; no
bond is required to be given to secure the payment of the
damages which may result to the owner of the property which
is invaded; no appeal is allowed from the order of the court
or judge in granting the prayer of the petitioner; the power
of the court or judge is vast, and can practically confiscate
any mine in the State; the innocent owners of mining property
are injured without ' due process of law."'
Inspection orders like this have been frequently made, some-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

times under the authority of special statutes and sometimes by
virtue only of the general powers of a court of equity. See
the following cases, most of which are collected in the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State: Earl of Lonsdale v.
Ourwen, 3 Bligh, 168; Walker v. Fletcher, 3 Bligh, 172;
Blakesley v. Whieldon, 1 Hare, 176; Lewis v. Marsh, 8 Hare,
97; Bennitt v. TFhitehouse, 28 Beav. 119 ; Bennett v. G4ffiths,
30 L. J. N. S. Part 2, Q. B. 98; Whaley v. Branceer, 10
Law Times N. S. 155; Thornburgh v. Savage .Mining Co., 1
Pac. Law Mag. 267; S. C. 7 Morrison hin. Rep. 667; Stockbridge-IronCo. v. Cone 1ron Works, 102 Mass. 80; Thomas 17ron
Co. v. Allentown Mining Co., 1 Stewart, (28 N. J. Eq.) 77.
It was said in Lewis v. _Marsh, supra, by the Vice-Chancellor: "I think the case is one in which there is a necessity
that the'party shbuld be allowed what he asks, in order to
prove his case. That is the meaning of necessity. A party
cannot get his rights without proving what his rights are; and
it is inherent in the case that the plaintiffs should have an
opportunity of ascertaining that the defendants do not work
more coal than they are entitled to do."
And in Bennett v. Grifiths, where leave was asked not
merely for an inspection, but for making a driftway through
a wall for the purpose of determining what workings had
been done behind it, the court, by Cockburn, C. J., said: "We
are of opinion that the judge had jurisdiction to make the
order in question. The power to order an inspection of real
or personal property has long existed in the courts of equity,
and we find that as ancillary to that power the courts of
equity have ordered the removal, where necessary, of obstructions to the inspection."
In Thornburgh v. Savage .Mining Co., 7 Morrison's Min.
Rep., a case heard and determined in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Nevada by the District
Judge, Alexander W. Baldwin, we find the matter thus discussed :
"Ought a court of equity, in a mining case, when it has
been convinced of the importance thereof for the purposes of
the trial, to compel an inspection and survey of the works of

MONTANA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. 167
Opinion of the Court.

the parties, and admittance thereto by means of the appliances
in use at the mine? All the analogies of equity jurisprudence
favor the affirmative of this proposition. The very great
powers with which a court of chancery is clothed were given
it to enable it to carry out the administration of nicer and
more perfect justice than is attainable in a court of law.
"That a court of equity, having jurisdiction of the subjectmatter of the action, has the power to enforce an order of this
kind will not be denied. And the propriety of exercising that
power would seem to be clear, indeed, in a case where, without
it, the trial would be a silly farce. Take, as an illustration,
the case at bar. It is notorious that the facts by which this
controversy must be determined cannot be discovered except
by an inspection of works in the possession of the defendant,
accessible only by means of a deep shaft and machinery
operated by it. It would be a denial of justice, and utterly
subversive of the objects for which courts were created, for
them to refuse to exert their power for the elucidation of the
very truth- the issue between the parties. Can a court
justly decide a cause without knowing the facts? And can it
refuse to learn the facts?"
See also KEynaston v. East India Co., 3 Swaust. 249, in
which an inspection of buildings was ordered to enable the
inspectors to testify as to the value; State v. Seymour, 6
Vroom, (35 N. J. L.) 47, 53; and Winslow v. Giford, 6 Cush.
327.
In the latter case it appeared that certain commissioners,
under authority of a statute, entered upon the lands of the
plaintiff and made certain surveys, with a view of ascertaining
the boundaries of a tract of land devoted to public purposes,
no compensation being provided for such apparent trespass.
Plaintiff brought suit to recover damages therefor. It was
held that the act authorizing such entry without compensation
was not unconstitutional. Other instances of like temporary
occupancy were referred to by the court in its opinion, such as
the act of the sheriff, with criminal process against an individual, going to arrest him on the land of a third party; entering
upon the lands of an individual for the purpose of surveying

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

for a highway, when, as a result of such survey, the purpose
of establishing the highway is abandoned. It was conceded
that such entry and occupancy created a slight trespass upon
the absolute right of the owner to an undisturbed and exclusive
use of his real estate, but it was held that if the occupancy
was reasonably necessary for some public purpose, was temporary, and with no unnecessary damage, it carried no right to
compensation. Other instances will readily suggest themselves
in which there is some temporary interference with a man's
absolute control of his own property, as when a party is compelled to produce his books and papers for examination by the
adverse party, or when, through a receiver, possession of property is taken pending a dispute as to the title or liens upon it.
All these cases involve some invasion of the rights of the
owner to the possession and use of his property, yet the
necessities of justice seem to compel it.
It is true that most of the reported cases of order for inspection are of recent date, but the question whether a certain
proceeding is due process of law is not determined by the
matter of. age. In Turtado v. Cal fornia, 110 U. S. 516, 537,
the question was presented whether the prosecution of criminal offences by information rather than by indictment, if
authorized by the constitution and laws of a state, was in conflict with the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States requiring due process of law,
and it was held that it was not, and that such mode of proceeding, though of recent origin, was neveritheless due process
of law. The court, by Mr. Justice Matthews, after referring
to the fact that there are certain fundamental rights which
cannot be disregarded, said: "It follows that any legal proceeding enforced by public authority, whether sanctioned by
age and custom, or newly devised in the discretion of the legis•lative power, in furtherance of the general public good, which
regards and preserves these principles of liberty and justice,
must be held to be due process of law."
On the other hand, while not decisive of the question, the
frequency with which these orders of inspection have of late
years been made, and the fact that the right to make them has

MONTANA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. 169
Opinion of the Court.

never been denied by the courts, is suggestive that there is no
inherent vice in them. And if the courts of equity, by virtue
of their general powers, may rightfully order such an inspection in a case pending before them, surely it is within the
power of a State by statute to provide the manner and conditions of such an inspection in advance of the suit. To "establish justice" is one of the objects of all social organizations, as
well as one of the declared purposes of the Federal Constitution, and if, to determine the exact measure of the rights of
parties it is necessary that a temporary invasion of the possession of either for purposes of inspection be had, surely the
lesser evil of a temporary invasion of one's possession should
yield to the higher good of establishing justice; and any
measures or proceedings which, having the sanction of law,
provide for such temporary invasion with the least injury and
inconvenience, should not be obnoxious to the charge of not
being due process of law.
Passing from these general suggestions to some of a more
special character, it must be remembered that inspection does
not deprive the owner of the title to any portion of his property, nor does it deprive him permanently of the use. The
property, therefore, is not taken in the sense that he no longer
remains the owner, nor in the sense that the permanent use of
the property has been appropriated. In Pumpelly v. Green
Bay Company, 13 Wall. 166, it was held that if a party is
deprived of the entire use of his property it is a taking within
the scope of the Fifth Amendment, although the mere title is not
disturbed. But by an inspection neither the title nor the general use is taken, and all that can be said is that there is a
temporary and limited interruption of the exclusive use. And
it is in that light that the question of the validity of this
statute is to be determined.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error contend that there is possibility of grievous wrong being done in carrying into effect the
provisions of this statute, and say that the question of validity
is to be determined not by the amount of wrong done in the
present case, but by what may be done in other cases, quoting
the language of Earl, J., in Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183,

OCTOBER TERMT 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

188: "The constitutional validity of law is to be tested not
by what has been done under it, but by what may, by its
authority, be done." This test is accurate, provided, of
course, it is limited to what may rightfully be done, and does
not extend to that which is wrongfully, though under pretence
of the statute, done. Thus, that the power of a court of
equity to grant injunctions is not inhibited by the constitutional provision requiring due process of law is clear, although
in a particular case a court may disregard the rules of equity
and justice in granting the injunction.
It is objected that the statute does not define the quality of
"right to or interest in" the mining claim which entitles to
an inspection. But does the amount of a party's interest
determine the question of the constitutionality of a statute
passed to enable an accurate determination thereof ? Suppose
it be true that a petitioner has but a limited interest in a
mine, has not that petitioner a legal right to the protection
of that interest equal to that of the other owners? Has he
not the same constitutional right to any means of ascertaining
and enforcing that interest that belongs to any other party
interested in the mine? Indeed, it may be said to be generally
true that the weaker a party and the smaller his interest, the
greater the need of the strong hand of the court to ascertain
and protect his rights. It is true, the quality of the right or
interest is not defined, but it must, in order to come within
the statute, be a "right to or interest in" the mining claim.
The language is general and comprehensive, because the intent
is to include within its purview every actual right, every real
interest. While it is possible that in any particular case a
court may err in determining the existence of a right or interest, the same possibility attaches to all litigation. If it be the
duty of the State to protect the rights of its citizens, it certainly cannot be a violation of that duty to provide a uniform
rule for the admeasurement of all rights of a similar character,
large or small.
The failure to require a bond,. or in terms to allow an
appeal, is not fatal to the constitutionality of the act. It is
familiar knowledge that the Circuit Courts of the United

MONTA_NA COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. 171
Opinion of the Court.

States are not compelled in granting preliminary injunctions
to take from the plaintiff a bond of indemnity to the defendant, and, frequently, they do not take any. As in such cases
the matter of a bond is within the discretion of the judge, so,
whether a bond shall be required as preliminary to an inspection, is a matter within the discretion of the State. The right
to an inspection does not depend upon a bond, and the order
for an inspection does not cease to be due process of law
because a bond is not required. No inspection is ordered by
the court or judge until there has been a hearing and an adjudication of the petitioner's right; and while further testimony
in the future litigation between the parties may show that
such adjudication was erroneous, and that there is, in fact, no
right on the part of the petitioner, yet that is a result common
to all litigation, and does not gainsay the statement that the
inspection is based upon a right established by judicial determination. Nor can the withholding, if it be withheld, of an
appeal affect the question of due process. An appeal simply
means a second hearing; and if one hearing is not due process
of law, doubling it cannot make it so.
No more significant is the want of a trial by jury upon the
existence of the right or interest prior to the order for the
inspection. A jury trial is not in all cases essential to due
process of law.
furray's Iessee v. Hoboken Land Co., 18
How. 272; Palmer v. 1_Mo.lahon, 133 U. S. 660. Equity proceeds to final determination of the most important rights
without a jury, and nothing is more common than a new proceeding established by statute to be carried on without the
aid of a jury, as, for instance, proceedings by the State under
its right of eminent domain: Livingston, v. New York City,
8 Wend. 85. To determine the right to office under an election: WThallon' v. Bancroft, 4 Minnesota, 109. To compel delivery of the possession of the seal, records, and papers of an
office: Athterton v. Sherwood, 15 Minnesota, 221. To appoint
guardians of insane persons: Gaston v. Babcock, 6 Wisconsin,
503. To assess the value of improvements under the occupying claimants' law: Ross v. Irving, 14 Illinois, 171. To
enforce statutory liens upon vessels for labor and material:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Sheppard v. Steele, 43 N. Y. 52. To determine the settlement
of paupers: Shirley v. Lunenlurg, 11 Mass. 379. For the
assessment and collection of taxes: Crandallv. James, 6 IR. I.
144. But it is needless to multiply instances.
In conclusion, it may be observed that courts of equity
have, in the exercise of their inherent powers, been in the
habit of ordering inspections of property, as of requiring the
production of books and papers; that this power on the part
of such courts has never been denied, and if it exists, a fortiori, the State has power to provide a statutory proceeding
to accomplish the same result; that the proceeding provided
by this statute requires notice to the defendant, a hearing and
an adjudication before the court or judge; that it permits no
removal or appropriation: of any property, nor any permanent
dispossession of its use, but is limited to such temporary and
partial occupation as is necessary for a mere inspection; that
there is a necessity for such proceeding in order that justice
may be exactly administered; that this statute provides all
reasonable protection to the party against whom the inspec"tion is ordered; that the failure to require a bond, or to provide an appeal, or to have the question of title settled before a
jury, is not the omission of matters essential to due process of
law. It follows, therefore, that there is no conflict between
this statute and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Montana is
.Affirmed.

MILLER v. COURTNAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 157. Submitted December 11, 1893.- Decided March 5,1894.

In an action of ejectment, in a Federal court, the legal title prevails.
The legal title to the premises in dispute passed to the grantor of the defendant by sale under execution and the sheriff's deed, and was not
diverted by the subsequent decree set forth in the statement of facts.

