OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

where the plaintiff's damages are measured by the defendant's
profits, ought there to be an allowance, in the latter's favor,
of interest on the money invested in the plant. Nor do we
say that such an allowance may not be properly made, even
where the use of the plant is not wholly restricted to making
the infringing article. But the evidence, in such a case,
should enable the master to satisfactorily apportion the interest between the several kinds of business.
Tie appellant further complains of the action of the master
in disallowing the sum of $15,000 per annum for salary of the
president of the defendant company. The defendant introduced
evidence tending to show what would be reasonable compensation for such services as were performed by the president, but
did not show what sum, or that any sum was actually paid him.
To have allowed salaries, which had never been paid, would
have been, as was said in Rlubber Co. v. Goodyear, to permit a
dividend of profits under the guise of salaries.
Other exceptions that were taken to the master's report
were satisfactorily disposed of by the court below, and do not
cidl for further discussion.
Affired.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly

SARLLS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 872. Submitted November 15, 1893. -Decided

April 9,1894.

Lager beer is not" spirituous liquors" nor "wine" within the meaning of
those terms as used in Rev. Stat. § 2139.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
Mllr. Asistant Attorney General Conr'ad for defendants in
error.

SARLLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mn.

JtuSTioE

SHIRAS delivered the opinion of the court.

At the May term, 1892, in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Arkansas, the plaintiff in
error was indicted and convicted of introducing, at the Choctaw Nation, in the Indian country, ten gallons of lager beer,
which the indictment averred were "spirituous liquors," and
the introduction of which into the Indian country was made
an offence, punishable by fine and imprisonment, by section
2139, Revised Statutes of the United States.
That section is in the following terms:
"1No ardent spirits shall be introduced under any pretence
into the Indian country. Every person (except an Indian in
the Indian country) who sells, exchanges, gives, barters, or
disposes of any spirituous liquors or wine to any Indian under
the charge of any Indian superintendent or agent, or introduces or attempts to introduce any spirituous liquor or wine
into the Indian country, shall be punishable, by imprisonment
for not more than two years and by a fine of not more than
three hundred dollars. But it shall be a sufficient defence to
any charge of introducing or attempting to introduce liquor
into the Indian country, that the acts charged were done by
order of or under authority from the War Department, or any
officer duly authorized thereunto by the War Department."
It appears that such a provision was originally enacted on
the 9th of July, 1832, c. 74, § 4, 4 Stat. 564; was amended by
acts of 15th of March, 1861, c. 33, 13 Stat. 29, and 27th of
February, 1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 244; and was included in the
Revised Statutes as said section 2139.
It was contended, on behalf of the defendant, in the court
below that lager beer is not "spirituous liquor or wine,"
within the meaning of those terms in the statute, and that,
therefore, the defendant was wrongly convicted. The court
below refused, on request, to so instruct the jury, and to this
refusal, and to the judgment of the court sentencing the defendant to pay a fine of two hundred and fifty dollars, and to be
imprisoned for a term of three months, error is assigned.
It thus appears that the sole question presented for our con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sideration by this record is whether "lager beer" is a "spirituous liquor or wine." The only evidence on this subject,
disclosed by the record, was to the effect that lager beer is a,
malt liquor, and is intoxicating. To enable us to solve the
question we must look to the popular signification of the terms
used, and also to the phraseology of other statutes of the United
States in which like terms appear. We are likewise entitled
to any light that may b4e thrown on the subject by the decisions of respectable courts which have had to construe similar
terms in penal statutes.
The Century Dictionary defines spirituous liquors as "containing much alcohol; distilled, whether pure or compounded,
as distinguishedfromferrmented;ardent: applied to a liquor
for drinking." .3fat liquor is defined by the same authority
as "a general term for an alcoholic beverage produced merely
by the fermentation of malt, as opposed to those obtained by
distillation of malt or mash."
Webster defines the word "spirituous" as rum, whiskey,
brandy, and other distilled liquors, as distinguished from wine
and malt liquors. Worcester says that "ardent spirits" is a
term applied to liquors obtained by distillation, such as rum,
whiskey, brandy, and gin.
So far, therefore, as popular usage goes, according to the
leading authorities, "lager beer," as a malt liquor made by
fermentation, is not included in the term "spirituous liquor,"
the result of distillation.
Looking to other stathtes of the United States, we find that
the terms "spirituous liquors" or "distilled spirits," and
"malt liquors," are not used as synonymous. On the contrary,
they are treated as different substances, and in the system
of revenue restrictions, in providing for their manufacture and
sale, they are regarded as distinct. Thus, in section 3244,
Revised Statutes, it is provided, "Wholesale dealers in malt
liquors shall pay fifty dollars. Every person who sells or
offers for sale malt liquors in larger quantities than five gallons at one time, but who does not deal in spirituous liguors,
shall be regarded as a wholesale dealer in malt liquors." And
in the same section it is enacted that "every person who

SARLLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

manufactures fermented liquors of any name or description
for sale, from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute
therefor, shall be deemed a brewer," and "shall pay one hundred dollars;" and "rectifiers of distilled spirits shall pay two
hundred dollars;" "wholesale liquor dealers shall pay one
hundred dollars," and "wholesale dealers in malt liquors shall
pay fifty dollars."
Such provisions seem to plainly distinguish "malt liquors,"
the product of fermentation, from "spirituous liquors," the
result of distillation.
Most of the decisions to which our attention has been
directed are to the same effect.
A New Hampshire statute in terms declared that the words
"spirituous liquors" shall be taken to include intoxicating
liqu.ors and all mixed liquors, any part of which is spirituous
or intoxicating. But the Supreme Court, in State v. Adams,
51 N. HI. 568, 569, held that ale, porter, and cider were not
within the statute; that the indictment charged the sale of
"spirituous liquors" only; that fermented liquors are not, in
common parlance, spirituous liquors, and that the fact that ale
contains from four to ten per cent of alcohol which can be
separated from it by distillation does not bring it within the
class of liquors called spirituous.
In Commonwealth v. G'ey, 2 Gray, 501, 502, Metcalf, J.,
said: "All spirituous liquor is intoximting, yet all intoxicating
liquor is not spirituous. In common parlance, spirituous
liquor means distilled liquor. Fermented liquor, though intoxicating, is not spirituous."
In Tiker'v. State, (Alabama,) 8 South. IRep. 855, it was said:
"Malt liquors have neither vinous nor spirituous liquors as an
ingredient. Spirituous liquors, vinous liquors, and malt liquors
are not synonymous terms, but each refers to a liquor separate
and distinct from each other. Lager beer is a malt liquor,
and the courts take judicial notice of the fact. The statute
having prohibited the sale of spirituous and vinous liquors
only, malt liquors are not included. It was error, therefore,
to charge the jury that a sale of lag6r beer was in violation
of the statute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

There are other cases in which the terms were similarly
construed by state courts, but which it is unnecessary here to
cite.
In the District Court of the United States for the District
of Mrontana, In re 3fcDonoug]h, 49 Fed. Rep. 360, it was
held that beer is not a spirituous liquor, within the meaning
of the statute before us; and we have been referred to a case
to the same effect in the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, but which case is not
reported.
In .Dollender v. .£agone, 149 U. S. 586, this court reversed
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New -York, for construing, in section 2927, Revised
Statutes, the word "liquors," as including beer, and it was
said that "it may be laid down as a general proposition that
where the term 'liquor' is used in a special sense, spirituous
and distilled beverages are intended, in contradistinction to
fermented ones."
To the contrary of these definitions and decisions, the principal case is that of State v. Giersch, 4 S. E. Rep. 193, the
reasoning and conclusion wherein were adopted by the court
below. That was a case where a statute of North Carolina
(Code, §§ 3110, 3116) prohibited the introduction and sale of
spirituous liquors, and the court held those terms to be generic,
and to include all intoxicating liquors containing alcohol,
whether distilled, fermented, or vinous.
The reasoning on which such a conclusion is reached excludes the common and popular signification of the words, and
finds the meaning of the statute in the fact, true in a scientific
sense, that alcohol is found in fermented, as well as in distilled,
liquors, and that the purpose of the statute is to prevent the
mischief occasioned by the use of intoxicating drinks.
We cannot agree with this method of reading a penal
statute. The purpose of such a statute is to notify the public
of the legislative intent, not to furnish scientific definitions.
That intent is, in most cases, to be found by giving to the
words the meaning in. which they are used in ordinary
speech.

SARILLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor can courts, in construing penal statutes, safely disregard
the popular signification of the terms employed, in order to
bring acts, otherwise lawful, within the effect of such statutes,
because of a supposed public policy or purpose. The danger
of substituting for the meaning of a penal statute, according
to the popular and received sense, the conjecture of judges as
to a supposed mischief to be corrected, is pointed out by Chief
Justice Marshall, when, in the case of United States v. Miltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 96, he said: "To determine that a case is
within the intention of a statute, its language must authorize
us to say so. It would be dangerous, indeed, to carry the
principle that a case which is within the reason or mischief of
a statute is within its provisions, so far as to punish a crime
not enumerated in the statute, because it is of equal atrocity,
or of a kindred character, with those which are enumerated.
If this principle has ever been recognized in expounding criminal law, it has been in cases of considerable irritation, which it
would be unsafe to consider as precedents forming a general
rule for other cases."
There is a difference, overlooked by the court below, between the language of the North Carolina statuie and of
sectioi 2139, in that the former uses only the words "spirituous
liquors," but in the latter the words are "spirituous liquors or
wines."
That by the term "spirituous liquors," used alone in a statute, it may with some plausibility be contended the legislature
meant to signify all intoxicating drinks. But the case is quite
different when "wines "1 are added to the articles prohibited.
In that case it is evident that the legislature did not think
that all intoxicating drinks were included in the term "spirit-.
uous liquors," or they would not have named "wines." Under
the construction put by the court below on the words "spirituous liquors," as including all liquors that are" intoxicating,
and hence as including lager beer, the word "wines" is useless
in the statute.
If, then, lager beer is not reasonably within the terms of
the statute as a "spirituous liquor," can it be said to be included in the term "wines? "

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Tacitus does, indeed, in his account of the customs of the
ancient Germans, speak of their using a liquor made from
barley-" eorr?4ptus in quendam similitudiner 'vini," "fermented into a kind of resemblance to wine." This passage is
one of the earliest references we have to malt liquor. That it
was potent, we learn from the same author, who tells us that
the German warriors would deliberate upon and form their
designs when sober, and then get drunk, presumably on this
barley wine, and carry their projects into effect.
But if beer is like wine, in its appearance and effects, it is
plainly not wine, either in its popular or technical meaning.
In State v. Moore, 5 Blackford, 118, it was said: "This was
an indictment for retailing port wine by small measure without license. . . . The prosecution is founded on that part
of the act relative to crime and punishment which forbids the
sale of spirituous liquors by a less quantity than a quart at a
time without license. (R. C. 1831, p. 192.) That is a penal
statute, and must receive a strict construction. We are not
at liberty to extend its meaning beyond its exact literal sense.
Spirit is the name of an inflammable liquor produced by distillation. Wine is the fermented juice of the grape, produced
by fermentation. We cannot so far confound the signification
of these general terms as to call wine a spirituous liquor. We
think port wine is not within the purview of the statute. If
its omission is an evil, the courts have no power to remedy
it."
The Supreme Court of Tennessee, in Caswell v. The State, 2
Humphrey, 402, 403, said: "The question for consideration
is, whether wine is a spirituous liquor, within the meaning of
the statute passed in the year 1837, c. 120. We think it is
not. Wine is a fermented liquor. Spirits are distilled liquors.
This distinction exists, not only in common parlance, but is
recoonized by chemists and physiologists. . . . We therefore think that the words 'spirituous liquors' embrace those
which are produced by distillation, but not those produced by
fermentation."
Since this cause was tried, an amendatory act has been
passed by Congress, approved July 23, 1892, c. 231, 27 Stat.

PRESSO

v. RUSSELL.

Statement of the Case.

260, providing that the section shall read as follows: "No
ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating liquor or liquors
of whatever kind shall be introduced, under any pretence, into
the Indian country. Every person who sells, exchanges, gives,
barters, or disposes of any ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or
intoxicating liquors of any kind to any Indian under charge
of any Indian superintendent or agent, or introduces or attempts to introduce any ardent spirits, ale, wine, beer, or
intoxicating liquors of any kind into the Indian country, shall
be punished by imprisonment for not more than two years,
and by fine of not more than three hundred dollars for each
offence."
This would seem to show that Congress regarded the act,
as it previously stood, as not including ale and beer in its
terms. At any rate, the temptation to the courts to stretch
the law to cover an acknowledged evil is now removed.
The judgment of the court below is
Reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to quash
the indictment and discharge the defendant.

PRESSON v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THn
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSEtTS.
No. 315. Submitted March 22, 1S94.- Decided April 9, 1894.

Dry salted codfish, never pickled, imported January 19, 1888, in dry flour or
sugar barrels, incapable of containing liquids, were subject to a duty of
25 per cent ad valorem, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 504, as other fish not specially enumerated or provided for; but, as the
importer's protest was not sufficient to notify the collector of his claim,
the judgment below is reversed, and a judgment ordered for defendant.

Tins was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
unlawfully assessed, and was tried by the Circuit Court, without a jury, upon the following agreed statement of facts:
VOL. CLII-37

