SEABURY v. ABI ENDE.
Syllabus.

is so pronounced a failure on the part of a firm carrying such
a large stock, there is made by the creditors a thorough examination of the situation. That such an examination, if made,
would disclose any substantial difference between the true
indebtedness to these preferred creditors and the amount of
the notes given to them seems reasonably certain, and if no
such examination was made, it indicated indifference on the
part of the other creditors. If the plaintiffs relied on the mere
statements of these defendants, why did they cease to rely upon
such statements, and how did they become advised of their untruth? So, with reference to the bills and accounts receivable;
knowing what they were, they could easily have ascertained
whether they were collected, and if so, by whom. If collected
by other than their debtors, that fact certainly should have
provoked inquiry. If collected by the debtors, why were the
moneys received not appropriated in payment of other than
the preferred claims?
These are matters in respect to which the bill fails to enlighten us. Indeed, so far as disclosed, it would seem that
when the debtors failing, and failing for so large a sum, appropriated all their tangible property to the payment of a few of
their creditors, the others, including these plaintiffs, accepted
the situation, and made no inquiry or challenge of the integrity of the transaction for nearly five years. Such indifference
and inattention must be adjudged laches. Upon this ground
alone, and without reference to any other questions discussed
by counsel in the briefs, the decree of the Circuit Court is
.Affirmed.

SEABURY v. AM ENDE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 285.

Argued March 14,15, 1894.-Decided April 2, 1894.

The invention patented to Charles G. Am Ende by letters patent No.
181,024, dated August 15, 1876, which "had for its object to combine the
VOL. CLII-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.
various advantages of cotton-fibre with those possessed by boracic acid
and glycerine for preserving animal and vegetable matter from decay,"
was useful, novel, and patentable, and was described in the application
and specification in sufficiently full, clear, and exact terms to enable an
intelligent chemist reading that description of it, to construct and use it.
In estimating the profits derived from the unlawful manufacture and sale
of a patented invention, the infringer should not be allowed interest on
the capital invested in his plant, unless it appears that the plant was
used solely for the manufacture or sale of the patented article, or the
evidence be such as to enable the master to satisfactorily apportion the
interest between the several kinds of business.
If the infringer be a corporation, salaries of its officers should not be
allowed in estimating such profits, where it does not appear that they
have been actually paid.

CaaTvs G- Am Ewm, a citizen of the State of New
Jersey, filed a bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, against
Seabury & Johnson, a corporation of the State of New York,
in which he alleged that he was the patentee and owner of
letters patent of the United States, dated August 15, 1876,
and numbered 181,024, for an improvement in borated cotton,
and that the defendant corporation, in disregard of his rights,
was engaged in making and vending borated cotton made in
accordance with the method described in said letters patent.
The defendant corporation, by its answer, raised the issues of
novelty and patentability, which were determined in favor
of the complainant, and the case resulted in a decree, restraining the defendant from further infringement, and awarding
the complainant the sum of $2349.15 with costs; from which
decree this appeal was taken.
3.9% Edwin H. Brown and tr. lYorman [. 3. felliss, for
appellant, as to the points considered in the opinion of the
court, said:
The specification shows nothing new in the manner of producing a solution of boracic acid, and gives no information
as to the strength of solution which shall be used. It states
nothing definite about the quantity of glycerine, but contains
only the very vague and indefinite information that a small

SEABURY v. AMA

ENDE.

Argument for Appellant.

proportion is to be used. The manufacturer therefore is left
to follow his own preferences with regard to the relative proportions of the boracic acid and glycerine which he shall
employ, or to experiment in order to ascertain what may be
required.
The specification being, therefore, a mere suggestion and
not a specification conforming to legal requirements of the use
of cotton, boracic acid and glycerine for preserving animal
tissue must, we submit, be held insufficieit to constitute a consideration for the contract involyed in the granting of a patent.
On this general ground, aside from specific provisions of the
statutes concerning the necessary characteristics of a specification, is not the patent invalid? Tyler v. Boston, 7 Wall.
327.
Appellee's patent admits that there was nothing novel in
the solution of boracic acid, by omitting information about it
except that it was to be prepared in the usual manner. It
also admits that boracic acid was the substance relied upon
as a preservative agent.
Exhibit A, extract from Druggists' Circular and Chemical
Gazette, June, 1875, (p. 64,) states that Dr. J. Edmunds, in
a complicated case of amputation of the thigh, "had employed
dressing of lint steeped in a hot saturated solution of boracic
acid with most satisfactory results in preventing putrefactive
discharge. The bandage could remain for thirty-six or fortyeight hours without the slightest putrefactive odor."
There is absolutely nothing in the record or in appellee's
patent to show that a dressing consisting simply of cotton and
boracic acid solution would, so long as the water of the solution remained unevaporated, be less efficacious than appellee's
dressing. In other words, there is nothing in this case to
show, nor has there been any contention, that a dressing consisting of cotton and a boracic acid solution would possess
increased antiseptic properties, because of the addition of
glycerine.
Under the doctrine in Hollister v. Benedict .Mfg. Co., 113
U. S. 59, the addition of glycerine did not amount to a patentable invention. Its hygroscopic property was the only one

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

which rendered its use desirable, and that was well known.
See also Union,Edge Setter Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 530; Adams
v. Bellaire Stamping Co., 141 U. S. 539, 542; Leggett v. Standard Oil Co., 149 U. S. 287.
The appellant is entitled, in case the patent is sustained, to
be allowed, in computing the profits on sales, the interest on
the plant and capital invested.
The master threw out these items because of his reading of
the rule laid down in Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788,
804. But it is submitted that interest on capital should be
allowed, and also interest on machinery, under the rules laid
down in the Troy Iron and Hail Factory v. Corning, 6 Blatchford, 328, 354, and in the Steam Stone Cater Co. v. Windsor
-lfg. Co., 17 Blatchford, 24, 28; for it must be admitted that
the reasoning of these Circuit Court decisions is more convincing on this point than that of the Supreme Court case, and
that the latter decision seems hardly consistent with itself,
for it is difficult and perhaps impossible to see why interest
should be .allowed on borrowed capital and not on capital
owned by the infringer. Indeed, the principle of the case of
Rubber Co. v. Goodyear on this point seems to have been overruled by the Supreme Court in the case of the MAlanufacturing
Co. v. Cowing, 105 U. S. 253, 257. In that case the court
criticised and modified the master's report because it did not
allow for use of tools, machinery, power and other facilities
employed in the manufacture of the infringing article. See
also Walker on Patents, ยง '718, Sub.-Div. 4.
The tools, etc., were the tangible things in which the defendant's capital was invested, and to allow for their use was really
to allow interest or its equivalent on that capital.
-Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for appellee.
Mx,.

JusTicE Snm&s, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The specification and claim of the patentee were in the
following terms:
"This invention has for its objects to combine the various

'SEABURY v. AM ENDE.
Opinion of the Court.

advantages of cotton-fibre with those possessed by boracic
acid and glycerine for preserving animal and vegetable matter
from decay.
"6Heretofore boracic acid has been used as a preservative
agent in a fluid state, and also as a powder. In use, the matter to be preserved had to be immersed in the solution of

boracic acid, or completely covered with the powder.

In

either case, a very large quantity of boracic acid was used.
"1Mypresent invention, which consists in saturating cottonfibre with boracic acid and glycerine in a manner hereinafter
described, enables me to apply a very small pr6portion of
boracic acid and glycerine to the cotton-fibre with fully as
good an effect as though the matter to be preserved were entirely embedded in large quantities of the solution or powder.
It enables me, at the same time, to utilize the germ-filtering
properties of the cotton, and its elasticity as a superior material for packing or covering delicate tissue.
"I produce my improved borated cotton as follows: I first
prepare a solution of boracic acid in the usual manner, and
add thereto a small proportion of glycerine. For the preservation of tender substances, such as veal, I may also add from
ten to forty per cent of soda or potash, never sufficient, however, to reach neutrality. The cotton, either in bulk or wadding, is next immersed in the solution until well impregnated
therewith, and then pressed, to discharge all surplus solution,
or so much thereof as may be required. The cotton is then
dried and ready for use.
"When applied to the material to be preserved, either as a
covering or as a wrapping or packing, the cotton will constitute a filter for keeping germs of putrefaction from passing
through, and the boracic acid absorbed by the cotton will, at
the same time, preserve the surfaces from decay, and counteract all injurious influences of germs, or other elements of
destruction, already in contact with such surfaces.
"The glycerine is added to increase the preserving power
of the borated cotton. It renders the cotton slightly hygroscopic, thus aiding in the diffusion of the acid and in the preservative effect of the prepared cotton.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893."
Opinion of the Court.

"I have found that the impregnated fibre shows, even under
a good microscope, no difference from a fibre not impregnated
with boracic acid, and that, therefore, although a very thin film
of acid may adhere to the exterior surface of the fibre, the main
proportion of the acid is absorbed by and diffused within the
fibres. In consequence, the acid can, in use, be but gradually
released from the fiber, and will thus produce a constant and
lasting effect.
"I claim" The borated cotton, being cotton-fibre which is saturated
with boraci'c acid and glycerine, substantially as herein shown
and described."
The first ground of defence relied on is that the patentee
has failed to describe his invention in such fall, clear, and exact
terms as to enable persons reading the description of the invention to construct and use it; and it is contended that the
strength of the boracic acid solution is not prescribed, nor the
precise proportion of glycerine. In considering this objection
it must be remembered that the description is addressed to
persons skilled in the art to which it relates. The solution of
boracic acid is referred to, not as anything new, but as an
article well known to druggists and physicians, and when the
patentee says that he "prepares a solution of boracic acid in
the usual manner," he means as it has formerly and customarily
been prepared. When he directs that a small proportion of
glycerine shall be added, it is obvious that the quantity of the
glycerine is to vary with the amount of cotton and boracic
acid used, but that the merits of the invention will not depend
on whether, in a given case, a little more or less glycerine is
used. Such general directions are common in the arts, as
appears in some of the very publications introduced by the
defendant to show anticipation. Thus in the Druggists' Circular and Chemical Gazette it is stated that Dr. Edmunds had
used "a solution of boracic acid;" and in the Journal de Pharmacie it is said that, in making his dressing, Professor Gubler
saturated his wadding with "a certain quantity of glycerine,"
and his formula is thus given: "It is only necessary to pour a
small quantity of glycerine over the square sheet," etc.

SEABURY v. AM ENDE.
Opinion of the Court.

We, therefore, agree with the court below in thinking that
"an intelligent chemist, setting out properly to combine the
enumerated ingredients into which the cotton is to be immersed, and with which it is to be impregnated, could hardly
go astray." It is also to be observed that neithek the defendant, in making the infringing article, nor the several witnesses
of eminence in the medical profession, who testified to the
practical value of the patented dressing, seem to have had any
difficulty in understanding and applying the description contained in the patent.
In Loorm Co. v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, where the sufficiency of a description was in question, it was held that a
specification in letters patent is sufficiently clear and descriptive when expressed in terms intelligible to a person skilled in
the art to which it relates.
The next contention is, that as the plaintiffs' patented dressing was composed of materials whose specific virtues and modes
of operation were well known, there was no invention shown
in combining them in the manner described. It is, indeed,
true that the patentee did not claim to have been the first to
suggest the use of cotton fibre as a means of excluding germs
from wounds or from the article to be protected. Nor did he
claim to have first discovered the antiseptic qualities of boracic
acid or the hygroscopic property of glycerine. But the patentee was the first to perceive that by combining these articles,
in the manner he pointed out, there would be formed a convenient and permanent dressing with the desirable qualities of
the several constituents. The complainant's evidence satisfactorily shows that, in such a dressing, the cotton acts as a screen
to exclude germs and as a vehicle to hold the other ingredients;
that the boracic acid possesses marked antiseptic qualities, but
is liable, if used alone, to dry on the cotton and to form crystals,
which impair the antiseptic qualities of the acid, and which
mechanically scratch or irritate the sensitive surface of a
wound; and that the glycerine, owing to its property of
absorbing moisture from the atmosphere, keeps the boracic
acid from hardening or crystallizing, and besides adds somewhat to the healing and preservative power of the dressing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The merits of the complainant's invention received immediate and widespread recognition, and the article came into use,
not only to protect animal substances for alimentary purposes,
but, and chiefly, to protect wounds from infection and suppuration. It was introduced into hospitals and into the private
practice of physicians, and, in fact, has become a staple article
for medicinal purposes.
But it is further contended that there was no novelty in
complainant's invention, because it had been anticipated by
others. To sustain this contention the defendant put in evidence an article published in the American Journal of Pharmacy for November, 1871, at page 516, where it is stated that.
Professor Gubler, at a recent meeting of the Academy of
Medicine, had exhibited some specimens of wadding prepared
by saturating it with a certain quantity of glycerine, which he
had found to render it permeable to all medicinal liquids,
without causing it to lose any of its suppleness and lightness.
Also, an article in the same journal, for March, 1867, at page
149, wherein Dr. Adolphus stated that, "applied to suppurating surfaces which are painful and produce an ichorous pus,
glycerine dressings change the abnormal condition by arresting the degenerating process, through its antiseptic and
astringent properties." The defendant likewise put in evidence
a copy of The Druggists' Circular and Chemical Gazette, for
June, 1875, wherein there is an account of treatment by Dr.
Edmunds, in the case of an amputated thigh, by a dressing of
lint steeped in a hot solution of boracic acid, with most satisfactory results in preventing putrefactive discharge.
Undoubtedly this evidence shows that the specific qualities
of glycerine and of boracic acid were known, and that those
articles had been successfully used in the instances narrated.
But we agree with the court below in thinking that "this
evidence does not disclose that any one prior to Am Ende
accomplished what he has described and claimed; that the
fact that others had done something quite similar, and had
used separately or in different combinations, the ingredients
of his claim, should not affect his patent. All that is described
in the prior publications the defendant may use with perfect

SEABURY v. AAM ENDE.

569

Opinion of the Court.

immunity. They may use 'lint steeped in a hot saturated
solution of boracic acid,' or ' wadding saturated with a certain
quantity of glycerine,' or boracic acid dissolved in glycerine;
but they should not be permitted to use cotton combined with
a solution of boracic acid and glycerine in the manner described in the specification, for that belongs to Am Ende."
Errors are complained of in the action of the court below in
overruling defendant's exceptions to the master's report. So
far as those exceptions are based on the computationsand
findings of the master, under the evidence before him, as to
the profits made by the defendant, we see no reason to differ
with the court below in overruling them. The claim that the
appellants should be allowed, as part of the cost of the borated
cotton during the period covered by the accounting, interest
on plant, and capital invested, calls for more particular notice.
A similar claim was disallowed in the case of Rubber Co. v.
Goodyear, 9 Wall. 804, but it is claimed that in M~anvfacturing Co. v. Cowing, 105 U. S. 257, such an item was allowed.
In the latter case, which this court styled an "exceptional one,"
it was said that, in charging the defendant with profits, he
should be allowed for "the use of tools, machinery, power, and
other facilities employed in the manufacture." .It may be, as
was observed by the codrt below in the present case, that it
did not appear, in 2anfact ring Co. v. Cowing, but that the
use of the tools, machinery, and power was a hired use. At
any rate, in that case, the infringement consisted in making
and selling a pump, which was the only one that could successfully compete with that controlled by the patent, and the
machinery was used for no other purpose. In the present case,
the defendant's plant and real estate were used for several
other and wholly different kinds of manufacture than the
patented article, and the evidence offered to distinguish between the profits derived from the use of the plant and real
estate for making the borated cotton and those attributable to
the other sources of profit, was not sufficient to enable the
master to make a satisfactory apportionment or allowance for
interest on the investment.
We do not wish to be understood as holding that in no case

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

where the plaintiff's damages are measured by the defendant's
profits, ought there to be an allowance, in the latter's favor,
of interest on the money invested in the plant. Nor do we
say that such an allowance may not be properly made, even
where the use of the plant is not wholly restricted to making
the infringing article. But the evidence, in such a case,
should enable the master to satisfactorily apportion the interest between the several kinds of business.
Tie appellant further complains of the action of the master
in disallowing the sum of $15,000 per annum for salary of the
president of the defendant company. The defendant introduced
evidence tending to show what would be reasonable compensation for such services as were performed by the president, but
did not show what sum, or that any sum was actually paid him.
To have allowed salaries, which had never been paid, would
have been, as was said in Rlubber Co. v. Goodyear, to permit a
dividend of profits under the guise of salaries.
Other exceptions that were taken to the master's report
were satisfactorily disposed of by the court below, and do not
cidl for further discussion.
Affired.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly

SARLLS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 872. Submitted November 15, 1893. -Decided

April 9,1894.

Lager beer is not" spirituous liquors" nor "wine" within the meaning of
those terms as used in Rev. Stat. ยง 2139.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
Mllr. Asistant Attorney General Conr'ad for defendants in
error.

