OCTOBER TERM, 189a.
Statement of the Case.

judgment of the court below andforfurtherproceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
not having been a member of the court
when this case was considered, took no part in its decision.
MiR. JusTIcE

WHITE,

CITY BANK OF FORT WORTH v. HUNTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE Td-IITED STATES
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
NTo.264.

Submitted March 8, 1894.-

FOR

Decided March 19, 1894.

Compliance with a mandate of this court, which leaves nothing to the judgment or discretion of the court below, may be enforced by mandamus.
This court cannot entertain an appeal from a judgment executing its mandate, if the value of the matter in dispute upon the appeal is less than
$5000.
No appeal lies from a decree for costs.

IN City ational Bank of Fort Jforth v. Httnter, 129 U. S.
557, 579, will be found a full history of the litigation between
the parties to the present appeal. The final decree was
reversed, with costs, and the case was remanded with directions to proceed in conformity with the opinion of this
court. After the mandate and opinion of this court had been
filed in the court below, the cause was again heard, and it
was, among other things, adjudged: "That said complainants,
R. D. Hunter, A. G. Evans, and R. P. Buel, do have and
recover of and from the defendants, the City National Bank
of Fort Worth, the sum of twelve thousand nine hundred
and eighty-four and .jV ($12,984.85) dollars, together with
interest thereon from this date at the rate of eight per cent
per annum. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
all costs accrued in this cause up to Septembef 30, 1881, be,
and the same are hereby, adjudged against said complainants,
R. D. Hunter, A. G. Evans, and R. P. Buel, and for which let

CITY BANK OF FORT WORTH v. HUNTER.

513

Argument for Appellant.

execution issue; and as the costs of the Supreme Court have
been allowed against said complainants, all other costs incurred herein which have not been otherwise adjudged be,
and the same are hereby, adjudged against said defendant, the
City National Bank of Fort Worth."
From this decree the present appeal was prosecuted by the
bank. The errors assigned are: 1. The court gave interest on
the plaintiff's portion of the fund to be divided. 2. Costs
were awarded against the defendant bank.
M'. A. H. Garlandand Mr. H. J. .Mayfor appellant.
Before discussing the merits of the question at issue, it may
be well to allude to the matter of appeal here, upon a sum
less than the jurisdictional amount in ordinary cases, as some
confusion may arise upon this point since the ruling in In re
MWashngton & Georgetown Railroad,140 U. S. 91. In that
case affirmance was had, and nothing more, and the cause
sent back to the court below for simply an enforcement of
that judgment - no order to proceed further, etc. - no room
was left for the exercise of discretion. The lower court, however, did proceed further, and exercised its discretion and
added interest when this court had been silent as to interest.
The court in this case did proceed as it was directed, but it
went outside of the opinion of this court, and did, as appellant
contends, what the law did not authorize. The distinction,
and the difference between the two cases are clear and marked,
and this case comes plainly under the ruling in Perkins v.
Fourniquet,141 How. 328, and reconciles any apparent conflict
there may be between the
a shington & Georgetown Railroad ease and the others of long standing-umey v. Rose,
5 Cranch, 313; The Santa Maria, 10 Wheat. 431; Boyce v.
Grundy, 9 Pet. 275.
To say that, after the court below was commanded' to proceed in conformity with the opinion of this court, and it does
proceed and puts an additional burden, not claimed or mentioned in the previous proceedings at all, on the bank of
nearly or quite $4000, - the bank cannot appeal to see if
VOL. cLu-33

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

this is in conformity with the opinion of this court, would be
quite unreasonable, in fact harsh, and in the teeth of Perkins
v. Tourniquet, which this court, in the Washington, &f Georgetowua Railroad case, quotes with approbation. And it is most
earnestly submitted that, in no case, however small the amount
added to a judgment or decree, after the mandate goes down,
that may be considered by the party as inconsistent with the
opinion of this court containing directions to proceed as here,
can a writ of error, or appeal, as the case may be, be denied?
This is but one manner, out of several, to get this court to see
if the lower court has not misunderstood, or misconstrued, or
both, the judgment or decree of this court. While there
should be no doubt of the correctness of this view, yet, if there
be one, it should be entirely removed, since this is now a controversy with a national bank, and there is no jurisdictional
question of amount.
-Mr. H -f. Pollardfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE -ALA-, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. It is contended that the decree below, so far as it included interest in favor of the appellees, was not in conformity
with the opinion of this court, and, for that reason, should be
reversed. The claim is that such interest was "nearly or
quite $4000." In that view, has this court jurisdiction, upon
appeal, to review the last decree?
In support of our jurisdiction, counsel rely upon Perk-ins v.
Tourniquet, 14 How. 328. In that case, it was claimed that
the decree appealed from exceeded what was allowed upon a
previous appeal, by a sum larger than was necessary to give
this court jurisdiction. And the question arose whether the
alleged error could be reached by an appeal from the last
decree. Ohief Justice Taney, speaking for this court, said:
"This objection to the form of proceeding involves nothing
more than a question of practice. The mandate from this
court left nothing to the judgment and discretion of the Cir-

CITY BANK OF FORT WORTH v. HUNTER.

515

Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court, but directed it to carry into execution the decree
of this court, which was recited in the mandate. And if the
decree of this court has been misunderstood or misconstrued
by the court below, to the injury of either party, we see no
valid objection to an appeal to this court in order to have the
error corrected. The question is merely as to the form of proceeding which this court should adopt to enforce the execution
of its own mandate in the court below. The subject might,
without doubt, be brought before us upon motion, and a mandamus issued to compel its execution. But an appeal from
the decision of the court below is equally convenient and suitable; and perhaps more so in some cases, as it gives the
adverse party notice that the question will be brought before
this court, and affords him the opportunity of being prepared
to meet it at an early day of the term." This principle was
affirmed in 2filwaukee & .Minnesota Railroad v. Soutter, 2
Wall. 440, 443, and recognized in In re Washington & Georgetown Railroad,140 U. S. 92, 95.
The case cited would sustain the present appeal as an appropriate mode for raising the question above stated, if the
amount now in dispute was sufficient to give this court jurisdiction to review the last decree. Under the statutes regulating the jurisdiction of this court at the date of the decision in
-Perkins v. Fourniquet,the amount there in dispute was sufficient for an appeal. But that case does not sustain the broad
proposition that, without reference to the value of the matter
in dispute, an affeal will lie from a decree, simply upon the
ground that it is in violation of or a departure from the mandate of this court. While compliance with a mandate of this
court, which leaves nothing to the judgment or discretion of
the court below, and simply requires the execution of our
decree, may be enforced by mandamus, without regard to the
value of the matter in dispute, we cannot entertain an appeal,
if the value of the matter in dispute upon such appeal is less
than $5000. Nashua & -Lowell Railroadv. Boston & Lowell
Railroad,5 U. S. App. 97, 100.
2. If the sum in dispute on this appeal were sufficient to
give us jurisdiction, we could consider the question of costs

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to in the second assignment of error. But as the
appeal in respect to interest must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, the appeal, in respect to costs, must also be dismissed. No appeal lies from a mere decree for costs. Canter
v. American Ins. Co., 3 Pet. 307, 319 ; Wood v. TFeimar, 104
U. S. 786; Paper-Bag Machine Cases, 105 U. S.766.
The appeal is dismissed.

SARGENT v. COVERT.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 298. Argued March 19, 1894. -Decided

April 2, 1894.

The alleged invention, protected by letters patent No. 161,757, dated April
6, 1875, issued to James C. Covert for " improvement in clasps or
thimbles for hitching devices," did not involve such an exercise of the
inventive faculty as entitled it to protection.

THIs was a bill filed by James C. Covert against Joseph B.
and George H. Sargent in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York for infringement of letters patent No. 161,757, dated April 6, 1875, issued
to complainant for "improvement in clasps or thimbles for
hitching devices," upon which a final decree was entered
adjudging the patent to be good and valid; that the defendants had infringed the same; and that complainant should
recover of the defendant Joseph B. Sargent the sum of $750,
and of the defendant George H. Sargent, $250; and costs.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court.
Mr. John Kimberly Beach for appellants.
-Mr. BI. A. Toulmin for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIoE FULLER

court.

delivered the opinion of the

