HACLAY. v. EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SO'TY. 499
Statement of the Case.

them had no connection, in law, with the mortgage executed
by the railway company to the Union Trust Company, under
which the property was purchased by S. H. Horner at public
sale ordered by the decree of a court that had full jurisdiction
of the parties and the subject-matter.
Looking at all the allegations of the bill, we are of opinion
that the plaintiffs were not entitled to the relief asked.

Decree a.fflrmed.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

MACLAY v. EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURAIE
SOCIETY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 281. Argued and submitted March 14,1894. -Decided

March 26, 1894.

A guardian of a minor, to whom a policy of life insurance on the tontine
dividend plan is payable, is authorized, after the completion of the tontine dividend period, and upon receiving its actual surrender value, to
discharge the policy, without any order of court; notwithstanding the
provisions of the statutes of Mississippi, authorizing him to obtain an
order of court for the sale of personal property, or for the sale or compromise of claims.

THIS was an action, brought February 12, 1889, in the civil
district court for the parish of Orleans in the State of Louisiana, by Robert P. Maclay, a citizen of Louisiana, and tutor
of Mason Snowden, a minor child and sole issue of Samuel
H. Snowden and Mary Louisa, his wife, against the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United States, a corporation
of New York; and removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana; to recover the sum of $10,000, with accrued dividends, less any amounts due for premiums, upon a policy,
dated July 6, 1870, by which the defendant, in consideration
of the sum of $67.70 paid by Mrs. Snowden, and of quarterly

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

premiums of a like sum to be paid on the fifth days of October, January, April and July in every year during the continuance of the policy, insured "the life of the said Samuel H.
Snowden, of New Orleans, in the parish of Orleans, State of
Louisiana, for the sole use of the said wife, in the amount of
$10,000, for the term of his natural life;" and promised
to pay that amount at its office in the city of New York to
her, if living, and, if not living, to his children, "or their
guardian, for their use," or, if there should be no such children
surviving, then to his executors, administrators or assigns, in
sixty days after due notice and satisfactory proof of his death
during the continuance of the policy, the balance of the
year's premium, if any, being first deducted therefrom.
The policy declared that it was "issued and accepted by
the assured upon the following special agreements and conditions, relative to tontine dividend policies:
'First. That this policy is issued under the tontine dividend
plan, class A.
"Second. That the tontine dividend period for this policy
shall be completed on the first day of June in the year
eighteen hundred and eighty-six.
"Third. That no dividend shall be allowed or paid upon
this policy, unless the person whose life is hereby assured shall
survive until the completion of its tontine dividend period,
and unless this policy shall be then in force.
"Fourth. That all surplus or profits derived from such
policies, in any class on the.tontine dividend plan, as shall
cease to be in force before the completion of their respective
tontine dividend periods, shall be apportioned equitably among
such policies of the same class as shall complete their tontine
dividend periods.
"Fifth. That the tontine dividend, when made, shall be
applied only to the purchase of an annuity to reduce premiums
during the whole subsequent continuance of this policy; and
that the first payment of such annuity shall be due at the
commencement of the assurance year of the policy immediately
succeeding the year in which the tontine dividend period of
this policy shall be completed; provided, that if in any year

MAOLAY v. EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOO'TY. 501
Statement of the Case.

the amount derived from dividends on this policy shall exceed
the amount of premiums due thereon, the excess shall be paid
in cash to said Samuel H. Snowden or assigns.
"Sixth. That previous to the completion of its tontine
dividend period this policy shall have no surrender value in
cash or in a paid-up policy."
Mrs. Snowden died August 3, 1883, in the State of Mississippi. Under the laws of Mississippi, Samuel H. Snowden
was appointed by the chancery court of Wilkinson county in
that State on December 4, 1883, administrator of her personal
estate, and gave bond as such, describing himself as of that
county and State; and on March 4, 1884, was appointed by
the same court, guardian of the person, and of the estate, real
and personal, of their child.
On July 19, 1886, the tontine period on the policy having been reached, and the policy having a surrender value,
which was proved to have been $3170.40, Samuel H. Snowden,
as such guardian, without any application to said chancery
court for an order specially authorizing him to do so, requested of the defendant payment of this surrender value,
and received the full amount thereof, and gave the defendant a receipt therefor, attaching to his receipt his letters of
guardi~nship.
On March 9, 1888, Samuel H. Snowden died. On April 5,
1888, the plaintiff was appointed and qualified, in Louisiana,
tutor of the minor, and afterwards brought this action.
The question in controversy was whether the receipt of the
surrender value of the policy by Samuel H. Snowden, as
guardian of the minor, was a discharge of the policy.
Upon proof of the foregoing facts, the plaintiff requested
the court to instruct the jury "that the receipt of the said
amount and discharge of the policy was invalid, and did not
bind the ward; and the said guardian, S. H. Snowden, in
receiving it and in attempting to discharge the insurance
policy, had no authority of the court or of a family meeting
or any other authority, excepting that which was vested in
him as guardian of the minor under the laws of Mississippi;
that the transaction was either a compromise or a sale of a debt,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Parties.

and therefore was contrary to sections 2065, 2106 and 2110
of the Revised Statutes of Mississippi of 1880," which are
copied in the margin.1
The court refused to give each of the instructions requested;
and instructed the jury "that the transaction on the part of
the former guardian, by which he received the surrender value
of the policy, was neither a compromise nor a sale of a debt,
but, on the other hand, was the collection of a debt which was
due in the alternative at the option of the guardian, and that
the guardian had authority as a common-law guardian under
the laws of Mississippi to make such collection."
The plaintiff excepted to the refusal to give each of the
instructions requested, as well as to the instructions given;
and, after verdict and judgment for the defendant, tendered
a bill of exceptions, and sued out this writ of error.
AXr. Frank L. Richardson,for plaintiff in error, submitted
on his brief.
.Mr. Charles B. Alexander for defendant in error.
ISEc. 2065. The chancery court may, by decree, authorize any executor
or administrator to sell or compromise any claims due the estate, which
cannot be readily collected, if the executor or administrator shall petition
for that purpose, and shall show that such sale or compromise will promote
the interests of the estate. But no such order of sale shall be made until
twelve months have elapsed from the grant of the letters. And if a sale be
ordered, it shall be made at the court-house door for cash to the highest
bidder; but the executor or administrator shall first give twenty days'
notice of the time and place of such sale, by advertising the same in a
newspaper printed in the county, if there be such, but if not, then in a
newspaper published in some convenient county. And the executor or
administrator shall make report in writing, of sales and compromises made
according to the provisions of this section, to the next succeeding term of
the court, which may then be confirmed, unless good cause be shown for
setting the same aside.
Sc. 2106. The court may order a sale of personal property of a ward,
whenever the interest of such ward will be promoted thereby, which sale
shall be made as directed by the court.
SEC. 2110. Guardians may be empowered by the court to sell or compromise claims due their wards, on the same terms prescribed in reference to
the sale or compromise of claims due estates of deceased persons.

MACLAY v. EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOO'TY. 503
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By the terms of the policy sued on, the amount of the
insurance upon the life of Samuel H. Snowden was payable, after notice and proof of his death, to his wife, if living, and if not living, to his children, or their guardian, for
their use.
It was proved at the trial that the wife died in Mississippi;
that the husband was thereupon appointed, under the laws of
Mississippi and by the chancery court of the county of Wilkinson in that State, administrator of her estate, and guardian of
the person and property of their only child; and that he described himself, in his administration bond, as of the same
county and State. It may be assumed, therefore, that the
domicil of himself and his ward at that time was in Mississippi; and it is not suggested that he was not lawfully appointed guardian.
A guardian, unless his powers in this respect are restricted
by statute, is authorized, by virtue of his office, and without
any order of court, to sell his ward's personal property and
reinvest the proceeds, and to collect or compromise and release
debts due to the ward, subject to the liability to be called to
account in the proper court if he has acted without due regard
to the ward's interest. Lamar v. MLcou, 112 U. S. 452, 475;
Field v. Schieffelin, 7 Johns. Oh. 150, 154; Ellis v. Essex
.MerriraeBridge, 2 Pick. 243; Ordinaryv. .Dean, 15 Vroom,
(44 N. J. Law,) 64, 67 ; Pierson v. Shwre, West Ch. 711 ; S. C.
I Atk. 480; Inwood v. Twyne, Ambler, 417, 419; S. C. 2
Eden, 148, 152.
In the case at bar, the validity of the receipt by the father,
as such guardian, of the surrender value of the policy, in discharge of all further claim under it, is contested by the plaintiff, (appointed in Louisiana, since the father's death, tutor or
guardian of the minor,) upon the ground that it was a compromise or sale of a debt due the ward, unauthorized by
the law of Mississippi, because the statutes of that State provide that the chancery court may empower a guardian to sell

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

personal property of his ward, or to sell or compromise claims
due to the ward, as therein directed. Miss. Rev. Stat. of 1880,
§§ 2065, 2106, 2110.
But those statutes, limiting the general power of disposition
which executors and administrators, as well as guardians, had
at common law, have been strictly construed by the Supreme
Court of Mississippi. Bland v. .Muncaster, 24 Mississippi, 62,
65. Sales of personal property by executors or administrators
have been held by that court to be void, because of other
provisions of the statutes, making an order of court essential
to the validity of such sales, except in specified cases. See
§§ 2032, 2033, 2035, 2038, 2071i Hutchinson's Code, c. 49,
§ 109; Cable v. Ifartin, 1 How. (.Miss.) 558, 561; Wortem. v.
EFowar'd, 2 Sm. & Marsh. 527, 529; Gelstrop v. Moore, 26
Mississippi, 206, 209. But the statutes relied on, so far as they
relate to guardians, would seem to be permissive and not restrictive, and only to provide a mode by which the guardian
may obtain in advance a judicial approval of such a sale or
compromise, and thereby, in the absence of fraud, establish
that it is for the interest of the ward, instead of leaving that
fact open to dispute at a future day.
However that may be, the guardian was certainly authorized
to collect for the benefit of his ward any amount due under
the policy, and had the right and the duty to elect, either to
keep it in force by paying the premiums, or to surrender it in
consideration of being paid at once its surrender value, whichever appeared to be most beneficial to the ward. Cooke v.
-Bucks,34 Mississippi, 105, 108; .Martinv. Tairver, 43 Mississippi, 517; Berry v. Parkes, 3 Sm. & Marsh. 625; Chadvman
v. Tihbits, 33 N. Y. 289. The amount received was proved to
be the surrender value of the policy; and there is nothing to
show, or even to raise a suspicion, that the action of the guardian was not for the best interest of the ward, upon the state
of facts then existing.
Under the circumstances of this case, therefore, it was rightly
held by the court below, that the transaction in question was
neither a compromise nor a sale of a debt, but was the collection of a debt due in the alternative at the option of the guar-

MANUEL v. WULFF.
Statement of the Case.

dian, and was one which he had authority to make under the
laws of Mississippi.
The case is quite different from Hayes v. Massachusetts Life
Ins. Co., 125 Illinois, 626, cited by the plaintiff, in which, after
the death of the man whose life was insured, the guardian of
his children gave up the policy in consideration of a payment
of about half its amount.
Judgment afflrmed.

MANUEL v. WULFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMfE COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 214. Submitted January 17, 1894.- Decided March 26, 1894.

A deed of a mining claim by a qualified locator to an alien operates as a
transfer of the claim to the grantee, subject to question in regard to his
citizenship by the government only.
If, in a contest concerning a mining claim, under Rev. Stat. § 2326, one
party, who is an alien at the outset, becomes a citizen during the proceedings and before judgment, his disability under Rev. Stat. § 2319 to
take title is thereby removed.

THIS was an action in the ordinary form of a contest between two claimants of a quartz lode mining claim upon the
lands of the United States to determine the right to proceed
in the United States land office for patent therefor. Moses
Manuel, defendant below, made application in the land office
at Helena, Montana, for a patent for the Marshal Ney lode
mining claim, which application Iver Wulff, plaintiff below,
adversely contested, basing his contest upon his right to the
premises by virtue of their location and possession as the
Columbia mining claim. This proceeding was thereupon commenced in the District Court for Lewis and Clarke County of
the Territory of Montana, in accordance with section 2326 of
the Revised Statutes.
The title of plaintiff was put in issue by the pleadings and
the defendant filed a counter claim charging that the Columbia

