CORINNE MILL, CANAL & STOCK CO. v. TOPONCE. 405
Syllabus.

But it is contended that even if Dr. Ruston did pay the
purchase money for the Nathaniel Brown tract, such payment
merely inured to the benefit of Ruston by way of a resulting
trust, and that the act of assembly of April 22, 1856, (Purd.
Dig. 11th ed. 1064,) forbids the assertion of any implied or
resulting trust after the lapse of five years, unless such trust
shall have been acknowledged in writing by the party to be
charged therewith.
It is difficult to see how this statute affects the present controversy. If, indeed, Nathaniel Brown, in whose name the
warrant had issued, had taken hostile possession of the tract,
and excluded Dr. Ruston, the beneficial owner, and if at that
time the act of 1856 had been in force, such a question might
have arisen. But as we have seen that, under the well-settled
law of Pennsylvania, a legal title became vested in iRuston by
his ownership of the warrant and his payment of the purchase
money, and as his title has, by instruments in writing and by
proceedings of record, become vested in the defendant in error,
a stranger to that title, claiming under another and distinct
title, originating in a commissioners' sale in 1882, cannot avail
himself of the statute referred to.
Finding no error in the rulings of the court below, its judgment is
Aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

CORINNE MILL, CANAL AND STOCK COMPANY
v. TOPONOE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 257. Submitted March 6, 1894.- Decided March 19, 1894.

The jury having in this case practically affirmed the truth of the plaintiff's
story, this court accepts the result.
When services in the management of a farm and household in Utah are performed under a general retainer, without any express agreement as to the

OCTOBER TERIi, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
time or measure of compensation or the term of the employment, and
such services continue for a series of years, no payments being made,
and there is a mutual, open and current account between the manager
and the proprietors, into which the matter of compensation enters as one
of the items, the cause of action must be deemed to have accrued at the
date of the last item proved in the account on either side.

THE facts in this case were as follows: On June 9, 1888, the
defendant in error as plaintiff commenced his action in the
District Court of the county of Weber, in the Territory of
Utah. His complaint consisted of five counts. The first, for
moneys paid out for the defendant; the second, for feeding
and caring for certain stock of the defendant; the third, for
his services as general manager of the defendant; the fourth
and fifth, respectively, a claim for work and labor, and one
for board alleged to have been due from defendant to Lea
Owsley, and by him assigned to plaintiff.
The defendant answered, denying all but the claim in the
fourth count of the complaint, and pleading also certain counter-claims. The case went to trial before a jury, which returned both a special and a general verdict, and on such verdicts
judgment was rendered, March 19, 1889, in favor of the plaintiff, for the sum of $11,339.56.
Subsequently, on July 12,
1890, this judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and thereupon defendant sued out this writ of
error.
JMr'. C. i. Bennett and Mr1. John A. )Ja','shalZfor plaintiff
inerror.
Mr1k. James N. Eimball for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTICE BREWER, after stating the

case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
There are but two questions presented, and they grow out
of the claim set forth in the third count of plaintiff's complaint. That claim is for the sum of $14,750 for services as
general manager of the defendant corporation from January 1,
1883, to December 1, 1887. During all this time the plaintiff

COIRINNE MILL, CANAL & STOCK CO. v. TOPONCE. 407
Opinion of the Court.

was a director and the vice-president. It is conceded that
there was no express contract or authority for compensation,
and it is insisted that all that he did in behalf of the company
was within the proper scope of his duties as an officer, or, if
not, was done upon the understanding that such services were
to be gratuitously rendered.
In the assignment of errors there is no complaint of the
instructions of the court as to the law governing in such cases,
but the contention is that the court did not, when requested,
peremptorily instruct the jury to disregard that claim, and
also that the jury erred in finding, as they did, that there was
due to the plaintiff the sum of $9538.40 for such services.
The court charged in substance that for services rendered in
the discharge of his duties as vice-president and director he
could not recover; that before recovery could be had the jury
must find that the services rendered "were clearly outside
of his duties as vice-president and director, and that they
were rendered under such circumstances as raises an implied
promise to pay for the services on the part of the company."
With reference to this question of fact it may be premised
that the plaintiff and John W. Kerr owned substantially all
the stock of the plaintiff corporation in about equal proportion's; the other stockholders, who were also directors, apparently holding just enough stock to enable them to qualify as
directors.
The charter was comprehensive in its terms, but the business which was actually carried on by the corporation was
that of a ranch, stock, and mill. It had part of the time a
ranch of 80,000 acres of land near Corinne, Utah, which, however, before the time of the trial had been reduced by sales to
some 60,000 acres. It also had some sheep in Wyoming. Now,
the plaintiff testified in reference to the property in Utah as
follows: "I had charge of the entire business-had charge of
the land, sold and purchased the land, purchased horses and
sold them, sold land, and done everything;" and on crossexamination, in reply to a question as to what his duties consisted in and what his labors were, he said: "Well, knocking
around, tending to the business of the company. Chasing fel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

lows off the land, trying to guard the land, tending to the stock
on the ranch, digging ditches, superintending putting up fences,
all contracts, and so forth."
Lea Owsley, who was foreman at the ranch, testified that
the plaintiff was "general manager of the business;" "made
all contracts of everything that came on the ranch ;" "collected
the bills;" "bought the feed, hay, and grain," and "had general charge of everything -land, cattle, ranch, and everything."
Neither the charter nor the by-laws of the corporation cast
any special duties on the vice-president or director. The vicepresident was only required to act in the absence of the president, and no special duties of management were in terms cast
upon the president. It was provided that he preside at all
meetings, sign all certificates of stock, contracts, checks, etc.,
"and generally do and perform such other duties as are incidental to his office and not in conflict with these by-laws
and the articles of association." No duty was cast on any
individual director as such. The board of directors, as a body,
were charged with the usual duty of care of the affairs of the
corporation, but all the power and duty cast upon them was
upon them as a board, and not individually. Obviously,
therefore, under the testimony which we have referred to,
from the plaintiff and the foreman of the ranch, the services
which the plaintiff performed were not those of a director or
vice-president, but outside thereof, and similar to those of a
general manager.
It is unnecessary to refer to the testimony which tends to
weaken the scope of these general statements of the plaintiff
and the foreman, because such conflict presents but a mere
question of fact, upon which the verdict of the jury is conclusive. It is enough to sustain the verdict that there was positive, direct testimony to the existence of the facts as found.
Neither is it clear, as contended by the defendant, that this
claim for compensation as general manager was an afterthought, and in retaliation for a claim made by Kerr, the
president, for interest; for, while it is conceded by the plaintiff that there was a dispute between Kerr and himself as to

CORINIE MILL, CANAL & STOCK 00. v. TOPONOE.

409

Opinion of the Court.

the matter of interest, yet his version of that is substantially
this: When he commenced work as general manager nothing
was said in respect to his compensation, but some time afterwards, when sheep were purchased by the corporation from
Kerr, and the price agreed upon, a question was raised as to
interest upon the deferred payments, and then, as he says,
Kerr agreed to waive interest on condition that he waived
any claim for compensation for his services as manager, and
yet, notwithstanding this agreement, Kerr afterwards insisted
upon and recovered interest from the corporation.
It is unnecessary to consider the contradictory testimony or
to attempt to determine the actual facts in reference to this
matter. It is enough that the jury by their verdict have
practically affirmed the truth of plaintiff's story; and that
shows an understanding on the part of the parties in interest
that he was to receive compensation for his services as manager, and that the two parties who owned substantially all
the stock and properties of the corporation attempted to
make an arrangement in respect to such compensation, which
arrangement proved a failure, and proving a failure left the
corporation under the implied obligation to pay for the services. We concur with the Supreme Court of the Territory,
when it says: "It was the peculiar province of the jury, under
proper instructions from the court as to the law governing
plaintiff's right to recover for the services claimed to have
been rendered, to determine from the evidence whether or not
he was entitled to compensation therefor. The jury found
the issue in plaintiff's favor.
Plaintiff claimed $250 per
month from January 1, 1883, to December 1, 1887, amounting
to $14,750. The jury allowed him $8850 and $688.40 interest, amounting to $9538.40. While the evidence to sustain
this verdict is not entirely satisfactory, and while, if submitted
to this court originally on the printed testimony, a different
conclusion might possibly be reached, yet, the jury having
found for the plaintiff on part of his claim, and the judge who
heard the case in the court below having refused to set the
verdict aside, we do not think it is so far unsupported by the
evidence as to justify this court in doing so."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The other matter is this: This action was commenced, as*
stated, in 1888, and the claim for compensation as manager
was for a term extending from January 1, 1883, to December
1, 1887, and the contention is that part of this claim was barredl
by the statute of limitations. The statutory provisions applicable thereto are the following:
"Within two years. 1st. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability not founded upon an instrument of writing;
also on an open account for goods, wares, and merchandise, and
for any article charged in a store account: .P'ovidecZ, That
action in said cases may be commenced at any time within
two years after the last charge is made, or the last payment is,
received." (Section 3145, Compiled Laws Utah, 1888.)
"In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open and current account, where there have been,
reciprocal demands between parties, the cause of action shall
be deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item
proved in the account on either side." (Section 3149, Compiled Laws Utah, 1888.)
Now, whatever might be the rule, if all that was involved
in this case was a simple claim for compensation as manager,
there was within the very terms of the statute a "mutual, open,
and current account," between the parties, and into that account.
the matter of such compensation entered as one of the items,,
and so the court did not err in refusing this instruction asked
by the defendant: "Whe n services in the management of a.
farm and household are performed under a general retainer,
without any express agreement as to the time or measure of
compensation or the term of the employment, and such services continue for a series of years, no payments being made,
the law for the purpose of determining when the statute of
limitations begins to run will not imply an agreement that the
payment of compensation shall be postponed until the termination of the employment, but will regard the hiring as from
year to year, and the wages as payable at the same time."
Not only was there an account presented by the plaintiff for
$4882.23, for moneys paid out at the instance and request of
the defendant, from January 1, 1883, to December 1, 1887,

CORINNE MILL, CANTAL & STOCK CO. v. TOPONCE. 411"
Opinion of the Court.

and also one for the further sum of $1133.25, for feeding,
caring for, and keeping its horses during the same time,
but also in its answer the defendant presented by way of
counter-claim, first, an account against plaintiff and Owsley, as
partners, for the pasturage of certain cattle, varying in number"
from 56 to 299, from the year 1883 to June 10, 1888, at
twenty-five cents per head a month, on which only $414.40
was admitted to have been paid; also a claim against plaintiff
and said Owsley jointly for the sum of $325.75 for horses sold
and delivered to them; and finally, as a last counter-claim, defendant alleged: "That prior to and at the commencement of
this action the plaintiff was and still is indebted to defendant
in the sum of $3614.51, a balance upon an account for money
loaned, paid out and expended to and for plaintiff, and for
goods and materials furnished to him, and for divers and sundry other items and matters of charge, all on open running
current account and at plaintiff's request, between January 2T,
1883, and June 10, 1888. That said sum of $3614.51 was, at
the commencement of this suit, and is due from and unpaid by
plaintiff to defendant, and no part thereof has been paid."
On the trial the defendant offered the account taken from
its books, running from January 27, 1883, to June 10, 1888, an
account consisting of hundreds of items, and filling twelvepages of the printed record. Obviously, there were between
the parties open, mutual, and current accounts, and as oneitem in those accounts was this claim for compensation asmanager, and this, whether that was to be payable monthly
or annually, we see no error in the record, and the judgment isAfflwned.MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court,
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

