MANUEL v. WULFF.
Statement of the Case.

dian, and was one which he had authority to make under the
laws of Mississippi.
The case is quite different from Hayes v. Massachusetts Life
Ins. Co., 125 Illinois, 626, cited by the plaintiff, in which, after
the death of the man whose life was insured, the guardian of
his children gave up the policy in consideration of a payment
of about half its amount.
Judgment afflrmed.

MANUEL v. WULFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMfE COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 214. Submitted January 17, 1894.- Decided March 26, 1894.

A deed of a mining claim by a qualified locator to an alien operates as a
transfer of the claim to the grantee, subject to question in regard to his
citizenship by the government only.
If, in a contest concerning a mining claim, under Rev. Stat. ยง 2326, one
party, who is an alien at the outset, becomes a citizen during the proceedings and before judgment, his disability under Rev. Stat. ยง 2319 to
take title is thereby removed.

THIS was an action in the ordinary form of a contest between two claimants of a quartz lode mining claim upon the
lands of the United States to determine the right to proceed
in the United States land office for patent therefor. Moses
Manuel, defendant below, made application in the land office
at Helena, Montana, for a patent for the Marshal Ney lode
mining claim, which application Iver Wulff, plaintiff below,
adversely contested, basing his contest upon his right to the
premises by virtue of their location and possession as the
Columbia mining claim. This proceeding was thereupon commenced in the District Court for Lewis and Clarke County of
the Territory of Montana, in accordance with section 2326 of
the Revised Statutes.
The title of plaintiff was put in issue by the pleadings and
the defendant filed a counter claim charging that the Columbia

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

lode location was forfeited by reason of the want of requiredl
annual work, and that the ground in controversy was unoccupied public domain at the time of the location of the MarshaL
Ney. This was denied by plaintiff in his replication.
Upon the trial-it appeared that Henry Pflaume, who was a.
citizen of the United States, located the Columbia lode miningclaim, July 1, 1882; that November 1, 1885, he conveyed theclaim to Fred. Manuel by deed, and that November 30, 1887,,
Fred. Manuel conveyed the same property by deed to IverWulff, the plaintiff; that one Alfred Manuel, who was a
citizen of the United States, located the same mining claim
under the name of the " Marshal Ney," (claiming that the
Columbia lode location had been abandoned and forfeited for
the reason that no work was done thereon during the years
1883 and 1884:,) and conveyed to Moses Manuel, the defendant, a one-third interest therein, October 12, 1885, and the
remaining two-thirds, October 15, 1887, by deeds duly executed and recorded.
It further appeared that Moses Manuel was born in Canada.
and came to this country when about eight years old with his
father, whom he supposed had been naturalized, and that he
was thus a citizen of the United States. But the court held
that he was not a citizen, whereupon he was naturalized,
pending the trial, under the provisions of section 2167 of the
Revised Statutes. The District Court then non-suited defendant upon his counter claim, and did not permit him to proceed
with his case, upon the ground that he was not a citizen at
the time that Alfred Manuel executed to him the deeds of conveyance of the Marshal Ney lode mining claim and at the
time the suit was commenced, holding that the attempt on the
part of Alfred Manuel to convey the mining claim operated as
an abandonment thereof. Defendant then moved that plaintiff be non-suited, which motion was denied, but the question
raised in respect thereof need not be examined here. Judg.
ment was thereupon given in favor of Wulff, and defendant
took the case by appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
(which had been admitted into the Union in the meantime,)
by which the judgment was affirmed. The opinion of the

MANUEL v. WULFF.

507-

Opinion of the Court.

court will be found reported in 9 Montana, 279.
was then brought to this court by writ of error.

The case

.Mr.
John B. Olayeerg, for plaintiff in error, submitted on hisbrief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR.

C.HiEF JUSTICE

FulLEmR delivered the opinion of the'

court.
The Supreme Court of Montana recognized the settled rule
that an alien may take and hold land by purchase until office
found, and that, if the alien become a citizen before hisalienage has been adjudged, the act of naturalization takeseffect by relation; but held that "possessory rights to mining
claims on the public domain of the United States," although
"endowed with the qualities of real estate to a high degree,"'
did not come within that rule.
The argument was that as by statute mineral lands are not
open to exploration, occupation, or purchase by aliens, but
only by citizens of the United States and those who have
declared their intention to become such, upon compliance
with the laws and local mining rules and regulations as tolocation and possession, title and possessory rights to mining"
claims thus acquirable solely by virtue of the statute and in,
the manner prescribed thereby, must be regarded as passing'
as by operation of law, and not as by grant. Hence that
mining claims are controlled by the rule which forbids the
alien to take or hold real estate by descent, since it is the rule
of law and not the act of the party that vests title in the heir,
and it would be an idle thing to vest title by one act of law
and then take it away by another. The court was of opinion
that upon principle the analogy between an alien heir claiming by descent and an alien miner claiming under the mining
laws was complete; and that as Moses Manuel was incapable
of taking, the conveyance to him by Alfred Manuel, who was
a citizen, amounted to an abandonment by the latter. We
are unable to concur in this view. We do not think that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

transfer of a mining claim by a qualified locator to an alien is
to be treated as ipso facto an abandonment or that the
analogy of such a case to the casting of descent upon an alien
can be maintained.
Among the cases often referred to upon the general subject
and cited by the Montana Supreme Court is Govem;eur v.
Robertson, 11 Wheat. 332, 350, 354. That was an action of
ejectment and the facts these: Plaintiff claimed under one
Brantz, who, being an alien, obtained, October 11, 1784, two
grants from the Commonwealth of Virginia, of lands lying in
Kentucky. He became naturalized in Maryland, November
8, 1784, and his title was confirmed to him and to his heirs
and their grantees by the legislature of Kentucky in 1796 and
1799. Defendait claimed under a grant of Virginia made to
a citizen in 1785.
This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Johnson, among other
things, said:
"On this subject of relation, the authorities are so ancient,
so uniform, and universal, that nothing can raise a doubt that
it has a material bearing on this cause, but the question
whether naturalization in Maryland was equivalent to naturalization in Kentucky. To this the articles of confederation
furnish an affirmative answer, and the defendant has not made
it a question. Nor, indeed, has he made a question on the
subject of relation back; yet it is not easy to see how he could
claim the benefit of an affirmative answer on the question he
has raised, without first extricating his cause from the effects
of the subsequent naturalization, upon the rights derived to
Brantz through his patent. The question argued, and intended
to be exclusively presented here, is, whether a patent for land
to an alien, be not an absolute nullity.
"The argument is, that it was so at common law, and that
the Virginia land laws, in some of their provisions, affirm the
common law on this subject.
"We think the doctrine of the defendant is not to be sustained on either ground. . .
"It is clear, therefore, that this doctrine has no sufficient
sanction in authority; and it will be found equally unsupported by principle or analogy.

MANUEL v. WULFF.
Opinion of the Court.

"The general rule is positively against it, for the books, old
and new, uniformly represent the King as a competent grantor
in all cases in which an individual may grant, and any person
in esse, and not civiliter mortuus, as a competent grantee.
Femes covert, infants, aliens, persons attainted of treason or
felony, clerks, convicts, and many others, are expressly enumerated as competent grantees. (Perkins, Grant, 47, 48, 51,
etc.; Comyn's Dig. Grant, B. 1.) It behooves those, therefore,
who would except aliens, when the immediate object of the
King's grant, to maintain the exception.
"It is argued that there is an analogy between this case and
that of the heir, or the widow, or the husband, alien; no one
of whom can take, but the King shall enter upon them without office found. Whereas, an alien may take by purchase
and hold until divested by office found. It is argued, that the
reason usually assigned for this distinction, to wit, nilfru.tra
agit lex, may, with the same correctness, be applied to the
case of a grant by the King to an alien, as to one taking by
descent, dower, or curtesy: That the alien only takes from
the King to return the subject of the grant back again to the
King by escheat. But, this reasoning obviously assumes as law
the very principle it is introduced to support; since, unless the
grant be void, it cannot be predicated of it that it was executed in vain. It is also inconsistent with a known and familiar principle in law, and one lying at the very root of the
distinction between taking by purchase and taking by descent.
It implies, in fact, a repugnancy in language. Since the very
reason of the distinction between aliens taking by purchase, and
by descent, is, that one takes by deed, the other by act of law;
whereas a grantee, ex vi termini, takes by deed, and not by
act of law. If there is any view of the subject in which an
alien, taking under grant, may be considered as taking by
operation of law, it is because the grant issues, and takes
effect, under a law of the State. But this is by no means the
sense of the rule, since attaching to it this idea would be to
declare the legislative power of the State incompetent to vest
in an alien even a defeasible estate.
"That an alien can take by deed, and can hold until office

fi10

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

found, must now be regarded as a positive rule of law, so well
,established, that the reason of the rule is little more than a
subject for the antiquary."
The objection here rests, however, on the assumption that
.Oongress has not intended to confer any estate in respect of
,claims of this character because the right of purchase and the
right of possession are indivisible, and the validity of the location
Is destroyed on the transfer of the claim to a person not authorized to keep the location alive. T'ibitts v. Ah Tong, 4 Montana,
.536. Of course, the same qualification required in those who
may purchase is required as to those who may possess, but
-that, in our judgment, does not render possessory rights any
.the less property susceptible of distinct ownership, nor involve
-the consequence that their transfer to unqualified persons would
.operate a forfeiture eo instanti as for a violation of a continuing condition precedent so that the removal of the disqualifi.cation would not cure the defect. If it could be properly held
that the qualification of his grantee should be regarded as at
,all a condition annexed to the ownership of the qual.ified loca,tor, such condition would be a condition subsequent, and gov,erned by the .rule laid down in Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21
Wall. 44.
Section 23,19 .of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "All
.valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United
-States, both surveyed and unsurveyed, are hereby declared to
,be free and open to exploration and purchase, and the lands
in which they are found to occupation and purchase, by citi:zens of the United States and those who have declared their
intention to become such, under regulations prescribed by law,
and according to the local customs or rules of miners in the
,several mining districts, so far as the same are applicable and
not inconsistent with the laws of the United States."
And by section 2322, it is provided that when such qualified
persons have made -discovery of. mineral lands and complied
with the law, they shall have the exclusive right to possession
-and enjoyment ofthe.same. It has, therefore, been repeatedly
held that mining claims are property in the fullest sense of
tthe word, and may :be sold, transferred, mortgaged, and

,MANUEL v. WULFF.
Opinion of the Court. -

inherited without infringing the title of the United States,
.and that when a location is perfected, it has the effect of a
.grant by the United States of the right of present and exclusive
possession. ForbSes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762; Belk v. -Heagher,
104 U. S. 279; Gwillim v. Donnellan, 115 U. S. 45; HVoyes v.
.AXantle, 127 U. S.348.
This being so, we are of opinion on this record that, as
Alfred Manuel was a citizen, if his location were valid, his
,claim passed to his grantee, not by operation of law, but by
virtue of his conveyance, and that the incapacity of the latter
to take and hold by reason of alienage was, under the circumstances, open to question by the government only. Inasmuch
.as this proceeding was based upon the adverse claim of Wulff
to the application of Moses Manuel for a patent, the objection
of alienage was properly made, but this was as in right and
-on behalf of the government, and naturalization removed the
infirmity before judgment was rendered.
In the .fatter of Erogstad, 4 Land Dec. 564, Mr. Justice
Lamar, .when Secretary of the Interior, ruled that, an alien
having made homestead entry and subsequently filed his intention to become a citizen, the alienage at time of entry, in
the absence of an adverse claim, would not defeat the right of
purchase. Jackson v. Beach, I Johns. Oas. 399; Govern eur v.
Robertson, 11 Wheat. 332; and Osterman v. Baldwin, 6 Wall.
116, were cited to the point that naturalization has a retro.active effect, so as to be deemed a waiver of all liability to
forfeiture and a confirmation of title. This seems to have long
'been the settled rule in the Land Department; -Manv. Huk, 3
Land Dec. 452-; Lord v. Perrin., 8 Land Dec. 536; so that if
-there had been no adverse claim in the land office, Moses
Manuel's application, which appears, in respect of this question,
to have been made in good faith, would not have been rejected
*on the mere ground of alienage when he made it. And as
Moses Manuel was the grantee of a qualified locator, and became naturalized before the -order, we conclude that there was
,error in the direction of a nonsuit.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of X1fontana is reversed,
and the cause remanded with a direction to reverse the

OCTOBER TERM, 189a.
Statement of the Case.

judgment of the court below andforfurtherproceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
not having been a member of the court
when this case was considered, took no part in its decision.
MiR. JusTIcE

WHITE,

CITY BANK OF FORT WORTH v. HUNTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE Td-IITED STATES
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
NTo.264.

Submitted March 8, 1894.-

FOR

Decided March 19, 1894.

Compliance with a mandate of this court, which leaves nothing to the judgment or discretion of the court below, may be enforced by mandamus.
This court cannot entertain an appeal from a judgment executing its mandate, if the value of the matter in dispute upon the appeal is less than
$5000.
No appeal lies from a decree for costs.

IN City ational Bank of Fort Jforth v. Httnter, 129 U. S.
557, 579, will be found a full history of the litigation between
the parties to the present appeal. The final decree was
reversed, with costs, and the case was remanded with directions to proceed in conformity with the opinion of this
court. After the mandate and opinion of this court had been
filed in the court below, the cause was again heard, and it
was, among other things, adjudged: "That said complainants,
R. D. Hunter, A. G. Evans, and R. P. Buel, do have and
recover of and from the defendants, the City National Bank
of Fort Worth, the sum of twelve thousand nine hundred
and eighty-four and .jV ($12,984.85) dollars, together with
interest thereon from this date at the rate of eight per cent
per annum. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
all costs accrued in this cause up to Septembef 30, 1881, be,
and the same are hereby, adjudged against said complainants,
R. D. Hunter, A. G. Evans, and R. P. Buel, and for which let

