HARDT v. HEID WEYER.
Syllabus.

furtherance of it. The gist of the offence is the conspiracy.
As said by Mr. Justice Woods, speaking for this court, in
United States v. Britton, 108, U. S. 199, 204: "This offence
does not consist of both the conspiracy and the acts done to

effect the object of the conspiracy, but of the conspiracy alone.
The provision of the statute, that there must be an act done
to effect the object of the conspiracy, merely affords a locus
penitentie, so that before the act done either one or all of the
parties may abandon their design, and thus avoid the penalty
prescribed by the statute." Hence, if the conspiracy was
entered into within the limits of the United States and the
jurisdiction of the court, the crime was then complete, and the
subsequent overt act in pursuance thereof may have been done
anywhere.
These are all the questions which we consider of importance.
Several other matters are suggested by counsel. We have
examined all of them, and deem it unnecessary to prolong
this opinion by noticing them in detail. We see no error in
ffl~ne.
the record, and the judgment is.
did not hear the argument or take
MR. JUsTICE JACox
part in the decision of this case.

HARDT v. HElDWEYER.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 263. Submitted Mfarch 13, 1694. -Decided

April 2, 1894.

Whether a debtor in Illinois in failing circumstances has or has not the
right by transfers of property to prefer certain creditors in the disposition
of his assets, it is clear that he has not the right to transfer to such
creditors property largely in excess of their claims to the injury of other
general creditors.
A bill in that State by other creditors of the debtor filed several years after

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

such transfers were made, which attacks them and prays to have them
decreed to be invalid and to have the assigned property distributed pro
rata among the general creditors, and which alleges that the plaintiffs
were ignorant of the matters complained of, but now have knowledge
acquired within a month prior to the filing of the bill, but which does
not show how knowledge of the wrongs complained of was obtained,
nor why they had not had earlier the same means of ascertaining the
facts, may be dismissed, on demurrer, for laches on the part of the
complainants.

ON April 23, 1889, the appellants as plaintiffs, citizens of
the State of New York, filed their bill in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, making
as defendants the following persons, citizens of the State of
Illinois: Sigismund Heidweyer, Norbert Stieglitz, the National
Bank of Illinois, Siegmund Florsheim, Philip Florsheim, and
Simon Florsheim. On January 15, 1890, they filed an amendment to their bill. To the bill, with its amendment, the
defendants demurred on the several grounds of a want of
equity in the bill, the laches of plaintiffs, a lack of jurisdiction,
and a defect of parties. On May 5, 1890, this demurrer was
sustained, and the bill dismissed. From the decree of dismissal
the plaintiffs appealed to this court.
The facts as stated in this bill and its amendment are as
follows: The plaintiffs were judgment creditors of the defendants Reidweyer & Stieglitz, a firm doing business in Chicago
from July, 1875, to October 15, 1884. As early as January 1,
1884, the latter were hopelessly insolvent, their liabilities
exceeding even their nominal assets, as they well knew. By
the assistance of friends, however, they were enabled to keep
up the appearance of doing business until October. Early in
September they ascertained and determined definitely that they
must fail, make a general disposition of their property among
their creditors, and go out of business. At that time their
indebtedness amounted to about $240,000, their asseta to about
$150,000, of which $125,000 was the value of their merchandise, and $25,000 that of their bills receivable and open
accounts. Among other creditors were the following parties
to whom Heidweyer & Stieglitz claimed was due at the 'time
the sums set opposite to their names:

HARDT v. R1EIDWEYER.
Statement of the Case.

"National Bank of Illinois ............ $12,000 00
2,628 00
Siegmund Florsheim ................
5,000 00
Julius Heimann ....................
5,000 00
Julius Heimann, administrator .......
5,000 00
Florsheim Brothers .................
9,00000
Philip Florsheim ...................
5,000 00
Simon Florshei ...................
2,500 00
Herman Hahlo .....................
2,086 56"
Hahlo, Sbieglitz & Co ...............
In fact, the true amount due to such parties was much less
than the sums so named. In addition to this, the defendant
Siegmund Florsheim was liable, as they pretended, as endorser
on their commercial paper for the sum of $22,925.
It was their duty-so the bill avers- in view of their
financial condition, under the policy of the assignment law of
Illinois, to make in due form a general assignment to some
person of all their property for the benefit of their creditors,
and without any preferences; but instead of doing this they
consulted with counsel as to the best means to prefer the
creditors above named. On September 16, by the advice of
such counsel, they executed certain judgment notes, payable
on demand to the parties, and for amounts as follows:
"National Bank of Illinois ........... $12,000 00
Siegmund Florsheim ................ 41,553 50
5,000 00
Florsheim Brothers .................
9,000 00"
Philip Florsheim ...................
On the note in favor of Siegmund Florsheim, $16,000 was
subsequently credited as paid. On October 13 they executed
further judgment notes, payable on demand, as follows:
"Julius Heimann, two notes, each ..... $5,000 00
Simon Florsheim ................... 5,000 00
H. Hahlo & Co ..................... 2,500 00
Hahlo, Stieglitz & Co ................ 2,086 56"
On October 15 the counsel above referred to, acting for both

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the creditors and the debtors, caused judgments to be entered
upon said notes in the Superior Court of Cook County, fliuois, in favor of the creditors for'the amounts of principal and
interest and attorneys' fees, the attorneys' fees amounting in all
the cases to the sum of $3564.04. Immediately after the entry
of such judgments executions were issued thereon to the sheriff
of Cook County, who levied upon the stock of merchandise of
said firm of Heidweyer & Stieglitz, being all the tangible
property of which they were possessed, and of the value of
Of this merchandise about $8500 was replevied
$125,000.
from the sheriff before the sale, and the remainder sold at
great sacrifice, producing only $65,537.38, which sum was
applied upon the executions, leaving a small balance due upon
most of them. The only property of value which the said
Heidweyer & Stieglitz, on October 15, possessed other than
the stock of merchandise, were certain bills receivable, of the
value of about $18,000, and certain accounts receivable, of
the value of about $6000. It is charged "that as a part of
the same scheme of preference said lleidweyer & Stieglitz
assigned and delivered said bills and accounts receivable to
the defendant Simon Florsheim in trust to collect the same
for the benefit of said judgment creditors as to the amounts
remaining unpaid on their aforesaid judgments, and for the
benefit of himself as to a claim of thirteen hundred dollars due
to him by said Norbert Stieglitz individually, the surplus, if
any, to be returned to said Heidweyer & Stieglitz; so that,
out pf said accounts and bills receivable so assigned and out
of said replevied goods subsequently surrendered or paid for,
said defendant's judgment creditors as aforesaid have received
the amounts of their judgments and interest and said attorSaid defendant, Simon Florsheim, has
neys' fees in full.
received payment in full of his claim against the defendant
Norbert Stieglitz, as aforesaid, and the entire scheme origi* nally devised by and between said Reidweyer & Stieglitz and
said judgment creditors has been successfully accomplished,
and all the property of said defendants, Heidweyer & Stieglitz, has been appropriated to prefer said creditors to the exclusion of all others." And that all these "judgment notes,

HARDT v. HEIDWEYER.
Statement of the Case.

judgments entered thereon, executions issued, levies and sales
thereunder, transfers, assignments, and other dispositions of
all their property, . .
are in effect but one instrument
and one transaction, and, taken" together, constitute a general
assignment for the benefit of creditors," and "were all entered
into and consummated in pursuance of a conspiracy between
the parties thereto to defraud the other creditors of said Heidweyer & Stieglitz."
It is further charged "that while it is true that all the transactions aforesaid constitute an assignment for the benefit of
creditors, yet said assignment is fraudulent and void as to
creditors, in this, that said judgment notes were purposely
given for sums greater than was due the payees thereof respectively at the time they were so given; that the sum provided
in said judgment notes for attorneys' fees, being thirty-five
hundred and sixty-four -A-dollars, and which was included in
said judgments confessed and thereafter collected thereon, was
so inserted in said instruments with actual intent to hinder,
delay, and defraud the creditors of said Heidweyer & Stieglitz,
and actually has defrauded them, whereby said notes, judgments, and everything that was done under them became
wholly fraudulent and void as to the creditors of said Heidweyer & Stieglitz, and in that all of said transactions constituting such assignment were conceived and executed from
beginning to end with the sole and only purpose of defrauding
the law and defrauding all the creditors not intended to be
protected thereby, including your orators."
The amendment was intended to cover the objection of
laches, and its allegations in respect thereto are as follows:
"And your orators further represent that at the time of the
several transactions hereinbefore mentioned, they were and
ever since have been residents of the city of New York, and
that the judgment creditors aforesaid, who were defendants to
this bill, were and now are residents of the city of Chicago;
that immediately after the entry of the judgments aforesaid,
your orators caused an investigation to be made as to the
genuineness of the indebtedness represented by said judgments
and the good faith of the judgment creditors in having them

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

entered and enforced in the manner set forth herein; that it
was upon such investigation given out, represented, and stated
to your orators by each of said judgment creditors, defendants
herein, that their said judgments were for full value and were
entered ag-ressively by them for the sole purpose of realizing
the moneys due them respectively, and that they did so without the knowledge, privity, or procurement of the debtors
themselves, and said debtors then stated that they had still a
large amount of property remaining in their hands in the
form of book accounts and bills receivable, applicable to the
payment of their other debts, and that they proposed to convert the same and apply the proceeds thereof to such payment
as soon as possible.
1Relying upon which statements and believing the same to
be true, your orators refrained for a considerable time to take
legal measures to collect the large indebtedness due them in the
belief also that the transactions as to said judgments were
boncafde and having no knowledge or information of any fact
tending to show that they constituted, constructively, an
assignment for the equal benefit of all creditors.
"A long time afterwards and within, to wit, less than one
month from the time of bringing this suit, your orators for
the first time learned not only that said judgments covered
and took all the tangible property of said Heidweyer & Stieglitz, but that the entry thereof was procured by them for the
express purpose of preferring said judgment creditors, and that
at the same time they transferred all their remaining property
to a trustee for the benefit of creditors, as heretofore in this
bill alleged, thereby creating an assignment, as herein alleged."
The relief sought for was as follows: "That the several
judgment notes, judgments confessed theron, executions, levies,
and sales thereunder, transfer of bills and accounts receivable,
and all other transactions had and done by and between Said
Heidweyer & Stieglitz and said preferred creditors and hereinbefore referred to be adjudged to constitute a voluntary
assignment for the benefit of the creditors of said Heidweyer
& Stieglitz with preferences; that the preferences be declared
void; that said preferred creditors be held chargeable and be

HARDT v. HEID WEYER.
Argument for Appellants.

charged and decreed to account jointly and severally as assignees
and trustees for all the property which has come to their hands or
possession or to the hands or possession of any of them by virtue
of any of the transactions related herein; that said assignees and
trustee be removed and a receiver appointed, to whom they
shall be decreed to account for the same at its true market
value and not for the amount they may have realized out of
it; that the fund so to be realized, if it shall appear to the
court that said assignment is not altogether void, shall be distributed ratably among your orators and all the breditors of
said debtors under the direction of the court, excluding from
the distribution, however, and postponing the creditors guilty
of the frauds aforesaid until all others are fully paid; but if it
shall appear to the court, by reason of the frauds alleged, that
said assignment is altogether fraudulent and void as to creditors, then that said fund be paid in satisfaction of the judgment or your orators and of all other creditors who may be
entitled, and that the complainants may have such other and
further relief as may be just."
-Mr. Daniel -. Tenney, .Mrb. Edward 0. Brown, and .Me.
Charles B. Pope for appellants. Mrb'. Sydney Richmond
Taber for Schnabel Brothers, appellants.
I. None of the objections raised by the special demurrer's
warranted the dismissal of the bill.
a. Appellants were not guilty of laches. Kilbourn v. Sunde'land, 130 U. S. 505; .Meader v. NYorton, 11 Wall. 442;
.Michoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503; Sheldon. v. Kceokuk Packet
Co., 8 Fed. Rep. 769; Le Gendre v. Byrnes, 44 N. J. Eq. 372;
Radeliff v. Rowley, 2 Barb. Ch. 23; Waterman v. Sprague
.X1fg. Co., 55 Connecticut, 554.
b.The Circuit Court had jurisdiction. Gorrell v. Dickson,
26 Fed. IRep. 454; Putnanm v. ffew Albany, 4 Bissell, 365;
Ogilvie v. .Knox Insurance Co., 22 How. 380; 2 Black, 539;
Bvck v. Oolbath, 3 Wall. 334; Shields v. Thomas, 18 How.
253; Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582.
o. There was no defect of parties. Ogilvie v. Knox Ins. Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

22 How. 380;
or% v. Lockhart, 17 Wall. 570; Hotel Co. vIWade, 97 U. S. 13.
II. The bill was improperly dismissed under the general
clause of the demurrer.
a. The bill shows fraud sufficient to invoke and compel
equitable relief. Pickett v. Pipkin,64 Alabama, 520; Thorea&
v. Beck, 39 Connecticut, 241; Preston v. Spaulding, 120
Illinois, 208; Farwell v. Nilsson, 133 Illinois, 45; Hulse v.
Mlershon, 125 Illinois, 52.
b. The oeveral instruments and transactions described in the
bill constitute in effect a general assignment with preferences,
which is consequently void, as being in contravention of the
Illinois statute relating to voluntary assignments. WThite -v.
Cotzhausen, 129 U. S. 329, 337, 338, 341, 342.
III. The construction of that statute by the Supreme
Court of Illinois, in Farwell v. Nilsson, supra, is not conelusive, because that case is distinguishable from the suit at
bar. Farwell v. Cohen, 138 Illinois, 216; Ifeber v. -Mick, 131
Illinois, 520; Hanchett v. Iaterbury,115 Illinois, 220; Preston
v. Spaulding, 120 Illinois, 208; Hoome Nat. Bank v. Sanchez,
131 Illinois, 330; fHa2ford Oil Co. v. First _/vatl. Bank, 126
Illinois, 584; Hide and Leather Nfat. Bank v. Rehm, 126
Illinois, 461; Hanford v. Prouty, 133 Illinois, 339.
IV. The construction now placed upon that statute by the
Supreme Court of Illinois is not the established law of that
State. .Farwell v. Nilsson, 133 Ilinois, 45; Bucher v. Cheshire Railroad,125 U. S. 555; Scipio v. Wright, 101 U. S. 665;
Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244;
Preston v. Spaulding, 120 Illinois, 208; Hide andLeather National Bank v. Rehm, 126 Illinois, 461; Ge~pcke v. City of
.Dubuque,1 Wall. 175; Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 595; Farwell
v. Cohen, 138 Illinois, 216.
Even if this court feel bound to adopt the general construction by the Illinois Supreme Court of the Illinois statute
applied to instruments of assignment, they are under no obligation to accept the inference that the Illinois court draws as
to whether the particular instruments before this court are or
are not such "instruments of assignment." Schroederv. Walsh,

RARDT v. HEIDWEYER.
Argument for Appellants.

120 Illinois, 403; .Farwell v. Vilsson, 133 Illinois, 45; Pana
v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; .Myrick
v. -Michigan Central Railroad,107 U. S. 102.
V. If there may be an obligation on the part of this c6urt
to follow the construction by a state court of a statute of that
State in an action at law, there is no such obligation in a suit
in equity. Bucher v. Clheshire Railroad,125 U. S. 555; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Luther v. Borden, 7 flow.
1; Johnston v. Western Union Telegrah Co., 33 Fed. Rep.
362; United States v. Reid, 12 flow. 361; Veves v. Scott, 13
How. 268.
VI. Construction of state statutes by state courts may not
be invoked in the United States courts to determine rights that
have arisen before the state court's decision. East Alabama
Railway v. Doe, 114 U. S. 340; Farwell v. Cohen, 138 Illinois,
216; Buncome County Commissioners v. Tommey, 115 U. S.
122; Rollins v. Lake County, 34 Fed. Rep. 845 ; Anderson v.
Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356; Bolles v. BrimfFeld, 120 U. S.
759; Barnum v. Okolana, 148 U. S. 393; JKnox County v.
Ninth Vational Bank, 147 U. S. 91; Clark v. Bever, 139
U. S. 96; Union Trust Oompany v. Trumbull, 137 Illinois,
146.
VII. Weight of authority, as well as principle, is in favor of
this court's adopting its own construction of a state statute,
notwithstanding a contrary construction by the highest court
of that State. This the court has done:
(a) Where there has been no decision by a Federal court
before that of the state court; Butz v. luscatine, 8 Wall.
575; Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666; Pana v. Bowler,
107 U. S. 529; Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464. (b) Where there
has been a decision by one of the United States Circuit Courts
before that by the state court. Burgess v. Selig7nan, 107
U. S. 20, 33. (c) Where there has been a decision by this
court before that of the state court. Rowan. v. Runnels, 5
flow. 134; Pease v. Peck, 18 fHow. 595; Carroll County v.
Smith, 111 U. S. 556.
As citizens of foreign States appellants are entitled to the
independent judgment of the United States Supreme Court.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Watson v. Twzpley, 18 How. 517; Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 20; Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 595; -ew Orleans Water
Works Co. v. Southern Brewing Co., 36 Fed. Rep. 833; Carroll
Coity v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556.
ir. Curtis H. RemV, for appellees.
MiR. JusTio, BnEwFPn, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It will be perceived that nowhere in the bill is it alleged
that the.failing debtors Heidweyer & Stieglitz ever executed
any formal written assignment for the benefit of creditors.
It is charged that they gave to certain creditors judgment
notes, and assigned and delivered their bills and accounts to
one of the creditors in trust; that these judgment notes, with
the proceedings had thereon, and the assignments of bills
receivable and accounts, were in effect but one instrument
and one transaction, and constituted a general assignment for
the benefit of creditors; and this, as plaintiffs insist, brought
the case within the ruling in White v. Cotzhausen, 129 U. S.
329, 342, in which this court, by Mr. Justice Harlan, said,
"that when an insolvent debtor recognizes the fact that be
can no longer go on in business, and determines to yield
the dominion of his entire estate, and in execution of that
purpose, or with an intent to evade the statute, transfers all,
or substantially all, his property to a part of his creditors, in
order to provide for them in preference to other creditors,
the instrument or instruments by which such transfers are
made and that result is reached, whatever their form, will be
held to operate as an assignment, the benefits of which may
be claimed by any creditor not so preferred, who will take
appropriate steps in a court of equity to enforce the equality
contemplated by the statute. Such, we think, is the necessary
result of the decisions in the highest court of the State."
On the other hand, it is contended that the Supreme Court
of the State has since that decision reached a different conclusion, and in support thereof reference is made to the opinion
in oung v. Clap, 147 Illinois, 176, 184, where this language

HARDT v. HEIDWEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

is found: "The thirteenth section of the assignment act does
not prohibit preferences generally, but only preferences which
are contained in written deeds of assignment voluntarily executed for the benefit of creditors. The language of the section is, that ' every provision in any assignment hereafter made
in this State for the payment of one debt or liability in preference to another shall be void.' A preference, given by a
debtor after he has made up his mind to execute a general
assignment for the benefit of his creditors, has been held to
be void upon the theory that such a preference must be
regarded as a part of the assignment. There is no such thing
as a constructive assignment contemplated by the assignment
act. That act does not take away the common law right of
a debtor to prefer one or more of his creditors. A preference may be given by the execution of a judgment note resulting in the entry thereon of a judgment." See also Schroeder
v. Walsh, 120 Illinois, 403, 412; Ieber v. Afick, 131 Illinois,
520, 533; National Bank v. North Wisconsin Lumber Co., 41
Illinois App. 383; and Americam Cutlery Co. v. Joseph, 44
Illinois App. 194; Ross v. Walker, decided November 27,
1893, by the Appellate Court of Illinois, and reported in 26
Chicago Legal News, 133.
It is insisted that this construction of the statute should be
accepted by this court as controlling, and the case of Union
Bank o.f Chicago v. Kansas City Bank, 136 U. S. 223, 235, is
cited, in which this court said:
"The question of the construction and effect of a statute of
a State, regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors,
is a question upon which the decisions of the highest court of
the State, establishing a rule of property, are of controlling
authority in the courts of the United States."
But we deem it unnecessary to enter into any consideration
of this question, or to determine whether there is any substantial difference between the views of the Supreme Court of
Illinois and those of this court, or whether in case such difference be found to exist it becomes the duty of this court to
defer to the opinions expressed by that, for there are questions
nearer to the surface and controlling& Even if it be conceded

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that there is not disclosed by this bill that which is equivalent
-to a voluntary assignment within the scope of the statute, and
that in the absence of restrictive statutes a failing debtor has
the right to prefer certain creditors, even to the entire exclusion of others, - ewell v. KEnight, 123 U. S. 426, 434, and
cases cited; Smith v. Craft, 123 U. S. 436, - yet such debtor
cannot, under pretence of preferring certain creditors, pay to
them sums largely in excess of their demands, and thus prevent
his other creditors from receiving any payment. Here the
charge distinctly is, that while Heidiieyer & Stieglitz claimed
to owe the preferred creditors certain sums for which they gave
judgment notes, and which judgment notes were afterwards
satisfied in full, yet the amounts in fact due to such creditors
were much less than those so named and paid; and that is a
wrong of which the creditors who receive no payment can
justly complain. It is unnecessary, therefore, to inquire
whether the transaction between Heidweyer & Stieglitz and
these creditors was within the inhibition of the statute or not.
While this is so, we are constrained to hold that the plaintiffs have not shown due promptness in asserting their rights.
It is said by counsel for defendants that it was the decision in
White v. Cotzhausen which enabled the plaintiffs to perceive
that they had been defrauded, and our attention is called to
the fact that the opinion in that case was announced January
28, 1889, and this suit was commenced April 23, 1889. Post
ho, propter hoc, is not, however, sufficient, and the rule of
-causation implies some other sequence than that of time.
lNevertheless, the plaintiffs waited nearly five years before
.commencing any proceedings to charge the preferred creditors,
.and no satisfactory excuse for the delay is shown. It is
well settled that a party who seeks to avoid the consequences
of an apparently unreasonable delay in the assertion of his
rights on the ground of ignorance must allege and prove,
not merely the fact cof ignorance, but also when and how
knowledge was obtained, in order that the court may determine whether reasonable effort was made by him to ascertain
the facts. Thus, in Stearns v. Page, 1 Story, 204, 215, 217,
-Mr. Justice Story observed:

HARDT v. HEID WEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

"General allegations, that there has been fraud, or mistake,
or concealment, or misrepresentation, are too loose for purposes of this sort. The charges must be reasonable, definite,
and certain as to time, and occasion, and subject-matter. And
especially must there be distinct averments of the time when
the fraud, mistake, concealment, or misrepresentation was discovered, and how discovered, and what the discovery is; so
that the court may clearly see, whether, by the exercise of
ordinary diligence, the discovery might not have been before
made. For, if by such diligence the discovery might have
been before made, the bill has no foundation on which it can
stand in equity, on account of the laches. . . . But the
bill does not state what particular discoveries have been
obtained, or when they were obtained, or by what inquiries, or
in what manner, or at what time."
On appeal this decision was affirmed, Stearns v. Page, 7
How. 819, 829, and in delivering the opinion of this court Mr.
Justice Grier laid down the rule in this language: "And
especially must there be distinct averments as to the time
when the fraud, mistake, concealment, or misrepresentation
was discovered, and what the discovery is, so that the court
may clearly see whether, by the exercise of ordinary diligence,
the discovery might not have been before made."
Similar declarations may be found in several subsequent
cases; Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95, in which is found
this quotation:
"The party who makes such appeal should set forth in his
bill specifically what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution of his claim; how he came to be so long ignorant of
his rights, and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him in ignorance; and how and when he first came
to a knowledge of the matters alleged in his bill."
Godden,v. -Drnvnell, 99 U. S. 201, 211; Wood v. Cavpenter,
101 U. S. 135, 140, in which this court said:
"A general allegation of ignorance at one time and of
knowledge at another is of no effect. If the plaintiff made
any particular discovery, it should be stated: when it was
made, what it was, how it was made, and why it was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

made sooner." See also Lansdale v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391,
394; Hammond v. Hopkins, 143 U. S. 224, 251; Felix v,
Patrick, 145 U. S. 317, 332; Foster v. Mansfteld, Coldwater
&c. Railroad, 146 U. S.88; Fisher v. Boody, I Curtis, 206;
Cart v. Hilton, 1 Curtis, 390; -Moore v. Greene, 2 Curtis,
202.
Tested by this rule, it is apparent that this bill must be held
deficient in not showing how knowledge of the wrongs complained of was obtained by the plaintiffs. It is alleged that
they were ignorant, and now have knowledge; and that they
acquired such knowledge within a month prior to bringing
the suit; but how they acquired it, and why they did not
have the same means of ascertaining the facts before, is not
disclosed.
What were the wrongs complained of? So far as the mere
preference is concerned, that was obvious. If the attorneys'
ubi supra; Hulse v.
fees were improper, Young v. 0,",
.Xfershon, 125 Illinois, 52, the fact that such attorneys' fees
-were specified in the notes and included in the judgments was
a matter of record. That the stock of goods sold at sheriff's
sale for less than its value does not, of itself, show wrong on
the part of the parties thereto, plaintiffs or defendants. No
act is shown tending to prevent a fair sale, and the result,
that of realizing less than the value, is a common experience
of such sales, and of itself proves nothing amiss. If these
plaintiffs failed to attend such sales, they cannot complain of
the result; and if they did attend, they should have seen to.
it that the property brought its value. At any rate, there
is no pretence of a want of knowledge on the part of these
plaintiffs. There remain, therefore, as the concealed wrongs,
only these matters: First, that the judgment notes were in
excess of the real demands; second, that lleidweyer & Stieglitz transferred their bills and accounts receivable in trust to
Florsheim, and that that trust included an individual debt of
one of the partners. That the plaintiffs knew of the existence
of these bills and accounts is shown, and their alleged ignorance is only of the fact of their transfer in trust.
Now, it is a matter of common experience that when there

SEABURY v. ABI ENDE.
Syllabus.

is so pronounced a failure on the part of a firm carrying such
a large stock, there is made by the creditors a thorough examination of the situation. That such an examination, if made,
would disclose any substantial difference between the true
indebtedness to these preferred creditors and the amount of
the notes given to them seems reasonably certain, and if no
such examination was made, it indicated indifference on the
part of the other creditors. If the plaintiffs relied on the mere
statements of these defendants, why did they cease to rely upon
such statements, and how did they become advised of their untruth? So, with reference to the bills and accounts receivable;
knowing what they were, they could easily have ascertained
whether they were collected, and if so, by whom. If collected
by other than their debtors, that fact certainly should have
provoked inquiry. If collected by the debtors, why were the
moneys received not appropriated in payment of other than
the preferred claims?
These are matters in respect to which the bill fails to enlighten us. Indeed, so far as disclosed, it would seem that
when the debtors failing, and failing for so large a sum, appropriated all their tangible property to the payment of a few of
their creditors, the others, including these plaintiffs, accepted
the situation, and made no inquiry or challenge of the integrity of the transaction for nearly five years. Such indifference
and inattention must be adjudged laches. Upon this ground
alone, and without reference to any other questions discussed
by counsel in the briefs, the decree of the Circuit Court is
.Affirmed.

SEABURY v. AM ENDE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 285.

Argued March 14,15, 1894.-Decided April 2, 1894.

The invention patented to Charles G. Am Ende by letters patent No.
181,024, dated August 15, 1876, which "had for its object to combine the
VOL. CLII-36

