OCTOBER TERM/, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Upon the trial of the case the jury returned a verdict for
the plaintiff in the sum of $7739, for which judgynent was

entered, and defendant sued out this writ of error.
3r. l. L. Crawford, for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief.
.Mr. Leigh Robinson for defendant in error.
M . JusTICE Buowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
There is no assignment of errors sent up with the record in
this case, as required by Rev. Stat. ยง 997, and no "specification
of the errors relied upon," as required by Rule 21 of this court.
This rule requires that the specification "shall set out separately and particularly each error assigned and intended to be
urged," and there is no such "plain error not assigned or
specified," as calls upon the court to exercise its option to
review the questions involved. It would seem that unless the
statute and rule are to be entirely disregarded, this writ of
error must be
-Dismissed.

GUMAER v. COLORADO OIL COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 50. Argued October 24, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

The court being unable, in any view that it can take of the evidence, to
reconcile the conflicting testimony of the witnesses respectively examined in behalf of the parties, holds that the evidence fails to show
that the complainant is entitled to the relief prayed for.

THE Colorado Oil Company, describing itself as a corporation organized and existing under the laws of New York,
brought its bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United

GUAMAER v. COLORADO OIL COMIPANY.
Counsel for Appellee.

States for the District of Colorado, on June 15, 1887, against
Augustus R. Gumaer, a citizen of Colorado, and the Florence
Oil Company, of that State, praying for an injunction to
restrain the defendant Gumaer from assigning or encumbering a certain leasehold estate, with certain rights and privileges
thereto annexed, and to restrain the defendants and each of
them from consuming any oil, gas, metal, or mineral from
the leasehold premises, or disturbing the complainant's possession thereof, or destroying its property thereon. The court
entered an order on the following day, restraining the defendants from doing any of the acts which the complainant sought
to have enjoined until the 27th of the same month, the day
set for a hearing of the cause. On that day it was ordered,
in accordance with the stipulation of counsel, that the restraining order should remain in force until the final hearing, and
that the defendants should answer to the merits on or before
September 15, 1887. On the 12th of that month the defendant Gumaer filed his answer, and on the 3d of the following
month the company filed a formal replication thereto.
A judgmentVro confesso against the Florence Oil Company
was entered on February 6, 1888. The cause as against
Gumaer was heard in the said court upon bill, answer, and
evidence, and, on December 22, 1888, the court entered a final
decree embodying the relief by injunction prayed for in the
bill, and ordering that a lease from Stephen J. Tanner to
Gumaer, dated October 6, 1886, be surrendered and delivered,
for the use of the complainant, into the office of the clerk of
the court, and that two other leases, dated respectively
October 12, 1886, and December 20, 1886, by which it appeared
that Gumaer had granted and demised certain parts of the
property to the company, be cancelled and annulled, and all
parties thereto be relieved from the conditions thereof. The
defendants appealed from that decree to this court.
.M. Thomas 3f. Pattersonfor appellant.
.Mr. E. T. Wells, .M'. . T. MoeNeal, and -Mr. John G.
Taylor', for appellee, submitted on their brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

IMR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Colorado Oil Company, a corporation organized under
the laws of the State of New York, and whose purpose was to
mine, produce, refine, and deal in petroleum and its products,
procured from the owners of lands, situated in the county of
Fremont and State of Colorado, leases authorizing said company to sink wells on such lands and to extract oil therefrom.
On or about the 13th day of July, 1886, the company appointed Augustus R. Gumaer, then a resident of Caion City,
Colorado, its general manager in that State.
Gumaer acted as general manager of the company until
December 21, 1886, when his resignation was accepted by the
company, through its vice-president, in a letter containing the
following terms: "In accepting your resignation as general
manager of the Colorado Oil Company for Colorado, I beg to
express to you the regrets of the company and myself in losing
your valuable services. You accepted the position when the
company was in a precarious condition. Under your able
management, its affairs to-day are in a much different condition, and prospects brighter than ever. - I beg to express to
you, for the company and myself, our thanks for the interest
which you have taken in our affairs; and I beg to express the
wish that our friendly relations may always continue."
On the 15th day of June, 1887, the Colorado Oil Company
filed a bill of complaint against Gumaer and the Florence Oil
Company, in which it sought to have Gumaer declared a
trustee for it as to a certain lease for oil lands in Fremont
County, which had been granted by one Stephen J. Tanner
to Gumaer in his own name, but in such circumstances as that
in equity it was the property of the company. The bill
further alleged that certain leases of portions of the Tanner
tract, subsequently executed by Gumaer to the Colorado Oil
Company, were in fraud of the company's rights in the entire
tract, and intended to operate as a fraud and deceit. It was
also alleged that the Florence Oil Company, organized and
controlled by Gumaer, had entered into possession of a part of
the tract.

GUMAER v. COLORADO OIL COMPANY.Opinion of the Court.

A decree pro confesso was taken against the Florence Oil
Company. Gumaer answered, averring that the lease by
Tanner to him was in his own right, and not as trustee, and
that the leases of portions of the tract to the complainant
had been made in good faith, and were binding, and that the
rights of the complainant in the Tanner tract were limited
and defined by those leases.
The cause was put at issue, and a large amount of evidence
was put in by both parties. The result in the court below
was a decree in favor of the complainant, declaring that
Gumaer had taken the Tanner lease in trust for the complainant company, and commanding the defendant to surrender
and assign the same to the complainant, and also to surrender
the leases made by Gumaer, of portions of said tract, to be
cancelled.
We are compelled to pass upon this case without the assistance of any opinion or findings of facts by the court below,
and hence it has been necessary for us to consider all the
evidence. The bill is definite and precise in its allegations,
and waives answer under oath. The answer, although without weight as evidence, is also precise and specific in its allegations denying the equity of the bill.
There is no view that we can take of the evidence that
enables us to reconcile the conflicting testimony of the witnesses respectively examined in behalf of the parties.
The principal witnesses who testified in behalf of the complainant were Jacob Wallace, president; Isaiah Josephi, vicepresident, and Simeon E. Josephi, brother of Isaiah, and who
succeeded Gumaer as manager of the company. Their testimony sustained in substance the allegations of the bill.
These witnesses were confronted by Stephen J. Tanner, the
owner of the tract in question; by Samuel H. Baker, who had
acted as attorney for Gumaer, and also, for a part of the time,
as attorney for the company, and by Gumaer himself; and
their testimony is, in essential particulars, directly contradictory to that given by the complainant's witnesses.
The principal matter in controversy is, whether Gumaer
took the lease from Tanner for himself, or whether he took it

OCTOBER TERTM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in circumstances that, in equity, prevent him from asserting
his personal ownership of it against the company.
It was shown that the lease of Tanner to Gumaer was dated
October 6, 1886, and when the latter was acting as general
manager of the company, and it was claimed that he procured
the lease by representing to Tanner that he was taking it for
the company. It was testified by Wallace that he had, as
president, directed Gumaer to procure additional leases, and
particularly of the Tanner tract. He denied that Gumaer had
informed him, before he agreed to become manager, that he
had a contract of any kind with Tanner, and he denied that
Gumaer had ever pretended to own a lease from Tanner. He
also denied that Isaiah Josephi, the vice-president, had been
authorized by the company to accept leases from Gumaer of
portions of the Tanner tract.
Simeon Josephi testified that Tanner had told him that he
had given Gumaer a lease, knowing him to be the general
manager of the Colorado Oil Company, and believing that the
company would carry out the conditions of the lease; that
when Isaiah Josephi came to Colorado in December, 1886,
and had learned that Gumaer held a lease from Tanner, he
demanded that it be turned over to the company; and that,
on Gumaer's refusal to turn over the Tanner lease, Josephi
had, in order to avoid jeoparding the fixtures and property
of the company that were on certain portions of the Tanner.
tract, accepted leases from Gumaer of such portions.
Isaiah Josephi testified that he had accepted the leases from
Gumaer under protest.
On behalf of the defendants it was shown that while it was
true that the lease from Tanner to Gumaer was executed on
October 6, 1886, after he had been appointed manager, yet
that it was given in pursuance of a contract in writing between Tanner and Gumaer, dated December 10, 1885, long
before he had any connection with the company, which contract gave an option to Gumaer to purchase the tract.
Tanner testified to the existence of the contract of December 10, 1885, between himself and Gumaer, and also that he
made the lease of October 6, 1886, to Gumaer directly, with-

GUAIAER v. COLORADO OIL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

out any reference to the Colorado Oil Company, believing that
be was able to execute the terms of the lease which required
him to enter upon the land and commence operations within
ten days.
Gumaer testified that he had a contract with Tanner, and
also with other parties, before he was appointed manager of
the Colorado Company; that he had informed Wallace, the
president, of his option for the Tanner tract before he was so
appointed; that he subsequently offered to give an interest in
the tract to the company on certain terms. He denied that
he had ever received any instructions, either orally or in writing, from the company to get for it any interest in the Tanner
lands. He also testified that he gave the leases to the Colorado Oil Company of certain parts of the Tanner tract, after
a conference with Isaiah Josephi, the vice-president, in full
and satisfactory settlement.
Samuel H. Baker, who was then acting as the company's
attorney, testified that he had learned from Wallace that
Gumaer had explained to him about Gumaer's connection
with the Tanner lands. He also testified that he was present
at the settlement between Gumaer and Josephi, vice-president,
and that the lease from Gumaer to the company was given for
"the purpose of adjusting a small difference between the company and Gumaer, and was received by the company as a sort
of compromise and settlement."
It must be apparent, from this brief statement of the testimony of these witnesses, that the principal matters on which
the complainant's right to relief depends are left in doubt and
uncertainty.
Nor are our doubts resolved in favor of the complainant,
when we turn from the irreconcilable statements of the witnesses to the letters and telegraphic messages that passed between Gumaer and Wallace, president of the company. On
the contrary, the impression made upon our minds by their
perusal is favorable to the defendants.
Thus, on August 21, 1886, Gumaer wrote a letter to Wallace, in which he distinctly adverts to his option on the Tanner
tract, and says: "My option does not expire before the middle

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of December, but I want to call your attention to the fact that
time is passing by, and after we see the result of No. 5, something must be done. I am confident that I can handle it with
Denver parties, but, as promised, I will give you first chance."
In a letter dated October 3, 1886, he wrote: "I will mak;
this proposition to the company : If you will sink one well immediately, one within a year and three more within the second
and third years, I will give you the right to put the five wells
on the one hundred and sixty acre lease that belongs to me, at
one-eighth royalty, and in such places as you may select from
time to time; however, this lease will not prohibit me from
leasing or sinking other wells on said lease." This was followed by a telegraphic dispatch, dated October 7,as follows:
"To

JACOB WALLACE, President, 304
New York:

Greenwood

Street,

"Six down five hundred feet. Ignore my proposition third:
make new one today. "tA.
R. GtuYAER, General
./nager."
A letter of the same date read as follows:
"OCA:Roio

CITY, COL., Oct. 7th, 1886.

"JACOB WALLACE, Esq., President.

"I wired you to ignore my proposition of the 3d, and that
see new one which I make, viz.:
"If you will drill two wells on Tanner tract, adjoining
Mcandless lease, say one in pumping distance from No. 6
and the other east side of said tract, and commence derrick for
third rig, I will give you forty acres of the McCandless lease,
all, at one-eighth royalty; that is to say, the three wells'
product and the forty acres, all for one-eighth royalty.
"You are not required to do any work on the forty-acre
tract; both leases are given for twenty years, or as long as oil
is found in paying quantities. .
"You understand, these are lands I have held options on
before I acted for the company. I consider this very valuable
territory, and I cannot get you as favorable a lease, considering

GUA-AER v. COLORADO OIL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

location, from any one.

.

.

.

Please wire me on receipt of

this whether to go on with the work under the above proposed
lease.

.

.

.

I will get ready, so that work can be pushed

rapidly upon hearing from you.

Do not fail to wire."

On October 11, Wallace sent the following dispatch:
"A. IR.GUME.ER, G. M., Caion City, Colo.
"Without consulting trustees cannot consent to lease at
more than one-tenth royalty.

"JACOB WALLACO,

.P 'e~ident."

Upon October 12, Gumaer telegraphed Wallace as follows:
"I accept proposition, one-tenth; have commenced work."
In this condition of affairs, Gumaer erected the derricks and
fixtures on those portions of the Tanner tract which subsequently he leased to the company when he went out of their
service.
This, and other correspondence which it is unnecessary
to quote, seems to strongly corroborate Gumaer's version of
these transactions. While it is true that the Tanner lease was
executed after Gumaer's appointment as manager, it was fairly
an exercise of the option to purchase given him previously.
Wallace's allegation that he had instructed Gumaer to secure
leases of the Tanner property is squarely denied by Gumaer.
It was claimed that the company had given Gumaer a general
power of attorney, authorizing him to make contracts and purchases, but the power, when produced, discloses that it merely
authorized him to take such steps as were necessary in defending the company against a pending suit.
Upon the whole, our examination of the evidence fails to
convince us that the complainant is entitled to the relief
prayed for.
We, therefore, remand the case to the court below, with directions to set aside the decree and dismiss the bill.

