OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Syllabus.

it may be laid down as a general rule, deducible from the
cases, that wherever, by the express language of any act of
Congress, power is entrusted to either of the principal departments of government to prescribe rules and regulations for the
transaction of business in which the public is interested, and
in respect to which they have a right to participate, and by
which they are to be controlled, the rules and regulations
prescribed in pursuance of such authority become a mass of
that body of public records of which the courts take judicial
notice. Without attempting to notice all the cases bearing
upon the general question of judicial notice, we may refer to
the following: United States v. Teschmaker, 22 How. 392,
405; Romero v. United States, 1 Wall. 721; Armstrong v.
United States, 13 Wall. 154; Jones v. United States, 131 U. S.
202; night v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161,
169; Jenkins v. Collard, 145 U. S. 546.
These are all the matters which we deem of importance,
and in them appearing no rror, the judgment is
Aftbmed.

KING v. AMY AND SILVERSMITH MrINING
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND

IN ERROR TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 169. Argued December 14, 15, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

'The side lines of the location of a lode claim, under Rev. Stat. ยง 2322, are
those which run on each side of the vein or lode, distant not more than
300 feet from the middle of such vein.
A line in such a location which does not run parallel with the course of the
.vein, but crosses it, is an end line.
When, in making such a location, the claimant calls the longer lines, which
cross the vein, side lines, and the shorter lines, which do not cross it,
end lines, this court will disregard, in its decision, the mistake of the
locator in the designation of the side and end lines, and will hold the
locator to the lines properly designated by him, as it cannot relocate
them for him.

=ING v. AMY & SILVERSMITH MINNG CO.

223

Opinion of the Court.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
Mi'. C. T. Holcomb, (with whom was -3fr. Walter H. Smith
on the brief,) for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. T7 W. Dixon for appellee and defendant in error.
Mr.

JusTIcE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff and the defendant are owners, as tenants in
common, of certain mining property in Silver Bow County,
State of Montana, known as the Non-consolidated lode mining
claim. The plaintiff owns three-fourths of the claim and the
The defendant is, besides, the sole
defendant one-fourth.
owner of the mining claim situated in the same county and
State, known as the Amy lode mining claim. Both claims
are located and patented under the mining laws of the United
States contained in sections 2320 and 2322 of the Revised
Statutes. The Amy claim was first located and has the earlier
patent.
The relative positions of these two claims are seen on the
diagram in the record, which shows the course of the vein
in the Amy claim upon which its location was made and the
boundaries of the two claims, with the length and direction
of each. The description of the two claims can be understood
only by reference to the diagram, as each line is given. A
copy of the diagram is produced on the next page, as without
it the description will be unintelligible to the reader.
The Amy claim has a surface length of 1470 feet, and its
side lines are parallel. The end lines are each 491 feet, and
they are also parallel. The surface location forms a parallelogram of 1470 feet running easterly and westerly, by 491 feet
running northerly and southerly.
The Non-consolidated claim lies adjoining the northwest
corner of the Amy claim. Its surface shape is that of a
triangle, the longest side of which joins the northerly side
of the Amy claim, and, commencing seventeen (17) feet from
the northwest corner of the latter, extends easterly four

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

hundred and eleven (411) feet in length. Its northerly side
line, commencing (on the northerly line of the Amy) at the
point where the first line terminates, runs in a northwesterly
direction three hundred and seventy-two (372) feet to the

point where it meets the westerly line of the lode, and extends
southwesterly from this point one hundred and eighty-one
(181) feet to the place of beginning.
The vein of the Amy claim, on its course or strike, passes

KING v. AMIY & SILVERSMITH MIIN-ING CO.

225

Opinion of the Court.

through its northerly side line, as marked on the diagram,
into the Non-consolidated ground; its apex crosses that line
184 feet easterly from the west side line of that claim, and
does not again enter the Amy claim. The apex of the vein
enters the south side of the Amy claim at a point within 600
feet westerly from the southeast corner of the Amy, and the
dip of the vein is to the north.
We have in this description of the claims in controversy
followed in a large degree that given in the brief of the
defendant's counsel, for the subject does not admit of greater
clearness of statement.
The plaintiff has brought this action for a partition of the
Non-consolidated claim with the defendant, according to the
respective rights of the parties, if that be possible; but if
the property cannot be thus partitioned advantageously, then
for a sale of the premises and a division of the proceeds
among the owners, in conformity with such rights.
As stated above, the vein of the Amy, of which the apex
lies within the surface lines of the claim, in its course passes
through the northerly side line, and enters the Non-consolidated claim; and it is alleged that the vein has been there
worked by the owners of that claim and valuable ore taken
therefrom.
The plaintiff, therefore, prays, in addition to
a partition or sale of the Non-consolidated claim, for an
accounting for his share, as tenant in common of an undivided
three-fourths of that claim, of the ores taken from the underground workings of the vein of the Amy after it had passed
into that claim, if any there were.
The defendant admits his cotenancy in the Non-consolidated claim with the plaintiff, but denies the taking of any ore
from the vein of the Amy after it had passed into its ground.
The first question for determination is whether the Amy
retained any right to the vein, the apex of which was within
its surface lines, after it had passed through its northerly side
line, or rather through the vertical plane running down that
line. If the Amy retained its right to that vein after it had
entered the ground of the Non-consolidated claim, it belonged
to the defendant as sole owner of the Amy, and as such
VOL. cL-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

owner he could not be called on to account to the plaintiff for
any portion of the ores taken from it. If, on the other hand,
the Amy did not retain its right to that portion of the vein
after it had passed into the Non-consolidated claim, it became
a part of that claim, and the proceeds of the ore there taken
from it would, with other proceeds of the Non-consolidated
claim, be the subject of an accounting between the plaintiff
and the defendant, the owners, as tenants in common of that
claim. The answer to the question must be found in the construction given to section 2322 of the Revised Statutes, which
took effect December 1, 1873. That section is as follows:
" The locators of all mining locations heretofore made, or
which shall hereafter be made, on any mineral vein, lode, or
ledge situated on the public domain, their heirs and assigns,
where no adverse claim exists on the tenth day of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, so long as they comply
with the laws of the United States, and with state, territorial,
and local regulations not in conflict with the laws of the
United States governing their possessory title, shall have the
exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the surfaces
included within the lines of their locations, and of all veins,
lodes, and ledges throughout their entire depth, the top or.
apex of which lies inside of such surface-lines extended downward vertically, although such veins, lodes, or ledges may so
far depart from a perpendicular in their course downward as
to extend outside the vertical side lines of such surface locations. But their right of possession to such outside parts of
such veins or ledges shall be confined to such portions thereof
as lie between vertical planes drawn downward as above
described, through the end lines of their locations, so continued in their own direction that such planes will intersect
such exterior parts of such veins or ledges."
The preceding section 2320 prescribes the extent to which
mining claims upon veins or lodes of quartz, or other rock in
place, bearing gold, silver, or other valuable deposits on lands
of the United States, may be taken up after May 10, 1872.
It allows a claim to be located to the extent of fifteen hundred feet along the vein or lode, but provides that no location

KING v. AMY & SILVERSHITH MINING CO.

227

Opinion of the Court.

shall be made until the discovery of the vein or lode within
the limits of the claim located; which is, in effect, a declaration that locations resting simply upon a conjectural or imaginary existence of a vein or lode within their limits shall not
be permitted. A location can only rest upon an actual discovery of the vein or lode.
The section also declares that no claim shall extend more
than three hundred feet on each side of the middle of the
vein at the surface; nor shall any claim be limited by any
mining regulation to less than twenty-five feet on each side of
the middle of the vein at its surface, except as prevented by
adverse rights existing on the 10th day of May, 1872, and
that the end lines of each claim shall be parallel to each other.
A claim located in conformity with the provisions of this
section would take the form of a parallelogram, if the course
or strike of the vein or lode should run in a straight line; but
such veins and lodes are often found upon explorations to run
in a course deviating at different points from such line. And
from this circumstance much difficulty often arises in determining the lateral rights of the locators.
Section 2324 of the Revised Statutes recognizes the power
of miners in each mining district to make regulations not in
conflict with the laws of the United States, or of the laws of
the State or Territory in which the district is situated, governing the location, manner of locating, and amount of work
necessary to hld possession of a mining claim, subject to the
requirement that the location must be distinctly marked on
the ground so that its boundaries may be readily traced.
It is evident from the provisions cited that the location as
made and defined must control not only the rights of the
claimant to the vein or lode within its surface lines, but also
any lateral rights.
Section 2322, cited above, declares that the locators of all
mining locations shall have the exclusive right of possession
and enjoyment of all the surface included within the lines of
their location; and also the exclusive right of possession and
enjoyment of all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their
entire depth, the top or apex of which lies inside of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

surface lines extended downward vertically, although such
veins, lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular
in their course downward as to extend outside the vertical side
lines of said surface location. The surface side lines, extended
downward vertically, therefore determine the extent of the
claim, except when in its descent the vein passes outside of
them, and the outside portions are to lie between vertical
planes drawn downward through the end lines.
The difficulty in the present case arises from the course of
the vein or lode upon which the Amy location was made. It
is evident that what are called side lines of the location, as
shown in the diagram, are not such in fact but are end lines.
Side lines, properly drawn, would run on each side of the
course of the vein or lode distant not more than three hundred
feet from the middle of such vein. In the Amy claim, the
lines marked as side lines, cross the course of the strike of the
vein and do not run parallel with it. They, therefore, constitute end lines. It is true the lines are not drawn with the
strict care and accuracy contemplated by the statute, and
which could only have been done with more perfect knowledge of the true course or strike of the vein from further
developments. But, as was said by this court in Iron Silver
.ining Co. v. Elgin JMining Co., 118 U. S. 196, 207: "If the
first locator will not or cannot make the explorations necessary
to ascertain the true course of the vein, and draws his end lines
ignorantly, he must bear the consequences." *Thecourt cannot become a locator for the mining claimant and do for him
what he alone should do for himself. The most that the court
can do, where the lines are drawn inaccurately and irregularly,
is to give to the miner such rights, as his imperfect location
warrants, under the statute. It cannot relocate his claim and
make new side lines or end lines. Where it finds, as in this
case, that what are called side lines are in fact end lines, the
court, in determining his lateral rights, will treat such side
lines as end lines and such end lines as side lines; but the
court cannot make a new location for him, and thereby enlarge
his rights. He must stand upon his own location, and can take
only what it will give him under the law.

KING v. AMY & SILVERSMITH MINING CO.

229

Opinion of the Court.

Acting upon this principle there is no lateral right to the
holder of the Amy claim by which he can follow its vein into
the Non-consolidated claim. Mistakes in drawing the lines of
a location can only be avoided, as said in the case cited, by postponing the marking of the boundaries until sufficient explorations are made to ascertain, as near as possible, the course and
direction of the vein. . . . "Even then,' the court added,
"with all the care possible, the end lines marked on the surface will often vary greatly from a right angle to the true
course of the vein, but, whatever inconvenience or hardship
may thus happen, it is better that the boundary planes should
be definitely determined by the lines of the surface location
than that they should be subjected to perpetual readjustment
according to subterranean developments subsequently made
by mine workers. Such readjustments at every discovery of
a change in the course of the vein would create great uncertainty in titles to mining claims."
Applying this doctrine to the case before us, it follows that
the vein in controversy, the apex of which was within the surface lines of the Amy claim, did not carry the owner's right
beyond the vertical plane drawn down through the north side
line of that claim. The Amy claim had no lateral right by
virtue of the extension of the vein through what was called
the north side of its claim, as that side line so called was, in
fact, one of its end lines.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana should
therefore be
Reversed, and judgment entered in favor of the plaintif,
for a decree of partition of the _Ton-consolidated claim
between the parties to the suit, who are owners as tenants
in common, provided such partitioncan be made with due
regard to the respective rights of the owners, and if it cannot be thus advantageously made, that thepremises be sold
and the proceeds divided according to their respective
rights; and further, that the respective parties render an
account of the proceeds received by them, respeotively,from,
the .'onconsoidated claim, and that such proceeds be
divided between them according to their respective rights.

