OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

time and in the proper way. Texas & Paci§o Railway v.
Southern Pacific Co., 137 U. S. 48; Caldwell v. Texas, 137
U. S. 692, 698; Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52; Leeper v. Texas,
139 U. S. 462.
The writ of error is
.Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
UNITED STATES v. STAHL.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 885, 886. Petitions
for rehearing. Distributed March 3,1894.-Decided March 19, 1694.

Under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473, an officer in the navy,
who resigns one office the day before his appointment to a higher one,
though in a different branch of the service, is only entitled to longevity
pay as of the lowest grade, having graduated pay, held by him since he
originally entered the service.
United States v. Alger, 151 U. S. 362, and United States v. Stahl, 151 U. S.
366, reaffirmed.

THESE were petitions for a rehearing of two cases decided
January 22, 1894, and reported in 151 U. S.362 and 366.
In Alger's case the petition said: "In this case the claimant
was appointed cadet midshipman September 22, 1876; graduated June 22, 1882, and promoted to midshipman the same
day; commissioned ensign June 26, 1884. He resigned November 10, 1890, and on November 11, 1890, was appointed
professor of mathematics, to rank from November 1, 1890.
The claimant was given credit on his commission as ensign
for his service as cadet midshipman and midshipman, and was
paid the pay of an ensign after five years of service, from
June 26, 1884, to the date of his resignation, but claims that
he has not been allowed credit under the act of March 3, 1883,
in the lowest grade, having graduated pay since he entered
the navy as professor of mathematics. The claimant sues for
the pay of a professor of mathematics in the third five years

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Argument for Petitioners.

from the date of appointment by reason of his prior service in
the navy, to wit, from September 22, 1876, to November 10,
1890, by virtue of the provisions of the act of March 3,1883,
and the Court of Claims gave him judgment for the amount
claimed, but this court has reversed this judgment as erroneous."
In Stahl's case the petition set forth a resignation, August
10, 1887, of the office of assistant engineer, and the appointment of the petitioner, August 11, 1887, as assistant naval
constructor.
XAt. William A. Xaury, for both petitioners, said, in his
brief, entitled in Stahl's case:
If the case had been orally argued, it is more than probable
that the attention of the court would have been called to
some important considerations of a public and general character which do not seem to have been mentioned or weighed.
In the first place, the act of the appellee in resigning his
commission as assistant engineer preparatory to his appointment as an assistant naval constructor was in obedience to a
requirement of the Navy Department as a necessary step in
an officer's transfer from one branch of the service to another,
and if the appellee had not been mindful of this practice by
sending in his resignation, it would have been required by the
department before issuing his commission as an assistant
naval constructor. This is conclusively established by the
letter of the Secretary of the Navy of February 28, 18941,
which, together with the letters that called it forth, is printed
at the end of this brief, and in which the Secretary states that
"it has been the invariable practice of the Navy Department
to require officers serving in one branch of the naval service
to resign from the navy before accepting appointment to any
other branch of the service." . .
In view, then, of this well-established practice, of which it
is conceived this court will take notice, the intimation, if not
direct imputation, in the government's brief that the appellee's
act in resigning was a mere subterfuge for a sordid purpose
VOL. c i-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioners.

was an unjust and unwarrantable reflection upon the appellee
and the other honorable gentlemen of the navy who are in his
situation, as well as disrespectful to a great department of the
government, and, no doubt, misled the court into some suspicion of improper conduct on the part of the appellee.
It is an equally well-known fact that in the Navy Department and in the navy generally it has been understood from
the passage of the act of 1883 down, that a transfer from one
branch of the service to another entitled the officer transferred
to longevity pay under the act, whether such officer had
already had the benefit of the act or not before his transfer.
In other words, the Secretary of the Navy, in the performance of his duty of interpreting and applying the laws appertaining to that arm of the service, has always held that the
proceeding of transferring an officer from one branch of the
service to another involved, first, a severance of all connection
with the service and then a refntry into it. And hence when
the appellee was transferred to the construction corps, his
name was placed at the foot of the list of assistant naval constructors in obedience to section 1485, Revised Statutes, which
provides that" The officers of the staff corps of the navy shall
take precedence in their several corps, and in their several
grades, and with officers of the line with whom they hold
relative rank, according to length of service in the navy."
In short, the appellee, so far as his rank or precedence in
the construction corps is concerned, was treated precisely as
though his transfer had been his first entry into the navy.
This is also established incontrovertibly by the letter of the
Secretary of the Navy of February 28, 1894, and the other
letters already referred to and hereto annexed.'
Letter of Assistant .raval Constructor W. L. Capps.
NAvY DEPARTMENT,
BUREAU OF CONSTRUcTIOx AND REPAIR,

WASHINGTON, D. C., February 14, 1894.
SIR: 1. A recent decision of the Supreme Court seriously affects the

status of commissioned officers who have resigned from one branch of
the service and have been appointed to another, inasmuch as it deprives
such officers of the benefits of their previous service in computing longevity in the lowest grade having graduated pay.

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Argument for Petitioners.

In his letter the Secretary says that "it has further been
the uniform practice to place the names of such officers [transferred to one corps from another] without regard to their
previous rank, at the foot of the list of officers in the new
2. The immediate effect of this decision is to reduce the pay of officers at
the head of the list of assistant naval constructors to an amount less than
that allowed their juniors in the same grade who entered the naval service
and the construction corps several years after those at the head of the list.
3. Moreover, in the case of Naval Constructors Armistead, Baxter, and
Stahl, and Assistant Naval Constructor Capps, it checks against their pay
the amount claimed to have been overpaid them by reason of crediting these
officers with their previous service in the line and engineer corps of the
navy.
4. The invariable practice of the Navy Department has been to regard
transfer from one branch of the service to another as a reentry into the
service, as is clearly shown by the department's requirement that officers
should resign their commissions before being appointed to another corps,
and placing them at the bottom of the list of officers of the corps to which
they are transferred, even though juniors in the line and engineer corps may
become seniors in the construction corps, as has already happened in several instances.
5. A similar method is in force in the army, where transfer from the
line to a staff corps involves resignation of the former commission and
necessitates an officer's going to the bottom of the list to which transferred. As in the navy, this sometimes results in a change of relative
position, seniors in the line becoming juniors in the corps to which last
appointed.
6. The above methods of resignation and transfer have been unquestioningly accepted by the officers transferred as just and fair, and the accounting officers of the Treasury and Court of Claims have, in the cases of
certain officers of the construction corps, allowed them the benefits of their
previous service and paid them accordingly, such pay having been received
for the past six years.
7. Should the present construction of the Supreme Court as regards the
status of these officers be considered final, it will work very great injustice
to certain professors of mathematics and naval constructors who resigned
their commissions in other branches of the service and were then appointed
to their present corps, believing that established rulings of the Treasury
and Navy Departments would not be disturbed, and that they would continue to receive in their new grades the benefits of their previous service,
and not be placed at a disadvantage as compared with their juniors in rank
in the new corps, who are also their juniors in length of service in the
navy.
8. In view of the above facts I beg to request permission from the-department to seek relief from Congress, and also request that in its endorse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioners.

corps. In such cases it has been the practice to require a new
oath of office to be taken, which is not required in case of an
ordinary promotion. It appears from the above statement
that the department has always held that such transfer conment the department may call attention to its practice in making such
appointments, considering them as reentries into the service, and may
make such other remarks as it may deem proper concerning the justice of
affording relief to the officers so injuriously affected by the decision of the
Supreme Court.
Very respectfully,
W. L. CAPPs,
Assistant Xaval Constructor, U. S. N.
The SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.
Letter of the Chief qf the Bureau of Construction.
NAvy

DEPARTmENT,

BUREAU OF CONSTRUCTION AND REPuIR,

VAsHInGTON, D. C., February 14, 1894.
SIR: 1. In forwarding the enclosed communication from Assistant Naval
Constructor Capps, I desire to express my hearty approval of any measure
which may afford relief to those officers who have been so unfortunately
affected by a recent decision of the Supreme Court.
2. If the present decision of the court holds, its immediate effect upon
the construction corps will be to place certain officers in a most anomalous
condition as regards pay, since it will reduce their compensation below that
received by those several years their juniors, and in October, 1895, the seven
senior assistant constructors will be receiving less pay than the assistant
constructor now at the bottom of the list, although the latter entered the
naval service from four to ten years after the above-mentioned seniors.
3. Naval Constructors Armistead, Baxter, and Stahl having been promoted, their present pay will not be affected, but their accounts will be
charged with the amount claimed to have been overpaid them as assistants.
Assistant Naval Constructor Capps, not yet having received his promotion
to the grade of naval constructor, will have his pay immediately reduced to
that received by the junior member of the corps, and in addition will have
charged against him the total amount claimed to have been overpaid him
by the accounting officers of the Treasury during the past six years by
reason of his having been credited with his previous service in the line of
the navy.
4. The above payments having been made by the accounting officers of
the Treasury in conformity with previous decisions of the Court of Claims
and the established rulings of the Navy Department as to reentry into the
service, it would seem a very great hardship to compel these officers to
make restitution of the money paid by the government's authorized agents,
in conformity with legal decisions, said payments having been received by

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Argument for Petitioners.

stitutes a reentry into the navy, and accordingly officers so
transferred have been placed at the foot of the list of the
corps which they enter."
Now, this practice of the department, of which the court
the officers themselves in good faith as their right in virtue of their previous
experience in the service.
5. I do not consider it proper for me to deal in the least with the question
of law involved, but in equity it seems that an unwitting injustice has been
done to officers whose high class-standing, special qualifications, and previous service caused their selection for appointment to other corps of the
service in the interests of the government, and yet who find themselves
after a lapse of several years deprived of all the benefits of their previous
service and placed in a worse position as regards pay than those many years
their juniors.
6. Aside from the interests of individuals involved in this case, I beg to
impress upon the department the urgent necessity of taking such measures
as it may deem just and expedient to rectify a wrong which would tend to
impair the efficiency of the construction corps by giving least compensation
to those whose greater experience and responsibility certainly entitle them
to most consideration.
Very respectfully,
PaII HICHBORN,
Chief Constructor, U. S. N., Chief of Bureau.
The

SEcRETARY O

THE NAVY.

Letter of the Secretaryof the Navy.
NAvY DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON, February28, 1894.
Sn: Referring to your letter of the 14th instant, forwarded through
the chief of the Bureau of Construction and Repair, in which you state
that the recent decision of the Supreme Court in the case of The United
States, Appellant, v. Albert W. Stahl seriously affects the status of commissioned officers who have resigned from one branch of the service and have
been appointed to another, inasmuch as it deprives such officers of the
benefits of their previous service in computing longevity in the lowest
grade having graduated pay, and ask permission to seek relief from Congress, I have to state that, after a careful consideration of the facts set
forth in your letter and in that of the chief of the bureau, the department
deems it entirely proper that you should seek such relief, and your request
is therefore granted.
In the decision in question and in that of The United States v. Philip R.
Alger, therein cited, the court holds that where an officer resigns from one
corps of the navy for the purpose of accepting an appointment in another,
his service is to be regarded as continuous service.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioners.

will take notice, seems wholly at war with the idea advanced
in the Government's brief that the appellee's service in the
engineer and construction corps is one continuous service;
for upon that theory we should expect to find the appellee
transferred to an equivalent rank in the construction corps
to what he had held in the engineer corps, instead of being
sent to the foot of the list, as he undoubtedly was.
In view, then, of this rooted and well-known practice of the
Navy Department, it is somewhat surprising that the counsel
for the government should have argued, with apparent couiThe chief of the Bureau of Construction and Repair, in his communication above mentioned, states that the immediate effect of this decision upon
the construction corps "will be to place certain officers in a most anomalous condition as regards pay, since it will reduce their compensation below
that received by those several years their juniors, and in October, 1895, ther
seven senior assistant constructors will be receiving less pay than the
assistant constructors now at the bottom of the list, although the latter
entered the naval service from four to ten years after the above-mentioned
seniorS."
It has been the invariable practice of the Navy Department to requireofficers serving in one branch of the naval service to resign from the navy
before accepting appointment to any other branch of the service, and it
has further been the uniform practice to place the names of such officers,
without regard to their previous rank, at the foot of the list of officers in
the new corps.
In such cases it has been the practice to require a new oath of office t@
be taken, which is not required in case of an ordinary promotion.
It appears from the above statement that the department has always
held that such transfer constitutes a reentry into the navy, and accordingly officers so transferred have been placed at the foot of the list in the
corps which they enter.
Under these circumstances, and inasmuch as a change in the practice of
the department in respect to the rank and pay of officers who by reason
of special qualifications and previous service have been selected for
appointment to other corps would result in serious hardship to such
officers, the department, concurring in the recommendation of the chief of
the Bureau of Construction and Repair on the subject, gives its approval
to your request for permission to seek relief from Congress.
Very respectfully,
H. A. HI-BERT,
Secretary of the Navy.
Assistant Naval Constructor W. L. CAPps, U. S. N.,
Navy Department.

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Argument for Petitioners.

dence, that the continuity of the appellee's service in the navy
was not interrupted by his transfer from the engineer to the
construction corps any more than if he had been promoted to
another grade in the engineer service. This line of argument
can only be accounted for as being the result of an apparent
failure of counsel to recognize the distinction between transfer
and promotion, which they seem to treat as interchangeable
terms, although radically different.
In doubtful cases this court is accustomed to pay no little
deference to the meaning placed on a statute by the department of the government whose duty it is to apply it to its
subject-matter, and it is respectfully submitted that it would
seem that under this rule of decision the meaning placed on
the act of 1883 by the Navy Department, ever since its passage, and supported by the judgment of the Court of Claims,
should be allowed controlling effect in the face of any doubt
that may becloud the meaning of Congress.
In view, then, of these considerations, now seemingly
brought to the court's attention for the first time, it is respectfully submitted, as an additional argument entitled to weight,
that it would be severe if officers who have been transferred
in the naval service and received longevity pay on the faith of
this long-prevailing interpretation of the act of 1883 should
now be compelled, upon a mere mistake of law, to refund
what they have honestly and innocently received as their due.
As the chief of the Bureau of Construction and Repair
says in his letter of February 14, 1894, hereto annexed, "the
above payments having been made by the accounting officers
of the Treasury in conformity with previous decisions of the
Court of Claims and the established rulings of the Navy Department as to reentry into the service, it would seem a very
great hardship to compel these officers to make restitution of
the money paid by the government's authorized agents in conformity with legal decisions, said payments having been
received by the officers themselves in good faith as their right,
in virtue of their previous experience in the service."
But, aside from the inexpediency of unsettling what has
been once settled, the interpretation here contended for

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioners.

should be adhered to, because, as we hope to show, it is closely
interwoven with the good of the service, while, on the other
band, that insisted upon by the government would, if carried
into effect, produce inequalities in pay which would be derogatory to the rank of the officers who have been transferred
from one branch of the service to another under the old view
of the act of 1883, and subject them to a demoralizing influence, springing from a sense of disappointment and of disparaging discrimination in favor of their juniors in the service,
and would, furthermore, tend to cripple the service by placing
a serious obstruction in the way of appointments in the
future from one branch of it to another.
To show, in the striking way of concrete examples, how unjustly the view of the statute contended for by the government would operate, let us take for illustration the cases of
Assistant INaval Constructors Lloyd Bankson and Richmond
P. Hobson.
Bankson, who was appointed from the rank of assistant
engineer on July 1, 1889, and who has been in the service
sixteen years and four months, all told, would draw pay under
the ruling of the court at the rate of $2200 per annum,
whereas Hlobson, who was appointed from the rank of naval
cadet on July 1, 1891, and who has been in the service eight
years and eight months only, is by the operation of the act of
1883 entitled to pay at the rate-of $2600 per annum. Thus
Bankson, who, by virtue of seniority, ranks Hobson in the
construction corps, receives $400 less pay, which must ever be
a solecism and a contradiction to the military apprehension.
By applying the interpretation contended for by the counsel for the government to the following examples taken from
the corps of professors of mathematics, it will be more manifest still that the act so construed will defeat the underlying
principle of longevity pay by placing a premium on leaving
the service and then returning to it after §ome considerable
interval with impaired efficiency.
In 1873 W. W. Hendrickson, a lieutenant commander in
the navy, resigned for the purpose of accepting an appointment as professor of mathematics, was so appointed, and was

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Argument for Petitioners.

allowed by the Treasury Department the benefits of his previous thirteen years' service. In 1877 H. D. Todd, who had
also resigned when a lieutenant commander, in 1866, but who
had spent the intervening eleven years in civil life, was ap- '
pointed a professor of mathematics, and he also was allowed
by the Treasury Department the benefit of his previous naval
service; but, under the view contended for by the government, the former officer would be deprived of the benefits
of his service in the line of the navy, while the latter, his
junior in rank, would continue to receive credit for all his
service and would thus have the higher rate of pay for the
very reason which should give him the lower.
It would also seem proper to bring to the attention of the
court the fact that there are only fifteen officers who could in
any way be affected by the recent decision of the court, and
they are officers who were appointed to their present positions, by reason of special qualifications, their previous service
in other branches of the navy being considered of great benefit to the government in the performance of their new duties.
In view of this fact it would seem a special hardship to deprive them of the benefits of such previous service in computing their pay, while other transferred officers whose service
was interrupted by a period of civil employment of greater or
less length and whose professional knowledge must have deteriorated somewhat in the interval receive all the benefits of
their previous service.
There would seem to be little room for doubt, therefore,
that the enforcement of this new reading of the statute would
necessarily have a disparaging effect on the rank of all officers
in Bankson's situation and would prove a source of more or
less demoralization, besides tending, as we have already said,
to hamper the service by discouraging transfers in cases where,
under the ruling of the court, the officer transferred would
not be entitled to a time credit on his new commission, because
an officer could hardly be expected to be willing to accept a
transfer which would entail such sacrifices. And this, it is
proper to remark, is a very important consideration in favor
of adhering to the old interpretation, for all 'ppointments to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioners.

the const-actiorn coi.ps are made from the line and engineer
cops and not from the civil walk.
The good of the service is for that reason deeply implicated,
in the old practice.
In his letter to the Secretary of the Navy of February 14,
1894, hereto annexed, the chief of the Bureau of Construction,
says:
"If the present decision of the court holds, its immediate
effect upon the construction corps will be to place certain
officers in a most anomalous condition as regards pay, since it,
will reduce their compensation below that received by those
several years their juniors, and in October, 1895, the seven
senior assistant constructors will be receiving less pay than theassistant constructor now at the bottom of .the list, although,
the latter entered the naval service from four to ten years.
after the above-mentioned seniors."
- Again, he says:
"I do not consider it proper for me to deal in the least with,
the question of law involved, but in equity it seems that am
unwitting injustice has been done to officers whose high classstanding, special qualifications, and previous service caused their
selection for appointment to other corps of the service in the
interests of the government and yet who find themselves, after
a lapse of several years, deprived of all the benefits of their
previous service and placed in a worse position as regards pay
than those many years their juniors."
It will be seen that the Secretary of the Navy, in his letter
hereto annexed, is in entire agreement with the chief of the
Bureau of Construction.
This court being powerless to reach the firmly rooted
practice of the Navy Department that treats a transfer as a
reentry into the service, that being a matter which falls
within the inviolable domain of executive discretion, it is
respectfully submitted that the only way to preserve consistency and avoid the anomalies and evils above pointed out
seems to be, by adhering to the interpretation placed on the
act by the department having full authority over the whole
subject, and a more intimate acquaintance with the bearings of

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Argument for Petitioners.

the act than any other expositor or department of the govern-"
ment could expect to have.
As there is no intimation in the law that the right to
longevity pay is dependent on any particular time duringwhich the officer has been out of the service when he last.
entered it, and as the officer transferred is during the interval
between resignation and reappointment, however short theinterval may be, as much out of the service, according to the7
settled practice of the Navy Department, as though he had
laid down his first commission without any expectation of
reappointment, it would seem that the court may restore harmony by giving the old interpretation its sanction without
doing violence to a single word of the statute.
But, aside from the act of 1883, it is respectfully submitted
that the appellee ought to have an opportunity to argue thequestion whether the United States is entitled to recover back
money paid him under a mistake of law and with full knowledge of all the facts.
This precise question was not raised by the counsel for the
government, and, it would seem, could not have been properly
raised in the state of the pleadings, the government not having
pleaded the alleged excessive payments by way of set-off, and
the claimant, being therefore completely without notice by the
pleadings that any such question as his liability to refund money
paid to him as compensation, under a mistake of law, would
be raised, should be allowed to discuss the question, especially
as it is res integra in this court.
The Court of Claims has held that the government cannot,
any more than an individual, recover back money upon the
ground that it was paid under a mistake of law. iledrick v.
United States, 16 C. 01. 88; see also -3iller's Case, 19 C. Cl.
338, 351 ; Palen's Case, 19 C. 01. 389, 394; JHartson's Case, 21
0.Cl. 451.
But this court has never decided the point, though it has
several times referred to it. United States v. Philbrick, 120
U. S. 52, 59; MeElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426, 441;
United States v. Burchard,125 U. S. 176.
It is respectfully submitted that the reasons above given

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

appear to be sufficient to entitle the appellee to a rehearing,
or, at the very least, entitle him to request the court to strike
from its opinion, in the case of United States v. Philip Ri.
Alger, the reasoning and observations in which are understood
to apply to the case of the appellee as well, the intimation
that it is a possible hypothesis in the case that the appellee
might have sent in a formal resignation "for the purpose of
eluding the statute and claiming longevity pay on the higher
scale."
Mn. JUsTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases were decided at the present term in favor
of the United States, upon the ground that under the act of
March 3, 1883, c. 97, (22 Stat. 473,) an officer of the navy,
who resigns one office the day before his appointment to a
higher one, though in a different branch of the service, is only
entitled to longevity pay as of the lowest grade, having graduated pay, held by him since he originally entered the service.
151 U. S.362, 366.
The principal grounds of the petitions for rehearing, and
the only ones which require to be noticed, were not suggested
in the briefs upon which the cases were submitted for decision.
Those grounds are that, by the settled practice of the Navy
Department, (as shown by documents now laid before the
court for the first time,) officers in one branch of the service
are required to resign from the Navy before accepting an.
appointment in any other branch of the service; the longevity pay of officers so transferred from one branch of the
service to another is computed upon the theory that the new
appointment is a new entry into the service; and the names
of such officers are placed, without regard to their previous
rank, at the foot of the list of officers of the same grade in
the new corps.
As it now appears that the resignation of every officer,
under such circumstances, is absolutely required by the Navy
Department, it is evident that no case of the kind could be
open to the suggestion made, by way of hypothesis only, and
not as applicable to either of these claimants, in the former

UNITED STATES v. ALGER.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion in Alger's case, that if such a formal resignation were
sent in for the purpose of eluding the statute and claiming
longevity pay on the higher scale, the attempt would be unbecoming in the officer or his advisers.
But the habitual requirement of such a resignation by the
Navy Department, as a preliminary to the new appointment,
puts beyond doubt (what was before in some degree a matter
of inference from the specific facts found) that each resignation
was tendered with no intention of leaving the service; and
confirms us in the opinion heretofore announced, that the
actual service of each claimant from the time he first entered
the navy was for a single and continuous period, within the
meaning of the longevity pay act.
If the meaning of that act were doubtful, its practical construction by the Navy Department would be entitled to great
weight. But as the meaning of the statute, as applied to these
cases, appears to this court to be perfectly clear, no practice
inconsistent with that meaning can have any effect. Swift
Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 691, 695; United States v.
G'arar, 110 U. S. 619; United States v. Tanner, 147 U. S. 661.
This case does not present for judicial determination (if it
could be so presented in any form) the question whether the
practice of the Navy Department with regard to the rank and
precedence of such officers conforms to section 1485 of the
Revised Statutes, which directs that "the officers of the staff
corps of the Navy shall take precedence in their several corps
and in their several grades, and with officers of the line with
whom they hold relative rank, according to length of service
in the Navy."
In the petitions for rehearing, illustrations are given of the
inequality of the operation of the longevity pay act, as construed by this court. But as that act, upon any possible construction, distinguishes the case of continuous from that of
interrupted service, it is impossible that there should not be
some cases of apparent disproportion in the allowances for
length of service. The duty of the courts is to apply the general rule prescribed by Congress. If injustice attends the
application of the rule in particular cases, Congress alone can

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

:398

Counsel for Parties.

afford a remedy,by changing the rule for the future, or granting additional compensation for the past.
Petitionsforrehearingdenied.
AIR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court
when these cases were argued, took no part in the decision
,of these petitio4,s.

'MURPHY v. PACKER.
,ERROR TO THE .OLROUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 10T. Argued January 16, 17, 1894. - Decided March 19, 1894.

-Evidence of the payment of the purchase money due to the State of Pennsylvania on a land warrant, clothes the person paying it with the ownership of the warrant, and with the right to maintain ejectment for the
land.
A recital in a patent from Pennsylvania to B of a conveyance by A to B
before the warrant issued, is no evidence against persons claiming under
C to whom ;%previous patent had issued for the same land upon the
warrant to A.
,When county commissioners in Pennsylvania buy in for the county land
sold for nonpayment of taxes, and the land, while owned by the county,
is illegally assessed for taxes, and sold for nonpayment of them, and conveyance is duly made to the purchaser, who remains in possession forty
years, the county is estopped from asserting title in itself.
'When a valid title to real estate in Pennsylvania becomes vested in a person
by reason of t4e ownership of a land warrant and his payment of the
purchase money to -the State, a stranger to his title, claiming under another and distinct title, cannot avail himself of the act of April 22, 1856,
Purdon's Digest, ,1064,11ti ed., with regard to implied or resulting
trusts.

EJECOTMENT.

'The,case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. Ri7 oets ,for-pjltintiff in error.
.-r.James Byo= for.df endant in error. .Afr. John 1. Ryon
sand IIT. S. .;T,
plvto ,were with him on the brief.

