HERRMAN v. ROBERTSON.
Statement of the Case.

HERRMAN v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 280. Argued March 14, 1894.-Decided April 2, 1894.
An importation of goods into the port of New Ydrk in 1881 being classified
under the first clause of Rev. Stat. § 2499 by the customs officers, as
bearing a similitude to manufactures composed wholly or in part of the
hair of the alpaca, goat, or other like animals, the importer paid the
duties demanded under that classification,- 50 cents per pound and 35
per cent ad valorem, - first protesting that the goods were " composed
of hair and cotton only, and as such should pay a duty of 35 per cent ad
valorem, as a non-enumerated article under the second half of Rev. Stat.
§ 2499, being the highest rate of duty which any of the component material pays." In an action brought by the importer to re6over the alleged
excess of duties so demanded and collected, Held, that this protest was
defective in that it failed to point out or suggest, in any way, the provision which actually controlled, and in effect only raised the question
which of two clauses, under one or the other of which it was assumed
that the importation came, should govern as being most applicable.

ACTION to recover duties paid under protest. Trial by jury,
and bill of exceptions as follows:
"This action was brought to recover the difference in duty
between 35 per cent ad valorem and various higher rates of
duty assessed and paid upon certain goods imported by plaintiffs at the port of New York in the year 1881.
"Duties were paid to defendant under protest as follows:
Against defendant's liquidation claiming 'The goods in question are liquidated by you as being liable to a duty of 50 cents
per pound and 35 per cent ad val.
"' We claim the goods are composed of hair and cotton only,
and as such should pay a duty of 35 per cent ad val. as a nonenumerated article under the second half of section 2499, Rev.
Stat., being the highest rate of duty which any of the component material pays.'
"Plaintiffs thereafter, in due time, appealed and brought
this suit.
"Further to maintain the issues on their part, plaintiffs

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Parties.

introduced samples of the goods in question and evidence
tending to show from an analysis their component material
to be calf hair and cotton exclusively. Among other evidence
on this point a report as to these samples from Prof. Torrey,
an expert witness, was verified by him, and on this point was
as follows:
"'The sample marked "0 386" by the Republic, August 12,
1887, found to contain 87.4 calf hair and 12.6 cotton by
weight.
"'The next sample, "292," Arizona, August 20, 1887, 86.6
calf hair and 13.4 cotton.
"'Sample 760, Alaska, December 1887, 88.5 calf hair and
11.5 cotton.
"'H. T. 2680, 85.6 calf hair and 14.4 cotton.
"'iH. T. 2759, 86.1 calf hair and 13.9 cotton.
"'The above samples were all composed of calf hair and
cotton, with no admixture of wool that could be detected by
the aid of the microscope.
"'(Signed H. G. Torrey, government examiner of textile
fabrics.) '
"There was no admixture of wool in the goods.
"It further appeared that the goods in question were a low
grade of calf-hair goods. It further appeared that they cost
less than forty cents per pound, the foreign value per running
yard being from one shilling and ten pence to two pence.
"Plaintiffs having rested, counsel for defendant, without
introducing any evidence, moved the court to direct a verdict
for the defendant; which motion was granted and the counsel
for the plaintiffs then and there duly excepted, and the exception was allowed."
The verdict having been returned as directed and judgment
been entered thereon, plaintiffs brought the case to this court
on writ of error.
Mr. Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
error.

HERRIAN o. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.
YFR. CMEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The claim made by the protest was that these goods were
dutiable, as non-enumerated, under the last clause of section
2499,1 at thirty-five per cent ad valorem, as being composed of
hair and cotton only, and the cotton chargeable at a higher
rate than calf hair. The report of the case, 41 Fed. Rep. 881,
shows, and it is so asserted by the government, that the goods
were classified under the first clause of that section as bearing
a similitude to manufactures composed wholly or in part of
"the hair of the alpaca, goat, or other like animals," as provided by the twelfth paragraph of class three of Schedule L,
section 2504, Revised Statutes, (2d ed. 471,) and therefore
dutiable at twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty cents per pound,
according to value, in addition to thirty-five per centum ad
valorem. According to the protest, the liquidation was at
fifty cents per pound in addition to the thirty-five per cent;
according to the bill of exceptions, at "various higher rates"
than the thirty-five per cent; and, according to the case as
reported, the exaction was at twenty cents per pound and
thirty-five per cent ad valorem. What the classification actually was is not shown by the bill of exceptions, but if it were
as reported, there is nothing in the record to overcome the
presumption in favor of the correctness of the collector's action, and A'thur v. Fox, 108 U. S. 125, would be in point.
But it is admitted that the Circuit Court held that the decis1 ,, SE. 2499. There shall be levied, collected, and paid, on each and
every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either in material,
quality, texture, or the use to which it may be applied, to any article enumerated in this Title, as chargeable with duty, the same rate of duty which
is levied and charged on the enumerated article which it most resembles in
any of the particulars before mentioned; and if any non-enumerated article
equally Vsembles two or more enumerated articles, on which different rates
of duty are chargeable, there shall be levied, collected, and paid, on such
non-enumerated article, the same rate of duty as is chargeable on the article which it resembles paying the highest duty; and on all articles manufactured from two or more materials, the duty shall be assessed at the
highest rates at which any of its component parts may be chargeable."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ion in Arthur v. Butter6led, 125 U. S. 70, applied and that
the goods were manufactures of hair, and as such provided for
by the clause in Schedule M, section 2504, Revised Statutes,
(2d ed. 476,) under the phrase "and all other manufactures
of hair, not otherwise provided for, thirty per centun ad
valorem," and therefore, being enumerated, were not within
section 2499.
The ruling in Arthur v. Butterfeld was that "goat's-hair
goods," composed of eighty per cent of goat's hair and twenty
per cent of cotton, came within the clause last above referred
to, and that "in the absence of a settled designation of a cloth
by merchants and importers, its designation as hair, silk, cotton,
or woollen for the purposes of customs revenue depends upon
the predominance of such article in its composition, and not
upon the absence of any other material." Counsel for plaintiffs in error conceded in argument that that case would be
applicable if these fabrics had been eighty per cent of hair in
value, but insisted that there was no proof that the hair was
the main element of value, and that it did not follow that the
relative values accorded with the relative weights. But the
bill of exceptions does not exclude the inference that there
was evidence of relative value or that counsel assumed that
goods consisting by weight of eighty-five and one-half to eightyeight and one-half per cent of calf's hair to eleven and one-half
to fourteen and one-half per cent of cotton were to be taken as
containing eighty per cent of hair in value as compared with
the value of the cotton.
The case was disposed of below on the question of the sufficiency of the protest, and that is really the only question for
consideration here.
The requisition of the statute, Rev. Stat. §§ 2931, 3011; Act
of Feb. 27, 1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 240, 247, as to the notice to be
given the collector, in order to recover back an excess of duties
paid, is thus expounded by Mr. Justice Clifford in .Dviesv.
Arthur, 96 U. S.148, 151.
"Protests of the kind must contain a distinct and clear
specification of each substantive ground of objection to the
payment of the duties. Technical precision is not required;

HERRMAN v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

but the objections must be so distinct and specific, as, when
fairly construed, to show that the objection taken at the trial
was at the time in the mind of the importer, and that it was
sufficient to notify the collector of its true nature and character, to the end that he might ascertain the precise facts and
have an opportunity to correct the mistake and cure the
defect, if it was one which could be obviated. Burgess v.
Converse, 2 Curt. 223.
"Two objects, says Judge Curtis, were intended to be accomplished by the provision in the act of Congress requiring
such a protest: 1. To apprise the collector of the objections
entertained by the importer, before it should be too late to
remove them, if capable of being removed. 2. To hold the
importer to the objections which he then contemplated, and on
which he really acted, and prevent him, or others in his behalf,
from seeking out defects in the proceedings, after the business
should be closed, by the payment of the money into the
Treasury. lVarren v. Peaselee, 2 Curt. 235; Thomson v. .axwell, 2 Blatchf. 392."
And this is reiterated in substance by Mr. Justice Blatchford
in Arthur v. .Mogan, 112 U. S. 495, 501, where he said for
the court: "A protest is not required to be made with technical precision, but is sufficient if it shows fairly that the
objection afterwards made at the trial was in the mind of the
party and was brought to the knowledge of the collector, so
as to secure to the government the practical advantage which
the statute was designed to secure." That was the case of the
importation of a carriage, claimed in the protest to be "personal effects" used by the owner "over a year" before importation, it being also stated that "personal effects in actual
use'" were free from duty, whereas the carriage came under
the head "household effects in use abroad not less than one
year." Personal effects in actual use and household effects if
used abroad not less than one year were alike exempt from
duty, and as the error was plainly clerical and could not have
misled the collector, the protest was held sufficient.
In Heinze v. Apthur's Executors, 144 U. S. 28, 34, the goods
were gloves made on frames and composed of cotton and silk,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in which cotton was the component part of chief value, and
were dutiable at thirty-five per cent ad valorem, less ten per
-cent, as gloves made on frames of whatever material composed. The collector rated them at sixty per cent ad valorem
as "ready-made clothing of silk, or of which silk shall be a
,component material of chief value," or "silk gloves."
The protest specifically stated that the goods were "partly
-cotton gloves mixed with silk," and "composed of cotton and
silk, cotton, chief part, the duty of 60 per cent being only
legal where silk is the chief part," and that the gloves were
liable to a duty of only thirty-five per cent, less ten per cent.
-The objection was that the protest did not state that the
,gloves were made on frames, and this court held, again speaking through Mr. Justice Blatchford, that: "It is entirely
immaterial that the protest did not specify that the gloves
were made on frames. It was sufficient to state that the
_gloves were composed of cotton and silk, and that the cotton
was the component material or part of chief value, and the
.silk was not the component material of chief value. The
importers were bound only to state, as they did, that the duty
,of 60 per cent was illegal, and why it was illegal."
In the case at bar, the goods were apparently classified
under the similitude clause, but that was not correct because
they were to be regarded as "manufactures of hair," and
-therefore enumerated.
But the importers also insisted that the goods were non-enumerated, and did not assert that they were not within the
clause relied on by the collector, save as it was objected that
they came under the last clause of section 2499, which was
likewise incorrect. The protest failed to point out or suggest
in any way the provision which actually controlled, and in
effect only raised the question which of two clauses, under one
or the other of which it was assumed that the importation
came, should govern as being most applicable. We agree
with the Oircuit -Court in holding the protest to have been
insufficient.
JAudgment affirrned.
'M.
JusTiOn-.JAoKsoN was not present when this case was
argued, and.took .nopart in its decision.

