KEOKUK & WESTERN RAILROAD v. MISSOURI.

301

Statement of the Case.

KEOKUK AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 182.

Argued December 21, 22, 1893.-Decided March 12,1894.

A railroad corporation, chartered in Missouri in 1857, with a provision

that its property should be exempt from taxation for a period of twenty
years after its completion, which took place in 1872, was consolidated
with an Iowa corporation in 1870, under a general law of Missouri, and
in 1886 the consolidated road was sold under a decree of foreclosure of
a mortgage to purchasers who conveyed it to an Iowa corporation. Held,
that the new organization held the Missouri road subject to the provision
in the constitution of Missouri adopted in 1865, that "no property, real
or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except such as may be used
exclusively for public schools, and such as may belong to the United
States, to this State, to counties, or to municipal corporations within
this State."
The consolidation of the Missouri corporation, under the Missouri act of
March 2, 1869, with an Iowa corporation, operated to extinguish the old
company, and to form a new one as of the date of the consolidation,
and the provisions concerning exemption from taxation in the old charter
did not pass to the new company.
A mortgagee is not bound by judgments or decrees against the mortgagor in
suits begun by third parties subsequent to the mortgage, unless he or his
representative is a party to the litigation.
A suit for taxes for one year is no bar to a suit for taxes for another year.
In order to work an estoppel, the operation of it must be mutual.

THIS was an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of
Missouri for the county of Scotland, by the State, suing for the
use of the collector of revenue for Scotland County, against
the Keokuk and Western Railroad Company to charge the
property then in its hands as owner with an alleged lien for
state and county taxes levied on the property of the Missouri,
Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company for the year 1886. The
Keokuk and Western Railroad Company, defendant, became
the purchaser of the property of the corporation against which
the tax was levied, in December, 1886, through a sale thereof
under a supplemental decree of foreclosure rendered July 8,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

1886, and by other deeds of conveyance made by the Missouri,
Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, and by the Central
-Trust Company of New York.
The answer set forth the following facts in defence:
1. That the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company
was chartered by special act of February 9, 1857, to build a
railroad from Alexandria, Missouri, in the direction of Bloomfield in the State of Iowa, to the northern boundary of the
,State of Missouri. The act further provided that the construc-tion of the road should be commenced within ten years after
the passage of the act, and completed within ten years there,after, and that "the stock of said company shall be exempt
from taxation for a period of twenty years after its comple;tion." By a subsequent act of February 19, 1866, the corpo-rate name of such railroad company was changed to the Alex.andria and Nebraska City Railroad Company. It appeared
.upon the trial that the road was completed to the state line in
December, 1872.
2. March 2, 1869, the legislature passed a general law,
.authorizing any railroad company in Missouri to consolidate
with a railroad company of an adjoining State, making one
.company of the two, "whose stock shall be so consolidated,
,under such terms and conditions and stipulations as may be
-mutually agreed between them, in accordance with the laws of
-the adjoining State in which the road is located, with which
,connection is thus formed." The fourth section of this act
provided as follows: "Any such consolidated company shall
-be subject to all the liabilities, and bound by all the obligations
.of the company within this State, which may be thus consoli.dated with one in the adjacent State as fully as if such con:solidation had not taken place, and shall be subject to the same
.duties and obligations to the State, and be entitled to the
-same franchises and privileges under the laws of this State, as
if the consolidation had not taken place." Pursuant to this
,act, the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company, on
May 3, 1810, consolidated with the Iowa Southern Railway
*Company, an Iowa corporation, under the name of the Missouri,
Jowa and Nebraska Railway Company, forming a continuous

KEOKUK & WESTERN RAILROAD v. MISSOURI.

303

Statement of the Case.

line from Alexandria, on the Mississippi, to a point in the State
of Iowa near Nebraska City on the Missouri River.
3. Subsequently, and on August 19, 1886, the Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railway Company was sold under a decree of
foreclosure entered in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Iowa, to Morris K. Jesup and
Henry C. Thatcher, who, subsequently, and in December of
the same year, conveyed the same to the Keokuk and Western
Railroad Company, defendant.
4. Defendant further set forth in its answer, by way of
estoppel, that, in 1873, plaintiff brought suit against the
Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Company to recover the taxes
for the year 1872, upon the property described in the petition
in this action; that defendant answered, claiming the exemption provided by the ninth section of the original Alexandria
and Bloomfield charter; that such suit was decided in favor
of the railroad company, and affirmed upon appeal to the
Supreme Court of Missouri, and reported in 65 Missouri, 123.
5. Defendant also pleaded by way of further estoppel that,
in 1881, one Secor and other stockholders of the Missouri,
Iowa and Nebraska Company filed a bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri,
praying an injunction against said company paying the taxes
alleged to be due upon their property in Scotland, Clarke, and
Schuyler Counties, and to enjoin the county court and" the
collectors of revenue from claiming such taxes for the year
1881, or any previous years; that a temporary injunction was
granted which was made final and perpetual, and which is
still in full force and effect; that in such suit complainant
claimed the same exemption contained in the Alexandria
and Bloomfield charter, which the court held to be valid; and
that such case was reported in 9 Fed. Rep. 809, Secor v.
Singkton.
It further appeared that a new constitution was adopted
by the State of Missouri in 1865, which contained the following provisions:
"Art. 11, Sec. 3. All statute laws of this State now in force,
not inconsistent with this constitution, shall continue in force

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

until they shall expire by their own limitation, or be amended
or repealed by the general assembly. 2 Consts. & Char. 1154.
"Art. 11, Sec. 16. No property, real or personal, shall be
exempt from taxation, except such as may be used exclusively
for public schools, and such as may belong to the United
States, to this State, to counties, or to municipal corporations
within this State." Ib. 1155.
Upon the hearing of this case, the Circuit Court of Scotland
County denied the exemption claimed by the defendant, and
rendered judgment against it for the taxes in question, which
judgment was affirmed on appeal by the Supreme Court of
the State, 99 Mlissouri, 30, whereupon, after an unsuccessful
motion for a rehearing, defendant sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. F. T. Hughes and -Mr.John F. Dillon, (with whom was
-Yr. Thomas De T'iHt Cuyler on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
'. John C. .Moore and Mrt . F. L. Schofield for defendant in
error.
MNi. JusTicE BnowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court
The question in this case is whether the defendant, the
Keokuk and Western Railroad Company, was entitled to
the exemption of its property from taxation contained in the
original charter to the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad
Company, of which road it is the successor in interest.
(1) It will be observed that the constitutional provision
upon -which the State relies for the enforcement of this tax
for the year 1886 was adopted in 1865, before the consolidation of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Company, under its
changed name of the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad
Company, with the Iowa Southern Company, which took
place in 1870, and before the completion of the road in 1872.
That the exemption from taxation contained in the original
charter to the Alexandria and Bloomfield Company would
have continued the full twenty years from the completion

KEOKUK & WESTERIN RAILROAD v. MISSOURI.

305

Opinion of the Court.

of the road in 1872, had such consolidation not taken place,
is, for the purpose of this case, conceded. Indeed, it was so
held by the Supreme Court of the State, in State v. .Macon
County, 41 Missouri, 453. The court, construing sections 3
and 14 of article 11 of the constitution, held the provisions of
section 14 to be a limitation upon the future power of the
general assembly, and not intended to retroact so as to have
any controlling application to laws in existence when the
constitution was adopted. See also State v. Cape Girardeau
Railway, 48 Missouri, 468; State v. Coffee, 59 Missouri, 59;
Atlantic &c. Railroadv. St. louis, 66 Missouri, 228.
The question then arises whether the Alexandria and
Bloomfield Railroad Company, whose charter contained the
exemption, is still in existence, or was dissolved by the consolidation, and a new corporation was thereby called into
being, which held its property subject to the constitutional provisions of 1865, denying the power of the general assembly to
exempt property from taxation. In the numerous cases which
have arisen in this court as to the effect of a consolidation
upon the existence and status of the constituent corporations,
it has been held that the question of the dissolution of such
corporations depended upon the language of the statute under
which the consolidation took place -the presumption in each
case being that each of the two lines of road will be held
respectively to the privileges and burdens originally attaching
thereto. Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460. If, upon the
one hand, the identity of the prior corporations is preserved, an
exemption from taxation, which one of them possessed, falls to
that portion of the new corporation to which, under its former
name, it had been attached. If, upon the other hand, the
consolidation worked a dissolution of the prior corporations,
their former privileges and franchises also ceased to exist,
Thus, in the earliest of these cases, Philadelphiaco. Railroad
v. -Maryland, 10 How. 376, it was held that the Baltimore
and Port Deposit Railroad Company, whose charter contained
no exemption from taxation, did not acquire such exemption
by consolidation with the Delaware and Maryland Railroad
Company, whose charter exempted the road from taxation,
VOL. CLII-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"except upon that portion of the permanent and fixed works
which might be in the State of Maryland." A general rule
was laid down in this case to which this court has steadily
adhered, that the taxing power of the State should never be
presumed to be relinquished, unless the intention to do so be
declared in clear and unambiguous terms. This case was
subsequently reaffirmed in the Delaware Railroad Tax, 18
Wall. 206.
In Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, it was held that
when a railroad company, to which, by its charter, an exemption from taxation was granted for a limited period,
was by act of the legislature "merged" in another company, which thereby became invested with all its rights,
property, and privileges, the exemption applied to the property
with its limitation of time, and although the company in
which it was merged had been granted a perpetual exemption
from taxation in its charter, this perpetual exemption would
not be extended to property so acquired, without express
words, or necessary intendment to that effect. In Central
Railroad v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, the act of the legislature
authorized the Central Railroad and the Macon Railroad "to
unite and consolidate" their "stocks" and all their "rights,
privileges, immunities, property, and franchises" under the
name and charter of the Central Railroad, in such manner
that each owner of shares of stock of the Macon road should
be entitled to receive an equal number of shares of the consolidated companies. It was held this consolidation was not
a surrender of the existing charters of the two companies, and
did not work the extinction of the Central Company, nor the
creation of a new company, and also that the consolidated
company continued to possess all the rights and immunities
which were conferred upon each company by its original charter. The Central Company having been exempted from taxation beyond a limited amount by its original charter, it was
held not to be within the power of the legislature to impose
an increased tax after the consolidation was effected; but as
the Macon Company had no provision in its charter limiting
its liability to taxation, the power of the legislature remained

KEOKUK & WESTERN RAILROAD v. MISSOURI.

307

Opinion of the Court.

unimpaired to tax its franchises, property, and income after
its consolidation with the Central. It was said in the opinion
of the court that "if in the statute there be no words of grant
of corporate powers, it is difficult to see how a new corporation is created. If it is, it must be by implication ; and it is
an unbending rule that a grant of corporate existence is never
implied." It was held that the act did not work the dissolution of the existing corporations, and at the same time the
creation of a new company, the court giving among other
reasons that there was no provision for the surrender of the
certificates of stock of the shareholders of the Central, and
none for the issue of other certificates to them. It will be
observed in this case that the road whose charter contained
the exemption from taxation was preserved intact by the consolidation; and it was held that its exemption continued,
while the other road was undoubtedly intended to go out of
existence; and as the Macon road held its property and franchise subject to taxation, the Central, succeeding to the
franchises and property, held them alike subject. Other cases
to the same effect, and holding that the act of consolidation
did not operate as a dissolution of the constituent companies,
are Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad v. Virginia, 941 U. S. 718 ;
Green County v. Conness, 109 U. S. 104; and Tennessee v.
TWhtworth, 117 U. S. 139.
Upon the other hand, we have held that the consolidation
acts of Ohio and Maine worked a dissolution of the constituent
companies and the incorporation of a new company, and that
such company was subject to intermediate acts declaring the
charters of corporations subject to be altered, amended, or
repealed by the legislature. Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319;
Railroad cornpany v. 2Maine, 96 U. S. 499. A leading case is
that of Railroad Company v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359, 362,
wherein two railroad companies, each of which enjoyed by its
charter a limited exemption from taxation, were consolidated
by an act of the legislature passed April 18, 1863, which
authorized a consolidation of their stocks, conferred upon the
consolidated companies full corporate powers, and continued
to it the franchises, privileges, and immunities which the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

panies had held by their original charters. It was held that
by the consolidation the original companies were dissolved
and a new corporation created, which became subject to the
provisions of a statutory code, adopted January 1, 1863, permitting the charters of private corporations to be changed,
modified, or destroyed at the will of the legislature. It was
further held that a subsequent legislative act taxing the property of such new corporation as other property in the State
was taxed was not a law impairing the obligation of a contract. It was said that the consolidation provided for was
not a merger of one company into another, and the case of
Railroad Company v. Georgia,92 IT. S. 665, was distinguished
from it in this particular. "Nor was it," says Mr. Justice
Strong, "a mere alliance or confederation of the two. If it
had been, each would have preserved its separate existence as
well as its corporate name. But the act authorized the consolidation of the stocks of the two companies, thus making
one capital in place of two. It contemplated, therefore, that
the separate capital of each company should go out of existence as the capital of that company." In St. Louis, Iron
1Mountain &e. Railway v. Berry, 113 U. S. 465, a like effect

was given to the consolidation of two roads by an agreement
which provided that all the property of each company should
be taken and deemed to be transferred to the consolidated
company "as such new corporation without further act or
deed." It was held that this created a new corporation, with
an existence dating from the time the consolidation took
effect, and that it was subject to constitutional provisions with
reference to taxation in force at that time. See also -McJakan v. Iiiorrison,16 Indiana, 172.

Looking at the act in question in this case, we find that, by
section 1, any Missouri railroad company whose tracks should
connect with the road of an adjoining State was authorized to
make and enter into an agreement with such connecting company for the consolidation of the stock of the respective
companies whose tracks should be so connected, making one
company of the two, whose stock should be so consolidated
upon such terms, conditions, and stipulations as might be

KEOKUK & WESTERN RAILROAD V. MISSOURI.

309

Opinion of the Court.

mutually agreed between them; that, by section 2, "such consolidation shall not be made, unless the terms and provisions
thereof shall be approved by a majority of the stock, or the
holders of a majority of the capital stock in each of said companies whose stock shall be consolidated;" that, by section 3,
the board of directors were authorized to adopt by resolution
a new corporate name for the consolidated company, and call
in the certificates of stock then outstanding in each company,
and exchange them for stock in the new company; and providing that a copy of the consolidation agreement, and the
name adopted for the new company, "shall be filed with the
Secretary of State, and shall be conclusive evidence of such
consolidation, and of the corporate name of the consolidated
company." It is difficult to see how the legislature could
provide more clearly for the extinguishment of the prior companies, and the formation of a new one, than by providing
that the two companies shall become one; that new certificates of stock shall be issued in exchange for the stock of the
constituent companies; and that the consolidation agreement
shall be recorded with the Secretary of State as the charter of
a new company. In our opinion this was the effect of the act
in question.
It is impossible to conceive of a corporation existing without stock, or certificates representing the interests of the corporators in the organization. Now, if the act provides that
these certificates shall be surrendered, and certificates in
another company issued in their place, what becomes of the
prior companies? Who are their stockholders - who their
officers? If the stock in the new company is sold, what
interest in the prior companies passes by the sale? There can
be but one answer to these questions. The property and
franchises of the prior companies are gone as much as if they
had formally surrendered their charters. The new company
may doubtless receive by transmission from its constituent
companies their property, rights, privileges, and franchises,
including any immunity from taxation; but it receives them
as an heir receives the estate of his ancestor, or as a grantee
receives the estate of his grantor, by inheritance, succession, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

purchase. The result is not a mere union or partnership of
two companies, nor the merger of the franchises of one in
another, but the extinguishment of one and the creation of
another in its place. Speaking of a similar act of Ohio, which
declared that the consolidated companies "shall be deemed
and taken to be one corporation, possessing within the State
all the rights, privileges, and franchises, and subject to all the
restrictions, liabilities, and duties of such corporations of this
State so consolidated," Mr. Justice Swayne observed in
Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319, 322, 323: "It [the consolidation] could not occur without their consent. The consolidated
company had then no existence. It could have none while
the original corporations subsisted. All -the old and the
new -could not coexist. It was a condition precedent to the
existence of the new corporation that the old ones should first
surrender their vitality and submit to dissolution. This being
done, eo instanti the new corporation came into existence."
It follows from this that, when the new corporation came
into existence, it came precisely as if it had been organized
under a charter granted at the date of the consolidation, and
subject to the constitutional provisions then existing, which
required (art. 11, sec. 16) that no property, real or personal,
should be exempted from taxation, except such as was used
exclusively for public purposes; in other words, that the
exemption from taxation contained in section 9 of the original
charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railway Company
did not pass to the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Company.
As was said of an Arkansas corporation in St. Louis, Iron
.Mountain&c. Railway v. Berry, 113 U. S. 465, 475, "it came
into existence as a corporation of the State of Arkansas, in
pursuance of its constitution and laws, and subject in all
respects to their restrictions and limitations. Among these
was that one which declared that ' the property of corporations, now existing, or hereafter created, shall forever be subject to taxation the same as property of individuals.' This
rendered it impossible in law for the consolidated corporation
to receie by transfer from the Cairo and Fulton Railroad
Company, or otherwise, the exemption sought to be enforced

KEOKUK & WESTERN RAILROAD v. MISSOURI.

311

Opinion of the Court.

in this suit." See also .Memphis & Little Rock Railroad v.
Commissioners, 112 U. S. 609; Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319;
Louisville & .LYashville Railroad v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244.
Nor was the exemption saved by section 3 of article 11,
providing that "all statute laws of this State now in force,
not inconsistent with this constitution, shall continue in force
until they shall expire by their own limitation, or be amended
or repealed by the general assembly." This referred to statutes in force at the time the constitution was adopted, the
operation of which is continued, notwithstanding the constitution. In this case, however, the exemption contained in
section 9 of the charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railway Company ceased to exist, not by the operation of the
constitution, but by the dissolution of the corporation to which
it was attached.
It is further insisted, however, that, under section 4 of the
act of March 2, 1869, there was a further provision that the
consolidated company should be "subject to all the liabilities,
and bound by all the obligations of the company within this
State," and "be entitled to the same franchises and privileges
under the laws of this State, as if the consolidation had not
taken place." Whether, under the name "franchises and
privileges," an immunity from taxation would pass to the new
company may admit of some doubt, in view of the decisions
of this court, which, upon this point, are not easy to be reconciled. In the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway v. .Miller, 114
U. S.176, it was held that an immunity from taxation enjoyed
by the Covington and Ohio Railway Company did not pass
to a purchaser of such road under foreclosure of a mortgage,
although the act provided that "said purchaser shall forthwith
be a corporation," and "shall succeed to all such franchises,
rights, and privileges . . . as would have been had
by the first company but for such sale and conveyance." It
was held, following in this particular Morgan v. louisiana,93
U. S. 217, that the words "franchises, rights, and privileges"
did not necessarily embrace a grant of an exemption or immunity. See also Picard v. Tennessee c. Railroad, 130
U. S. 637. Upon the other hand, it was held in Tennessee v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Whitworth, 117 U. S. 139, that the right to have shares in its
capital stock exempted from taxation within the State is conferred upon a railroad corporation by state statutes granting
to it "all the rights, powers, and privileges" conferred upon
another corporation named, if the latter corporation possesses
by law such right of exemption, citing in support of this principle a number of prior cases. See also 17ilmington & Weldon
Railroadv. Alsbroo, 146 U. S.279, 297.
But the decisive answer to this objection is that the legislature had no power, in 1869, to extend to a new corporation
created by the consolidation an exemption contained in an act
passed in 1857, before the constitution was adopted, and hence
that, under the terms of this act, we cannot hold that immunity
from taxation passed as a franchise or privilege to the consolidated corporation. The construction claimed by the defendant
would be directly in the teeth of the constitutional provision
that no property shall be exempted from taxation. While,
as heretofore observed, an exemption from taxation contained
in a charter previously granted could not be taken away by this
constitutional provision without the impairment of the obligation of a contract, it doubtless applies to all corporations
thereafter formed either by original charter or by the consolidation of prior corporations under the act of 1869.
(2) The question of estoppel remains to be considered. In
1873, the county of Scotland brought suit in th6 Circuit Court
of Scotland County against the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railway Company to recover the taxes of 1872 upon the property in question in this case, and was defeated, the court holding it to be exempt under section 9 of the charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railway Company. It was conceded
in that case that the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway
Company had succeeded to all the privileges and liabilities of
the Alexandria and Bloomfield Company. It appeared that
in the seventh section of a general act concerning corporations, which act antedated the charter of the Alexandria and
Bloomfield Railroad Company, it had been declared that "the
charter of every corporation that shall hereafter be granted
by the legislature, shall be subject to alteration, suspension,

KEOKUK & WESTERN RAILROAD v. MISSOURI.

313

Opinion of the Court.

and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature;" and that on
March 10, 1871, long subsequent to the charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield road, the legislature had passed an act
providing for the uniform assessment and collection of taxes
upon railroad companies. On appeal to the Supreme Court
of Missouri, that court held that the object of the general
corporation laws of 1845 and 1855 was to confer certain
powers and privileges and impose certain duties and liabilities,
in the absence of any stipulations or provisions inconsistent
with those contained in special charters subsequently granted;
that, if there were any inconsistencies in the charter of 1857
with such act, it must be understood that the restrictions of
this act were intended to be removed, for reasons satisfactory
to the legislature -in other words, that one legislature could
not bind its successors, and, if the legislature of 1857 thought
proper to disregard the provisions of the general act concerning corporations, there was no principle upon which such
power could be questioned. It followed from this that the
exemption from taxation contained in the charter of 1857 was
valid, and was a grant which could not be taken away by the
act of 1871, subjecting all railways to the payment of taxes.
The question upon which the case now under consideration
was subsequently decided, namely, that the Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railway Company did not succeed to the exemption from taxation provided in the original charter of the
Alexandria and Bloomfield Company, was not discussed in
that case, since the exemption was conceded to inure to the
latter company.
To the argument that this judgment constitutes an estoppel
there are two answers:
First. There was no such privity of estate between the defendant in the suit, namely, the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Company, and the defendant in this suit as makes the judgment in that case ,esjudicata in this. The mortgage of the
Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, under the
foreclosure of which this defendant purchased this road, was
executed June 1, 1870, and neither the trustee under that mortgage, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, nor the bond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

holders, whom this mortgage secured, were parties to that
action, which was begun in 1873 to recover the taxes of 1872.
While a mortgagee is privy in estate with a mortgagor as to
actions begun before the mortgage was given, he is not bound
by judgments or decrees against the mortgagor in suits begun
by third parties subsequent to the execution of the mortgage,
unless he or some one ;iuthorized to represent him, like the
trustee of a mortgage bondholder, is made party to the litigation, although it would be otherwise if the mortgage were
executed pending the suit or after the decree. A leading case
on this point is Campblell v. Hall, 16 N. Y. 575, in which it
was held that a second mortgagee of land was not estopped
by a judgment in an action between his mortgagor and a prior
mortgagee, rendered after the execution of the second mortgage, but might litigate the amount due upon the first mortgage, notwithstanding the judgment. Speaking of the rule
that a grantee is estopped by a judgment against his grantor,
because he holds by a derivative title from his grantor, and
cannot, therefore, be in a better situation than the party from
whom he obtained his right, the court observed: "This being
the reason for the rule, it follows that it can have no application except where the conveyance is made after the event out
of which the estoppel arises. The principle in such cases is
that the estoppel attaches itself to and runs with the land. The
grantor can transfer no greater right than he himself has, and
hence the title which he conveys must necessarily be subject,
in the hands of the grantee, to all the burdens which rested
upon it at the time of the transfer. On the other hand, nothing which the grantor can do or suffer to be done after such
transfer can affect the rights previously vested in the grantee."
See also Mathes v. Cover, 43 Iowa, 512; Bryan v. .Aalloy, 90
N. 0. 508; Scates v. -07g, 110 Illinois, 456; Dooley v. Potter,
140 Mass. 49; Coles v. Allen, 64 Alabama, 98; Todd v. Flournoy, 56 Alabama, 99; Shay v. MoNamara, 54 California, 169.
Second. A suit for taxes for one year is no bar to a suit for
taxes for another year. The two suits are for distinct and separate causes of action. If there were any distinct question
litigated and settled in the prior suit, the decision of the court

KEOKUK & WESTERN R&ILROAD v. -MISSOURI. 315
Opinion of the Court.

upon that question might raise an estoppel in another suit upon
the principle stated in Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351.
But, as was held in that case, where the second action between
the same parties is upon a different claim or demand, the judgment in the prior action operates as an estoppel only as to
those matters in issue or points controverted, upon the determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered. This
was an action upon certain bonds and coupons issued by the
county of Sac. Defendant pleaded a judgment rendered in
favor of the county in a prior action brought by one Smith
upon earlier coupons upon the same bonds, accom0panied by
proof that the plaintiff Cromwell was at the time the owner
of the coupons in that action, and that the suit was prosecuted
for his sole use and benefit. The court held that there was a
difference between the effect of a judgment as a bar or estoppel against the prosecution of a second action upon the same
claim or demand, and its effect as an estoppel in another action
between the same parties upon a different claim or cause of
action. It was said that "it is not believed there are any cases
going to the extent that because in the prior action a different
question from that actually determined might have arisen and
been litigated, therefore such possible question is to be considered as excluded from consideration in a second action between
the same parties on a different demand, although loose remarks
looking in that direction may be found in some opinions."
The same principle was reaffirmed in Yresbit v. Riverside Independent .District,144 U. S.610, and Wilmington & Weldon
.Railroadv. Alsbrook, 146 U. S.279, 302. In the case of -Davenport v. Chicago, Rock Island &c. Railway, 38 Iowa, 633,
640, the Supreme Court of Iowa held that a decree in favor of
a railway company in a suit for taxes for a prior year would
not estop the State from collecting the taxes for a subsequent
year, each year's taxes constituting a distinct and separate
cause of action. "The cases," said the court, "are unlike
those where two causes of action, (as two promissory notes,)
forming the subject-matter of successive actions between the
same parties, both growing out of the same transaction, in
which a defence set up in the- first suit, and held good, will

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.
conclude the parties in the second.

.

.

Taxes of separate

years do not in any just sense grow out of the same transaction. They are like distinct claims on two promissory notes
made upon two distinct and separate, though similar, transactions between the same parties. A judgment on one of such
notes, it is quite clear, would not be of any force as an estoppel
in an action on the other note between the same parties." It
could never be tolerated that the State should be forever barred
in its collection of taxes by an erroneous decision.
Nor did the judgment in that case establish a rule of property upon which the plaintiff was entitled to rely, and upon
the faith of which it claims to have purchased the road, inasiuch as it appears that the point upon which this case
turns, namely, the right of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railway Company to the exemption ,in the original charter
was conceded in that case, and the only rule of property established was that the Alexandria and Bloomfield Company was
entitled to such exemption, notwithstanding the general act
concerning corporations enacted prior thereto, which declared
that the charter of every corporation should be subject to
alteration or repeal, and the act of March 10, 1871, which
provided a general law for the collection of taxes from railway companies. This, if anything, was the rule of property
declared in that case; and as this rule is not relied upon in
this case, and the tax is defended upon a ground not put
in issue there, but conceded by counsel in favor of the company, it is difficult to see how that case can be regarded as
establishing any rule of property of which the defendant
can avail itself in this action.
(3) What is known as the Secor decree was obtained in
a suit brought by Secor and other stockholders of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway against the company
itself, and also against the county court and officers of certain counties to enjoin the collection of taxes for 1881, or
any previous years. The case was decided upon the authority of the above case of Scotland County v. Railroad Co.,
65 Missouri, 123, and an injunction granted in pursuance of
the prayer of the bill. In addition to the fact above stated

KEOKUK RAILROAD

'v.

SCOTLAND COUNTY.

317

Opinion of the Court.

that a suit for taxes for one year is not an estoppel to a suit
for taxes for a different year, there is the same absence
of that privity of estate so indispensable to an effective
estoppel, which we hold to be fatal in respect to the judgment in the state court. If the plaintiff herein, the Keokuk
and Western Railroad Company, would not have been
affected by an adverse decree in the Secor suit, it cannot
take advantage of the same by way of estoppel. The opera"tion of an estoppel must be mutual.
There was no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Missouri, and it is therefore

_Afimed.
MR.JUSTICE ]HARI.Ax and

Mr..

JusTiE

BREWER dissented.

KEOKUK AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v.
SCOTLAND COUNTY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 183. Argued December 21, 22, 1893.-Decided March 12, 1894.

Keokuk & Western Railroad Company v. 2lissouri, ante, 301, followed.

Tis was a bill to enjoin the county courts and collectors
of revenue for the counties of Clarke, Scotland, and Schuyler,
in the State of Missouri, from levying and collecting taxes on
the railway property owned by the plaintiff in these counties.
-Mr. Felix T. Hughes and .M'r. John F. -Dillon, (with whom
was .Ar'. Thomas Mitt Cuyler on the brief,) for appellant.
Xlr. F. L. Sohofe&, (with whom were _Y'. John A. Whiteside and M1r. T. Z. 2Jontgomery on the brief,) for appellees.
MR.JUSTIOE BROWN

delivered the opinion of the court.

