OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN

ET AL.,

292 U.S.

TRUSTEES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 565.

Argued March 7, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.

1. Marriages not polygamous or incestuous, or otherwise declared
void by statute, will, if valid by the law of the State where entered
into, be recognized as valid in every other jurisdiction. P. 223.
2. A statute of the domicile forbidding remarriage of a spouse
divorced for adultery, has only territorial effect and does not
invalidate a marriage solemnized in another State in conformity
with the laws thereof. Code, D.C., § 966. P. 223.
3. Section 1287 of the Code of the District of Columbia, providing
that if any marriage declared illegal "by the foregoing sections "
shall be entered into in another jurisdiction by persons having and
retaining their domicile in the District, such marriage shall be
deemed illegal, etc., refers to preceding sections dealing with void
or voidable marriages, and not to § 966, which deals with divorce
a vinculo on the ground of adultery and provides that only the
innocent party may remarry. P. 223.
4. A woman who, while domiciled in the District of Columbia, was
-r divorced for her adultery with a resident of the District and was
forbidden to remarry there by § 966 of the District Code, but who
was afterwards lawfully married to him in a State, became upon
his death his lawful widow and entitled to dower in his real-property in the District. P. 225.
5. The full faith and credit clause held applicable to a decree of
alimony rendered in a State and sought to be enforced in the
District of Columbia. P. 227.
6. The mere fact that a woman was, while a resident of the District
of Columbia, divorced there on the ground of adultery, with the
result that, by D.C. Code, § 966, she was forbidden to remarry in
that jurisdiction, affords no procedural obstacle to her assertion in
the cou*rts of the District of rights to dower arising from her
subsequent marriage with the co-adulterer, solemnized in another
jurisdiction, and of her rights under a judgment 'for alimony
recovered against him in another jurisdiction. P. 228.
62 App.D.C. 262; 66 F. (2d) 567, reversed.

290 U.S. 621, to review the reversal of a
decree for dower.
CERTIORARI,

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

217

Argument for Respondents.

Mr. Robert H. McNeill for petitioner.
Mr. Wm.E. Leahy, with whom Messrs. Wm.J. Hughes,
Jr., Eugene B. Sullivan, and James F. Reilly were on the
brief, for respondents.
As the answer denied that plaintiff became a bona fide
resident of Florida, and that the marriage in Florida was
in good faith, the only question submitted to tue Court is
whether a residence in Florida acquired in bad faith, and
a marriage in bad faith, must be recognized by the District of Columbia courts.
Not only therefore. does the record show that defendants
denied that plaintiff acquired a bo"ia fide domicile in
Florida, but other facts in the record show that it is unlikely that she could have acquired a bona fide residence
in Florida within the short time which elapsed between
the date she was adjudged guilty of adultery with Lougliran and the date she married him.
The good faith of the Florida residence and marriage
being denied, the present case is exactly like Olverson v.
Olverson, 54 App.D.C. 48, followed by the court below.
The full faith and credit clause does not require the
District of Columbia courts, to recognize a marriage in
violation of the public policy of the District of Columbia
itself. It does not apply in the District of Columbia; in
so far as it is effective, it operates in the District only by
reason of a federal statute. Act of March 27, 1804; 28
U.S.C., § 687.
The full faith and credit clause does not require the
courts of a given jurisdiction to recognize a public act or
record of another jurisdiction which is contrary to the
public policy of the State of the forum. Simmons v.
Simmons, 57 App.D.C. 216.
It is difficult to conceive how § 966 of the D.C. Code
can be construed other than as a declaration of 'public
policy. The legislative history of that section shows that
it is so.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondents.

292 U. S.

The divorce law of the District both as to length of
time for residence and also in limiting the causes of
divorce to adultery, is one of the most stringent in the
country.
The Court of Appeals has not declared the public policy
of this jurisdiction; it has merely taken cognizance of
and applied an Act of Congress which does so.
It seems to be conceded by petitioner's counsel that if
the marriage in the present case were a polygamous, incestuous or an abhorrent marriage, the full faith and
credit clause would not require it to be recognized in the
District even though it had been entered into in Florida..
Am.L.Inst., Restatement of the Law of Marriage and
Divorce, §§ 137, 138, 139, 142. The foregoing sections
of the Restatement are of interest in the present case for
the reason that Congress in enacting the District of Columbia Code has put the marriage of persons whose previous marriage has not been terminated by divorce in
exactly the same classification as incestuous and polygamous marriages. D.C. Code, c. 43, § 1283. If the marriage has not been terminated by death or a decree of
divorce, it is in exactly the same classification as an
incestuous marriage.
The marriage of plaintiff to Daye was not terminated
by a decree of divorce within the meaning of the word
"terminate" as used in § 1283.
A further indication that the marriage has not been
terminated in any absolute or complete sense is the fact
that § 966 prohibiting the remarriage of a guilty party
does not in so many words prescribe a penalty: It must
be. presumed that Congress enacted this with some intelligent purpose in mind and intended to make it as effective
as it reasonably could. If it be conceded that it prescribes
no penalty, and if it does not impinge-upon the completeness of the decree of divorce, it follows that it is ineffec-

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

Argument for Respondents.

tive for any purpose whatsoever. *The only rational
interpretation of this section is that it is a statutory
provision which is read into the decree of divorce in an
applicable, case, and that it deprives that decree of the
absoluteness and completeness which it would otherwise
have.
It should be noted also that the proviso of § 966 to the
effect that only the innocent party may. remarry is contained in the very section which conveys power upon the
court to graht a diirorce. Certainly it can not be contended that a court of the District could, in the teeth of
§ 966, pass a decree of divorce authorizing the guilty
party to remarry. This being so, the reservation of the
right of the guilty party to remarry is a limitation upon
the power of the court to terminate a marriage by divorce.
The importance of whether plaintiff's marriage has
been terminated within the meaning of § 1283 becomes
clear when it is considered that § 1287 of the District of
Columbia Code makes illegal in the District any marriage
of persons domiciled in the District, if celebrated outside
of the District, which marriage is illegal inside the
District.
A court of equity has the right to deny equitable relief
to one who has deliberately created a situation contrary
to the public policy of the lex fori.
Petitioner herein, in equity, seeks the remedy of the
District of Columbia court, whose decree in personam she
has flouted and ignored. Her claim for dower is founded
upon a marriage prohibited by a statute of the jurisdiction in which she seeks relief. Armstrong v. Toler, 11
Wheat. 258; Hall v. Coppelt, 7 Wall. 542; Oscanyan v.
ArmB Co., 103 U.S. 261; Higgins v. McCrea, 116 U.S. 671;
Hunter v. Wheate, 53 App.D.C. 206; Olverson v. Olverson, 54 App.D.C. 48; Morck v. Abel, 3 B. & P. 35; Collins
v. Blanterm, 1 Smith's Lead. Cas., Pt. 2, p. 716; Vandyck

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondents.

292 U. S.

V. Hewitt, 1 East. 96; Clugas v. Penaluna, 4 T.R. 466;
Weymel v. Read, 5 T.R. 599; Montefiori v. Montefiori,
1 W. Black. 363; Wilde v. Wilde, 37 Neb. 891; Lanktree
v. Lanktree, 42 Cal. App. 648; Beard v. Beard, 65 Cal. 354.
No principle seems to be better settled than that no
court will lend its aid to one who founds his cause of action upon an illegal act. The good faith of the alleged
Florida residence and the marriage therein being denied,
the petitioner appeared in the court below as one whose
position was created by reason of her violation of § 966,
a positive law of the District of Columbia.. Upon that
ground, the court refused to lend to her its aid. The
status she created was prohibited by law, on this present
record.
Many cases are cited by petitioner to the effect that a
marriage valid where performed is valid everywhere. To
this rule there are exceptions as well known as the rule
itself. Of these the most important is a marriage which
the legislature, either by express terms or necessary implication, has declared to be invalid because of the public
policy of the enacting State. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U.S.
190.
If the statute prohibiting the remarriage of the guilty
party in divorce actions, contrary to the statute of the
forum, is interpreted as an expression of the public policy
of the enacting State, then a subsequent remarriage in.
another jurisdiction is invalid in the enacting State, notwithstanding the lex loci of the second jurisdiction. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U.S. 14; Haddock v. Haddock, 201
U.S. 564; Georgiav. Tutty, 41 Fed. 753; Jackson v. Jackson, 82 Md. 17; Simmons v. Simmons, 57 App.D.C. 216;
Pennegarv. Tennessee, 87 Tenn. 244; Williams v. Oates,
27 N.C. 535; In re Stulls Estate, 183 Pa. 625; Heflinger
v.. Heflinger, 136 Va. 289. See also, Restatement of the
Law of Contracts, Am.L.Inst., § 142, p. 181.

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

MR.

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on certiorari to the Court 5f Appeals
of the District of Columbia. It is a suit in equity brought
in the Supreme Court of the District in 1932, by Ruth
Loughran, then resident there. The defendants are John
Loughran and others, trustees of real estate there located.
The estate of Daniel Loughran, Jr., deceased, is a beneficiary. The plaintiff alleges that she is Daniel's widow;
and she seeks to enforce, as such, rights in the nature of
dower and to recover unpaid alimony. She alleges that in
1926 she married Daniel in Florida after living there more
than two years; that in 1927 she and her said husband
established their domicile in Virginia; that in 1929, while
they were residing in Virginia, she obtained there a decree
of divorce from him a mensa et thoro, with an award of
alimony payable monthly; and that in 1931, while she
remained Daniel's wife, he .died, leaving a part of the
alimony unpaid.
The trustees defend on the ground that before her marriage to Daniel, the plaintiff had been married to Henry
Daye; that in 1924, while she and Daye were domiciled in
the District, he had secured there an absolute divorce for
her adultery with Daniel; that being the guilty party, she
was by § 966 of the Code of the District prohibited from
remarrying; and that, having remarried in violation of
the statute, she is not in a position to enforce in a court
of the District the alleged rights in the estate of the deceased. A copy of the record of the Daye divorce proceeding -is annexed to the answer.
Section 966 provides:
"A divorce from the bond of marriage may be granted
only where one of the parties has committed adultery
during the marriage: Provided, That in such case the

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of. the Court.

292 U.S.

innocent party only may remarry, but nothing herein
contained shall prevent the remarriage of the divorced
parties to each other: . . ."
On motion of the plaintiff, the case' was heard on bill
and answer. The trial court entered a decree for the
plaintiff in respect to the claim in the nature of dower.
That decree was reversed by the Court of Appeals of the
District. It ordered that the cause be remanded to the
lower court for further proceedings not inconsistent with
the opinion, 62 App.D.C. 262, 263; 66 F. (2d) 567, 569,
saying:
"It is unnecessary for us to concern ourselves with the
legality of the Florida marriage in that State, or with the
subsequent divorce proceedings in the State of Virginia
since the disposition of the case is dependent entirely
upon the law of the District of Columbia. In so far as
the law of the District is concerned, the marriage between
plaintiff and Daniel Loughran, Jr., in Florida, if performed in the District of Columbia, would be absolutely
void, and the plaintiff, being the offending party against
the law of the District, is in no position to enforce any
claim against the estate of Daniel Loughran, Jr., growing
out of the marriage in Florida."
Disclaiming consideration of the doctrine of clean
hands, the court added:
"Plaintiff, by her own unlawful conduct has placed
herself without the pale of the law, and cannot be heard
in a court of equity to take advantage of her own wrong."
The trustees insist that the bill was properly dismissed
because the plaintiff, retaining her domicile in the District,
went to Florida and married there in order to evade the
prohibition of § 966. The plaintiff contends that the admitted facts constitute no defence; that because the marriage was legal in Florida, its legality should, under the
established doctrines governing conflict of laws, have
been recognized by the courts of the District; and, more-

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

over, that this was required by the full faith and credit
clause, since the validity of the Florida marriage had been
adjudicated by the Virginia decree of divorce a mensa et
thoro.
First. Marriages not polygamous or incestuous, or
otherwise declared void by statute,1 will, if valid by the
law of the State where entered into, be recognized as valid
in every other jurisdiction. Meister v. Moore, 96 U.S.
76; Travers v. Reinhardt, 205 U.S. 423, 440. The mere
statutory prohibitioft by the State of the domicile either
generally of the remarriage of a divorced person, or of
remarriage within a prescribed period after the entry of
the decree, is given only territorial effect. Such a statute
does not invalidate a marriage solemnized in another State
in conformity with the laws thereof.2
Second. We have no occasion to decide what the rights
of the parties would be if it appeared that the plaintiff
and her paramour, retaining at all times their domicile in
the District, had gone to Florida for the purpose of evading § 966 by a marriage there; and had then returned to
the District to live as man and wife." It is argued that
marriage within the District would have been illegal because prohibited by § 966; and that a marriage which
would be illegal if entered into within the District must
be treated under § 1287 as void, even if valid under the
law of the State in which it was solemnized. But § 1287
1 For collection of statutes see: Vernier, American Family Laws,
§§ 32, 45, 92. Compare The American Law Institute, Restatement of

Conflict of Laws, Proposed Final Draft No. 4, March 22, 1934, pp.

88-95.
See Commonwealth v. Lane, 113 Mass. 458; Dudley v. Dudley,
151 Iowa 142; 130 N.W. 785; In re Miller's Estate, 239 Mich. 455;
214 N.W. 428.
'By the widely prevailing view, the marriage would, even unddr
such circumstances, be held valid by the courts of the domicile in the
absence of express provision to the contrary. For cases see Joseph H.
Beale, et al., Marriage and Domicile, 44 Harv.L.Rev. 501, 514-517.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

has no application to marriages in violation of the prohibition of § 966. Section 1287 provides:
"If any marriage declared illegal by the aforegoing sections shall be entered into in another jurisdiction by persons having and retaining their domicile in the District of
Columbia, such marriage shall be deemed illegal, and may
be decreed to be void in said District in the same manner
as if it had been celebrated therein."
The sections preceding § 1287 relate solely to marriages
void, because incestuous or polygamous, and to those
which are voidable, because entered into by a person who
was a lunatic, under the age of consent, or impotent, and
those which are voidable because procured by force or
fraud. In the case at bar, there is no suggestion of any
such obstacle to the validity of the marriage. The only
objection urged is that by marrying in Florida the plaintiff
violated § 966. But the preceding sections do not refer to
§ 966; and they contain no reference to remarriage of
divorced persons. Their only reference to divorce is in
Paragraph Third of § 1283 which declares void:
"The marriage of any persons either of whom has been
previously married and whose previous marriage has not
been terminated by death or a decree of divorce."
Since the plaintiff had been legally divorced from Daye
in the District while the parties were domiciled there, and
the decree became effective under § 983a, unconditionally
and irrevocably, she was thereafter an unmarried woman;
and if she had cohabited with Daniel in the District after
the Florida marriage she would not have been guilty of
polygamy. Commonwealth v. Lane, 113 Mass. 458, 460,
462.
Moreover, it does not appear that the plaintiff and
Daniel did retain their domiciles in the District after her
divorce, or that after the Florida marriage they ever lived
in the District as man and wife. The trustees argue that
it must be assumed on the pleadings that plaintiff's resi-

LOIUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

dence in Florida and the marriage there were not in good
faith.4 But the bill alleged the good faith of the residence and marriage in Florida; and the answer contains
no specific, denial of that allegation. Nor does it contain
any averment that the residence in Florida and marriage
there were with the intent of evading the prohibition
against remarriage.' The Court of Appeals did not pass
upon the issue sought to be raised. It expressly disclaimed
deciding whether the Florida marriage was valid or what
the effect of the Virginia decree was. And the question
whether the marriage in Florida should be deemed void
within the District because the parties went to Florida
to evade the prohibition of § 966 was not presented by
the petition for a writ of certiorari.
Third. The Court of Appeals stated that "the single
question for determination here is, whether or not plaintiff is entitled to her dower interest "; and it held that the
bill should be dismissed, regardless of whether the marriage was valid under the law of Florida. The requisites
of dower are a valid marriage; seizin of the husband; and
his death. It may be assumed that the law of the situs
of real estate determines whether a widow is entitled to
dower. Compare De Vaughan v. Hutchinson, 165 U.S.
566, 570. But, if the marriage was valid under the laws
of Florida, the plaintiff was, under established doctrines
of the conflict of laws, Daniel's widow. As such she was
entitled, as an incident of the marriage, to dower in the
property -within the District. For, while a statute of the
'The argument rests upon the phraseology of the answer and the
equity rules of the Supreme Court of the District.
'The allegation is "that having openly and in utter disregard of

the prohibition contained in said statute violated the terms thereof,
she cannot now return to this jurisdiction and this Honorable Court
and herein make application for relief with respect to the very situation and relationship which she could and did create only in direct
violation of the prohibitory mandate of the statute,"

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

District provides for forfeiture of dower in case of the
wife's adultery during marriage;' none denies dower to
a widow beca"-p she had been guilty of adultery prior to
the marriage with her late husband.
Section 966 is not extra-territorial in its operation. It
does not purport to prohibit remarriage outside the District; and no other statute denies dower to a, widow because by remarrying elsewhere she had disregarded the
prohibition contained in § 966. It does not make remarriage a crime, or in terms impose any penalty, even
if contracted within the District; and obviously it could
not make criminal remarriage elsewhere. Nor does it
in terms declare the remarriage void. Apparently, it is
the law of the District that a remarriage elsewhere in
disregard of the prohibition of § 966, even where both
parties remained domiciled in the District, is not void
ab initio, but, at most, voidable; and that a voidable
marriage cannot be annulled after the death of either
spouse.'
No case has been found in which, independently of
statutory direction, a widow has been denied dower on
the ground that a remarriage, legal by the law of the
place where celebrated, had been entered into in violation
of some prohibition imposed by the law of the State in
'The Code of the District 1929, Title 14, § 30, declares: "If a wife
willingly leave her husband, and go away, and continue with her
advouterer, she shall be barred forever of action to demand her
dower, that she ought to have of her husband's lands, if she be
convict thereupon, except that her husband willingly, and without
coercion reconcile her, and suffer her to dwell with him in which
case she shall be restored to her action."
'Sammons v. Sammons (S.C.D.C.), 46 W.L.R. 39, 41. Sec Tyler
v. Andrews, 40 App.D.C. 100, 104; Simmons v. Simmons, 57 App.D.C.
216, 218-219; 19 F. (2d) 690, 692-3; Abramson v. Abramson, 60
App.D.C. 119, 121, 122; 49 F. (2d) 501, 503, 504. Compare Dimpfel
v. Wilson, 107 Md. 329; 68 Atl. 561; Bonham v. Badgley, 7 Ill. 622.

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

which the divorce was granted and the property was
situated.8 Ordinarily the operation of a statute of descent and distribution is held not affected even by the
fact that the death of the decedent was caused by a crime
of the heir; 0 and, by the common law, dower is not
barred even by misconduct during marriage. Since, as
matter of substantive law, the plaintiff is entitled to
dower in property within the District, if the marriage in
Florida was valid, and its validity was assumed by the
Court of Appeals, we have no occasion to consider
whether the decree in the Virginia divorce proceedings
made that matter res judicata.
Fourth. The relief sought by the bill includes, besides
dower rights, a claim under the Virginia decree for the
alimony which had accrued and remained unpaid at the
time of Daniel's death. The right to recover the alimony
is independent of the right to dower. It rests upon a judgment to which, so far as appears, full faith and credit must
be given by the courts of the District. It is true that,
under rules of law generally applicable, these courts may
reuse to enforce a mere right of contract if it provides for
doing within the District things prohibited by its laws.
Bothwell v. Buckbee, Mears Co., 275 U.S. 274, 278. It
may, in the exercise of the police power, prohibit the enjoyment by persons within its borders of many rights
acquired elsewhere and refuse to lend the aid of its courts
to enforce them. Home Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S.
397, 410. But when rights, however arising, have ripened
into a judgment of a court in another State, the full faith
'Compare Putnam v. Putnam. 8 Pick. 433; Dickson v. Dickson's
Heirs, 1 Yerg. 110. See 18 C.J., p. 859, § 102.
0 McAllister v. Fair, 72 Kan. 5'33; 84 Pac. 112; Eversole v. Eversole,
169 Ky. 793; 185 S.W. 487; Golnick v. Mengel, 112 Minn. 349; 128
N.W. 292; Holloway v. McCormick, 41 Okla. 1; 136 Pac. 1111;
Johnson's Estate, 29 Pa. Sup. Ct. 255.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

and credit clause applies. Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U.S.
230; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U.S. 243, 260; Kenney v.
Supreme Lodge, 252 U.S. 411, 415. And courts of the
District are bound, equally with courts of the States, to
observe the command of the full faith and credit clause,
wherever applicable. BradfordElectricLight Co.v. Clapper, 286 U.S. 145, 155. Thus, the facts stated afford no
basis in the substantive law for dismissal of the bill so far
as it seeks to recover unpaid alimony. Whether the fact
that this claim has been presented also in the probate
court constitutes a reason for denying relief here, was
not discussed below, and on this matter we express no
opinion.
Fifth. It remains to consider whether the denial of relief
can be justified on some principle of adjective law. The
Court of Appeals holds that the "plaintiff by her own
unlawful conduct has placed herself without the pale of
the law "; but it does not state specifically the ground for
that conclusion. The bar applied is not the plea of illegality commonly interposed in suits brought to enforce contracts tainted by illegality. In those suits the illegality
relied on is inherent in the cause of action; is directly connected with the relief sought; and constitutes a substantive defence. Here, the relation of the illegality to the
relief sought is indirect and remote. The wrong done is a
thing' f 'the past and is collateral. By the long line of
cases following Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U.S. 540, it is settled that illegality constitutes no defense
when merely collateral to the cause of action sued on. A
"person does not become an outlaw and lose all rights by
doing an illegal act." ,NationalBank & Loan Co. v. Petrie,
189 U.S. 423, 425. Courts grant relief against present
wrongs and to enforce an existing right, although the property involved was acqu'ired by some past illegal act.
Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wall. 70, 79, 80; Planters'Bank v.
Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 499, 500.

LOUGHRAN v. LOUGHRAN.
216

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals, while it disclaimed acting on the
doctrine of clean hands,"0 declared that Olverson v. 01verson, 54 App.D.C. 48; 293 Fed. 1015 (decided by it in
1923) is decisive of the case at bar. But both the facts
and the relief sought are different in the two cases. In
the first place, the parties in the Olverson case were at the
time of the marriage domiciled in the District; remained
so when they went to Baltimore for the marriage ceremony with the purpose of evading the prohibition of
§ 966; returned immediately thereafter to the District;
and then lived in the District as man and wife. On the
other hand, in the case at bar it does not appear that the
plaintiff and Daniel were domiciled in the District at the
time of the marriage; or that they went to Florida in
order to evade the prohibition of § 966; or that during
their marriage they lived in the District; or that they ever
cohabited there as man and wife. In the second place,
the Olverson suit was brought by a wife for a decree of
divorce a mensa et thoro with a motion for alimony; and
was dismissed on the ground that the plaintiff could not
"ask the courts of this jurisdiction to relieve her of the
obligations of a relation which she willfully and wrongfully assumed."
The suit at bar was brought after termination of the
marriage by death to enforce existing property rights
growing out of the marriage in Florida and the decree
entered in Virginia. It was not brought to enforce any
transaction had within the District; nor was it brought
to enforce an illegal contract; or to further an illegal
relation.1 Equity does not demand that its suitors shall
have led blameless lives. Neither the doctrine of clean
10It had stated in Simmons v. Simmons, 57 App.D.C. 216, 218;
19 F. (2d) 690, 693, that the Olverson case rested on the doctrine of
clean hands.
11
Compare Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Union Pacific Ry. Co.
3 Fed. .423, 427-8; Bateman Iv. Fargason,4 Fed. 32.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.s.

hands, nor any kindred principle on which courts refuse
relief, is applicable here. The decree of the Court of
Appeals is vacated and the cause remanded to it for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
McKNETT v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 597.

Argued March 12, 1934.--Decided April 30, 1934.

The Federal Constitution forbids that a State should clo~e its courts
to transitory causes of action against foreign corporations arising
in other States under federal law (Federal Employers' Liability
Act) while opening them to the litigation of all like transitory
causes arising in other States under state law. P. 232.
227 Ala. 349; 149 So. 822, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

290 U.S. 621, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the railway company in an action for
damages.
Mr. J. Kirkman Jackson, with whom Mr. Walter S.
Brower was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. L. D. Gardner, Jr., for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County,
Alabama, to recover damages for an injury suffered in
Tennessee. The plaintiff, McKnett, is a resident of Tennessee. The defendant, St. Louis & San Francisco Railway Company, is a foreign corporation doing business in
Alabama. It pleaded in abatement that the court lacked
jurisdiction, since the cause of action had arisen wholly

