ELECTRIC CABLE. CO. v. EDISON CO.
62

Syllabus.

Petitioner insists that same principle governs both decisions and that therefore the deduction should be allowed.
But the analogy is not good. Where all the members gain,
total taxable income is the same on a consolidated return
as upon separate ones. But where as in the case before us
the subsidiaries lose and the parent gains, the losses of
the former go in reduction of the taxable income of the
latter. Considerations that justify inclusion of the profits
made by all the members do not support the double
deduction claimed.
The weight of authority is against petitioner's contention. Burnet v. Riggs Nat. Bank, 57 F. (2d) 980. Commissioner v. Apartment Corp., 67 F. (2d) 3. Summerfield
Co. v. Commissioner, 29 B.T.A. 77. National Casket Co.
v. Commissioner, 29 B.T.A. 139. No decision other than
that of the district court in United Publishers' Corp. v.
Anderson, supra, gives any support to its claim. Cf. Burnet v. Imperial Elevator Co., 66 F. (2d) 643. McLaughlin
v. Pacific Lumber Co., 66 F. (2d) 895.
Affirmed.
ELECTRIC CABLE JOINT CO. v. BROOKLYN
EDISON CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 611.

Argued March 15, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

1. Claim 4 of Patent No. 1,172,322, to Torchio, February 23, 1916,
for an improvement in prqtective devices for electric cable joints,
held invalid because of the prior art and for want of invention.
2. The claim is for a device, in combination, for improving insulation
at joints of high-tension metal-sheathed cables. The conductors
in such cables are insulated from the sheath and from the metal
sleeves by which the sheathing is continued at their junctions, by
wrappings of pervious material saturated with an insulating oily
substance. Migration and loss of this substance, caused by cutting

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.s.

a cable and, more especially, by its contractions and expansions, or
"breathing," when in operation at high voltages, result in air spaces
within the insulation through which damaging leakages of current
take place. The elements in the combination claimed to be new
are: (1) the use of an insulating liquid (oil) which is fluid at
ordinary working temperatures of such cables, in lieu of compounds
of higher melting point; and (2) a reservoir holding a supply of
such liquid and communicating with the interior of the joint.
The Court finds (1) That use in the combination of the more
fluid insulating permeant was anticipated in the prior art and
fully disclosed in publications; (2) that the addition of the reservoir was also anticipated, besides being a mere mechanical adaptation. Pp. 72-79.
3. Invention may consist in adding a new element to an old combination; but the addition must be the result of invention, not the mere
exercise of the skill of. the calling, and not one plainly indicated
by the prior art. P. 79.
66 F. (2d) 739, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 624, to review the affirmance of a

decree denying the validity of a patent in a suit by an
assignee claiming infringement.
Messrs. Melville Church and D. Anthony Usina for
petitioner.
Mr. Charles Neave, with whom Mr. John D. Monroe.
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Certiorari was granted to review a decree of the Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, affirming a decree of a
district court holding invalid, for want of invention, the
Torchio patent, No. 1,172,322, of February 23, 1916, applied for March 15, 1915, for "an improvement in protective devices for electric cable joints." 66 F. (2d) 739.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit had previously
held the patent valid and infringed. Metropolitan Devices Corp. v. Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co., 36 F.
(2d) 477.

ELECTRIC CABLE CO. v. EDISON CO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

Correct appreciation of the contentions made requires
at the outset some discussion of the structure of electric
cables for the transmission of high tension (voltage) electric currents and, more particularly, the causes of leakage
or wastage of current at the joints of such cables, for the
prevention of which the patented device is said to be useful. Cables for the transmission of high tension currents
comprise a plurality of copper conductors, usually three
in number, each covered with an insulating tape of paper
or fabric, enclosed in an outer insulating wrapping, and
all in turn surrounded by pervious insulating material
filling the interstices between the conductors and saturated
with oil. The whole is enclosed in a lead tube or sheath,
which constitutes the outer surface or cover of the cable.
In practice the cables are spliced or connected by forming
a joint at the connecting ends. This is accomplished by
cutting back the lead sheath for a suitable distance, bringing the ends of the conductors together and joining them,
usually by a connecting copper sleeve, and covering or
surrounding them with successive wrappings or layers of
insulating material, impregnated with an insulating compound such as an oil, long recognized as a desirable insulating material. A cylindrical lead sleeve is then placed
over the joint and soldered at its ends to the lead sheath
of the cable so as to surround and hermetically enclose
the joint. Through openings made in the sleeve insulating compoijnds may be introduced.
Leakage of current at the joint results from imperfect
insulation. Deterioration in the insulation may result
from the drying out of the insulating material, particularly through loss or "bleeding" of the insulating fluid at
the ends, or when the cable is cut. Also, high tension currents, ranging upwards from 15,000 volts, develop heat in
the conductors and adjacent material, with consequent
expansion and corresponding contraction when cooling,
known as "breathing.". This causes migration of the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

sulating compound within the cable and' to some extent
its extrusion, and produces cracks and voids in it, with
resulting ionization of the interstitial air at high tensions,
and the lowering of the dielectric strength or resistance of
the cable at the joint.
The patent claimed is for a device, in combination, to
prevent current leakage by improving the insulation.
Claim 4, upon which alonethe petitioner relies, reads:
"4. An electric cable, comprising a sheath, a line conductor having a joint, a body of pervious insulating material inclosing said joint, the said sheath ' being removed
for a distance sufficient to expose said pervious body, a
sleeve of impervious material of greater diameter than
said body, inclosing the same and hermetically united at
its ends to said cable sheath, a receptacle communicating
with the interior of said sleeve, and an insulating fluid
adapted to permeate said pervious body contained in said
receptacle and the space between said body and said
sleeve."
On February 11, 1927, before either the present suit
or that in the Sixth Circuit was begun, an assignee of the
patent and petitioner's predecessor in interest filed a disclaimer of the improvement,
"except for electric cables which comprise a line conductor, insulating wrapping permeated with insulating
compound and a sheath of flexible, inelastic metal constituting a unitary product of manufacture and commerce
which is portable and capable of being drawn through
conduits; and except as to an insulating liquid which is
fluid at ordinary working temperatures of such cables and
in quantity sufficient to supply at all times the demands
made by the cable in use, and by the joint."
Petitioner's expert testified at the trial, as the prior art
shows, that Torchio was not the first to discover that oil is
an insulating material; that he was not the first to provide a cable with conductors enclosed in insulating ma-

ELECTRIC CABLE CO. v. EDISON CO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

terial permeated with oil, or the first. to make joints in a
cable or to use pervious insulated wrappings of joints, or
to-show a sleeve enclosing the joint larger than the sheath
of the cable, hermetically closed and connected to the
metal sheath of the cable. The only elements enumerated
in the claim, asserted to be new, are the receptacle communicating with the interior of the sleeve, and the insulating oil or liquid, fluid at low temperatures, contained in
the receptacle and in the space between the sleeve and
the pervious insulating material surrounding the joint.
The issue for decision is whether the addition of these
elements, in combination with the others enumerated in
the claim, involve invention.
In the earlier case the Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit held Claims 3 and 4 valid. Claim 3 embraces all
the elements of Claim 4, except the communicating reservoir containing the described insulating fluid. That court
did not' discuss the reservoir or pass upon its effect as
adding anything patentable to the combination. It concluded on the evidence before it that Torchio had substituted, in a combination which was old, a liquid insulating
compound for a compound not soft enough to flow; that
this was new and was enough "beyond the skill of an
expert" to amount to invention, and that the patent was
there infringed by the use in the combination of a jointinsulating compound "normally of the consistency of
vaseline or jelly." In the present case both courts below
found that the use of oil or an insulating liquid, fluid at
ordinary working temperatures, within the sleeve enclosing the joint, had been disclosed in printed publications
before the alleged invention by Torchio,. and they held
that the addition of the reservoir or receptacle containing
the fluid and communicating with the interior of the
sleeve did not involve invention and was known before
Torchio.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Brief reference will be made to the prior art, shown by
the present record, which was not before the Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in the earlier case.
The British patent' of Geipel, No. 11,280, of December 8,
1894, disclosed an electric cable joint box "filled with a
suitable insulating material, as for example oil, wax, bitumen, or any combination of any of these according to the
nature of the insulation used for the conductor . . . with

paper or jute insulated conductors oil may be used." The
patent states "with paper, jute, hemp, flax, cotton or
other suitable insulating material the joints

. . .

are best

surrounded by oil."
The Lemp patent, No. 534,802, of February 26, 1895,
speaks of the use of oil in electric transformers in which
the conductors forming the primary are insulated with
asbestos "loosely wound to allow the asbestos to take up
the oil." The space containing the primary "is filled with
oil connected with a reservoir or supply pipe being maintained to allow for expansion under increase of temperature."
In 1907 de Gelder published at The Hague a description
of the electric cable system of the city of Amsterdam. He
described "high tension cables for 3,000 volts" having
paper insulation impregnated "with a rather thin liquid,
oily and not too resinous mass" with cable joints bound
with linen tape first boiled in oil so that it is completely
saturated, with the wrapped joint enclosed in a lead sleeve,
soldered to the lead sheath of the cable. Through a hole
cut in the top of the sleeve or socket "hot insulating mass
is poured into the socket. For this purpose the same mass
or rather the same oil is used as for impregnating the cable.
It is a kind of resin oil." The paper also points out that
the impregnating mass used with the high tension, paper
insulated cables supplied by a British firm is thinner than
that used in other types, that in the British cables being

ELECTRIC CABLE CO. v. EDISON CO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

"a rather thin resinous oil at 150 Centigrade, 590
Fahrenheit."
Since 1911 the Consolidated Gas Electric Light & Power
Company in Baltimore has used oil in insulating its cables
carrying a current of 13,000 volts or more, the cables consisting of three paper-wrapped conductors, insulated with
oil impregnated jute, enclosed in a lead sheath. To avoid
the draining out of the cables and the consequent defective insulation in sections extending vertically from the
subterranean conduits to the power houses, the cables
were passed into enlarged containers or potheads containing oil, which, flowing downward in the cables, replenished
the oil in the jute insulation for distances as great as 1200
feet. Paraffin, solid at ordinary temperatures, which had
originally been placed in the potheads, was found unsatisfactory. Defective insulation resulted from drying out of
the cables, and in 1911 paraffin was replaced by an oil
which was fluid at ordinary temperature.
Vernier, in an article on "The Laying and Maintenance
of High Tension Cables," published in the journal of the
Institution of Electrical Engineers in 1911 and in summarized form in "The Electrician" of March 10, 1911,
discussed in detail the insulation of joints in electric cables
carrying currents up to 20,000 volts. He described a cable
consisting of three paper insulated conductors enclosed in
a. lead sheath or tube. He pointed out the dangers of
voids in joint insulating material and ensuing gas ionization which result n reduced "breakdown pressure" or dielectric strength and described a method of insulating the
joint by wrapping the conductors with oil impregnated
tape surrounded with insulating material, all enclosed in
a lead sleeve, soldered to the lead sheath of the cable.
This sleeve, he stated, was then filled with an insulating
compound of either "an oil or a viscous joint box compound, preferably the latter, which can run into the tubes

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

and all parts of the joint box." Again" Such a compound
must be viscous of about the consistency of thick cream
at ordinary temperatures. When heated it should run as
freely as heated oil so as to penetrate all 'crevices and it
must retain these, features through its life . . ." The
tendency of solid compounds to form air voids was pointed
out and the author's preference for a joint filled with oil or
a compound viscous at ordinary temperatures was stated.
Vernier's teaching of "a viscous compound which never
sets" is referred to in. connection with his name in
Pender's American Handbook of Electrical Engineers.
1914, a standard wotk of authority.
Torchio himself, in a written report to his employers,
in 1914, on the Berlin cable system, transmitting currents
of 30,000 volts, described the cables as having joints enclosed in a lead sleeve soldered to the lead sheathing of"
the cable by means of "wiped joints," and as being insulated with a compound which " at normal temperature is
semi-liquid and is similar to the compound used for saturation of cables." In August, 1914, an associate, in reporting to him in writing upon the underground cable
system in Boston.carrying from 13,000 to 25,000 volts,
described cables in use there as consisting of three conductors, paper wrapped and sheathed in lead. He described a joint box in use enclosing the insulated conductors and filled with an insulating compound which "at
ordinary temperature is about the viscosity of molasses."
The prior art thus briefly outlined shows that an insulating fluid, described in Torchio's fourth claim as
"adapted to permeate the pervious material surrounding
the conductors," used with the other elements of the joint
sleeve combination embraced in his third claim, was not
new and was fully described in publications before
Torchio. Its advantages in such use over non-fluid compounds had been recognized and pointed out.. Hence, petitioner's claim to patentable invention must rest on the

ELECTRIC CABLE CO. v. EDISON CO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

addition of the other elements enumerafed in Claim 4,
the receptacle containing the described insulating fluid
and communicating with the sleeve.
The combination thus effected, it is said, is especially
adapted to insulating the joint and is useful in replacing
the loss of insulating oil, in connection with the "breathing " which takes place in the cable, particularly at the
joints when in use. The expansion of the interior cable
parts and insulating material, accompanying the rise in
temperature, forces the oil from the joints along the cable
and also causes it to exude at the joints. As the cable
cools, the fluid insulation, particularly at the joint, may
notbe sufficient to fill it and voids result. This occurs the
more readily if the insulating compound tends to solidify
at cooling temperatures. These consequences are avoided
by the use, in conjunction with the reservoir, of oil which
is sufficiently fluid to flow freely at ordinary cable temperatures. The breathing accompanying the alternate expansion and contraction of the cable through the creation
of partial vacua within the insulating mate ial facilitates
the migration of the oil within the cable. The reservoir
provides for sufficient excess of reserve oil to restore the
losses of oil from the joint and thus to prevent formation
of the voids or to fill them.
Breathing is a natural phenomenon. The expansion
and contraction of materials used in cables under the influence of changing temperatures are within the range of
ordinary scientific knowledge. Breathing is readily observable and known by those having the skill of the art.
Torchio did not invent it, nor was he the first to observe
it. Publications before Torchio did not make use of the
term, but they disclosed knowledge of the effect of temperature changes upon the cable and the insulating fluid.
In 1907, de Gelder, in recommendig the use of oil in
joint boxes, mentioned the fact tha the heating of the
cable would cause the insulating mass, to flow from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

joints; and called attention to the probability that if the
oil was pressed out by overheating "when contraction
takes place water will be sucked in even though the junction box may be well sealed." He also spoke of the
downward shifting or draining out of the oil in cables if
elevated at or near their terminals, as had been observed
in the lines of the Baltimore light and power system.
The potheads used as oil reservoirs in the Baltimore installation, when full of a free flowing oil, were observed
to overflow when the cables were heated, and the migration of the oil along the cables for considerable distances
was also noted. Vernier noted the shrinkage of joint box
insulating compounds on cooling and their tendency in the
process to form vacua, and "if of a solid nature, to form
blow holes or air pockets." In recommending that the
joint sleeve be filled with oil he pointed out the tendency
of the insulating oil to run out of the cable when cut and
recommended the construction of the joint by the use of
insulating tape "so as to allow the greatest possible freedom of access to the oil which will keep the insulating
tapes constantly impregnated." The oil or joint box compound used, he said, "must be viscous and of about the
consistency of thick cream at ordinary temperatures," and
he stated that impregnation "will be greatly assisted by
the constant temperature changes which the cable undergoes under changes of load." This was a clear recognition
of the phenomenon of breathing and the adaptability to
it of an oil which, with the heat developed in high tension
cables, would flow freely "so as to penetrate all crevices."
Thus the use in cable joints of an oil, free flowing at
prevailing cable temperatures, by introducing it into the
joint sleeve combination of petitioner's third claim, was
not only old, but before Torchio the special adaptability
of that combination to the need because of the expansion
and contraction of the cable structure in use had been
recognized and described by publication.

ELECTRIC CABLE CO. v. EDISON CO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

To this the petitioner added the oil reservoir. The fact
that the combination, without it, was old does not preclude invention by the addition of a new and useful element. Parks v. Booth, 102 U.S. 96, 104. But the addition must be the result of invention, not the mere exercise
of the skill of the calling and not one plainly indicated by
the prior art. Figure 1 of the patent shows the receptacle
claimed, a reservoir connecting with the lead sleeve.
Figure 6 shows the sleeve without the connecting reservoir,
protruding upward above the wrapped joint so as to form
a dome affording an increased interior oil space. The
patent states "Instead of making the reservoir 10 in the
form of a separate chamber communicating with the
sleeve as shown in Figure 1, I may dispose the sleeve
eccentrically on the joint so that the greatest clearance
will be uppermost as shown at 12 in Figure 6. In this
way I produce an additional holding space for the oil
within the sleeve itself." This additional holding space
is thus described as the equivalent of the reservoir in the
form of a separate chamber or receptacle, enumerated in
Claim 4. Vernier showed a like enlargement in the sleeve
in sketches in his published article. He does not refer to
this protuberance or dome as a reservoir, but examined
in the light of the text its function is unmistakable., See
InreBager,47 F. (2d) 951, 953.
The prior art. had also foreshadowed the enlargement in
the form of areceptacle or reservoir. Such were the potheads used by the Baltimore Power and Light Company
for oil impregnation of cable insulation. Lemp showed
and described an additional holding space in the form of
a connecting receptacle for the oil insulation of transformers. But in any case enlargement of the oil space in
the sleeve in an existing combination, so as to increase
the oil supply, would clearly not involve any special skill,
to say nothing of invention. It was not invention to bring
into the combination its equivalent, a further enlargement

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

80

Sylabus.

292 U.S.

and extension of the holding space in the form of the
familiar device of a connecting oil cup or reservoir, so as
to increase the oil supply. No more than the skill of the
calling was involved. Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery,
269 U.S. 177; Saranac Automatic Machine Corp. v. Wirebounds Patents Co., 282 U.S. 704, 713; DeForest Radio
Co. v. General Electric Co., 283 U.S. 664, 685. Neither
the means employed nor the result obtained was novel.
See Hailes v. Van Wormer, 20 Wall. 353; Smith v. Nichols,
21 Wall. 112; Machine Co. v. Murphy, 97 U.S. 120; Pickering v. McCullough, 104 U.S. 310; Westinghouse Electric
&Mfg. Co. v. Pittsburgh Transformer Co., 10 F. (2d)
593; D. J. Murray Mfg. Co. v. Sumner Iron Works, 300
Fed. 911, 912; compare R. Herschel Mfg. Co. v. Great
States Corp., 26 F. (2d) 362, 363.
We conclude that Claim 4 is invalid, and that the decree below must be
Affirmed.
ASCHENBRENNER v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY
& GUARANTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 578.

Argued March 8, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

1. If the language of an accident insurance policy, is open to two
constructions, that more favorable to the insured will be adopted.
P. 84.
2. Words in an accident insurance policy, when not obviously intended to be used in their technical connotation, will be given the
meaning that common speech *imports. P. 85.
3. An accident policy provided for double indemnity if injury were
sustained by insured "while a passenger in or on a public conveyance (including the platform, steps or running-board thereof)
provided by a common carrier for passenger service." Insured,
at a proper station, had boarded the steps of a moving train and

