CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
522

535

Syllabus.

removal of the burdens of excessive expenditure, the removal of such burdens when imposed by state requirements was an essential part of- the plan. The State urges
that in the course of the passage of Transportation Act,
1920, a provision for federal incorporation of railroads was
struck out. But while railroad corporations were left
under state charters, they were still instrumentalities of
interstate commerce, and, as such, were subjected to the
paramount federal obligation to render the efficient and
economical service required in the maintenance of an adequate system of interstate transportation. Colorado v.
United States, supra.
The decision in International & Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Anderson County, 246 U.S. 424, is not opposed.
Apart from the fact that in that case the state court had
found, upon the verdict of a jury, that the maintenance
of the offices and shops at the place at which the predecessor of the plaintiff in error had contracted to maintain
them, did not impose a burden upon interstate commerce-a finding which this Court found no reason to
disturb (Id., pp. 433, 434)-the case arose prior to the
enactment of Transportation Act, 1920, and the question
here presented was not involved.
The decree dismissing the bill of complaint is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.
CONCORDIA FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 12.

Argued October 11, 12, 1933.-Decided June .4, 1934.

1. A state statute' may be .valid when given a particular application
and invalid when given another. P. 545.
2. Under an Illinois statute taxing net receipts of foreign fire, marine
and inland navigation insurance companies at the same rate as all
other personal properly, the net receipts were assessed at full value,

536

OCTOBER TERM, 193:1.
Counsel for Parties.

292 U.S.

whereas personal property in general was systematically assessed
at 60% of its value, with the result that the tax on the insurance
companies was disproportionately high. Held that the discrimination was a denial of equal protection of the laws. P. 545.
3. Upon a review of a judgment recovered by a State in a suit to
collect a tax on net receipts of a foreign fire insurance company,
held that the company was in no position to attack the assessment
upon the ground that failure to deduct insurance losses in making
it resulted in unconstitutional discrimination, it appearing that it
did not claim the right to such deduction in the proceeding before
the assessors and was precluded by the state law from claiming it
for the first time in defense of the suit. P. 546.
4. Substantial equality and fair equivalence are important factors in
determining the presence or absence of arbitrary discrimination in
state taxation. Mathematical equivalence is neither required nor
attainable; nor is identity in mere modes of taxation of importance
where there is substantial equality in the resulting burdens. P. 547.
5. A foreign corporation complaining of a tax on its net receipts upon
the ground that no such tax is imposed upon competing domestic
corporations is under the burden of showing that the latter are not
subjected to other forms of taxation, not applied to foreign corporations, and which are the substantial equivalent of the tax in'
question. P. 546.
6. Two classes of foreign corporations, those engaged in fire, marine,
inland navigation and casualty insurance and those engaged in
casualty insurance alone, do business in Illinois by license of the State.
The second class conduct the same character of casualty insurance
business as the first class, and these businesses are competitive.
Both classes are taxed on their local tangible property; but the
former class are subjected in addition to a property tax on net
xeceipts, including the receipts from their casualty business-a tax
which the latter class are not required to pay. Held that the discrimination is arbitrary and unconstitutional. P. 548.
350 Ill. 365; 183 N.E. 241, reversed in part. ,
APPEAL from a judgment recovered by the State in an

action of debt, to collect taxes.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, with whom Messrs. William B. Bodine, FrederickD. Silber, and Herbert W. Hirsh
were on the brief, for appellant.

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

537

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Hiram T. Gilbert, with whom Messrs. Leon Hornstein and Harris F. Williams were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was an action of debt brought by the State of Illinois, in a court of that State, against the Concordia Fire
Insurance Company, to recover taxes levied on the net
receipts of the latter from its insurance agencies in Cook
County, Illinois, during annual periods ending April 30
in each of the years 1923-1927. The defendant interposed a plea of nil debet. The cause was heard by the
court without a jury under a stipulation entitling the
defendant to introduce any evidence which would be admissible in equity under appropriate pleadings, and enabling the court to give effect to equitable principles and
render judgment in conformity to the evidence. The
court found the issues for the defendant and gave judg mont accordingly. The Supreme Court of the State disapproved that judgment and in its stead entered one
awarding the plaintiff a recovery of smaller taxes than
were claimed for the years ending April 30 in 1923-1926
and of the full tax claimed for the year ending April 30
in 1927. 350 Ill. 365; 183 N.E. 241. The defendant
then sought and was allowed an appeal to this Courtthe ground for the appeal being that the state court overruled the defendai.t's claim that the state statute, under
which the taxes were levied, when construed and applied
as sustaining them (it was so construed and applied by
that court), conflicts with the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
The defendant is a Wisconsin insurance corporation
and, conformably to its charter and to licenses from Illi-

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

nois, has been engaged for several years in conducting
in Cook County in the latter State the business of insuring against fire, marine and inland navigation risks and
various so-called casualty risks. Its receipts from that
business consisted only of premiums received on policies
issued.
The taxes in question were levied under § 30 of a
statute of March 11, 1869,' entitled "An Act to incorporate and to govern fire, marine and inland navigation
insurance companies doing business in the State of Illinois." Several sections of the act relate to the creation
and regulation of domestic corporations, and others relate
to the licensing, taxing, etc., of foreign corporations. Section 30 provides in respect to foreign corporations doing
business in the State that in the month of May, annually,
"the amount of the net receipts'" of their local agencies
shall be entered on the local tax lists and be "subject to
the same rate of taxation for all purposes, state, county,
town and municipal, that other personal property is subject to at the place where located."
Throughout the years 1923-1927, and before, it was
the uniform practice of officers and boards engaged in
listing and assessing personal property for taxation to
treat and list 60% of the fair cash value as the "full
value "; and in the years 1923-1926 these officers and
boards, pursuant to the direction of a statute of 1919,2
treated and listed one-half of such " full value " as the
"assessed value." By these processes 30% of the fair
cash value uniformly was made the basis of personal
property taxes in 1923-1926.' The same processes were
applied in respect of real property. In 1927, before the
Ill. Laws 1869, 209, 228; Ill. Laws 1874, 179; Cahill's Ill. Rev.
Stat., c. 73, § 159. 'Act June 30, 1919; Il. Laws 1919, p. 727.
'Hanovef Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding, 327 Il. 590, 594-595.

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

Opinion of the Court.

assessments of that year were completed, the statute directing that 50% of the listed " full value " be taken as the
assessed value was repealed,4 and therefore was not applied in nmaking assessments in that year. But the practice of taking 60% of the fair cash value as the true value
was continued and applied in the assessments of that
year as it had been in those of earlier years.
In the years 1923-1926 the defendant made returns of
its net receipts from fire, marine and inland navigation
insurance. The amiounts so returned were accepted by
the assessing officers as correct, but were not scaled down
*to 60% or further reduced to one-half of 60%, as was
done in the assessment of other property. On the contrary, taxes were levied on the full amounts reported in
the returns.
In 1927 the defendant made a return of its net receipts
from fire, mairine and inland navigation insurance, the
amount reported being $76,291.00. It arrived at this
amount by deducting operating expenses from gross receipts, the former being treated in the computation as
54% of the latter. On this basis its gross receipts were
$165,850.00.' The amount returned as net receipts was
accepted as correct by the board of assessors of the-county
and 50% thereof was listed by that body as the assessed
value. But that 'assessment, as will appear presently, was
not approved by the next superior body, the board of
review of the county.
In November, 1927, the defendant was cited by the
board of review to appear before it on December 15 at a
hearing on a proposed reassessmentof the net receipts in
the 'years coverqd by the returns of 1923-1926, and also
on a, review of the assessment by the board of assessors
'Act July 7, 1927; II. Laws of 1927, p. 745; Cahill's Ill. Rev. Stat.
1933, c. 120, §§ 328, 329.
'In one, of the briefs this amount is given as $165,670,00.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of the net receipts in the year covered by the return of
1927. The defendant appeared in response to the citation, and in view of the inportancc which has been given
to the hearing it will be described at some length.
At the hearing the defendant had full opportunity to
support and supplement its returns by a further showing
respecting its gross receipts and the deductions rightly
to be made in determining the net receipts. But it chose
to stand on its returns and made no additional showing.
It freely conceded that the returns included receipts from
fire, marine and inland navigation insurance but not from
casualty insurance. And it also conceded that the deductions made by it in computing the net reecipts included
some items, such as overhead expenses and reinsurance
costs, the deduction of which had been and still was the
subject of diverging opinions.
A full report of the hearing before the board was produced in evidence at the trial of this cause and is set forth
in the record. The report shows that-apart from a controversy over the construction and constitutional validity
of the taxing statute-the matters brought to the board's
attention were (1) defendant's failure to include and state
separately in its returns the receipts from casualty insurance; (2) defendant's failure to specify with greater particularity the expenses deducted by it in computing the
net receipts; (3) a contention that the receipts from casualty insurance should be included in the computation of
the taxable net receipts; and (4) a contention that the
deductions made for operating expenses were excessive.
One participant in the hearing, who had investigated
and studied the matter, made evidential statements to the
board tending to show*that the defendant's receipts from
fire, marine and inland navigation insurance were about
75% of its total receipts, the remainder coming from casualty insurance, and that the operating expenses of an

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

Opinion of the Court.

insurance business like that of the defendant in Cook
County averaged about 30% of the gross receipts. These
statements, although informal, were of such a nature that,
under repeated rulings of the Supreme Court of the State,
the board could consider them and give some weight to
them-particularly as the defendant presented no showing to the contrary beyond referring to its returns which
were meager and practically silent on the points to which
the statements were directed.
Because of a contention which will be noticed later on

it should be stated in this connection that in the hearing
before the board the defendant neither claimed that losses
paid to policy holders should be deducted in determining
net receipts nor presented any showing or statement of
the amount of such, losses.
After the hearing the board made corrected assessments
of the net receipts for the years covered by the returns of
1923-1926; but as the Supreme Court of the State held
this action of the board was of no effect, save as it brought
the original assessments forward and attached them to the
1927 roll without affecting their original validity or force,
the corrected assessments dinot require further notice.
Coming to the.net receipts for the year ending April
30, 1927, the board fixed their amount at $121,550.00, instead -of $76,291.00 as stated in the return; and without
scaling or debasing the amount so fixed the board listed it
as their assessed value.
The record makes it plain that the board in fixing the
net receipts for that year at an amount much larger than
was stated in the return proceeded on the theory and conviction that the receipts from casualty insurance, which
were omitted from the return, should be included in computing the taxable net receipts, and that the deductible
operating expenses, which the defendant had regarded as
54% of the gross receipts, were only about 30% of such
receipts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

In Hanover Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding, 327 Ill. 590; 158
N.E. 849," which preceded the decision in thc present case
about five years, the Supreme Court of the State in considering and applying § 30 now in question ruled that the
reductions, by scaling and debasement, applied in the
assessment of other personal property should be applied
to net receipts of foreign insurance corporations; and on
that ground the court condemned a tax of $7,184.18,
where such reductions were not made, an(l awarded a
recovery of $2,155.24, which would have been the tax had
the net receipts been reduced like the value of other personal property. In stating the reason for its ruling the
court said (pp. 601-602):
" Section 30 provides that 'net receipts shall be subject to the same rate of taxation . . . that other personal
property is subject to at the place where located.' The
use of the word ' other' indicates that the net receipts
were to be considered as personal property and treated the
same as other personal property. Clearly, this provision
means that not only the percentage of the rate but the
basis of the valuation shall be the same. Taxing by a
uniform rule requires uniformity not only in the rate of
taxation but also uniformity in the m6de of the assessment upon the taxable valuation. Uniformity in taxing
implies equality in the burden of taxation, and this equality of burden cannot exist without uniformity in the mode
of the assessment as well as in the rate per cent of taxation. (Green v. L. & I. R.R. Co., 244 U.S. 499; Boyer v.
Boyer, 113 id. 889; Cummings v. National Bank, 101 id.
153; Exchange Bank v. Hines, 3 Ohio St. 1.) Section 30
and the law of 1898 should be construed together, and
*This was the second decision of that court in the case. An earlier
decision reported in 317 ll.
366; 148 N.E. 23 had been reversed in
272 U.S. 494 and the case had been remanded for further proceedings.

'Sections 17 and 18 of the Act of February 25, 1898, Il1. Laws

1898, p. 32, directed assessing officers to take one-third of the listed

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

Opinion of the Court.

when the net receipts are placed upon the tax list they
are to be treated as personal property valuation, and are
to be scaled, debased and treated the same as other personal property by the taxing officials."
In that connection the court approvingly quoted from
its decision in People v.Cosnwpolitan Fire Ins. Co., 246
Ill. 442, 448; 92 N.E. 922, as follows:
"The net receipts are personal property and are to be
listed by the board of assessors and board of review and
taxed the same as other property."
In the present case that court in dealing with the original assessments made in 1923-1926, after the returns in
those years were received, said (350 Ill. 372; 183 N.E.
241):
"Such returns were received and accepted as correct by
the assessor, acted upon by the taxing bodies and the
taxes extended thereon. The taxes extended were not
legal, for the reason that the amounts returned as net
receipts were not scaled and debased as the returns of
other personal property were in the extension of the
taxes."'
But while the court ruled that the taxes so extended
were not legal, it referred to the stipulation whereby judgment was to be rendered in conformity with the evidence and equitable principles, and held that the plaintiff,
while not entitled to recover all that was extended, was
entitled to a judgment for what would have been-due bad
the net receipts been "scaled and debased in conformity
with the assessments on other personal property " and
had the taxes been computed and extended on the resulting assessments.
Respecting the tax on net receipts for the year ending
April 30, 1927, that court considered several objections,
"full value" as the "assessed value." These sections were amended
Laws 1919, p. 727, by changing "one-third" to
June 30, 1919, Ill.
"one-half."

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

not material here, which were urged against the action of
the board of review and pronounced them not well
grounded. It then sustained the assessment as a valid
one, held that equity and good conscience required that
the tax be paid, and included the full amount in the recovery awarded the plaintiff. Nothing was said in the
opinion about the failure of the board of. review to scale
the net receipts down to 60% of their value, as was done
in assessing other property, nor was there mention of anything which could cure that departure from the general
practice or render it of no significance. The matter was
plainly presented on the record, and the full tax could
not have been sustained without resolving it against the
defendant. So the conclusion is unavoidable that it was
so resolved, although not given distinct mention.
From the outset the defendant has insisted as part of
its defense that the taxing act, if construed and applied
as sustaining the taxes in question, denies to it the equal
protection of the laws contrary to the prohibition of the
Fourteenth Amendment. This appears in the stipulation under which the case was tried, in the opening statement of counsel at the trial, and elsewhere in the record.
The Supreme Court, in the opinion, recites that th'is contention was made, and disposes of it by saying that a
like contention was considered and overruled in Hanover
Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding,327 Ill. 590; 158 N.E. 849; and
People v. Franklin National Ins. Co., 343 Ill. 336; 175
N.E. 431.
Of course the question in this Court is whether the act
as applied by the state court in this case arbitrarily and
prejudicially discriminates against the defendant and in
fayor of others in circumstances fairly admitting of equal
treatment. The particulars in which it is claimed that
the act works such a discrimination will be taken up
separately.

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

Opinion of the Court.

1. It is said that the act as it was applied to the net
receipts of 1927 subjects the personal property of a foreign
fire insurance corporation to a tax based on its full actual
value whereas other personal property is taxed on a basis
of 60% of its value. The complaint is not that the net
receipts were valued excessively, but that the value when
determined was not debased like that of other personal
property. The tax, as extended on the full actual value
fixed by the board of review, was $5,895.19. Had that
value been debased to 60%, as was the value of other personal property, the tax would have been $3,537.11, making
a difference of $2,358.08. The act deals specially and only
with the taxation of net receipts of foreign fire, marine and
inland navigation insurance corporations. The assessing
officers acted in virtue of it and the state court held their
action was valid under it. Thus both applied it, and they
applied it as subjecting the net receipts of a foreign fire
insurance company, by reason of being such, to a tax
burden 66V% greater than that laid on other personal
property. No reasonable basis for such a discrimination
is suggested and none is perceived. It is essentially the
same character of arbitrary and prejudicial discrimination
that was condemned as a denial of the equal protection of
the laws in Hanover FireIns. Co. v. Harding,272 U.S. 494.
Whether a state statute is valid or invalid under the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
often depends on how the statute is construed and applied.
It may be valid when given a particular application and
invalid when given another. Here the application which
was made of § 30 ifi respect of the taxation of the net
receipts of 1927, i.e., the application made by the assessing
officers and sustained by the Supreme Court, braught the
section into conflict with the prohibition of that, clause.
This means that as so applied it is invalid, notwithstanding its validity in some different applications.

OCTOBER TERM, 1033.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

By way of excusing the failure to debase it is said that
sonelhig else was done which was a practical equivalent.
But careful consideration of the asserted excusing action
,,-hews that it neither did nor could operate as a practical
e(luivalent or rectify the material omission sought to be

e(xcusc(1. lftfect must be given to the board's recorded
action in fixing the net receipts at 8121.550. This is the
amount which shouldl have been debaseI to 60' to put
the net receipts on a plane with other property.
• 2. It is sai(I that § 30 works an unreasonable discrimination against the foreign corl)oration-, naimied therein
in that it taxes their net receipts without permitting in
the computation of such receipts a deduction of paid
insurance losses, whereas competing (omestic corporations are taxed only on what renmains of their receipts on
April 1 of each year after insurance losses, as well a:operating expenses, arc paid. But the defendant is not
in a position to press this claim. Neither in its return
nor in the hearing before the board of review did it make
any showing respecting paid insurance losses or ask that
such losses be deducted in arrivingr at its net receipts.
The amount of these receipts--whether one sum or another-was primarily, at least, to be determined by the
assessing officers. And as the matter was not presented
to them it was not admissible, according to the decision
of the Supreme Court, for the defendant to make it a
ground for asking the court to reject or revise their finding respecting the amount of the receipts.
3. It is said that § 30 arbitrarily discriminates against
foreign fire, marine and inland navigation insurance corporations and in favor of competing domestic corporations, in that it taxes the net receipts of the former, while
the latter are not subjected to such a tax or to any equivalent tax. It appears to be conceded that no tax is laid
,directly on the net receipts of the domestic corporations;
but it is denied that those corporations are not subjected
to an equivalent tax.

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

Opinion of the Court.

For a long period the Supreme Court of the State ruled
that the tax imposed by § 30 was a property tax; later
on it ruled that the tax was an occupation or privilege
tax; and still later it returned to its first ruling. In
Hanover FireIns. Co. v. Harding,272 U.S. 494, this court
in sustaining a claim that the section, when applied according to the second ruling, was in conflict, with the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
said (p. 516) :
" Under the previous decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, when the net receipts were treated as personal
property and the assessment thereon as a personal property tax subjected to the same reductions for equalization and debasement, it might well have been said that
there was no substantial inequality as between domestic
corporations and foreign corporations, in that the net receipts were personal property acquired during the year
and removed by foreign companies out of the State, and
could be required justly to yield a tax fairly equivalent to
that which the domestic companies would have to pay on
all their personal property, including their net receipts
or what they were invested in."
Couisel differ as to whether that statement was necessary to the decision of the case in hand. Be this as it
may, the statement recognizes that substantial equality
and fair equivalence are important factors in determining
the presence or absence of arbitrary discrimination in such
situations; and in this respect the statement is in accord
with repeated decisions of this Court. Mathematical
equivalence is neither required nor attainable; nor is
identity in mere modes of taxation of importance where
there is substantial equality in the resulting burdens.
By reason of the presumption of validity which attends
legislative and official action one who alleges. unreasonable discrimination must carry the burden of showing it.
This has not been done as respects the claim now being
considered. The defendant recognizes that the domestic

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

corporations are subjected to some taxes not laid on the
foreign corporations, a capital stock tax apparently being
one. But the full situation is not shown; nor is it reflected in the opinion of the Supreme Court or the-iases
there cited. For aught that appears it may be that taxes
not applied to the foreign corporations are laid on the
domestic corporations which are the substantial equivalent of the net receipts tax. For these reasons this claim
of discrimination must fail.
4. It is said that § 30 requires foreign fire insurance
corporations to pay the. tax not alone on their net receipts from fire, marine and inland navigation insurance
but also on their net receipts from casualty insurance,
whereas foreign casualty insurance corporations severally
conducting a casualty insurance business in direct competition with the foreign fire insurance corporations are
not required to pay a tax on their net receipts or any
equivalent tax. The factual premises of this claim are
stipulated. The Supreme Court of the State has construed § 30 as taxing the foreign fire insurance companies
on their net receipts from casualty insurance,8 and has
held that foreign casualty insurance companies conducting a casualty insurance business are not taxable on their
net receits under § 30 or any other statute.' The stipulation shows that all of these foreign corporations are
lawfully entitled by reason of licenses, etc., to conduct
their respective businesses within the State; that the
casualty corporations are conducting the "same character" of casualty insurance business as the fire insurance
corporations; that these businesses are competitive; and
that the casualty corporations are taxed on such real and
tangible personal property as they hold within the State,
'People v. Concordia Fire Ins. Co., 350 IE. 365; 183 N.E. 241.
'Fidelity & Casualty Co. v. Board of Review, 264 IU. 11; 105 N.E.

704.

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

Opinion of the Court.

while the fire insurance companies are taxed not only on
their real and tangible personal property but also on their
net receipts from casualty insurance.
This statement shows that § 30, as the state court construes and applies it, works a very real and prejudicial
discrimination against the fire insurance companies and
in favor of the casualty companies in respect of competitive casualty businesses of the same character, conducted in the same way and in the same territory. The
companies are all foreign corporations, and all are for
present purposes equally within the jurisdiction of the
State and subject to her power to tax. There is no basis
or reason for making a distinction between them that has
any pertinence to the imposition of a property tax such
as is in question. The net receipts which are taxed are
not different from those which are not taxed; and both
come from the same source. Such a discrimination in
respect of the taxation of real or tangible personal property- obviously would be essentially arbitrary. In principle it is not different with the net receipts. They are
property and the tax which § 30 imposes is, as the state
court holds, a property tax. It follows that the sectipn,
when construed and applied in the way just described, is
in conflict with the equal protection clause of the Constitution. Full support for this conclusion is found in
prior decisions."
When the views expressed in this opinion are applied
to the judgment under review the result, shortly stated,
is as follows: The taxes of 1923-1926, as reduced by the
Supreme Court, were only on net receipts from fire,
" Quaker City Cab Co. v. Peinsylvania, 277 U.S. 389; Louisville
Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U.S. 32; Cumberland Coal Co. v.
Board of Revision, 284 (..S. 23; Iowa-Des Moines National Bank v.
Bennett, 284 U.S. 239;Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U.S. 412;
Kentucky Finance Corp. v. Paramount Auto Exchange, 262 U.S. 544;
Power Manufacturing Co. v. Saunders, 274 U.S. 490.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CAM)OZO, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

marine and inland navigation insurance, and were computed on amounts obtained by proper scaling and debasement. None of the constitutional objections urged
against the taxes of those years is well taken. Therefore
as to those taxes the judgment must be affirmed. The
tax of 1927 was partly on net receipts from casualty insurance and was also laid on the full amount of the net
receipts of that year without first debasing them to 60%
as was done with other property. In both of these particulars there was a denial of the equal protection of the
laws. Therefore as to that tax the judgment must be
reversed. And incidentally the cause must be remanded
to the Supreme Court of the State for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JusTICE CARDozo, dissenting in part.
I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court to
the extent of its holding that the tax upon the net receipts of premiums for casualty insurance is a denial to
the appellant of the equal protection of the laws.
The validity of a tax depends upon its nature, and not
upon its name. St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260
U.S. 346, 348; Federal Land Bank v. Crosland, 261 U.S.
374, 378; Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 US. 32, 38;
Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U.S. 379, 387.
In the State of Illinois there has long been a usage,
reinforced by statut6 until 1927, whereby property subject to an ad valorem tax is to be assessed at 30% or
later 60% of its value, and no more. The highest court
of that state~held for many years that within thQ meaning
of this rule of debasement, the tax upon the net receipts

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

of foreign fire and inland navigation companies was a
tax upon property, or at least was to be assessed in the
same way. Chicago v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 426 Ill.
276; 18 N.E. 668; National Fire Ins. Co. v. Hanberg, 215
Ill. 378, 380; 74 N.E. 77; People v. Cosmopolitan Fire
Ins. Co., 246 Ill. 442, 448'; 92 N.E. 922. This continued
to be the practice till 1921. In that year and for a time
afterwards, the Court determined that the tax did not
come within the rule of debasement, but was a tax upon a
privilege. People v. Kent, 300 Ill. 324; 133 N.E. 276;
People v. Barrett, 309 111. 53; 139 N.E. 903; Hanover
Fire Ins. Co. v. Carr, 317 Ill. 366; 148 N.E. 23. The
companies affected by the new ruling attacked the discrimination as unconstitutional, and brought the contioversy here. In 1926, this court held that the denial of
the 30% debasement to foreign corporations brought
about an inequality so gross in comparison with the burdens of domestic corporations as to vitiate the tax and
the statute that imposed it. Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding, 272 U.S. 494. Following that decision, the Supreme
Court of Illinois receded from the position that it had
taken in 1921, and held that there must be a debasement
of value as in the case of taxes upon property. Hanover
Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding, 327 Ill. 590, 601; 158 N.E. 849;
People v. Franklin National Ins. Co., 343 Ill. 336; 175
N.E. 431.
No descriptive epithet applied to the tax by the Illinois
court. or any other can transform the essential nature of
the tax into something other than it is. St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, supra; FederalLand Bank'v. Crosland, supra; EducationalFilms Corp. v. Ward, supra. No
descriptive epithet can make a tax upon the net receipts
of the business of the whole year the same as one upon the
property located on a particular day of the year within the
area of the taxing district, or the same as one upon. the
capital or income of in-,estments. If the foreign corpo-

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

CAiwOzo, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

rations subjected to this tax on net receipts had taken the
gross receipts out of the state at once after collection, or
had placed them in an insolvent bank with the result that
nothing remained when the assessment day arrived, the
tax would still have been due without the abatement of a
dollar. Fidelity & Casualty Co. v. Board of Review, 264
Ill. 11, 14; 105 N.E. 704. On the other hand, nothing
would have been due if no premiums had been collected
during the year, though the profits of earlier years were
still within the county. The tax, whatever its label, is
upon the operations of a business. Generally in the
United States, though perhaps not abroad, i tax so imposed is spoken of as an excise. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
220 U.S. 107, 145; cf. Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences, vol. V, article "Excise "; Seligman, Essays in Taxation, 9th ed., pp. 161, 165, 169. It is what it is, no
matter what one calls it. It is a tax on net receipts.
This court did not hold in Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding,
supra, that if the tax was an excise, it would be void for
that reason, though the assessment were to be debased.
All that was held was that calling it an excise would not
save it if the benefit of debasement was withheld in a discriminatory way. By the same token, calling it a property tax does not condemn it if debasement is allowed.
The Illinois court did not hold, in retracting the description of a tax upon a privilege, that a tax upon investments
is identical with a tax upon the net receipts of the business
of the year. Things so essentially different would not become the same even if a court were to confuse them and
speak of them as one. The Illinois court held no more
than this, that whatever the differences between the taxes,
the two would be viewed as if they were taxes upon property for the purpose of applying the prescribed percentage
of debasement. If the tax upon net receipts, including
casualty insurance premiums, would not effect a denial of
the equal protection of the laws in the event that, the

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

Supreme Court of Illinois, while debasing the assessment,
had described the tax as an excise, it does not effect such
a denial because the court, rightly or wrongly, has described it as something else. New York Cent. R. Co. v.
Miller, 202 U.S. 584, 596. The question still is, what
kind of classification is permissible when the yearly net
receipts are the subject matter of the taT. and the measure
of the burden?
Now, plainly, a tax on the net receipts of a business of
a particular kind is not condemned as void for the reason
that a like tax or an equal one is not laid on the net
receipts of every other kind of business. Bell's Gap R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134'U.S. 232, 237; Pacific Express
Co. v. Seibert, 142 U.S. 339, 351, 353; Adams Express Co.
v. Ohio, 165 U.S. 194, 223, 228; Southwestern Oil Co. v.
Texas, 217 U.S. 114; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U.S. 172;
Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U.S. 137, 142; Ohio Oil G -. v. Conway, 281 U.S. 146, 159; Union Bank v. Phelps, 288 U.S.
181. Not even the appellant makes any contention to the
contrary. If it did, it would be driven to maintain that
the whole statute must fall, and not merely so much as
affects the. casualty premiums. To say that a tax on the
net receipts of one kind of business is void because a like
tax is not laid on different forms of business would mean
that the net receipts of insurance companies may not be
taxed without laying a like tax on manufacturers and merchants. The cases above cited make it-clear to the point
of demonstration that this is not the law. "The state
may tax real and personal property in a different manner." Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra; Ohio
Oil Co. v. Conway, supra. " It may impose different
specific duties Upon different trades and professions, and
may vary the rate of excise upon different products."
Ibid. Nowhere is it intimated that what was approved
would have been condemned if there had been in the
statute a glossary that gave the tax another name.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

With the aid of this analysis the path is cleared to a
conclusion. A tax upon the receipts of a business is not
invalid as of course because some forms of business are
hit and others are exempt. To bring about that result
the assailant of the tax must be able to satisfy the court
that the classification had its origin in nothing better than
whim and fantasy a tyrannical exercise of arbitrary
power. Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, supra, p. 160; Stebbins
v. Riley, supra; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co.,
220 U.S. 61, 78. This is the heavy burden that the appellant must sustain. Is it a whimsical and fantastic act
to tax foreign fire insurance companies upon all their net
receipts, including those derived from casualty premiums,
when no such tax is imposed upon the receipts of insurance companies that do a casualty business only? If so,
the arbitrary quality of the division must have its origin in
the fact that the activities of the one class overlap to
some extent the activities of the other. But plainly there
is no rule that overlapping classes can never be established in the realm of taxation except at the price of an
infringement of the federal constitution. The recognition of such a rule means that a department store may
not be taxed on the net receipts of its business unless
all the many activities thus brought under a single roof
are taxed in the same way when separately conducted.
Cf. State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283
U.S. 527; Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U.S. 517, 532. There
must be a tax on the business of the draper, the jeweler,
the shoemaker, the hatter, the carpet dealer, and what
For the same reason, the proprietor of a retail
not.
market dealing in meats and groceries and vegetables and
fruits will then escape, at least proportionately, a tax
upon receipts if the statute does not cover the business
of the shopkeeper who derives a modest income from the
sale of peanuts and bananas. There are few taxes upon
earnings that would pass so fine a sieve. The rule, if

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

there is any, against the creation of overlapping classes for
purposes of taxation is manifestly not one of general
validity. The range of its application must depend upon
the facts.
Fire insurance companies in Illinois, though organized
in other states, have never been allowed to do a general
casualty business. It is misleading to argue about them
on the assumption that they are appropriately described
as casualty insurers. For a long time they were restricted to the risks of fire, lightning and tornadoes, and
those of inland navigation and transportation. Act of
March 11, 1869; Act of May 31, 1879; Act of June 30,
1885. Then in 1905 (Act of May 16, 1905), they were
permitted to insure against the leakage of sprinklers,
pumps, and other apparatus of that order. In 1912 ,(Act
of June 11, 1912), the list was increased by adding the
risk of damage to property through the use of motor
vehicles, but not the risk of liability for damage to the
person. In 1925 (Act of June 30, 1925), there was a
revision of the form of the then existing statutes, but
with little change of substance. After the revision just
as formerly the casualty policies written by the fire companies were confined -with negligible exceptions to liability for loss through the use of pumps and sprinklers,
and liability for damage to property through the use of
motor vehicles. They occupied only a small part of the
total casualty business.
The accuracy of this statement is perceived upon a
survey of the activities of the casualty companies. These
companies insure against bodily injury, disability or death
as a consequence of accident. They indemnify merchants and other business men against loss by reason of
giving credit to customers. They guaiantee against loss
by burglary or theft or the breakage of glass. They insure against any hazard resulting from the maintenance
or use of automobiles or other vehicles, whether there is

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

personal injury or death or only damage to property. Act
of April 21, 1899 as amended by Act of January 30, 1919
and June 28, 1921.
A study of the reports to the Insurance Department of
Illinois exposes the overlapping segments in their comparative dimensions. Thus, in 1927, the foreign fire
stock-companies of Illinois received premiums from all
sources of $68,741,901.34, of which $48,266,624.47 came
from fire policies, $680,645.43 from ocean marine insurance, $4,018,503.22 from inland navigation and transportation, $7,866.42 from insurance against earthquakes,
$5,743,891.81 from tornado policies, $171,833.15 from insurance against damage by hail, $327,933.61 from riot
insurance, $48,414.68 from miscellaneous policies; and
$9,476,188.55 from the two fields where the business of
fire companies and casualty companies overlap, i.e., motor
vehicle property damage and sprinkler leakage ($9,207,980.43 for the one and $268,208.12 for the other). 60th
Annual Insurance Report, part I, pp. 96-105. During
the same year the foreign casualty companies received
premiums of $7,384,454.72 from accident and health policies, $12,728,070 from workmen's compensation insurance, $3,274,293.63 from fidelity insurance premiums,
$7,879,541.48 from automobile liability insurance, exclusive of property damage, $3,047,350.53 from liability insurance not connected with automobiles, $3,957,757.69
from insurance against burglary and theft, $4,371,869.46
from surety bonds, $1,961,445.08 from plate glass insurance, $442,020.20 from steam boiler insurance, $161,862.91 from engine and machinery insurance, $370,040.02,
from credit insurance, $111,164.20 from property damage
not connected with motor vehicles, $22,676.10 from insurance of live stock, $794,119.43 ,from miscellaneous policies, and finally $3,199,397.92 from motor vehicle policies
covering damage to property and $44,267.48 from sprink-

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
535

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

ler damage insurance. The total premiums from all
sources were $50,679,141.98. 60th 'Annual Insurance
Report, part III, pp. 79-92.
This comparison makes it clear that the business of
fire insurance companies as carried on in Illinois is
essentially a different one from the business generally
known as that of casualty insurance, though the spheres
coincide for the space of a small segment. A phase or
department of one business may be akirn to a phase or
department of another, and still the kindred branches
may bear unequal taxes. Coincidence of some of the
parts is not enough unless the parts are so many as to
determine the identity of the whole. The vice of any
different principle may be known from its consequences.
The drug store of today supplies many things besides
medicines and surgical appliances. It has a counter
where sandwiches and salads and ice cream and many
other edibles are furnished to its customers. If a tax
were to be laid upon the earnings of a drug store, the
acceptance of the appellant's argument would drive us to
a holding that the receipts from the sale ,of 'edibles must
be excluded from the reckoning in the absence of a like
tax upon the proprietors of restaurants. Dealers of
ready made clothing have a department of their business
in which clothes are made to order. The appellant would
have us say that the earnings from that department are
exempt under the constitution from a tax upon receipts
unless a like tax is laid upon the earnings of the merchant
tailor. The legislature in that view may no longer classify
the forms of business with an eye to a composite group
of uniformities and differences. There must be a segregation of forms of business into their constituent activities,
which, to the extent that there is identity, must be taxed
for any one group as they are taxed for any other. Immunity from tax laws of unequal operation has never

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

until now been pressed to that extreme. Armour & Co.
v. Virginia, 246 U.S. 1, 6; Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy,
200 U.S. 226; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U.S. 59;
American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U.S. 89;
Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, supra; State Board of Tax
Commissioners v. Jackson, supra; N.Y. ex rel. N.Y. &
Albany Lighterage Co. v. Lynch, 288 U.S. 590, Puget
Sound Power & Light Co. v. Seattle, 291 U.S. 619; A.
Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, ante, p. 40.
By the very law of their being, companies whose principal business is to provide insurance against fire, but who
provide casualty insurance in a very narrow field,
are in a class of their own, with capacities and opportunities essentially diverse from those of companies
who are incompetent to provide insurance against fire,
but who do insure against almost every other imaginable
risk. The state is not called upon to explain the reasons
for taxing the members of the one class more heavily than
it does the members of the 'other. The burden is on the
appellant who would strike the statute down, and not on
the state which invokes the presumption of validity.
Weaver v. Palmer Bros. Co., 270 U.S. 402, 410; Detroit
Bridge Co. v. Tax Board, 287 U.S. 295, 297. "As underlying questions of fact may condition the constitutionality
of legislation of this character, the presumption of constitutionality must prevail in the absence of some factual
foundation of record for overthrowing the statute."
"O'Gorman& Young, Inc. v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co.,
282 U.S. 251, 257; Lawrence v. State Tax Commission,
286 U.S.'276, 283; Williams v. Mayor, 289 U.S. 36, 42.
Here the foundation fails, and- with it the assault.
Nothing that was determined in Quaker City Cab Co. v.
Pennsylvania,277 U.S. 389, is at war with this conclusion.
There the business done by the taxpayer was the same
as that done by others to whom an exemptioh was allowed.
Here they are not the same, though at places they overlap.

LEWIS v. FIDELITY CO.
535

Syllabus.

For many years the fire insurance companies in Illinois
were without power to write a policy unless the hazards
were those of fire or of inland navigation. When the
power was conferred upon them to cover risks of other
kinds, a statute gave them notice that they must pay
taxes to the county upon the net earnings of their business
from whatever source derived. They were free to use the
new privilege or to reject it as they pleased. They
accepted it cum onere if they accepted it at all.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE

join

in this opinion.
LEWIS, RECEIVER, v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO.
OF MARYLAND.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 802. Argued May 4, 1934.-Decided June 4, 1934.
1. Under the Act of June 25, 1930, which authorizes any national
bank, upon the deposit with it of public money of a State or any
political subdivision thereof, to "give security for the safekeeping
and prompt payment of the money so deposited of the same kind
as is authorized by the law of the State in which such association
is located in the case of other banking institutions in the State,"
the authority is not limited to the pledging of specific assets to
secure the public deposits, but is broad enough to authorize a general lien on present and future assets of the national bank wherever banks organized under the laws of the State have that
power. - P. 564.
2. The main purpose of the Act of June 25, 1930, was to equalize
the positions of national and state banks; and, without the power
granted, national banks would be at a disadvantage in competing
for deposits with state banks possessing it. P. 564.
3. A national bank is subject to state law unless that law interferes
with the purposes of its creation, or destroys its efficiency, or is
in conflict with some paramount federal law. P. 566.

