GILVARY v. CUYAHOGA VALLEY RY.
Syllabus.

53

recording charges and the like that are included in the
preliminary costs of negotiating and carrying the mortgage loans. Undioubtedly Congress intended that state
laws are to govern in respect of counsel fees for foreclosure of mortgages given under the Act.
But what is said above is not to be taken to approve
the collection of a substantial attorney's fee for foreclosure
in every case where stipulations such as the one before us
are valid under state law. Uncontested foreclosures generally follow established routine and undoubtedly many
of them may be made, without much if any cost to the
banks, by their regularly employed salaried lawyers. In
any such case the employment of another attorney or the
exaction of any substantial charge for legal services cannot
be justified as reasonable. In all cases-whether foreclosure is obtained by default or after contest-the mortgagor's promise to pay the mortgagee a reasonable attorney's fee is to be construed having regard to the purpose
of Congress to enable farmers, by means of mortgages on
their lands, to obtain loans at low cost.
Reversed.
GILVARY v. CUYAHOGA VALLEY RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 575.

Argued March 8, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

1. Although the duty to supply all of its cars with automatic couplers laid upon an interstate railroad by the Federal Safety Appliance Acts extends to vehicles used exclusively in such carrier's
intrastate commerce, nevertheless where a breach of this duty
results in injuries to the carrier's employee while he is engaged
exclusively in intrastate commerce, his right to collect damages
from the carrier does not spring from these federal acts, but from
the law of the State. P. 61.
2. Where a carrier and employee had elected, in case of any injury
to the employee while engaged in intrastate commerce, to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

their respective rights and liabilities governed by the provisions of
the Ohio elective workmen's compensation law, held that the agreement was applicable, and consistent with the Federal Safety Appliance Acts, in a case of injury alleged to have been caused by
the carrier's failure to equip cars with automatic couplers as those
acts required. P. 59.
127 Ohio St. 402, affirmed.
290 U.S. 622, to review the affirmance (by
equal division) of a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Ohio, which had reversed a recovery of damages from the
Railway Company in an action based on personal injuries.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. M. L. Bernsteen, with whom Mr. Glen A. Boone
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. T. Kinder for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action brought by petitioner to recover for
personal injuries sustained by him in April, 1929, while
employed by respondent as a switchman at Cleveland,
Ohio. Respondent is a common carrier by railroad wholly
within that State engaged in intrastate and interstate
commerce. And the Safety Appliance Acts make it unlawful for it to haul or permit to be hauled or used on its
line any car not equipped with couplers coupling automatically by impact.' In accordance with the Ohio workmen's compensation act,' petitioner and respondent had

§ 2, Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, 45 U.S.C., § 2. § 1, Act
of March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, 45 U.S.C., § 8.
'"The provisions of this act shall apply to employers and their
employes engaged in intrastate and also in interstate and foreign
commerce, for whom a rule of liability or method of compenation
has been or may be established by the congress cf the United States,
only to the extent that their mutual connecton with intrastate work
may and shall be clearly separable and distinguishable from interstate
or foreign commerce, and then only when such employer and any

GILVARY v. CUYAHOGA VALLEY RY.
57

Opinion of the Court.

theretofore notified the industrial commission that they
elected, in case of any injury sustained by petitioner while
engaged in intrastate commerce, to have their respective
rights and liabilities governed by the provisions of that
Act. The commission lmd approved the agreement, respondent paid the premiums necessary to keep it in force
and in all respects complied with the law. Petitioner was
injured while he and respondent were engaged in intrastate commerce.
The complaint alleges that his injuries were caused by
respondent's failure to comply with the Safety Appliance
Acts in that cars which he, with other members of his
crew, was attempting to couple were not equipped with
couplers that would couple automatically by impact,
thereby making it necessary for him to go between the
ends of the cars where he was caught and injured. In
addition to a denial of the violation of the statutes, respondent's answer sets up the election to be bound by
the state compensation act. The court held that the
agreement was not sufficient to constitute a defense and
struck out that part of the answer. The trial resulted in
a verdict and judgment for petitioner. The court of appeals reversed and gave final judgment in favor of the
respondent" for the reason that the acceptance and notice
of election by the employee contract approved by the Industrial Commission of Ohio is a complete bar to a right
of his workmen working only in this state, with the approval of the
state liability board of awards, and so far as not forbidden by any
act of congress, voluntarily accept the provisions of this act by filing
written acceptances, which, when filed with and approved by the
board, shall subject the acceptors irrevocably to the provisions of
this act to all intents and purposes as if they had been originally
included in its terms, during the period or periods for which the
premiums herein provided have been paid. Payment of premium
shall be on the basis of the payroll of the workmen who accept as
aforesaid" G.C., § 1465-98.

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of recovery in this action." In the state supreme court,
the judges being equally divided in opinion, the judgment
of the court of appeals was affirmed.
As the petitioner when injured was not engaged in
interstate commerce, the Federal Employers Liability Act
does not apply, and the question is whether the agreement
of the parties, in pursuance of the Ohio statute, is repugnant to the Federal Safety Appliance Acts.
Unless excluded by congressional enactment under the
commerce clause, state law governs the respective liabilities and rights of railroad carriers and their employees
growing out of injuries suffered by the latter whether in
interstate or intrastate commerce. Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U.S. 1, 54. The power conferred upon
the Congress is such that when exerted it excludes and
supersedes state legislation in respect of the same matter.
But Congress may so circumscribe its regulation as to leave
a part of the subject open to state action. Atlantic Coast
Line v. Georgia,234 U.S. 280, 290. Cf. Napier v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 272 U.S. 605. The purpose exclusively to regulate need not be specifically declared. New York Central
R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U.S. 147. But, ordinarily such intention will not be implied unless, when fairly interpreted,
the federal measure is plainly inconsistent with state regulation of the same matter. Illinois Cent. R. Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 245 U.S. 493, 510.
The Safety Appliance Acts govern common carriers by
railroad engaged in interstate commerce. The Act of 1893
applied only to vehicles used by them in moving interstate
traffic. 45 U.S.C., § 2. Its requirements were by the Act
of 1903 extended to all their vehicles. Id., § 8. Southern
Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U.S. 20, 26. Moore v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 291 U.S. 205, 213. So far as the
safety equipment of such vehicles is concerned, these Acts
operate to exclude state regulation whether consistent,

GILVARY v. CUYAHOGA VALLEY RY.
57

Opnion of the Court.

complemeitary, additional or otherwise. Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 617. Southern Ry. Co. v. Railroad
.Comm'n, 236 U.S. 439,446. Internat.Shoe Co. v. Pinkus,
278 U.S. 261, 265. The imposition of penalties (id., § 6)
and abrogation of assumption of risk (id., § 7) are
measures for enforcement.
A violation of the Acts is a breach of duty owed to an
employee, whether he is at the time engaged in interstate
or in intrastate commerce. And by abolishing assumption
of risk the Acts impliedly recognize the right to recover
for injuries resulting therefrom. But the absence of a
declaration similar to that in the Federal Employers Liability Act, which denounces contracts and other arrangements made for the purpose of exempting carriers from
liability created by that Act (45 U.S.C., § 55), strongly
suggests a lack of legislative purpose to create any cause
of action therefor. Moreover, if there had been such purpose, Congress probably would have included provisions
in respect of venue, jurisdiction of courts, limitations,
measure of damages, and beneficiaries in case of death.
Petitioner cites language in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Rigsby, 241 U.S. 33, 41. But that case is not in point on
the question under consideration in this case. There we
were called upon to decide whether a railroad employee
engaged in intrastate commerce upon the line of an interstate carrier was within the protection of the Safety Appliance Acts. We held that he was. The opinion supports
our recent construction of these Acts that, while they
prescribe the duty, the right to recover damages sustained
by the injured employee through the breach "sprang from
the principle of the common law" and was left to be
enforced accordingly, or in case of death "according to the
applicable statute." Moore v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co., supra,215. Minneapolis,St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v.
Popplar, 237 U.S. 369, 372. These Acts do not create,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

62

Syllabus.

292 U. S.

prescribe the measure or govern the enforcement of, the
liability arising from the breach. They do not extend to
the field occupied by the state compensation Act. There
is nothing in the agreement repugnant to them.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE alld MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO concur in

the result.
CHARLES ILFELD CO. v. HERNANDEZ, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 579.

Argued March 8, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

Section 141 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928 gives groups of affiliated corporations the privilege of making consolidated returns,
in lieu of separate ones, for 1929 and subsequent years, upon condition that all members consent to the regulations prescribed prior
to the return. Section 141 (b) authorizes the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to make regulations for determining the tax liability of an
affiliated group and of each member in such manner as clearly to
reflect the income and prevent avoidance of tax liability. Held:
. 1. The making of a consolidated return of income on the part
of affiliated corporations, was a "consent" to the regulations pre-

scribed prior to the return.

P. 65.

2. Deduction of a loss, in an income tax return, is not allowable
unless the relevant act and regulations fairly may be read to
authorize it. P. 66.
3. Where a parent company during a consolidated return period
caused the property of two affiliates, of which it held all the stock,
to be sold to outsiders, received a distribution of the net proceeds
after payment of their outside debts, and then dissolved the affiliated corporations, the losses represented by the difference between the amount of the distribution and what it had lent the
affiliates and paid for their stock in prior years were losses upon a
distribution within the consolidated return period and arising from
intercompany transactions, and not from a sale of stock, within

