SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
332

Syllabus.

is conclusive upon all matters of fact, and prevents any
inquiry into the conclusions of law embodied therein,
except in so far as the rulings during the progress of the
trial were excepted to and duly preserved by bill of exceptions, as required by the statute. . . . To obtain a
review by an appellate court of the conclusions of law a
party must either obtain from the trial court special findings which raise the legal propositions, or present the
propositions of law to the court and obtain a ruling on
them." This ruling was followed in Lewellyn v. Electric
Reduction Co., 275 U.S. 243, 248, and in Harvey Co. v.
Malley, 288 U.S. 415, 418. See also General Motors Co.
v. Swan'Carburetor Co.,;44 F. (2d) 24, and Gerlach v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 65 F. (2d) 862.
The assignments of error in the Circuit Court of Appeals presented no point based upon the pleadings. The
bill of exceptions disclosed no special findings of fact nor
any proposition of law duly presented and relied upon
during the progress of the trial. The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed; the one by
the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 742. Argued May 9, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
During the time of his first enlistment, a seaman in the Navy applied
for and obtained a policy of war risk insurance, executing at the
time of his application an authorization for deduction of premiums
from his pay. He rednlisted twice and held a certificate of continuous service. Although the authorization for deduction of
premiums was never formally revoked, and there was sufficient
money due him at the end of each month to meet the premiums,
deductions were in fact made only during the first enlistment; and

. OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

thereafter he accepted all pay that was due him and made no
effort to pay the premiums. Held: by his conduct the insured
abandoned the policy and it was not in force at the time of his
death. P. 341.

67 F. (2d) 412, affirmed.
CERTonum, 291 U.S. 656, to review a judgment which
reversed a judgment against the United States in a suit
on a policy of war risk insurance.
Mr. James J. Crossley for petitioner.
Mr. Will G. Beardslee, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant to :the Attorney General Stanley, and
Messrs. Wilbur C. Pickett and W. Marvin Smith were on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By complaint filed in the District Court for Oregon,
May 22, 1929, petitioner sought judgment against the
United States for benefits said to have accrued to her
under War Risk Insurance taken out by her son, Elias
Melvin Zimmerman, in 1917. While enlisted in the Naval
Service he died aboard the U.S.S. "Conestoga" June 30,

1921.
The United States denied liability upon the ground
that the policy. lapsed for nonpayment of premiums and
was not in force after April 30, 1918.
By agreement the cause was tried without a jury. The
District Court gave judgment for the complainantpetitioner here; the Circuit Court of Appeals reached a
different conclusion and ordered reversal.
* There is no dispute in respect of the essential facts.
Zimmerman enlisted in the Navy March 18, 1914, as
an apprentice seaman and was honorably discharged at
the expiration of his term March 17, 1918; he re-enlisted
March 18, 1918, and received an honorable discharge
September 15, 1919; he. enlisted again 'September 16,

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
337

339

Opinion of the Court.

1919, and served until death. He helda continuous service certificate; but when this was actually received does
not appear.* War Risk insurance amounting to $10,000
issued upon his application dated December 3, 1917,
which contained the following clause, never formally revoked-" I authorize the-necessary monthly deduction
from my pay, or if insufficient, from any deposits with
the United States in payment of the premiums as they
become due, unless they be otherwise paid."
The policy provided for monthly payments in the event
of death or total disability occurring while it remained in
force. It designated petitioner as the beneficiary. A
Bulletin issued by the Director of War Risk Insurance, as
'authorized by the War Risk Insurance Act, 40 Stat. 398,
409, in force when the policy became effective, contained
the following regulation:
"Premiums shall be. paid monthly on or before the 1st
day of each calendar month and will unless the insured
otherwise elects in writing be deducted from any pay due
him from the United States or deposit by him with the
United States and if so to be deducted a premium when
due will be treated as paid whether or not such deduction
is in fact made, if upon the due date the United States
owe him on account of pay or deposit an amount sufficient
to provide the premium; provided that the premium may
be paid within thirty-one (31) days after the expiration
of the month during which period of grace the insurance
* Navy Regulations, 1913.

"Paragraph 3529 (1)-Any man who, having been honorably discharged, or discharged with a recommendation for re~nfistment, shall
within four months thereafter re6@list for four years shall receive in
exchange for his discharge a continuous service certificate....
"Paragraph 4427 (22)-If any enlisted man or apprentice, being
honorably discharged, shall re~nlist for four years within four months
thereafter, he shall, on presenting his honorable discharge or on
accounting in a satisfactory manner for its loss, be entitled to a
gratuity of four months' pay equal in amount to that which he

would have received if he had been employed in actual service ...."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

shall remain in full force "; also "In case the applicant
does not desire the premium to be deducted from his pay
he should so state in writing at the time of making application; but if no election is made it shall have the effect to
provide for such deduction from his pay or if such pay be
insufficient any balance from his deposit."
Payments due upon the policy were met by deductions
of $6.50 monthly from the assured's pay until the end of
his first enlistment. Thereafter no deduction was made;
he executed no new authorization for deductions; no
premium was actually met. He was entitled to pay for
every day from March 18, 1914, until his death.
When honorably discharged from his first enlistment
Zimmerman received the full amount then due him; also,
when discharged from his second enlistment. All pay due
at his death was received by his mother, the petitioner.
The records of the Navy Department "disclose that he
never made any allotment for War Risk Insurance Premiums other than the authorization for deduction of premiums at the time of his application for insurance."
Petitioner insists that although no premium upon the
policy was actually paid after March, 1918, it nevertheless
remained in full force and effect during the assured's active service because of the unrestricted authorization for
deductions in his application of December 3, 1917, never
thereafter revoked in writing, since there was due him at
the end of each month enough to meet the required premiums and the Navy Department was under a duty to
make proper deductions.
In behalf of the United States the insistence is that
the authorization for deductions was ineffective after the
expiration of the first enlistment during which it was
given. Moreover, that the action of the assured in accepting his pay without deduction for premiums during
all of his second and third enlistments--more than three
years--is enough to show acquiescence in the contempo-

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
337

Syllabus.

raneous construction by the administrative officers; and,
no circumstance indicating the contrary, this establishes
his purpose to surrender the contract as he properly could
have done.
We are of opinion there is enough to show abandonment of the contract by the assured and upon- that ground
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
After expiration of the first enlistment, neither party
to the contract appears to have treated as operative the
authorization for deductions contained in the application.
Zimmerman accepted every month during a considerable
period the full amount due him; made no effort to provide for payment of premiums when he must have been
aware that no deduction had been made. There is nothing to indicate that he did not have full possession of his
faculties or lacked intelligence or probity, or that he was
unaware of the important circumstances. If he had supposed the insurance remained in effect, common honesty
would have moved him to provide for actual payment of
the premiums. He must have known they had not been
met. In the circumstances his conduct, we think, adequately indicates the exercise of his right to abandon the
policy. See Sawyer v. United States, 10 F. (2d) 416;
United States v. Barry, 67 .F. (2d) 763; contra, Unger v.
United States, 65 F. (2d) 946.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA ET

AL.

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

No. -,

original.

Return to Rule to Show Cause Presented April 2,

1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
1. This Court may entertain a bill to perpetuatle testimony in aid
of future litig'tion within its origin:d jurisdiction. P. 347.

