OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

171 U.S. 641; Leonard v. Vicksburg, S. & P. R. Co., 198
U.S. 416; McCoy v. Shaw, 277 U.S. 302.
The federal questions are unsubstantial; the non-federal question is genuine and adequate. Lawrence v. State
Tax Comm'n, 286 U.S. 276, 282; Abie State Bank v.
Bryan, 282 U.S. 765, 773.
The appeal is
Dismissed.
CLARK, RECEIVER, v. WILLIARD ET AL.,
TRUSTEES, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MONTANA.
No. 449.

Argued February 15, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

1. Where a judgment reverses the cause and remands it for further
proceedings in accordance with the court's opinion, the opinion is
incorporated in the judgment and may be considered in determining
whether the judgment is final. P. 118.
2. A judgment of a state supreme court in a liquidation proceeding
which sustains the validity and priority of an execution levied by
an intervening creditor on property of the insolvent, leaving no
discretion to the trial court with respect to the matter and fully
disposing of the intervention, is a final judgment for the purposes
of appeal to this Court. P. 117.
3. Under the laws of Iowa, the official liquidator appointed by
statute upon the dissolution of an insolvent Iowa insurance company in a suit by the State, is the statutory successor of the

corporation. P. 120.
4. In holding that such a liquidator was not the successor to the
corporate personality with title derived from the statutes of the
-domicile but a chancery receiver with title (if any) created by the
Iowa decree in the dissolution proceeding, the Supreme Court of
Montana denied full faith and credit to the statutes and judicial
proceedings of Iowa. P. 121.
5. Whether there is any law or policy prevailing in Montana whereby
the local creditors of an insolvent foreign insurance company are
entitled to enforce their full claims, by executions upon its property in Montana, not merely as against a chancery receiver but
as against the domiciliary successor of the corporation seeking to

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

Opinion of the Court.

devote all of its assets to pro rata distributioni among all of its
creditors, is a question for determination by the Supreme Court
of that State. P. 123.
6. When the decision of a state supreme court, due to an error in
applying the Federal Constitution, leaves unanswered a question
of state law that may be determinative of the case, this Court
will vacate the judgment and remand for further proceedings.
P. 128.
94 Mon. 508; 23 P. (2d) 959, reversed.

The District Court of Montana entered a final decree
adjudging that. Clark, the Iowa liquidator of a dissolved
Iowa insurance company, was the successor to the personality and title of the corporation; that the assets should
be liquidated and ratably distributed subject only to liens
existing at the date of dissolution; that a local ancillary
receiver should be retained to assist the foreign liquidator;
that assets in Montana should be retained in that State
until local creditors had received their ratable proportion
of the assets there and elsewhere, and that an execution
upon a judgment -which had been recovered against the
corporation by the present respondents should be set aside
and canceled. Upon appeal by the judgment creditors
to the Supreme Court of Montana, the decree was reversed and their execution reinstated.
Messrs. Reuel B. Cook and Edmond M. Cook, with
whom Mr. M. S. Gunn was on the brief; for petitioner.
Mr. H. Leonard DeKalb, with whom Mr. Louis P.
Donovan.was on the brief, for respondents.
By leave of Court, Mr. Louis H. Pink filed a brief on
behalf of Mr. George S. Van Schaick, Superintendent of
Insurance of the State of New York, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion 'of th6
Court.
The question is whether full faith and credit has been
given by the courts of Montana to the statutes and judi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Ccurt.

292 U.S.

cial proceedings of the State of Iowa. United States, Constitution, Art. IV, § 1.
The petitioner, the official liquidator of an Iowa insurance company, declares himself the universal successor
of the corporation (Keatley y. Iurey, 226 U.S. 399, 403,
404), the representative of its personality and powers
after its life has been extinguished. Relfe v. Rundle, 103
U.S. 222; Martyne v. American Union Fire Ins. Co., 216
N.Y. 183; 110 N.E. 502; Deschenes v. Tallman, 248 N.Y.
33, 37; 161 N.E. 321. The Supreme Court of Montana
has held that his title to the assets, if he has any, is
derived, not from any statute, but from an involuntary
assignment under a judgment of a foreign court. A title
traced to such a source is subject in Montana to attachment and execution at the suit of local creditors. The
question has been left unanswered whether attachments
and executions are enforcible to the same extent in derogation of the title of a statutory successor.
Federal Surety Company was organized as an insurance
corporation under the laws of Iowa, and thereafter received authority to do business in Montana. In September, 1931, the State of Iowa sued it, alleging its insolvency and praying for a decree of dissolution and the
distribution of the assets. A statute of Iowa provides
that "the commissioner of insurance henceforth shall be
the receiver and/or liquidating officer for any insurance
company, association or insurance carrier, and shall serve
without compensation other than his stated compensation
as commissioner of insurance, but he shall be allowed
clerical and other expenses necessary for the conduct of
such receivership." Code of Iowa, 1.931, § 8613-cl. See
also Code of Iowa, 1931, §§ 8402, 8964. On September
25, 1931, a decree in favor of the state was entered by default, and an amended decree on December 22 of the
same year. By these decrees the corporation was adjudged to have been dissolved on September 25, 1931;

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

Opinion of the Court.

the Commissioner of Insurance, E. W. Clark, was adjudged to be "the successor to said corporation," and
as such to hold "title to all property owned by Federal
Surety Company at the time it so ceased to exist "; and
liquidation was decreed in accordance with the statute.
We have said that the corporation had authority to do
business in Montana. The grant was subject to condiions. A statute of Montana provi des that the dissolution
of a corporation does not " take away or impair any remedy given against any such corporation, its stockholders
or officers, for any liability which has been previously incurred." § 6013. Montana Revised Codes of 1921. The
preservation of existing remedies is not confined to domestic corporations. It applies to foreign corporations also.
This results, in the view of the Montana court, from a provision of the state constitution as well as from a suppleinentary statute. By Article XV, § 11, of the Montana
constitution, "no company or corporation formed under
the laws of any other countrr, state or territory, shall
have, or be allowed to exercise, or enjoy within this state
any greater rights or privileges than those possessed or
enjoyed by corporations of the same or similar character
created under the law of the state." And by a supplementary statute (§ 6659, Revised Codes, 1921): "All foreign corporations licensed to do business in the state of
Montana shall be subject to all the liabilities, restrictions,
and duties which are or may be imposed upon corporations
of like character organized under the laws of this state,
and shall have no other or greater powers." Construing
that statute, the Supreme Court of Montana has written
in the case now under review: "Suits. against domestic

corporations do not abate upon the entry of a decree of
dissolution, mid the same rule, by virtue of this statutory
provision, must apply to a foreign corporation."
Long before the dissolution of the Federal Surety Company the respondents Williard and Wheaton, as trustees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of a syndicate, brought suit in a Montana court to recover
from the surety company the damages due upon a bond.
The first trial resulted in a nonsuit which was reversed
upon appeal. 91 Mont. 465; 8 P. (2d) 633: After the
decree of dissolution the case came on for a second trial,
and on May 10, 1932, judgment in favor of the plaintiffs
was entered by default. The Supreme Court of Montana
has held that the dissolution of the surety company did
no, abate the suit. There was thus a final judgment, valid
under [he Montana practice and effective according to
that practice to liquidate the claim.
To say that there was such a judgment is not to dispose
of the whole case. A judgment existing, the remedies
available to enforce it are still to be determined. Before
the respondents were in a position to issue execution, the
situation had been complicated by a suit for the appointment of a receiver begun in a, Montana District Court.
On March 25, 1932, Mieyr, a simple contract creditor,
brought suit against the surety company and Clark, the
foreign liquidator, praying an ancillary receivership to
preserve the local assets. A temporary receiver (Crichton) was appointed the sane day. While that suit was
pending, the respondents filed a petition on May 24, 1932,
for leave to issue an execution against securities and
moneys which had been discovered in Montana, the levy
to have the same effect as if no receiver had been appointed. An order to that effect was granted, subject,
however, to a later motion to vacate it. Within due time
thereafter, Clark filed a cross petition and an answer,
asserting his title as successor to the dissolved corporation,
opposing the demands of the judgment creditors, and setting up his rights aid privileges under Art. TV, § 1, of
the Federal Constitution. On August 25, 1932, the District Court of Montana entered a final decree adjudging
that Clark was the successor to the personality and title
of the 1cwa corporation, that the assets should be liqui-

CLARK i. WILLIARD.
112

Opinion of the Court.

dated and ratably distributed subject only to the liens
existing at the date of dissolution, that Crichton should be
continued as an ancillary receiver to assist the foreign
liquidator, that the assets in Montana should be retained
in that state until local creditors had received their ratable
proportion of assets there and elsewhere, and that the
execution upon the respondents' judgment and any preference thereby created, as well as the earlier order sanctioning the levy, should be set aside and cancelled.
From that decree, and from an order denying a motion
to vacate or modify it, the judgment creditors, who are
the respondents in this court, appealed to the Supreme
Court of Montana. After argument and reargument, the
decree and order were there reversed, two members of the
court dissenting. Mieyr v. Federal Surety Co., 94 Mont.
508; 23 P. (2d) 959. The court held that the respondents' judgment had been lawfully recovered though the
defendant was dissolved; that the ancillary receivership
was void for the reason that a simple contract creditor
(Mieyr) was without standing to maintain the suit; that
Clark, the foreign liquidator, was not the successor to the
corporate personality with a title derived from the statutes of the domicile, but was a chancery receiver with a
title (if any) created by the Iowa decree; that as against
such a receiver, creditors in Montana were at liberty to
levy attachments and executions, irrespective of their
right to enforce such a levy against a statutory successor;
and hence that the respondents' execution should be
reinstated, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accord with the opinion. A writ of certiorari
brings the case here.
Our jurisdiction to issue the writ is challenged on the
ground that the decree to be reviewed is without the requisite finality. Judicial Code, § 237; 28 U.S.C., § 344. The
challenge should not prevail. The decree of the Montana
court. is final to the extent that it confirms the respondents'

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

execution and permits a levy that will override the liquidator's title. A final order results where a court denies
a petition by an intervening creditor to establish a prior
lien (Gumbel v. Pitkin, 113 U.S. 545, 548), or a petition
by a municipal corporation intervening in a foreclosure
suit to enforce a lien for taxes superior to the mortgage
(Savannah v. Jesup, 106 U.S. 563, 564, 565), or one by
a chancery receiver appointed by a state court for the
delivery of property in the possession of another court.
Ex parte Tiffany, 252 U.S. 32, 36. Cf. Hovey v. McDonald, 109 U.S. 150, 155; Williams v. Morgan, 111 U.S.
684, 689; United States v. River Rouge Co., 269 U.S. 411,
414; Dexter Horton National Bank v. Hawkins, 190 Fed.
924, 927. The doctrine of those cases is applicable here.
Further judicial proceedings may be necessary between the
liquidator and others not before us. As between the liquidator and the respondents claiming as judgment creditors
the suit is at an end. They came into court pro interesse
suo with a petition to establish the priority of their judgment. The petition has been granted and priority decreed.
Not only that, but an order vacating the execution has
been reversed, and the levy reinstated. So far as these
respondents are concerned, there is nothing more to be
decided. "The property of the Federal Surety Company
within the state of Montana at the time of the levy of the
execution by Williard et al., not being in possession of the
Iowa receiver, was subject to levy, and the levy made
under the execution in May, 1932, is good and valid." By
that opinion, which by reference was incorporated in the
judgment (Metropolitan Water Co. v. Kaw Valley District, 223 U.S. 519, 523; Gulf Refining Co. v. United
States, 269 U.S. 125, 135), nothing was left to the discretion of the trial court .in respect of the priority of the
execution or of the respondents' rights thereunder. The
intervening petition has been finally disposed of, and
no longer is a pending proceeding, whatever may be said

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
1i2

119

Opinion of the Court.

of the suit in which the claimants intervened. Cf. Forgay
v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, 202, 203; United States v.River
Rouge Co., supra.
Jurisdiction being here, the case will be considered on
the merits.
We assume in accordance with the decision of the
Montana court that the respondents' action against the
surety company did not abate on dissolution, but was
lawfully pursued to judgment. McGoon v. Scales, 9 Wall.
23; cf. Sinnott v. Hanan, 214. N.Y. 454, 458, 459; 108
N.E. 858; Marstallerv. Mills, 143 N.Y. 398, 400; 38 N.E.
370. Cases such as Remington & Sons v. Samana Bay
Co., 140 Mass. 494; 5 N.E. 292, and others cited in the
margin 1 are not at war with this conclusion. They express the rule to be applied when there is no statute
or public policy to the contrary in the state where the
foreign corporation has been licensed to do business.
They do not delimit the capacity of a state, when granting such a license, to subject it to conditions. Complications might exist if there had been no one within the
state upon whom process could be served. Here the
action was begun, and the company had appeared and
answered, before the date of dissolution. Moreover, a
power of attorney was on file, pursuant to the Montana
law (Revised Codes, 1921, § 6212), whereby process might
be served on the Insurance Commissioner of the state,
the power to remain in force so long as any policy or liability of the company was outstanding in Montana. Cf.
American Railway Express Co. v. Kentucky, 273 U.S. 269,
274; Washington v. Superior Court, 289 U.S. 361, 364,
365. Complications also might exist if there were no one
'National Surety Co. v. Cobb, 66 F. (2d) 323; Marion Phosphate
Co. v. Perry, 74 Fed. 425; Fitts v. National Life Assn., 130 Ala.
413; 30 So. 374; Riddell v. Rociiester German Ins. Co., 35 R.I. 45;
85 Ati. 273; Morgan v. New York National Building & Loan Assn.,
73 Conn. 151; 46 AtI. 877.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

in being with authority to continue the defense. Here
there had been the designation of a liquidator who was
competent to represent the corporation if he had chosen
to intervene. Cf. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Okla,
horna, 273 U.S. 257. We are not to be. understood as
intimating that such complications would be fatal if
they existed, but merely to exclude them. In such circumstances the judgment is at least effectual to liquidate
the claim as a charge upon the local assets. But this, as
we have seen, is only a partial statement of the problem.
To ascertain the procedure by which the charge is to be
enforced, whether by the levy of execution or by a ratable
division, other considerations must be weighed. In particular it must be known whether superior interests or
titles have developed between the summons and the judgment, and whether the quality or operation of those interests affects the method of distribution. Something
did intervene here, the appointment of a, liquidator under
the statutes of the domicile. That much is undisputed.
Did the Supreme Court of Montana misjudge the quality
and operation of this intervening interest, and in so doing
(lid it deny to the statutes and decrees of Iowa the faith
and credit owing to them under the Constitution of the
United States?
In our judgment the statutes of Iowa have made the
official liquidator the successor to the corporation, and not
a mere receiver. State 'ex rel. Attorney-General v. Fidelity Loan &-Trust Co., 113 Iowa 439; 85 N.W. 638. His
title is not the consequence of a decree of a court whereby
a corporation still in being has made a compulsory assignment of its assets with a view to liquidation. Sterrett'v.
Second National Bank, 248 U.S. 73; ' Lion Bonding Co. v.
'The insolvent corporation in Sterrett v. Second National Bank,
supra, was not to be dissolved until there had been a final settlement
of the business. Pp. 74, 75.

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

. 121

Opinion of the Court.

Karatz,'262 U.S. 77, 88; Great Western Mining Co. v.
Harris, 198 U.S. 561, 575; Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322.
His title is the consequence of a succession established for
the corporation by the law of its creation. Relfe v.
Rundle, supra; Kcatley v. Furey, supra; Sterrett v. Second
National Bank, supra, p. 77; cf. Bockover v. Life Assn.
of America, 77 Va. 85; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U.S. 243,
257; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U.S. 516, 534. So the
lawmakers have plainly said. So the Iowa court adjudged
in decreeing dissolution.,
We think the Supreme Court of Montana denied full
faith and credit to the statutes and judicial proceedings
of Iowa in holding, as it did, that the petitioner was a
receiver deriving title through a judicial proceeding, and
not through the charter of its being and the succession
there prescribed. "When the transfer of a debtor's
property," said the court, "is the result of, a judicial prpceeding there is no provision of the constitution which
requires the courts of another state to carry it into effect
and as a general rule no state court will do this to the
prejudice of the citizens of its own state," citing Reynolds
v. Addca, 136 U.S. 348, a case of insolvency proceedings
in inviluin against a natural person, and Zacher v. Fidelity
Trust Co., 106 Fed. 593, an enforced assignment to the
receiver of a corporation which retained its corporate life.
Bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, whether the debtor
is a natural or a juristic person, confer upon the receiver
or assignee a title which, generally speaking, is without
recognition outside of the state of his appointment except
in subordination to the claims of local creditors. Security Trust Co. v. Dodd, Mead & Co., 173 U.S. 624; Cole v.
Cunningham, 133 U.S. 107; Oakey v. Bennett, 11 How.
33, 44; Barth v. Backus, 140 N.Y. 230; 35 N.E. 425;
Ward v. Connecticut Pipe Mfg. Co., 71 Conn. 345; 41
AtI. 1057: Gilbert v. Hewetson, 79 Minn. 326; 82 N.W.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court

292 U.S.

655. Upon the strength of these and like decisions the
Montana court has refused recognition to a receiver or
liquidator who in truth is a statutory successor. Whether
it would have favored that conclusion if it had correctly
interpreted his standing, its opinion does not tell us. The
case should go back to the end that the priority of the
execution may be determined with understanding of the
title displaced and overridden.
In thus holding we do not say that there is an invariable rule by which the title of a statutory liquidator must
prevail over executions and attachments outside of the
state of his appointment. The subject is involved in confusion, with decisions pro and con. There are cases which
lay down the rule that the title of such a liquidator will
have recognition and enforcement everywhere without affirming or denying the possibility of exceptions. Kinsler
v. Casualty Co., 103 Neb. 382; 172 N.W. 33; U.S. Truck
Co. v. PennsylvaniaSurety Co., 259 Mich. 422; 243 N.W.
311; Bockover v. Life Assn., supra; Parsons v. Charter
,Oak Life Ins. Co., 31 Fed. 305; Fry v. CharterOak Life
Insurance Co. 31 Fed. 197; cf. Taylor v. Life Assn. of
America, 13 Fed. 493; Smith v. Taggart, 87 Fed. 94;
Southern Building & Loan Assn. v. Miller, 118 Fed. 369.
Other cases add a dictum (Martyne v. American Union
Fire Ins. Co., supra) that the state in which the title is
assailed may declare a contrary policy by statute or decision. Cf. Disconto Gesellschaft v. Umbreit, 208 U.S.
570, 579, 580. Still others take the view that the claims
of local creditors are entitled to precedence. Schloss v.
Surety Co., 149 Ia. 382; 128 N.W. 384; Lackmann v. Supreme Council, 142 Cal. 22; 75 Pac. 583. The position of
a claimant who has the standing of a statutory successor
is more closely analogous to that of a trustee under a
voluntary general assignment for the benefit of creditors
(Ockerman v. Cross, 54 N.Y. 29; Warner v. Jafiray, 96
N.Y. 248, 255; Hervey v. R. I. Locomotive Works, 93 U.S.

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

Opinion of tho Court.

664) than to one deriving title under a decree in insolvency proceedings (Security Trust Co. v. Dodd, Mead &
Co., supra, p. 628), yet it is stronger than either in that
for many purposes the corporation under which he claims.
has passed out of existence.
Whether there is in Montana a local policy, expressed
in statute or decision, whereby judgments and attachments have a preference over the title of a charter liquidator is a question as to which the Supreme Court of that
state will speak with ultimate authority. It has not
spoken yet. The tendency in most of the states is to give
priority to the title unless a contrary policy is expressed
with reasonable clarity. Martyne v. American Union
Fire Ins. Co., supra; Kinsler v. Casualty Co., supra;
Bockover v. Life Assn. of America, supra; cf. Cogliano v.
Ferguson, 245 Mass. 364; 139 N.E. 527. No statute or
decision brought to our notice from Montana removes the
question from the ' field of doubt. True, there are the
statutes heretofore referred to whereby suit may be maintained against foreign corporations after dissolution on
the same basis as against domestic ones. Nothing in
those provisions declares the existence of a policy to allow
the assets of an insolvent corporation to-be torn to pieces
at the suit of rival creditors when they could be distributed equally and without sacrifice at the hands of a
receiver. At all events the policy, if it exists, is indicated
too obscurely to permit us to accept it until so instructed
by the Montana court. The drastic consequences of
acceptance attest the need of caution. Partnerships and
individuals, if hard pressed, may resort to a court of bankruptcy and thus conserve their assets. Business corporations may have their assets-equally distributed through
involuntary proceedings. But insurance corporations,
like banks, are excluded from bankruptcy 'altogether
(11 U.S.C. § 22b), and must submit to dismemberment,
however great the waste or inequality, unless receivers are

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
OI)inion of the Court.

292 U.S.

appointed. The respondents would have us say that
submission to such consequences is exacted by an unbending rule of law.
We have no thought to impose our reading of the local
statutes and decisions upon the courts of the locality.
What we are about to say as to their meaning does no
more than explain the grounds for our understanding that
the courts of Montana have left the question open. If
the law were clear beyond debate, as counsel for the respondents has contended that it is, our duty might be to
dispose of the entire controversy now instead of remanding it to the state court for further action there. We are
mindful of the practice whereby domestic corporations
dissolved by the Montana la-w may be wound up by the
directors as trustees in dissolution. Revised Codes, § 6011;
formerly Civil Code, § 561. We understand also that while
the assets are so held, claims may be reduced to judgment,
and attachments and executions levied. This is doubtless
the prevailing practice when the corporation is solvent.
or when insolvency is not so gross as to lead to sacrifice
or hardship. Liability to discharge liabilities as they mature, or even impairment of the capital prescribed by the
articles of association, may not mean that the assets will
be insufficient when put up at public sale. But administration by the directors, subject to attachment and execution, is not the only form of (listribution that is known to
the local law. In appropriate cases a dissolved corporation
may be wound up by a receiver as an officer of the court.
By § 9303 of the Revised Codes of 1921, a creditor of a
dissolved corporation (presumably a judgment creditor)
may apply for a receiver to liquidate the assets,:' and after
';§ 9303. " Upon the dissolution of any corporation the district
court of the county in which the corporation carries on its business
or has its principal place of business, on application of any creditor
of the corporation, or of any stockholder or member thereof may
al)point one or more persons to be reveivers or trustees of the corpo-

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

Opinion.of the Court.

such appointment executions are forbidden. Gardner v
Caldwell, 16 Mont. 221; 40 Pac. 590; cf. Barker v. Edwards, 259 Fed. 484, 488; Rohr v. Stanton Trust & Savings Bank, 76 Mont. 248, 251, 253; 245 Pac. 947; Berryman v. Billings Mutual Heating Co., 44 Mont. 517, 521;
121 Pac. 280. The decisions are obscure as to the circumstances in which that statute will be applied. The vast
majority of the Montana cases on the subject of receivers
are grounded on another section (9301), under which the
tests are very different. There is hardly a word in any
of them as to the meaning of § 9303 and the remedy thereration, to take charge of the estate and effects thereof, and to collect
the debts and property due and belonging to the corporation and to
pay the outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the moneys and
other property that shall remain over among the stockholders or
members."
Another section dealing with the appointment of receivers is 9301,
subd. 5.
"A receiver may be appointed by the court in which an action is
pending, or by the judge thereof: ...
"In cases when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights."
By construction, that section has been limited to receivers appointed
pendente lite.
"It is a well settled rule of law that there cannot be such a thing
as an action brought distinctively and solely for the appointment of
a receiver." State v. District Court, 50 Mont. 259, 263; 146 Pac. 539.
A receivership is a provisional remedy. "An action must be pending
before a receiver can be appointed." State v. District Court, supra.
All this according to our understanding has no relation to an application under § 9303, where the appointment of a receiver is the end
and aim of the proceeding.
Compare the decisions in California under statutes identical in
form: Henderson v. Palmer Union Oil Co., 29 Cal. App. 451; 156
Pac. 65; French Bank Case, 53 Cal. 495, 553; Havemeyer v. Superior
Court, 84 Cal. 327, 365; 24 Pac. 121; State I. & . Co. v. San Francrsco, 101 Cal. 135, 147, 148; 35 Pac. 549; Elliott v. Superior Court,
168 Cal. 727; 145 Pac. 101.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

under. Thus, in Forsell v. Pittsburgh & Montana Copper
Co., 42 Mont. 412; 113 Pac. 479, a creditor obtained a
judgment against a foreign corporation, not dissolved,
and execution was issued and returned unsatisfied. The
creditor then applied for a receiver, but without alleging
that there was any property within the state. The court
held that no case was made out by the allegations of the
bill. In Berrynian v. Billings Heating Co., 44 Mont. 517,
525; 121 Pac. 280, a temporary receiver was appointed in
an action against a domestic corporation not dissolved.
In aid of this appointment the plaintiff, a simple contract
creditor, alleged that the defendant was insolvent. On
appeal the court held that this without more (lid not make
the appointment necessary, and vacated the receivership.
In Prudential Securities Co. v. Three Forks H. & 1. V.
Ry. Co., 49 Mont. 567, 572; 144 Pac. 158, and again
in Scholefield v. Merrill Mortuaries, Inc., 93 Mont. 192;
17 P. (2d) 10S1, the situation was the same as in the suit
by Berryinan, supra, the applicants for the receiver being
simple contract creditors suing to collect a debt. What
was said as to the trust fund doctrine when invoked by a
creditor so situated (49 Mont. at p. 572) is in full accord
with the doctrine prevailing in this court. Hollins v.
Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U.S. 371. The case at hand
is barely grazed by Ferrell v. Evans, 25 AIont. 444, 454; 65
Pac. 714. There the suit was for the appointment of a
receiver to wind up a building and loan company whose
charter had expired. The court held that there was no
need of superseding the directors who were statutory
trustees under § 6011 of the Revised Codes. The opinion
states: '"No exception is made in case of insolvency,"
but this is supplemented by the statement that in fact
"the association was not insolvent." The dictum quoted
does not amount to a decision that a receiver will never be
appointed under § 9303 in a case where a corporation has
been dissolved and multiplying executions threaten a dispersion of the assets. No such question was involved.

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

Opinion of the Court.

The situation was much the same in Merges v. Altenbrand, 45 Mont. 355; 123 Pac. 21. The charter of a solvent corporation had expired, and there was no sufficient
ground for superseding the directors through the appointment of receivers.'
We do not read these decisions as holding in any clear
or final way that the directors of a dissolved corporation
will never be required to give place to a receiver, no matter how great the danger of inequality or waste. Indeed,
it is uncertain whether such a holding would be possible
without denying any function to § 9303 of the Montana
Code. Inequality and waste are to be avoided in special
measure when banks or insurance companies, unable, as
we have seen, to have the protection of courts of bankruptcy, are in course of liquidation. The Supreme Court
of Montana has been mindful of this need, at all events
in respect of banks, and has stated it with force and
clarity. Thus, in Rohr v. Stanton Trust & Savings Bank,
supra, a creditor brought suit in the hope of gaining a
preference for his deposit out of the assets of a bank in the
hands of a receiver. The court said (p. 251), " the general
principle of equity that the assets of an insolvent are to be
distributed ratably among general creditors applies with
full force to the distribution of the assets of a bank," and
again (p. 253), "The available assets" are to be "so
SGilna v. Barker, 78 Mont. 357; 254 Pac. 174, it would seem, is
even farther from the case at hand. A creditor brought suit against
a domestic corporation for the liquidation of a. debt. The trial court
dismissed the complaint on the ground that suit was unnecessary after
the corporation had been dissolved. That judgment was reversed.
The pourt did not hold that there would be no occasion for a receivership thereafter. It left that question open. "Counsel for defendants
argue- that plaintiff should have intervened in the case in which the
court decreed a sale of the property of the defunct corporation and
should have asked for a receiver. He may have been entitled to that
privilege, but, if so, it did not deprive him of the right to institute
the instant case, reduce his claim to judgment and take the chance
of realizing on it." P. 367.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

conserved that each depositor or other creditor shall receive payment or dividend according to the amount of his
debt, and that none of equal class shall receive any advantage or preference over another." Cf. Aetna Accident
& Liability Co. v..Miller, 54 Mont. 377, 3S9; 170 Pac. 760.
It would seem that conservation of assets and equality of
distribution are goods no less important in the winding
upof insurance companies and of other moneyed corporations than in the winding up of banks.
From this survey of the decisions in Montana there results this truth, if nothing more, that there has been no
definitive pronouncement as to the circumstances justifying a receivership for an insolvent corporation, and that
the question is left open whether receivers of such a corporation will be appointed after dissolution to prevent
waste or inequality. If that is so, it results also that the
question is still open whether executions may be subordinated to the title of a foreign liquidator without a forbidden discrimination between corporations organized in
Montana and those from other states. A statute preserving remedies after a decree of dissolution does not mean
that for every purpose a corporation, though dissolved,
is still a juristic person, or that equity is indifferent as to
the mode of marshalling the assets. All that it means is
that suits shall not abate, but may be prosecuted to
judgment as if the corporation were in being. What will
be done afterwards in the enforcement of a judgment will
vary with the circumstances. When a charter liquidator
whose standing is recognized in Montana, is decreed to
have an interest superior to the lien of later executions,
as if his position were that of a receiver appointed by the
local courts, there is no resulting inequality between foreign and domestic corporations, no favoring of the one
class in hostility to the other. So, at least, the Montana
court may not unreasonably decide. By hypothesis the
domestic corporation after dissolution may be placed,

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
. 112

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

upon a proper showing, in the hands of a receiver, and
its assets ratably distributed. The foreign corporation,
represented by a foreign liquidator, may be subjected to
the same. restraints. If supplementary directions are
thought to be appropriate to the end that local assets may.
be kept within Montana till local creditors are paid their
share of all the assets everywhere, thete is power in a
court of equity to assure the requisite equality. Sands v.
E. S. Greeley Co., 88 Fed. 130; Receivers Middlesex
Banking Co. v. Realty Investment Co., 104 Conn. 206;
132 Atl. 390; Buswell v. Supreme Sitting of Order of Iron
Hall, 161 Mass. 224; 36 N.E. 1065; Fawcett v. Supremte
Sitting of Order of Iron Hall, 64 Conn. 170; 29 Atl. 614;
People v. Granite State Provident Assn., 161 N.Y. 492;
55 N.E. 1053.
To resume: The Supreme Court of Montana will determine whether there is any local policy whereby an
insolvent foreign corporation in the hands of a liquidator
with title must submit to the sacrifice of its assets or to
their unequal distribution by writs of execution.
If such a policy exists and the foreign liquidator is thus
displaced, other questions may remain as to the power of
the state which there is no occasion to consider in advance
of the event.
The decree should be vacated in so far as it adjudges
the validity and priority of the respondents' execution
(cf. Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U.S. 286, 291; Missouri v.
Public Service Comm'n, 273 U.S. 126, 131), and the cause
remanded to the Supreme Court of Montana for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
Separate opinion by MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.
This cause has been much obscured by verbiage. The
practical problems incident to administering the affairs
of insolvent insurance companies are often complex; but

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

292 U. S.

the issues presently presented for determination are narrow and ought to cabin our discussion.
In 1931 an Iowa court, proceeding under local statutes,
adjudged that the corporate existence of the Federal
Surety Company organized in that State had terminated;
that E. W. Clark, receiver and liquidating officer, is its
successor and holds title to all corporate property for
the purposes of liquidation, etc.
January 31, 1928, the Surety Company being, then
authorized to transact business in Montana, respondents
here--Williard, Wheaton and Hay-duly asked for judgment against it in the District Court of Fergus County.
May 20, 1932, judgment went in their favor. Clark, the
Iowa receiver, did not enter his appearance in the cause,
made no effort to prevent the judgment. Execution
issued and was levied, May -, 1932, upon property of
the Company found in Montana.
In March, 1932, one John Mieyr brought suit against
the Federal Surety Company in the District Court, Cascade County, Montana. He alleged indebtedness to himself upon an unliquidated claim, also indebtedness to
other citizens of Montana for considerable sums, and that
the company had much property within the State. He
described the Iowa court proceedings wherein the Corporation was declared dissolved and Clark designated as
Receiver and averred that Clark was then attempting to
obtain possession of the Company's property within Montana with intent to remove it. He asked for judgment
for the amount of his claim; and that a local receiver be
appointed to take possession of the company's assets in
Montana and hold them subject to further order, &c.
Thereupon, the court appointed D. A. Crichton receiver
of the Montana assets, with powers as prayed: he duly
qualified. Clark appeared specially and asked that
Crichton's appointment be annulled because the court
lacked jurisdiction. This motion was denied May 24th.

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

On the same day Williard, Wheaton and Hay appearing
by petition asked and received approval of their action
in procuring levy of the Fergus County execution upon
the corporation's property.
July 25, 1932, Receiver Crichton moved to annul the
order of May 24, 1932, which approved the levy of the
Fergus County execution.
August 3, 1932, Clark appeared and answered Mieyr's
complaint. He set out proceedings in the Iowa court and
his designation as receiver; he asked an order confirming
his title to the Company's assets, also for confirmation of
Crichton's appointment as ancillary receiver.
August 25th the court authorized an order reciting that
the corporate existence of the Surety Company was
terminated by the Iowa proceedings and that title to all of
its property passed to Clark as receiver. This order also
confirmed the appointment of Crichton as receiver of
Montana assets; directed all creditors in that State to file
their laims, and that corporate assets should be delivered
to him. And further that the order of May 24th permi tting the Fergus County execution be set aside.
August 31, 1932, Williard, Wheaton and Hay asked the
Cascade County District Court to vacate the order of
August 25th upon the ground that the facts disclosed were
not sufficient to justify appointment of the receiver; also
because the court acted without jurisdiction. In the alternative, they asked that the order be so modified as to
release all property seized under any Montana execution
or attachment. This motion was denied the same day.
On September 18, 1932, Williard, Wheaton and Hay appealed from the judgment and order of August 25th
confirming Crichton's appointment as receiver, &c. and
revoking the May 24th order which granted permission
for levy of the Fergus County execution. Also, from the
order of August 3ist which denied their motion. to vacate
the one entered August 25th. The issues were thus lim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

ited. The opinion of the Supreme Court came down
April 1, 1933. It said"The appeal presents the question whether appellants
have the right to be paid the amount of their claim from
the Montana property before any part of such property
is transmitted to the Iowa receiver for administration
through the Iowa receivership, when, as shown, their claim
has been reduced to judgment and execution levied after
the proceedings in the Iowa court designed to accomplish
the dissolution of the corporation.. Solution of the problem presented makes it necessary to determine the effect
of the proceedings in the Iowa court upon the corporate
life of the surety company." [94 Mont. 508, 518; 23 P.
(2d) 959, 961.]
Upon review of the Montana statutes, the Court declared that the suit against the Surety Company in Fergus
County did not abate upon entry of the Iowa decree and
that the judgment of May 20th therein was valid. It
then came to consider whether levy under the Fergus
County execution was good and said this "depends upon
the effect of the order appointing Crichton receiver." It
ultimately and definitely declared: "The petition of
Mieyr for the appointment of a receiver was insufficient,
in that he, being a general creditor, had no right to the
appointment of a receiver and had an adequate remedy by
which he could be fully protected, namely, the issuance
and levy of a writ of attachment. The property of the
Federal Surety Company within the state of Montana at.
the time of the levy of the execution by Williard, et al.,
not being in possession of the Iowa receiver, was subject
to levy, and the levy made under the execution in May,
1932, is good and valid. The judgment and orders ap,
pealed from are reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in the district court in accordance
with the views herein expressed."

CLARK v. WILLIAMH).
112

MCREYNOLDS. .. , dissenting.

The opinion definitely approved the claim of the appellants that the District Court of Cascade County was
acting without authority and beyond its jurisdiction.
Upon the sole petition of Clark, Receiver, a writ of
certiorari issued from this Court. We have no jurisdiction unless the judgment of the state court was final; and
only federal questions are open for our consideration.
The formal judgment of the Supreme Court directedFor reasons stated in the opinion the judgment and
orders appealed from are reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in accordance with the views expressed in the opinion." Upon its face this is not final
within the meaning of the statute governing our jurisdiction. And " in matters of this kind we may not disregard
the face of the record and treat the judgment as something other than it appears to be. So to do probably
would lead to much confusion and uncertainty." Hartford Accident & Ind. Co. v. Bunn, 285 U.S. 169, 178.
McComb v. Commissioners, 91 U.S. 1; Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U.S. 3, 4; Haseltine v. Central Bank, 183 U.S.
130; Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198 U.S. 173, 175; Norfolk
Turnpike Co. v. Virginia, 225 U.S. 264, 268; Louisiana
Navigation Co. v. Oyster Comm'n, 226 U.S. 99, 101;
Georgia Ry. Co. v. Decatur, 262 U.S. 432, 437; Gulf
Refining Co. v. United States, 269 U.S. 125, 135, 136.
Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff.' "The rule is well settled and
of long standing that a judgment or decree to be final,
within the meaning of that term as used in the acts of
Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals and
writs of error, must terminate the litigation between the
parties on the merits of the case, so that if there should
be an affirmance here, the court below would have nothing
to do but to execute the judgment or decree it had already
rendered. . . . If the judgment is not one which disposes of the whole case on its merits, it is not final. Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

sequently it has been uniformly held that a judgment of
reversal with leave for further proceedings in the court
below cannot be brought here on writ of error."
Haseltine v. Central Bank. "We have frequently held
that a judgment reversing that of the court below, and
remanding the case for further proceedings, is not one to
which a writ of error will lie. . . . While the judgment
may dispose of the case as presented, it is impossible to
anticipate its ultimate disposition. It may be voluntarily
discontinued, or it may happen that the defeated party
may amend his pleading by supplying some discovered
defect, and go to trial upon flew evidence. To determine
whether, in a particular case, this may or may not be done,
might involve an examination, not only of the record, but
even of the evidence in the court of original jurisdiction,
and lead to inquiries with regard to the actual final disposition of the case by the Supreme Court, which it might
be difficult to answer. We have, therefore, always made
the face of the judgment the test of its finality, and refused
to inquire whether, in case of a new trial, the defeated
party would stand in a position to make a better case.
The plaintiffs in the case under consideration could have
secured an immediate review by this court, if the court
as a part of its judgment of reversal had ordered the
Circuit Court to dismiss their petition, when, under Mower
v. Fletcher [114 U.S. 127] they might have sued out a
writ of error at once"
Schlosser v. Hemphill--an action in equity to *quiet
title. "By its judgment the Supreme Court of Iowa
reversed the decree of the trial court and remanded the
cause 'for further proceedings in harmony with the opinion of the court.' We have heretofore held that a judgment couched in such terms is not final in such a sense
as to sustain a writ of error from this court. . . . Doubtless the conclusions arrived at by the state Supreme Court,

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

and expressed in its opinion, furnish the grounds on
which the court below must proceed, when the case goes
to a decree there, if no change in pleadings or proof takes
place, but we cannot say what action might nevertheless be taken, and as no decree was entered in the Supreme Court, and no specific instruction was given to
the court below, we think thp writ of error cannot be
maintained. Assuming, without deciding, that a Federal
question was so raised as otherwise to have justified the
exercise of our jurisdiction, we can but repeat what we
said in Haseltine's case: 'The plaintiffs in the case under
consideration could have secured an immediate review
by this court, if the court as a part of its judgment of
reversal had ordered the Circuit Court to dismiss their
petition, when, under Mower v. Fletcher,they might have
sued out a writ of error at once.'"
LouisianaNavigation Co. v. Oyster Comm'n. Writ of
error to Louisiana Supreme Court dismissed, judgment
not final. "The contention, however, is that the judgment below is final for the purpose of review by this
court, because when the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana is carefully weighed it will be found that that
court practically finally disposed adversely to the title of
the plaintiff of the substantial part of the lands involved
in the suit and hence that the court in remanding the
cause for further proceedings did so only as to other
lands. But conceding this to be true, it does not justify
the claim based on it. In the first place it is settled that
this court may not be called upon to review by piecemeal
the action of a state court which otherwise would be
within, its jurisdiction, and in the second place the rule
established by the authorities to which we have referred
isthat on the question of finality the form of the judgment is controlling, and hence that this court cannot
for the purpose of determining whether its reviewing

OCTOBER' TERM, 1933.
MCREYINOLDS,

J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

power exists bc called upon to disregard the form of the
judgment in order to ascertain whether a judgment which
is in form not final might by applying the state law be
treated as final in character. Indeed it has been pointed
out that the confusion and contradiction which inevitably
arose from resorting to the state law for the purpose of
converting a judgment not on its face final into one final
in character was the dominating reason leading to the
establishment of the principle that the form of the judgment was controlling for the purpose of ascertaining its
finality."
Georgia Ry. Co. v. Decatur-errorto Georgia Supreme
Court, in proceeding for injunction. " The rule is established that in order to give this Court appellate jurisdiction the judgment or decree 'must terminate the litigation between the parties on the merits of the case, so that
if there should be an affirmance here, the court below
would have nothing to do but to execute the judgment
or decree it had already rendered.'"
Gulf Refining Co. v. United States-appeal from Circuit
Court of Appeals. The challenged judgment was held
final. "The general rule established by many decisions,
of which Haseltine v. CentralBank of Springfield (No. 1),
183 U.S. 130, is an example, is that the face of the judgment is the test of its finality and that by this test a
judgment of reversal remanding the cause for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of the court ordinarily is not final. But the direction to proceed consistently With the opinion of the court has the effect of
making the opinion a part of the mandate, as though it
had been therein set out at length. Metropolitan Co. v.
Kaw Valley District,223 U.S. 519, 523. Under the stipulations above recited, the trial court was bound to enter
decrees for the government for the stated sums of money
if that court found that the government was entitled to

CLARK v. WILLIARD.
112

1IcREYNoLDs, J., dissenting.,

recover the net value of the oil produced. The trial court
found that the government was not so entitled and the
decrees went accordingly. Turning to the opinion, it will
be seen that the circuit court of appeals decided that the
trial court erred 'in entering the decrees denying the
complainant the right to recover the net value of the oil,
etc.' The instruction for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion, therefore, was equivalent to a
direction to render judgment for the net value-that is,
for the exact sums set forth in the stipulations. See Moody
v. Century Bank, 239 U.S. 374, 376; Chesapeake & Potomac Tel. Co. v. Manning, 186 U.S. 238, 241. There was
no evidence to be taken or considered, and no change in
the issue was possible; nothing remained but the ninisterial duty of entering a decree for the precise sums which
had been fixed beyond the power of alteration. It follows
that the jurisdictional objection is without merit."
The judgment of the Supreme Court now before us is
not final ifi
form and I think inspection of the opinion
does not definitely indicate the action which the District
Court of Cascade County would have been bound to take.
In his original petition against the Surety Company as
sole defendant Mieyr prayed for judgment upon his
claim, for appointment of a local receiver to take charge
of Company assets, etc. And during the progress of the
cause sundry questions were interposed by interveners.
Others may appear and amendments may be offered. We
have no jurisdiction.
If, however, the judgment below be treated as final,
then we must ascertain, if possible, what was actually determined. Our function is to review adjudications, not
mere expressions of opinion or unnecessary statements.
Apparently, the Supreme Court definitely adjudged
that the trial court lacked power to appoint a receiver
for the corporate assets within the State at the instance

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

of Mieyr, a mere general creditor. Consequently the particular orders complained of by Williard and others were
invalid as they had claimed. Determination of that question of state law gave adequate basis for disposition of
the cause. It is enough to support the judgment and is
not reviewable here. Discussion of federal questions was
unnecessary and views of the court in respect of them are
not presently.important.
In any event, it seems reasonably clear that the only
federal question before the Supreme Court of Montana
which may be open for our consideration concerns the
effect of the Iowa statutes and court decree under which
Clark became Receiver. It accepted the view that his
appointment or designation did not operate to vest him
with adequate title to the property of the defunct Company wherever situated, that "such [an] involuntary
assignment in aid of a statutory judicial proceeding will
not be recognized outside of the jurisdiction of the appointment, where the rights of domestic creditors are
involved, if the receiver has not obtained possession of the
property and where the creditors have obtained rights or
liens upon the property even after the appointment in
the foreign jurisdiction." Probably this conclusion was
erroneous. It involved a federal question. At the most
we should announce the correct rule with the reasons
therefor and send the cause back to the Supreme Court
of Montana for further proceedings not in conflict with
our determination. But this Court is neither called upon
nor can it, without impropriety, discuss mere questions
of state law which may hereafter be presented for decision by the courts of Montana. It is not our function
to suggest to state courts how they should interpret their
own laws. Theirs is the duty of deciding such. matters;
ours requires -forbearance from tendering advice in that
regard.
The writ of certiorari should be dismissed.

