522

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

TEXAS

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES w

292 U.S.

AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 920. Argued May 9, 1934.-Decided June 4, 1934.
1. It is a primary aim in the new railroad policy inaugurated by the
Transportation Act, 1920, to secure avoidance of waste; and the
authority given to the Interstate Commerce Commission to permit
consolidations, purchases, leases, etc., was given in aid of that
policy. P. 530.
2. The criterion to be applied by the Commission in the exercise of
its authority to approve such transactions--a criterion reaffirmed
by the amendments of Emergency Railroad Transportation Act,
1933-is that of the controlling public interest. P. 531.
3. The term "public interest," as used in the statute, is not a mere
general reference to public welfare, but has direct relation to
adequacy of transportation service, to its essential conditions of
economy and efficiency, and to appropriate provision and best use
of transportation facilities. P. 531.
4. Under § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by §§ 201
and 202 of Title II of the Emergency Railroad Transportation
Act of 1933, the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to
authorize a lease of one interstate railway to another permitting
the lessee to abandon or remove general offices and shops of the
lessor, the maintenance of which as found by the Commission
would entail unnecessary and wasteful expenditures, even though
such abandonment or removal be forbidden by the law of the State
of the lessor's incorporation in which such offices and shops are
located. P. 532.
5. By concession in this case, the lease and order do not affect the
"public" or principal office which the lessor is required to keep
in Texas by the laws of that State, as distinguished from "general
offices" required by the Texas "Office-Shops" Act; so that there
can be no interference by the lease in question with the supervision
of the State over the lessor company in matters essentially of state
concern. P. 532.
6. Section 11 of Title I of the Emergency Railroad Transportation
Act of 1933, providing that nothing in that Title (which deals with

TEXAS v. UNITED STATES.
522

Counsel for Parties.

the authority of the Federal Co6rdinator of Transportation and
kindred matters) shall be construed to relieve any carrier from
any contractual obligation which it may have assumed, prior to
the enactment, with regard to the location or maintenance of its
offices, shops, or roundhouses at any point, is not inconsistent with
power in the Commission, when acting under § 5 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, as amended by Title II of the Emergency Act, to
relieve from like obligations imposed by state statute. P. 533.
7. Title II of the Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, supra, in
amending § 5 (15) of the Interstate Commerce Act, relieves carriers from the operation of the antitrust laws and "of all other
restraints or prohibitions by or imposed under authority of law,
state or federal, insofar as may be necessary to enable them to do
anything authorized or required by" any order under the foregoing
provisions of that section. Held, that the scope of the immunity
is not limited to laws of the same genus as antitrust legislation.
P. 534.
6 F. Supp. 63, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, consisting
of three judges, which. dismissed a bill brought by the
State of Texas, and some of its officers and municipalities, to annul an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

Mr. A. R. Stout, Assistant Attorney General of Texas,
with whom Mr. James V. Allred, Attorney General, Mr.
Eibert Hooper, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr.
Elmer L. Lincoln were on the brief, for appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Stephens, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Carl McFarland,
Ashley Sellers, Daniel W. Knowlton, and E. M. Reidy
were on the brief, for the United States and Interstate
Commerce Commission, appellees.

Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with vhom. Messrs. Frank H.
Moore and Cyrus Crane were on the brief, for the Kansas

City.Southern Ry. Cg. et al., appellees.

524"

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

292 U.S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, by its report
and order of October 4, 1933, authorized the Kansas City
Southern Railway Company, a corporation organized
under the laws of Missouri, to acquire control by lease of
the railroad and properties of the Texarkana*& Fort Smith
Railway Company, incorporated under the laws of Texas.
193 I.C.C. 521. In this suit, the State of Texas, and
officers and municipalities of that State, assailed the order
as transcending the authority granted to the Commission
by the Congress. The order was sustained by the District Court, 6 F.Supp. 63, three judges sitting as required
by statute, and from is decree this appeal is taken.
The single point in controversy is with respect to the
authority of the Commission to approve the acquisition of
control by a lease which permits the lessee to abandon,
or to remove from the State, the general offices, shops,
etc., of the lessor. The provision of § 5 of the lease, which
has that effect, is set forth in the margin.1 The provi"

But the Southern Company (applicant) does not assume the

performance of any corporate obligations on the part of the Texarkana Company independent of its obligations as a common carrier.
The Southern Company does not assume any obligation to maintain,
during the term of this lease, -any general offices, machine shops or
roundhouses for or belonging to the Texarkana Company at any
particular) place or places, regardless of present or previous locations
thereof; but shall have the right to change any existing location of
general offices, machine shops, roundhouses and terminal facilities,
belonging to the Texarkana Company, and to relocate the same,
and, from time to time, to change the same, during the full term of
.this lease, and shall have the right to make all such locations, changes
and alterations as in the judgment of the Southern Company will
enable it to operate the demised premises in the public interest and
with the greatest economy and efficiency; and -the Southern Company shall not be obligated or bound to perform any contractual,

TEXAS v. UNITED STATES.
522

Opinion of the Court.

sion is attacked as being in violation of the laws of Texas,
which confine to Texas corporations the right to "own
or maintain any railways" within the State, which require every railroad company chartered by the State to
"keep andmaintain permanently its general offices within
this State at the place named in its charter," and at that
place also to maintain the offices of its principal officers,
and which prohibit any railroad company from changing
"the location of its general offices, machine shops, or
roundhouses, save with the consent and approval of the
Railroad Commission" of the State 2
statutory, or other obligations with reference to such matters which
may now or hereafter rest upon the Texarkana Company; and any
and all such changes may be made, from time to time, by the Southern Company as may be approved by the judgment of its officers or
Board of Directors."

'These provisions of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925,
are as follows:
)Art. 6260. "No corporation, except one chartered
under the laws
of-Texas, shall be authorized or permitted to construct, build, operate, acquire, own or maintain any railways within 'tate."
Art. 6275. "Every railroad company chartered by this State, or
owning or operating any line of railway within this State, shall keep
and maintain permanently its general offices within this State at the
place named in its charter for the location of its general offices. If
no certain place is named in its charter where its general offices shall
be located and maintained, then said railroad company shall keep
and maintain its general offices at such place within this State where
it contracts or agrees to locate its general office for a valuable consideration."
Art. 6278. "Railroad companies shall keep and maintain at the
place within this State where its general offices are located the
office of its president, or vice-president, secretary, treasurer, 'local
treasurer, auditor, general freight agent, traffic manager, general
manager, general superintendent, general passenger and ticket agent,.
chief engineer, superintendent of motive power and machinery, master mechanic, master of transportation, fuel agent, general claim
agent;, and each one of its general offices shall be so kept and

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

The Interstate Commerce Commission was divided in
opinion. 'Upon a prior hearing, the Commission approved the lease upon the condition that the paragraph
in controversy should be eliminated. Report and order
of December 27, 1932;. 189 IC.C. 253. Following the
enactment of the Emergency Railroad Transportation
Act, 1933 (Act of June 16, 1933, c. 91), the proceeding
was reopened and, after hearing, the Commission modi.fied its order by striking out the above-mentioned condition, thus approving and authorizing the lease with its
provision, in § 5, as to offices and shops.
The findings of fact set forth in the Commission's report are not contested. The lines which constitute what
is called the Kansas City Southern Railway system (embracing the portions covered by the proposed lease) extend from Kansas City, Missouri, to Port Arthur, Texas
(over 800 miles). The line of the Kansas City Southern
Railway Company, the applicant, extends fiom Kansas
City, Missouri, to Mena, Arkansas. The line of the Texafkana & Fort Smith Railway Company is in two segments. The northern segment extends from Mena in a
sutherly direction, crosses the Arkansas-Texas State line,
and runs through Texarkana and thence southeasterly
into Arkansas and to the Arkansas-Louisiana State line.
maintained by whatever name it is known, and the persons who
perform the 'duties 6f said general offices, by whatever name known,
shall keep and maintain their offices at .the place where said general
offices are required to be. located and maintained; and the persons
holding said jeneral offices shall reside at the place and keep and
maintain their offices at the place where said general offices are required by law .to be kept and maintained.
"Art. 6286. "No railroad company shall change the location of
its-generaltaffices, machine shops or .roundhouses, save with the consent and approval of the Railroad Commission of Texas, and this
shall apply also to receivers and to purchasers of the franchises and
properties of railroad companies and to new corporations formed by
such purchasers or their assigns. .. "

TEXAS v. UNITED STATES.
522

527

Opinion of the Court.

The portions of this segment in Arkansas are operated
by the applicant under a lease previously authorized by
the Interstate Commerce Commission. 105 I.C.C. 523.
The portion of the northern segment which lies in the
State of Texas, is approximately 31 miles in length. The
southern segment of the Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway extends from the Louisiana-Texas State line at the
Sabine'River to Port Arthur, Texas, and is approximately
50 miles in length. Thus, the total main line mileage of
the Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway in Texas is 81 miles;
there are about 18 miles of branch lines. The portion of
the railroad system lying between the Arkansas-Louisiana
State line and the Louisiana-Texas State line, approximately 228 miles, is owned by the Kansas City, Shreveport & Gulf Railroad Company, a subsidiary of the applicant.
The Commission, on the first hearing, found that the
consummation of the plan presented by the applicant
would result in an annual saving, under normal conditions, of about $81,000. This finding was repeated in the
final report. The estimated saving would result from
the unification of operations, the discontinuance of general offices of the Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway Company at Texarkana, and the removal to Shreveport and
Kansas City of many of the activities at Texarkana which
caused duplication of work. Thus, under the proposed
plan, the auditor's and treasurer's departments of the
Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway Compahy would be
transferred to the applicant's headquarters at Kansas
City, with an estimated annual saving of over $57,000.
The offices of the general freight agent, general passenger
agent, superintendent, and division engineer, and of the
master mechanic at Port Arthur, would be removed to
Shreveport and consolidated with similar offices of the
applicant, at an estimated annual saving of over $21,000.
There would also be a decrease in expenses for various
services in connection wit4 -the building at Texarkana.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Shreveport, said the Commission, is considered to be more
centrally located from an operating standpoint than Texarkana, and there are at that point the applicant's main
terminal for the southern territory, shops for heavy repairs, more industry, greater population, and more railroad connections.
The Commission found that for the four years, 19281931, the Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway Company
handled an.average of 993,622 tons of intrastate traffic and
3,405,944 tons of interstate traffic. Of the average total
of 4,399,566 tons, the applicant participated in the handling of 3,192,554 tons. The net income of the Texarkana
& Fort Smith Railway Company amounted to $441,922
in 1926, $204,052 in 1927, $437,270 in 1928, $598,172 in
1929, and $95,655 in 1930. In 1931 there appears to have
been no net income. The Commission concluded that
"in view of the volume of interstate traffic handled by
the T. & F. S. and the net income earned by that carrier,
it is clear that the expenditure of approximately $81,000
a year, which will be unnecessary under the plan that the
applicant proposes to put into effect under the lease, constitutes an undue burden upon interstate commerce."
I The Commission further found "that the lease by the
Kansas City Southern Railway Company of the railroad
and properties of the Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway
Company, located in Texas and elsewhere not now under
lease, in accordance with the proposed lease, will be in
harmony with and in furtherance of the plan for the consolidation of railroad properties heretofore established by
us and wll promote the public interest."
IThe State of Texas raises no question as to the constitutional power of the Congress to confer authority upon
the Commission to approve the proposed lease with the
stipu tions under consideration. The question is simply
as to the scope of the authority which has 'been con-

TEXAS v. UNITED STATES.
522

Opinion of the Court.

ferred,-the construction of the applicable statutory provisions. These are found in § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by the Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, 1933 (Title II, §§ 201, 202). -Paragraphs
(4) (a) and (4) (b) of that section make it lawful, with
the approval and authorization of the Commission, for
two or more carriers to consolidate or merge their properties; "or for any carrier . .. to purchase, lease, or contract to operate the properties, or any part thereof, of
another," or to acquire control of another through purchase of its stock. On application to the Commission for
such approval, appropriate notice of public hearing must
be given to the Governor of each State in which any part
of the properties of the carriers involved is situated, as
well as to the carriers themselves. If after hearing "the
Commission finds that, subject to such terms and conditions and such modifications as it shall find to be just and
reasonable, the proposed consolidation, merger, purchase,
lease, operating contract, or acquisition of control will be
in harmony with and in furtherance of the plan for the
consolidation of railway properties established pursuant
to paragraph (3), and will promote the public interest,"
the Commission may give its approval and authorization
accordingly.'
'The full text of paragraphs (4) (a) and (4) (b) is as follows:
"(4) (a) It shall be lawful, with the approval and authorization
of the Commission, as provided in subdivision (b), for two or more
carriers to consolidate or merge their properties, or any part thereof,
into one corporation for the ownership, management, and operation
of the properties theretofore in separate ownership; or for any carrier, or two or more carriers jointly, to purchase, lease, or contract
to operate the properties, or any part thereof, of another; or for
any carrier, or two or more carriers jointly,. to acquire control of
another through purchase of its stock; or for a corporation which
is not a carrier to acquire control of two or more carriers through
ownership of their stock; or for a corporation which is not a carrier

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

These broadening provisions of the Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, 1933, confirm and carry forward
the purpose which led to the enactment of Transportation
Act, 1920, (Title IV, 41 Stat. 474, et seq.). We found
that Transportation Act, 1920, introduced into the federal
legislation a new railroad policy, seeking to insure an adequate transportation service. To attain that end, new
rights, new obligations, new machinery, were created.
Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. & Q. R.
Co., 257 U.S. 563, 585; New England Divisions Case, 261
U.S. 184, 189, 190; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U.S. 456, 478. It is a primary aim of that
policy to secure the avoidance of waste. That avoidance,
as well as the maintenance of service, is viewed as a direct
concern of the public. Davis v. Farmers Co-operative
Co., 262 U.S. 312, 317; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C.
&,S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 266, 277. The authority given to
the Commission to authorize consolidations, purchases,
and which has control of one or more carriers to acquire control
of another carrier through ownership of its stock.
"(b). Whenever a consolidation, merger, purchase, lease, operating
contract, or acquisition of control is proposed under subdivision (a),
tha carrier or carriers or corporation seeking authority therefor shall
present an application to the Commission, and thereupon the Commission shall notify the Governor of each State in which any part
of the properties of the carriers involved in the proposed transaction
is situated, and also such carriers and the applicant or applicants,
of the time and place for a public hearing. If after such hearing
the Commission finds that, subject to such terms and conditions

and such modifications as it shall find to be just and reasonable, the
proposed consolidation, merger, purchase, lease, operating contract,
*or acquisition of control will be in harmony with and in furtherance
of the plan for the consolidation of railway properties established
pursuant to paragraph (3), and will promote the public interest, it
may enter an order approving and authorizing such consolidation,
merger, purchase, lease, operating contract, or acquisition of control,
upon the terms and conditions and with the modifications so found
to be just and reasonable."

TEXAS v. UNITED STATES.
522

Opinion of the Court.

leases, operating contracts, and acquisition of control, was
given in aid of that policy. New York Central Securities
Corp. v. United States, 287 U.S. 12, 24, 25. The criterion
to be applied by the Commission in the exercise of its
authority to approve such transactions-a criterion reaffirmed by the amendments of Emergency Railroad
Transportation Act, 1933-is that of the controlling public interest. And that term as used in the statute is not
a mere general reference to public welfare, but, as shown
by the context and purpose of the Act, "has direct relation to adequacy of transportation service, to its essential conditions of economy and efficiency, and to appropriate provision and best use of transportation facilities."
New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, supra.
It is in the light of this criterion that we must consider
the scope of the Commission's authority in relation to
pro\•isioiis which are intended to relieve interstate carriers
from burdensome outlays. The fact that burdensome
expcnditures may be required by state regulations is not
a barrier to their removal by dominant federal authority
in the protection of interstate commerce. As we said in
Colorado v. Uni/cd States, 271 U.S. 153, 163: "Prejudice
to interstate commerce may be effected in many NWays.
One way isby excessive expenditures from the common
fund inthe local interest, thereby lessening the ,ability of
the carrier properly to serve interstate commerce." Even
explicit charter provisions must yield to the paramount
regulatory power of the Congress. New York v. United
Stales. 257 U.S. 591, 601. Obligations assumed by the
corporation under its charter of providing intrastate service are subordinate to the performance by it of its federal
duty, also assumed, " efficiently to render transportation
services in interstate commerce." Colorado v. United
States, supra, p. 165. See Transit Commission v. United
States, 284 U.S. 360, 367, 368; Transit Commission v.
United States, 289 U.S. 121, 127; Floridav. ,United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

ante, p. 1. In the present case, the findings of the Commission, setting forth undisputed facts, leave no doubt
that the provision of the lease permitting the abandonment, or removal from the State, of general offices and
shops of the lessor has direct relation to economy and
efficiency in interstate operations and to the achievement
of the purpose which the Congress had in view in its grant
of authority.
Counsel for the United States and for the Interstate
Commerce Commission emphasize the limitations of the
challenged provision. They point out that, in addition
to the customary "general offices" of railroads, § 3, of
Article X, of the Constitution of Texas provides that railroad corporations must "maintain a public office or place
in this State for the transaction of its business, where
transfers of stock shall be made, and where shall be kept
for inspection by the stockholders of such corporations,
books," in which shall be recorded the amount of capital
stock subscribed, the names of stockholders, etc., and
transfers, the amount of its assets and liabilities, and the
names and places of residence of its officers. See, also,
Art. 4115, Texas Revised Statutes, 1879; Laws of Texas,
1885, c. 68; Arts. 1358, 6281, Revised Civil Statutes of
Texas, 1925. Counsel for the United States and for the
Interstate Commerce Commission urge that the "OfficeShops Act," here involved, was enacted independently of
the above statutes. Laws of Texas, 1889, c. 106; Art.
6275, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925. Accordingly, they insist that the order of the Commission and
the lease in question apply to the " general offices," shops,
etc., and not to the "public office" of the domestic corporation. Counsel for the applicant, the Kansas City
Southern Railway Company, submits that the lease by
necessary implication requires the Texarkana & Fort
Smith Railway Company to maintain its principal office

TEXAS v., UNITED STATES.
522

533

Opinion of the Court.

in Texas as the Texas statute requires. See as to service
of process, Art. 2029, Revised Civil Statutes of Texa,
1925. In view of the disclaimer on behalf of the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the
interpretation placed upon the provision in the lease, we,
assume that the question before us merely relates to the
abandonment or removal of "general offices," shops, etc.,
as distinguished from the "public office" required by the
Texas statutes, that is, to those transportation facilities
the continued maintenance of which, in the circumstances
described by the findings of the Commission, would entail unnecessary and burdensome expenditures in opera,tion. As thus construed, we find no ground for concluding that the approval of the provision in the lease was
beyond the Commission's authority. There is no interference with the supervision of the State over the lessor
in matters essentially of state concern, as distinguished
from the operations which in their effect upon interstate
commerce are of national concern.
The State invokes § 11 of Title I of the Emergency
Railroad Transportation Act, 1933, which provides that
" Nothing in this title shall be construed to relieve any
carrier from any contractual obligation which it may have
assumed, prior to the enactment of this Act, with regard
to the location or maintenance of offices, shops, or roundhouses at any point." But-that section refers explicitly
-to what is contained in Title I of the Act, with respect to
"emergency powers," dealing with the authority of the
Federal Co6rdinator of Transportation and kindred matters, and does not by its terms apply to the provisions of
Title II of the Act, in which are found the amendments
of § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act with respect to
the approval and authorization by the Interstate Commerce Commission of consolidations, purchases and leases.
And § 11 of Title I relates to " contractual obligations"
assumed by the carrier and does not aptly refer to obli-

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

gations imposed by statute.' The insertion of the provision in Title I, with its restricted application, and the
omission of a similar provision from Title II, indicate an
intentional distinction.
Title II of the Emergency Railroad Transportation Act,
1933, in amending § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
carries its own provision as to immunity from state requirements which would stand in the way of the execution of the policy of the Congress through the Commission's orders. Subdivision (15) of § 5 as amended,
reads: 5
"The carriers and any corporation affected by any order under the foregoing provisions of this section shall
be, and they are hereby, relieved from the operation of
the antitrust laws as designated in section 1 of the Act
entitled 'An Act to supplement existing laws against unlawful restraints and monopolies, and for other purposes,'
approved October 15, 1914, and of all other restraints or
prohibitions by or imposed under authority of law. State
or Federal, insofar as may be necessary to enable them to
do anything authorized or required by such order."
The view that, by reference to the context, this immunity should be regarded as limited to those "restraints or
prohibitions by or imposed under authority of law " which
fall within the general description of " anti-trust" legislation, is too narrow. The rule of "ejusdem generis" is
applied as an aid in ascertaining the intention of the legislature, not to subvert it when ascertained. Mid-Northem Oil Co. v. Montana,268 U.S. 45, 49. The scope of the
immunity must be measured by the purpose which Congress had in view and had constitutional power to accomplish. As that purpose involved the promotion of economy and efficiency in interstate transportation by the
'See Cong. Rec., 73d Cong., 1st sess., Vol. 77, Pt. 5, p. 4439.
'Compare subdivision (8) of § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act
as amended by Transportation Act, 1920.

CONCORDIA INS. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
522

535

Syllabus.

removal of the burdens of excessive expenditure, the removal of such burdens when imposed by state requirements was an essential part of- the plan. The State urges
that in the course of the passage of Transportation Act,
1920, a provision for federal incorporation of railroads was
struck out. But while railroad corporations were left
under state charters, they were still instrumentalities of
interstate commerce, and, as such, were subjected to the
paramount federal obligation to render the efficient and
economical service required in the maintenance of an adequate system of interstate transportation. Colorado v.
United States, supra.
The decision in International & Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Anderson County, 246 U.S. 424, is not opposed.
Apart from the fact that in that case the state court had
found, upon the verdict of a jury, that the maintenance
of the offices and shops at the place at which the predecessor of the plaintiff in error had contracted to maintain
them, did not impose a burden upon interstate commerce-a finding which this Court found no reason to
disturb (Id., pp. 433, 434)-the case arose prior to the
enactment of Transportation Act, 1920, and the question
here presented was not involved.
The decree dismissing the bill of complaint is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.
CONCORDIA FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 12.

Argued October 11, 12, 1933.-Decided June .4, 1934.

1. A state statute' may be .valid when given a particular application
and invalid when given another. P. 545.
2. Under an Illinois statute taxing net receipts of foreign fire, marine
and inland navigation insurance companies at the same rate as all
other personal properly, the net receipts were assessed at full value,

