FED. LAND BANK v. WARNER.
Counsel for Parties.

49

Respondents suggest that, in any event, the case involves the further question whether, as wage claimants,
each of them is entitled under a designated Pennsylvania
statute to priority to the extent of $200 over the execution creditor. So far as the record discloses, that question
is raised here for the first time. The report of the referee
recites that a preference for the claims, not to exceed
$600 to each claimant, was sought under § 64 (b) (5) of
the Bankruptcy Act. That subdivision has no relation
to claims arising under state law, and no mention of any
such claims is made in the referee's report or in the decision of either of the courts below or in the record. In
no view of the matter is the question properly before us
for consideration.
Decree reversed.
FEDERAL LAND BANK OF BERKELEY v.

WARNER ET UX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARIZONA.

No. 498.

Argued February 16, 1934.-Decidird April 2, 1934.

1. A stipulation in a Farm Loan Mortgage that, in case of suit to
foreclose, the mortgagor shall pay a reasonable attorney's fee to
be fixed by the court, is valid under the Federal Farm Loan Act
if valid under the state law. P. 54.
2. The purpose of the Farm Loan Act is to enable farmers, by
mortgaging their lands, to obtain loans at low cost; and this purpose is to be observed in determining what is a reasonable attorney's fee, in a foreclosure proceeding. P. 57.
42 Ariz. -; 23 P. (2d) 563, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 620, to review the affirmance of a

decree foreclosing a farm loan mortgage in which the trial
court had refused to enforce a stipulation for an attorney's
fee.
Mr. Peyton R. Evans, with whom Messrs. Richard W.
Young and Scott W. Hovey, and Miss May T. Bigelow
were on the brief, for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERI 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

No appearance for respondents.
By leave of Court, Mr. Irving P. Whitehead filed a brief
on behalf of numerous Federal Land Banks, as amicus
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondents gave petitioner a mortgage on their farm
lands in Arizona to secure a loan of $7,200 made in
accordance with the Farm Loan Act.' The mortgage provides that in case of suit to foreclose the mortgagors shall
pay a reasonable attorney's fee to be fixed by the court.
And that clause is valid under Arizona law2 The borrowers having failed to pay according to their promise,
petitioner brought this suit to foreclose the mortgage and
prayed that an attorney's fee of $125 be included in the
judgment. Respondents objected to the allowance of any
amount on account of that item, the trial court sustained
their contention, and the supreme court upheld that part
of the decree upon the ground that the collection of such
a fee is forbidden by the following part of § 31: " No land
bank . . . shall charge or receive any fee, commission,
bonus, gift, or other consideration not herein specifically
authorized." 12 U.S.C., § 983.
That construction cannot be sustained. The Act establishes cobperation between borrowers on farm mortgages
and investors in the bonds secured -by them. The requirement, b, means of the mortgage provision, that a mortgagor shall bear the expense put upon the bank by his
default is reasonable and in harmony with that principle.
1 Federal

Farm Loan Act of July 17, 1916, 39 Stat. 360, as
amended. 12 U.S.C., § 636, et seq.
'This case, 42 Ariz. -. McClintock v. Bolton (1899) 6 Ariz. 370,
377; 57 Pao. 611. See Estate of Amirault (1921) 22 Ariz. 122; 194
Pac. 1099. Maxey v. Somerton State Bank (1921) 22 Ariz. 371; 197
Pac. 894. 0. S. Stapley Co. v. Rogers (1923) 25 Ariz. 308; 216 Pac.
1072. § 3840, R.C., 1928.

FED. LAND BANK v. WARNER.
53

Opinion of the Court.

In the absence of a plain expression to that effect, it may
not be held that Congress intended to put upon nondefaulting borrowers any part of the expense of foreclosure
of mortgages made by others. The Act does not prescribe
proceedings for foreclosure but indicates that state laws
are to govern. Section 30 directs the land bank commissioner to examine the laws of each State and to report,
among other things, whether in his opinion they are such
as to safeguard against loss in case of default. Code, § 971.
It provides that, if examination shall show that the laws
of any do not afford sufficient protection, the Farm Credit
Administration may declare mortgages on land in that
State ineligible. Code, § 972. And the petition for this
writ indicates that, except in a few States where local
law prohibits such contracts, all the mortgages taken by
the Federal land banks contain stipulations for attorney's
fees for foreclosure.' From this it appears that officers
charged by law with the administration of the banks have
always construed the Act to permit state laws to control.
Our attention has not been called to any case in which
that construction has been questioned. It is entitled to
great weight. United States v. Mo. Pac.R. Co., 278 U.S.
269, 280.
And we are of opinion that the decision of the Arizona
supreme court in this case is not supported by the language it quotes from § 31 or by any other part of the
Act. The paragraph containing this language " defines
'The petition indicates: Federal land banks hold mortgages
amounting to approximately $1,120,000,000. Joint stock land banks
hold mortgages amounting approximately to $500,000,000. Under
the Emergency Farm Mortgage Act of May 12, 1933, Federal land
banks are authorized immediately to expand their activities to the
extent of $2,000,000,000 in additional farm mortgage financing operations. Mortgages taken under that Act will contain stipulations for
attorney's fees for foreclosures.
'" Other than the usual salary or director's fee paid to any officer,
director, or employee of a national farm loan association, a Federal

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

criminal offenses and prescribes punishments. The first
sentence holds officers, directors and employees to their
usual salaries and directors' fees, and limits each of them,
and as well every attorney for a bank, to "a reasonable
fee

. . .

for services rendered."

The second sentence con-

tains the provision relied on. Its sole purpose is to limit
banks to the charges, fees, etc., that are specifically authorized. Then, after restricting disclosure of names of
borrowers, the paragraph makes violations of its provisions punishable by fine or imprisonment or both. Other
than the counsel fee in question, the judgment below does
not exclude any expense of foreclosure that is permitted
by Arizona law. But plainly the compensation of attorneys engaged to foreclose a mortgage is as necessary as
the payment of charges for advertisement, the service of
process or the sale of the property. The items last mentioned are generally, if not indeed everywhere, chargeable to defaulting mortgagors. There is nothing in the
Act to suggest purpose to denounce the one and permit
the others. Moreover, the quoted clause is in harmony
witli the restrictions put upon loans by § 12, Code, § 771,
and is undoubtedly intended to emphasize and strictly to
enforce limitations set by § 13, Code, § 781 (9), upon
fees for appraisal and examination of title, legal fees,
land bank, or a joint-stock land bank, and other than a reasonable
fee paid by such association or bank to any officer, director, attorney,
or employee for services rendered, no officer, director, attorney, or
employee of an association or bank organized under this Act shall be
a beneficiary of or receive, directly or indirectly, any fee, commission,
gift, or other consideration for or in connection with any transaction
or business of such association or bank. No land bank or national
farm loan association t6rganized under this Act shall charge or receive
any fee, commission, bonus, gift, or other consideration not herein
specifically authorized. . . . Any person violating any provision of
this paragraph shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $5,000
or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both." 12 U.S.C.,
§ 983.

GILVARY v. CUYAHOGA VALLEY RY.
Syllabus.

53

recording charges and the like that are included in the
preliminary costs of negotiating and carrying the mortgage loans. Undioubtedly Congress intended that state
laws are to govern in respect of counsel fees for foreclosure of mortgages given under the Act.
But what is said above is not to be taken to approve
the collection of a substantial attorney's fee for foreclosure
in every case where stipulations such as the one before us
are valid under state law. Uncontested foreclosures generally follow established routine and undoubtedly many
of them may be made, without much if any cost to the
banks, by their regularly employed salaried lawyers. In
any such case the employment of another attorney or the
exaction of any substantial charge for legal services cannot
be justified as reasonable. In all cases-whether foreclosure is obtained by default or after contest-the mortgagor's promise to pay the mortgagee a reasonable attorney's fee is to be construed having regard to the purpose
of Congress to enable farmers, by means of mortgages on
their lands, to obtain loans at low cost.
Reversed.
GILVARY v. CUYAHOGA VALLEY RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 575.

Argued March 8, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

1. Although the duty to supply all of its cars with automatic couplers laid upon an interstate railroad by the Federal Safety Appliance Acts extends to vehicles used exclusively in such carrier's
intrastate commerce, nevertheless where a breach of this duty
results in injuries to the carrier's employee while he is engaged
exclusively in intrastate commerce, his right to collect damages
from the carrier does not spring from these federal acts, but from
the law of the State. P. 61.
2. Where a carrier and employee had elected, in case of any injury
to the employee while engaged in intrastate commerce, to have

