OCTOBER TERM* 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

ROCKFORD LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 722.

FOR THE

Argued April 4, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. Under the Revenue Act of 1928 a life insurance company is not
allowed to deduct from gross income the expenses of a building
owned and occupied in whole or in part by it unless there is
included in the return of gross income the rental value of the space
so occupied, not less than a sum which, in addition to any rents
received from other tenants, shall I)rovide a net income, after
deducting taxes, depreciation and other expenses, at the rate of
4% per annum of the book value. Helverbig v. Independent Life
Ini. Co., ante, p. 371, followed. P. 383.
2. The deduction from gross income which a life insurance company
may make under § 203 (a) (7) of the Revenue Act of 1928, as
a "reasonable" allowance for depreciation of furniture and fixtures, is limited to such property as may fairly be allocated to its
investment business, the income of which is taxed, as distinguished
from its underwriting business, the income of which is not taxed.
P. 384.
67 F. (2d) 213, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 291 U.S. 655, to review the reversal, on
appeal, of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals overruling a deficiency assessment against the Insurance
Company and finding an overassessinent.

Mr. Wm. Marshall Bullitt for petitioner.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attoricy
General Wideman and Messrs. James TV. Morris, J. Louis
Monarch, and H. Brian Holland were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case involves the validity of a deficiency assessment of 1929 income taxes made under the Revenue Act
of 1928. Section 202 defines gross income to be that re-

ROCKFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. COMM'R.
382

Opinion of the Court.

ceived from interest, dividends and rents. Section 203
(a) defines net income to be the gross less specified deductions including (5) "investment expenses," (6)
"Taxes and other expenses paid during the taxable year
exclusively upon or with respect to the real estate owned
by the company . ." and (7) "A reasonable allowance
for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property, including
a reasonable allowance for obsolescence." Subsection (b)
provides no deduction shall be made under (a) (6) and
(7) "on account of -any real estate owned and occupied
in whole or in part by a life insurance company unless
there is included in the return of gross income the rental
value of the space so occupied. Such rental value shall
be not less than a sum which in addition to any rents received from other tenants shall provide a net income
(after deducting taxes, depreciation, and all other expenses) at the rate of 4 per centum per annum of the
book value at the end of the taxable year of the real
estate so owned or occupied." 45 Stat. 842-844.
During 1929 petitioner owned a building all of which
it used. It received $15 rent for use of the premises and
in its return included that amount as a part of gross income. It did not add any sum on account of rental value
of the building. Nevertheless, it deducted expenses
chargeable to the building, amounting to $4,033.05. The
commissioner disallowed the deduction. Petitioner also
deducted from gross $1,783.02 to cover depreciation on all
furniture, and fixtures. The commissioner held the deduction. allowable only in respect of such as were used in
connection with the company's "investment business."
That phrase may be taken to include activities relating to
interest, dividends and rents constituting the income
taxed as distinguished from its "underwriting business "
which embraces its other activities. There being no allocation, the commissioner apportioned depreciation on the
ratio of investment income, $123,248.44, to total income,
$751,147.77. This reduced the deduction to $292.56.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

These adjustments resulted in a finding of deficiency of
$607.53. Following its earlier decisions, the Board of
Tax Appeals held petitioner entitled to deduct expenses
chargeable to the building and depreciation of all its furniture and fixtures. On that basis it found an overpayment of $750.05. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
67 F. (2d) 213.
The ruling of the lower court disallowing deduction
.of expenses chargeable to the building is sustained on the
authority of Helvering v. Independent Life Ins. Co.,
decided this day, ante, p. 371.
The other question presented for decision is whether
petitioner is entitled to deduct depreciation on all furniture and fixtures or only such part as fairly may be attributed to the income taxed. Petitioner raises no question as to the method employed for making the apportionment, but insists that the "reasonable allowance"
granted by § 203 (a) (7) extends to all property and includes depreciation of all furniture and fixtures. It refers
to the language of the corresponding provision in the Revenue Act of 1916 which permits deduction of "a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property arising out of its use or employment in the business
or trade " and to similar language in the Revenue Act
of 1918.1 It emphasizes absence from the Act of 1921
and later ones of the words above italicized. It argues
that the change of language, made applicable to life insurance companies, shows that Congress intended to permit them to deduct depreciation of all property without
regard to its use. The constructions put upon provisions
in measures that did not limit income to be taxed, as
did later Acts, are of no value as guides to the meaning
of the clause under consideration. In reason the cost
'The Revenue Act of 1916, § 12 (a), 39 Stat. 768. 1917, § 4, 40
Stat. 302. Revenue Act of 1918, § 234 (a) (7), 40 Stat. 1078.

ROCKFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. COMM'R.
382

385

-Opinion of the Court.

of depreciation, like other items of expense to be deducted, ought to be limited to that.related to the income
taxed. Allowance of deduction of expenses incurred for
the collection of premiums or. in respect of other income
not taxed would be hard to justify. In absence of specific declaration of that purpose, Congress may not reasonably be held to have intended by that means further
to reduce taxable income of life insurance companies.
There is adequate evidence that Congress intended to
limit deductions of expenses to those related to the taxed
income. Helvering v. Independent Life Ins. Co., supra.
In the reports of committees having in charge the Act of
1921 in which first appeared the language under consideration, § 203 (a) (7), it is said: "The proposed plan
would tax life insurance companies on the basis of their
investment income from interest, dividends, and rents,
with suitable deductions for expenses fairly chargeable
against such investment income." ' Section 203 (a) (5),
by restricting deductions to investment expenses, indicates purpose to exclude those not related to investment
income. Section 203 (b), by condition imposed, similarly
restricts deductions of real estate expenses. The language
under consideration opposes deduction of unrelated expenses and is in harmony with the construction for which
the commissioner contends. The significance of the word
"reasonable" qualifying allowance need not be limited to
the amount to be ascertained. But having regard to the
context and probable purpose of the provision it rightly
may be construed to limit the ascertainment of depreciation to the property that is used in connection with the
company's investment business. The construction put
upon the statute by the Commissioner and Circuit Court
of Appeals is sustained.
Affirmed.
'67th Congress, 1st Session, Senate Report No. 275, p. 20.
also House Report No. 350, p. 14.

See

-

