OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

Here the record shows affirmatively, see Vance v. W. A.
Vandercook Co. (No. 2), 170 U.S. 468, that the total
amount of the tax demanded, or which may be demanded,
within any time reasonably required to conclude the litigation, is less than the jurisdictional amount; that any
action by appellant to compel compliance by appellee or
his salesmen with the taxing act in future years is at most
conjectural; and that the effect of any decree rendered in
the present suit upon the tax for other years, or with
respect to appellee's business outside the City of Manchester, is collateral to the present controversy. The decree will be reversed) with instructions to the district court
to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.
SAUDER, ADMINISTRATRIX, ET AL. v. MID-CONTINENT PETROLEUM CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 660. Argued April 3, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.
1. Under an oil and gas lease on a royalty basis for a stated number
of years and so long thereafter as oil or gas can be produced in
paying quantities, a lessee who has produced oil in paying quantities from a fraction of the land and continues such production after
the expiration of the primary term, remains under an implied
obligation to prosecute development of the other part. P. 279.
2. The lessee, in the circumstances stated, can not hold the undeveloped part of the land indefinitely, as against the lessor, merely
because it may contain oil, and without drilling or any present
intention to drill at any time in the future. P. 279.
3. Where the lessee in an oil and gas lease covering a forty-acre tract
and an adjacent -half section produced oil on the forty acres but
for many years abstained from drilling on the half-section, held
- that the lessor was equitably entitled to have the lease canceled
as to the half-section unless within a reasonable time an exploratory
well were drilled upon it. P. 281.
67 F. (2d) 9, reversed.

SAUDER v. MID-CONTINENT CORP.
272

273

Argument for Respondent.

CERTIORARI, 291

U.S. 655, to review the reversal of a

decree canceling in part an oil and gas lease, in a suit
begun by the lessor in a state court and prosecuted by his
administratrix and heirs after removal.
Mr. Harry W. Colmery, with whom Mr. Ray S. Pierson
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. RichardH. Wills, with whom Mr. James C. Denton
was on the brief, for respondent.
The primary question is whether there was any implied obligation to drill additional wells upon the leased
premises.
It is the universal rule that an oil and gas lessee is not
unconditionally required to drill an exploratory well at
every location upon the leased premises, but is only required to drill such wells as an ordinarily prudent operator, under all the circumstances, would drill. In reliance
on this rule, it has been unusual for lessees to drill an
exploratory well at every location, even under a producing lease. The case. is of much importance to the oil and
gas industry.
Respondent contends that its lease does not impose
upon it any implied obligation to drill an additional well
upon the leased premises, in the absence of an affirmative
showing that, under all the circumstances, there was a
reasonable probability that oil or gas, in paying quantities, would have been discovered, or that a reasonably
prudent operator would have drilled. Brewster v. Lanyon
Zinc Co., 140 Fed. 801; Texas Co. v. Waggoner, 239 S.W.
354; Goodwin v. Standard Oil Co., 290 Fed. 92; Orr v.
Comar Oil Co., 46 F. (2d) 59; Smith v. McGill, 12 F. (2d)
32; Denker v. Mid-Continent Petroleum Corp., 56 F. (2d)
725; Cosden Oil Co. v. Scarborough,. 55 F. (2d) 634;
Franklin v. Wigton, 132 Okla. 236;:Robinson v. Miracle,
146 Okla. 31; Empire Gas & Fuel Co. v. Haggard, 152
Okla.. 35; Gypsy Oil Co. v. Cover, 78 Okla. 158.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1933..
Argument for Respondent.

292 U.S.

Inasmuch as it is admitted that the two wells were
drilled during the primary term of the lease; that oil was
discovered in paying quantities in each of them; that at
all times subsequent to their completion they had produced oil in paying quantities and were still so producing,
"it necessarily follows that respondent's lease was in full
force and effect as to each and every part of the leased
.premises, unless it had abandoned some portion, or unless
it had failed to drill some "offset" well, which it was
required to drill, or unless a reasonably prudent operator,
under the circumstances, would have drilled an additional
well. The burden was upon the petitioners to plead and
prove that some one of these conditions existed.
None of the Kansas cases, before or after the execution
of the, lease, except certain dicta in McCarney v. Freel,
121 Kan. 189, conflicts with respondent's contention; but,
if anything, they support it. The court below was not
required to follow a Kansas decision later than the lease.
The construction of an oil and gas lease is a matter of
general law concerning which the federal courts will reach
their own conclusion. The fact that the contract happens to relate to property having a fixed situs should make
no difference, particularly in view of the Kansas decisions
with respect to the nature of such leases. Black & White
Taxi Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxi Co., 277 U.S. 518;
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co.,
215 U.S. 348; Midland Valley R. Co. v. Jarvis,29 F. (2d)
539; Midland Valley R. Co. v. Sutter, 28 F. (2d) 163,
cert. dismissed, 280 U.S. 521.
Since the relief sought is wholly in equity, the court
below was not bound by any Kansas decisions. Rev.
Stats., ยง 721; 28 U.S.C., ยง 725; Bucher v. Cheshire R. Co.,
125 U.S. 555; Brill v. Foshay Co., 65 F. (2d) 420; Lynn v.
Union Gas & Oil Co., 274 Fed. 957; Guffey v. Smith, 237
U.S. 101; Dallas v. Higginbotham-Bailey-LoganCo., 37
F. (2d) 513.

SAUDER v. MID-CONTINENT CORP.
272

275

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Philip Sauder, as owner of the E of Sec. 16, Twp. 23,
Range 13, Greenwood County, Kansas, and the SE'A of
the SW of the same section, amounting in all to 360
acres, brought suit in .a Kansas state court for the cancellation of an oil and gas lease. The causd was removed to the
federal district court, where, after Sauder's death, it was
revived in the right of his administratrix and heirs. The
lease was made June 6, 1916; by sundry assignments the
Petroleum Corporation had becbme the tenant. The
recited consideration was $1.00 and the covenants and
agreements on the part of the lessee. The term was ten
years, and as long thereafter as oil and gas could be procured in paying quantities. The lessee was to deliver to
the lessor one-eighth of the oil realized, and if gas should
be found, $100 per year was to be paid for each gas well
so long as its product was sold or marketed. If no well
were commenced within one year all rights and obligations
of the parties were to cease upon notice from the lessor to
that effect, provided that the lessee should have the right
to continue the lease in force from year to year until a
well should be drilled, by paying an annual rental of $1.00
per acre. The instrument provided that the lessee might
enter upon the premises for the purposes of the lease, use
water from any creek or pond, or drill for water, to run
machinery for prospecting and for operating the wells,
should have the exclusive right to erect, lay and maintain
pipe, machinery and structures necessary for producing,
storing or transporting oil or gas. The contract ran in
favor of and against the heirs, assigns, successors and personal representatives of the parties.
To offset two wells drilled on adjoining property, the
lessee completed one well in November, 1921, and a second in January, 1922; but no other wells have been sunk,

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

nor have any locations for wells been made. On the date
of the expiration of the fixed term Sauder wrote the
respondent stating that the lease had expired, and adding
that he understood if it was a profitable contract respondent was supposed to operate, and if not, he understood
the term had run out, and the respondent should release
all the tract except the portion on which the wells were
being operated. He asked what action the respondent
proposed to take. The reply was that respondent
considered it had a paying lease and would not surrender it.
The suit was instituted June 27, 1930. In addition to
reciting the facts above outlined, the complaint asserted
there had been development and production of oil on
adjacent tracts, with consequent drainage of oil from the
leased land; the respondent was bound to explore and
develop the land and had neglected so to do; unless the
lease were cancelled the respondent Would continue to
hold it for speculative purposes, and the plaintiffs be
deprived of the objects and considerations for which the
lease was made. The answer denied that the lease was
being held for speculative purposes, denied the operations on surrounding tracts were causing drainage, alleged
the drilling of the two wells was a fulfilment of the obligation to offset wells likely to drain from the demised
premises, and denied any breach of the lease.
Upon the trial the petitioners offered in evidence a map
showing the number of wells drilled on adjacent premises,
the date when they came into production, and the amount
of production from each, as well as the location of all
which proved to be dry holes. The respondent offered
expert testimony showing that in the vicinity there were
two sands, the upper of which pinched out eastward of
the demised premises, and that the wells on the latter
and those on lands to the west and south thereof were
in the lower sand, known as the Mississippi lime. These

SAUDER v. MID-CONTINENT CORP.
272

277

Opinion of the Court.

witnesses testified that in their judgment the geological
formation, and the experience with wells drilled on nearby
lands, made it so unlikely that oil would be obtained as
to justify a prudent operator in abstaining from drilling
additional wells on the Sauder tract.
The district judge found that the two wells were
drilled as offsets and had been producing oil in small
but paying quantities. He summarized the evidence as
to drilling on adjacent territory, and found that there
was some probability that damage was being done to the
leasehold through drainage by wells on adjoining properties. He was unable to decide the question of the likelihood that additional wells on the Sauder tract would
produce oil or gas in paying quantities, and held that in
the state of the proofs nothing but exploration and positive test by drilling could settle the controversy. After
referring to the notice sent by Sauder to the respondent
at the termination of the ten year period, he found that
no effort had thereafter been made toward exploration or
development by drilling wells or otherwise, and that the
respondent and its officers had no present intention of further exploring and developing, unless and until developments in the immediate vicinity should convince them
that it would pay to take such action. The conclusion
was that petitioners had no adequate remedy at law; that
respondent and its predecessors in title had not in good
faith and with reasonable diligence explored and developed the lands as required by the express and implied
covenants of the lease; that it would be inequitable to
permit the respondent to hold the property without further exploration and development, as it proposed to do;
and that the petitioners were entitled to a decree cancelling the lease, except as to a portion of the SE'/ 4 of the

SW1/4 of Sec. 16 (upon which the two off-set wells were
drilled), as to which the respondent may hold and enjoy
its leasehold right so long as it produces gas or oil thcre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

from in paying quantities. A decree was entered in accordance with the findings, adding the qualification that
as to tanks, pipes and equipment located somewhat north
of the acreage which the respondent was permitted to
retain, these need not be moved until they should become
obstacles to the development of the petitioners' land.
Upon appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals (one judge
dissenting) reversed the decree, holding that the respondent had not violated the covenants of its lease, and until
it should be guilty of a breach it was entitled to continue
to hold the whole tract. The reversal was without prejudice to the bringing of a new suit in the event changed
conditions should indicate a breach of respondent's implied covenant to develop. We brought the case here by
writ ol certiorari.
The question for decision is whether the respondent
failed to comply with an implied covenant to develop the
tract with reasonable diligence. The petitioners' position
is that since the lease was of land in Kansas the case is to
be decided according to the rule of law adopted by the
Supreme Court of the State, which is said to be more
stringent as respects the lessee's obligation than that generally applied by state and federal courts. The majority
of the Court of Appeals were of opinion that at the date
of the making of the lease the law of the State, as evidenced by the decisions of its Supreme Court, was the
same as that followed by the federal courts; and if, by
decisions announced subsequent to the effective date of
the lease, a broader rule was laid down, the federal courts
ought not to apply it with retroactive effect. The petitioners assert that the court was in error in both conclusions.
It is unnecessary to inquire as to the law of Kansas, or
the 'ffect to be given it in this case, since we think that
the rule followed generally requires a reversal of the decree
dismissing the bill.

SAUDER v. MID-CONTINENT CORP.
272

279

Opinion of the Court.

It isconceded that a covenant on respondent's part to
continue the work of exploration, development and production is to be implied from the relation of the parties
and the object of the lease; and that this covenant was
not abrogated by the expiration of the primary term of
ten years.' The matter in dispute is the respondent's
alleged failure to comply with its obligation. The petitioners say that if the lessee with good reason believes
there is no mineral to be obtained by further drilling it
should give up the lease; the respondent insists that as
there is only a possibility of finding mineral, no prudent
operator would presently develop, but the mere possibility
entitles it to hold the lease, because it is producing oil from
a portion of the area.
We think the respondent's contention cannot be
sustained. With respect to a lease quite similar in its
provisions it was said in Brewster v. Lanyon Zinc Co., 140
Fed.801, 810, 814:
"The implication necessarily arising from these provisions-the intention which they obviously reflect-is
that if, at the end of the five-year period prescribed for
original exploration and development, oil and gas, one or
both, had been found to exist in the demised premises in
paying quantities, the work of exploration, development,
and production should proceed with reasonable diligence
for the common benefit of the parties, or the premises be
.surrendered to the lessor.
'Allegheny Oil Co. v. Snyder, 106 Fed. 764; Brewste?, v. Lanyon
Zinc Co., 140 Fed. 801; Acme Oil & Mining Co. v. Williams, 140 Cal.
518; 105 N.E.
681; 74 Pac. 296; Daughetee v. Ohio Oil Co., 263 Ill.
308; Gadbury v. Ohio & Indiana Consol. Nat. & Ill. Gas Co., 162
Ind. 9; 67 N.E. 259; Dinsmoor v. Combs, 177 Ky. 740; 198 S.W.
58; Harrisv. Ohio Oil Co., 57 Oh. St. 118; 48 N.E. 502; Indiana Oil,
Gas & Development Co. v. McCrory, 42 Okla. 136; 140 Pae. 610;
Kleppner v. Lemon, 176 Pa. 502; 35 At. 109; J. M. Guffey Petrol.
Co. v. Jeff Chaison Townsite Co., 48 Tex. Civ. App. 555; 107 S.W.
609; Hall v. South Penn Oil Co., 71 W.Va. 82; 76 S.E. 124;
Phillips v. Hamilton, 17 Wyo. 41; 95 Pac. 846.

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

"The object of the operations being to obtain a benefit
or profit for both lessor and lessee, it seems obvious, in
the absence of some stipulation to that effect, that neither
is made the arbiter of the extent to which or the diligence
with which the operations shall proceed, and that both are
bound by the standard of what is reasonable."
After commenting on the fact that the lessee is not required to carry the operations on beyond the point where
they will be profitabIle to him, even though some benefit
to the lessor will result, the court adds:
"Whether or not in any particular instance such diligence is exercised depends upon a variety of circumstances, . . . Whatever, in the circumstances, would be
reasonably expected of operators of ordinary prudence,
having regard to the interests of both lessor and lessee,
is what is required."
This definition of the scope of the implied covenant has
been generally adopted in decisions of federal and state
courts.' The facts demonstrate that the respondent has
not complied with its obligations. It has held a half
section for seventeen years without the drilling of an
exploratory well, and claims to be entitled to hold the
lease for an indefinite period with no exploration unless
some other operator brings in a producing well on adjoining land, or fresh geological data come to light. The two
producing wells are on the forty acres comprising the
smaller of the adjacent areas embraced in the lease. The
justification for the respondent's position is that the geologic data and the experience upon surrounding lands
2 Goodwin v. Standard Oil Co., 290 Fed. 2; ie.kci v. Submarine
Oil Co., 55 Cal. App. 698; 204 Pac. 245; Daughetee v. Ohio Oil Co.,
263 Ill. 518; 105 N.E. 308; Austin v. Ohio Fuel Oil Co., 218 Ky. 310;
291 S.W. 386; Pritice v. Standard Oil Co., 147 La. 283; 84 So. 657;
Indiana Oil, Gas & Development Co. v. McCrory, 42 Okla. 136; 140
Pac. 610; Texas Co. v. Ramsower, (Tex.) 7 S.W. (2d) 872; Jennings
v. Southern Carbon Co., 73 W.Va. 215; 80 S.E. 368; Phillips v.
Hamilton, 17 Wyo. 41; 95 Pac. 846.

SAUDER v. MID-CONTINENT CORP.
272

Opinion of the Court.

are both unfavorable to the discovery of oil or gas upon
the east half of section 16 (the 320 acre tract). The respondent's officers state that they desire to hold this tract
because it may contain oil; but they assert that they have
no present intention of drilling at any time in the near
or remote future. This attitude does not comport with
the obligation to prosecute development with due regard
to the interests of the lessor. The production of oil on
a small portion of the leased tract cannot justify the
lessee's holding the balance indefinitely and depriving the
lessor not only of the expected royalty from production
pursuant to the lease, but of the privilege of making some
other arrangement for availing himself of the mineral content of the land.
The decisions I on which the Circuit Court of Appeals
relied recognize and apply the rule of Brewster v. Lanyon
Zinc Co., supra, but are distinguishable because of a difference in the circumstances in which the rule was applied.
Some of them involved the duty to drill wells to offset
others brought into production on adjoining lands; others
turned upon a waiver by the lessor of the lessee's obligation to explore, or the meaning of the phrase "so long
as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities." In none
of them was there a neglect to explore or develop for any
such period as is here shown, or an expressed intention
not to do so, in a comparable situation.
The petitioners are entitled to relief in equity as they
have no adequate remedy at law. Brewster v. Lanyon
Zinc Co., supra, pp. 818-819; Guffey v. Smith, 237 U.S.
101, 114. The District Court decreed a cancellation as to
all except a strip four hundred feet wide along the southern boundary of the SEV1 of the SW1/ of Section 16, con'Goodwin v. Standard Oil Co., 290 Fed. 92; Humphreys Oil Co. v.
Tatum, 26 F. (2d) 882; Orr v. Comar Oil Co., 46 F. (2d) 59 Denker
v. Mid-Continent Petroleum Corp., 56 F. (2d) 725; Pelham Petroleum Co. v. North, 78 Okla. 39; 188 Pac. 1069; Broswood Oil & Gas
Co. v. Mary Oil & Gas Co., 164 Okla. 200; 23 P. (2d) 387.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

taining about eight acres. The dissenting judge in the
court of appeals thought that a decree should be entered
cancelling the lease as to the 320 acre tract (the E of
the Section) unless within a reasonable time an exploratory well should be drilled therein to the Mississippi lime,
and that the 40 acres embraced in the SEl of the SW'A
of Section 16 should remain under the lease. We are of
opinion that such a decree would recognize and protect
the equities of both parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

MISSISSIPPI VALLEY BARGE LINE CO. v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI,

DIVISION.

No. 807. Argued April 5, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.
1. Findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission may not be
assailed in a suit to set its order aside in the absence of the evidence on which they were made. This settled rule can not be
avoided' by the submission of additional evidence in the form of
affidavits. P. 286.
2. It is not for a court to substitute its judgment for that of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in the adjustment of a rate
schedule; the judicial function is exhausted when there is found
a rational basis for the Commission's conclusion. P. 286.
3. Order of the Commission permitting lower rail rates on sugar, to

meet water competition on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, held
supported by the facts set forth in its report. Id.

