WOODSON v. DEUTSCHE, ETC., VORMALS.
443

449

Syllabus.

to operate retroactively. A statute is not rendered retroactive merely because the facts or requisites upon which
its subsequent action depends, or some of them, are
drawn from a time antecedent to the enactment. Cox v.
Hart, 260 U.S. 427, 435, and cases cited.
Judgment reversed with directions to
enter judgment for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo dissent.

WOODSON, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
v. DEUTSCHE GOLD UND SILBER SCHEIDEANSTALT VORMALS ROESSLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 795. Argued May 3, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.
1. The proceeds of enemy property, seized under the Trading with
the Enemy Act, are subject to the disposition of Congress. P. 453.
2. The original Trading with the Enemy Act, coupled with the Acts
of March 4, 1923, and May 16, 1928, plainly discloses a reservation
to Congress of power to appropriate the property seized or its
proceeds, as far as might be deemed necessary, to the payment of
expenses incurred in the seizure and subsequent administration. P. 454.
3. The Act of March 28, 1934, provides, inter alia, that no suit shall
be instituted or maintained "against the Alien Property Custodian
or the Treasurer of the United States, or the United States, under
any provisions of law, by any person who was an enemy or ally of
enemy as defined in the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended,
. . . nor judgment entered in any such suit heretofore or hereafter instituted, for the recovery of any deduction or deductions,
heretofore or hereafter made by the Alien Property Custodian from
money or properties, or income therefrom, held by him or by the
Treasurer of the United States hereunder, for the general or administrative expenses of the office of the Alien Property Custodian, . . ." Held, that the Act is applicable to a suit already

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

292 U.S.

pending in this Court when it passed, and operated to ratify deductions from amounts paid to an enemy owner; and that it infringes
no constitutional right of such owner. P. 454.
62 App. D.C. 344; 68 F. (2d) 391, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 291 U.S. 657, to review the affirmance of a
decree overruling a motion to dismiss in a suit against the
Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer of the United
States.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Sweeney and Mr. H. Brian Holland were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Richard H. Wilmer, with whom Mr. Douglas L.
Hatch was on the brief, for respondent.
The Alien Property Custodian was not authorized
under the Trading with the Enemy Act, as from time to
time amended, to deduct and retain from property seized
from a former enemy under the guise of administration
expenses, an amount computed at a fixed percentage applicable alike to the property of all other similar claimants and bearing no relation to the actual and necessary
cost of the work done or services performed in securing the
possession, collection or control of the particular claimant's property or in protecting or administering the same.
This Court has already held in Escher v. Woods, 281 U.S.
379 (1930), that the directions of § 24 of the Trading with
the Enemy Act as amended are explicit that the expenses
chargeable against a given property are those incurred
in getting or protecting it, or other property due to the
same owner. In other words, each property should bear
its own necessary costs. Hence it follows that any flatrate charges deducted from the property of the claimant
without reference to the necessary expenses incurred are
illegal. The statute being clear on this, no practice contrary to the explicit directions of the statute is relevant.

WOODSON v. DEUTSCHE, ETC., VORMALS.
449

451

Opinion of the Court.

The Independent Offices Appropriation Act for 1935
does not deprive the courts of jurisdiction to enter judgment in favor of the respondent in this case. Congress
can not validly and constitutionally deprive former alien
enemies of property rights hitherto vested in them. This
is not a suit against the United States; but, even if it
were so regarded, the statute would be unconstitutional
as applied to the facts of this case. By statutory ratification of prior illegal deductions, Congress can not validly
and constitutionally deprive respondent of its property or
take it without just compensation.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
April 15, 1931, respondent brought this suit in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against the
Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer of the
United States. Petitioners are their successors in office
and as such have been substituted in their official capacities for the original defendants. Respondent is a corporation organized under the laws of Germany and at the
time of the war between the United States and that
country was there engaged in the manufacture and sale
of chemicals, etc. It owned property in the United States
including shares of stock in American corporations doing
like business. Another German corporation, Holzverkohlungs-Industrie Aktiengesellschaft, was then similarly
engaged and it also owned property in the United States
including shares in one of the American corporations,
Pursuant to the Trading with the Enemy Act, 40 Stat.
411, the Custodian seized the shares and other property
in this country respectively belonging to these alien enemies. In July, 1930, respondent acquired all the assets
of the other German .corporation.
Section 24 of the Trading with the Enemy Act authorized the Custodian to pay expenses incurred in
-'Added by § 2, Act of March 4, 1923, 42 Stat. 1516.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

obtaining and administering property taken and held by
him and required payments to be made out of the property in respect of which the expenses were incurred. The
Act of May 16, 1928, 45 Stat. 574, directed that all expenses of the Custodian's office, including his compensation, should be paid from interest and collections of trust
funds and other property under his control. Under the
Act of March 4, 1923,2 there was released to each of the
German corporations $10,000 of principal and income in
the same amount annually thereafter, less one per cent.
of the amounts paid between March 4,1923, and November 1, 1927, and two per cent. of those paid after the
date last mentioned. The amount so withheld was
$1,400. By the Act of March 10, 1928,' the President
was authorized to order return of all except 20 per cent.
of the principal of money and property to which he
should find the claimant entitled. Respondent and the
other German corporation filed their claims, which in due
course were allowed. The Custodian released to them
various sums, retaining the required 20 per cent. and
other amounts not here material. Of the amounts released he deducted two per cent., $60,346.52. He also
retained out of Treasury interest paid upon the proceeds
of the seized property $8,142.31. The total of these deductions is $69,888.83; all was taken by the Custodian
to cover the general or administrative expenses of his
office.

The amended bill alleges, inter alia, the facts above
stated and prays an accounting and judgment for the
amount so withheld by the Custodian. Defendant in2

§§ 9 (b) (10), (h) and 23, added by §§ 1 and 2, Act of March 4,

1923, 42 Stat. 1512, 1513, 1515, 1516.
"§ 9 (b) (16), (m), added by §§ 11 and 14, Act of March 10,
1928, 45 Stat. 270, 272, and § 23, as amended by § 17, Act of March
10, 1928, 45 Stat. 275.

WOODSON v. DEUTSCHE, ETC., VORMALS.
449

453

Opinion of the Court.

terposed a motion to dismiss and an answer. The trial
court overruled the motion, and on special appeal its
decree was affirmed. 62 App.D.C. .344; 68 F. (2d) 391.
March 28, 1934, shortly after this writ was granted,
Congress passed an Act 4 containing an amendment to § 24

of the Trading with the Enemy Act, which declares:
"No claim shall be filed .

.

. nor shall any suit be in-

stituted or maintained against the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States, or the
United States, under any provisions of law, by any person
who was an enemy or ally of enemy as defined in the
Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended,

. .

. nor judg-

ment entered in any such suit heretofore or hereafter
instituted, for the recovery of any deduction or deductions, heretofore or hereafter made by the Alien Property Custodian from money or properties, or income
therefrom, held by him or by the Treasurer of the United
States hereunder, for the general or administrative expenses of the office of the Alien Property Custodian, . . ."

This amendment was intended to forbid, and it is broad
enough to cover, the commencement or maintenance of
suits such as this. If valid, it requires the decree below
to be reversed and the bill to be dismissed. The moneys
sued for are a part of proceeds of property that was taken
by the Custodian from respondent and the other German
corporation. The Trading with the Enemy Act was
passed by Congress in the exertion of the war power; its
purpose was to weaken enemies by diminishing the
sources from which they could obtain aid, and to
strengthen this country by adding to resources for the
successful prosecution of the war. Section 12 declares
that after the end of the war any claim of any enemy to
recover money or property received and held by the
'48 Stat. 510.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

Custodian or deposited in the United States Treasury
"shall be settled as Congress shall direct." 40 Stat. 424.
W-nile this suggests that confiscation was not effected or
intended, it plainly shows that Congress reserved to itself
full freedom at any time to dispose of the property as
might be deemed expedient and to deal with claimants
as it should deem to be in accordance with right and
justice, having regard to the conditions and circumstances that might arise during and after the war. It is
clear the enemy owners were divested of every right in
respect of property taken and held under the Act. United
States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U.S. 1, 9-11.
The original Act, coupled with the later Acts of March 4,
1923, and May 16, 1928, plainly discloses a reservation to
Congiess of power to appropriate the property seized or
its proceeds, as far as might be deemed necessary, to the
payment of expenses incurred in the seizure and subsequent administration. The funds here in question are
proceeds which were deducted for that purpose when payments were made from time to time to the enemy owner.
As respects property or proceeds so retained by the
Custodian there is no room to doubt that Congress had
full power to cause it to be applied to the payment of
such expenses. And, of course, Congress had ample
power to ratify deductions made by the Custodian to
cover such expenses. This is in effect what was done by
the Act of March 28, 1934. True, it forbade the commencement or maintenance of a suit to recover funds so
deducted, but this merely" reflects and emphasizes the
purpose to sanction and ratify the deductions by the Custodian, and in such circumstances does not deprive the
respondent of any vested interest.
It follows that the Act of March 28, 1934, infringes no
constitutional right of respondent. The decree of the
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause remanded to

HELVERING v. N.Y. TRUST CO.
449

455

Syllabus.

the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia with directions to that court to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.
HELVERING

COMMISSIONER

OF

INTERNAL

REVENUE, v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.,
TRUSTEE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 873.

Argued May 8, 9, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. A father transferred securities irrevocably to a trustee, in trust,
to pay income and eventually the principal to his son. Within less
thmn two years the trustee sold the' securities for a price which
exceeded their value at the time of the creation of the trust and
exceeded still more the price for which the trusty had acquired
them. Held:
(1) That the shares wer6 "acquired by gift," by the trustee,
within the meaning of § 202 (a) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1921;
and, under that Act, the basis for ascertaining the gain derived
from the sale was "the same as that which it would have been in
the hands of the donor," i.e., the cost of the shares to the trustor.
P. 462.
(2) The shares were "capital assets," defined by § 206 (a) (6)
of the Act as "property acquired and held by the taxpayer for
profit or investment for more than two years," and the gain was
therefore taxable under that section at 12 %, and not at the
normal and surtax rates. In applying the definition, the tenures
of donor and trustee must be treated as continuous. P. 463.
(3) The purpose of this provision of § 206 was to lessen the discouragement of sales of capital assets caused by high normal and
surtaxes, in which respect there is no distinction between gains
derived from a sale made by an owner who has held the property
for more than, two years and those resulting from one by a donee
whose tenure plus that of the donor exceeds that period. P. 466.
Together with No. 899, New York Trust Co., Trustee, v. Helvering, Commissioner, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

