OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

290

292 U.S.

Syllabus.

mission is negative in form and substance, and hence
not subject to review. Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287
U.S. 229. These objections to the suit coalesce to such
an extent with the merits of the appellant's grievance
under § 500 of the statute (Transportation Act, 1920)
as to make it unnecessary to separate them.
The decree is
Affirmed.

DAYTON POWER & LIGHT CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.
No. 609.

Argued March 13, 14, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.

1. In fixing the rates of a gas distributing company, the State is not
bound to allow as operating expenses the full amounts paid for
.gas supplied the distributor under a contract between it and a
closely affiliated seller, but may inquire into the reasonableness
of the contract price. P. 295.
2. To prove that a lower allowance, found reasonable by the state
authorities, resulted in a confiscatory rate, the distributor in this
case was under the burden of showing that, in its transactions with
the affiliated seller, which was itself subject to rate regulation, the
contract price was no higher than would fairly be payable in a
regulated business by a buyer unrelated to the seller and dealing at
arms length. Pp. 295, 308.
3. Where a gas distributing company claimed that a rate fixed by a
State was confiscatory, upon the ground that the allowance made
for purchase of its gas supply from an affiliated producing company and chargeable to its operating expenses was inadequate, and
this question turned upon the value of leases of gas land held by
the affiliate, which were appraised by the state authorities at more
than book- value, held that the burden of proving such appraisal
so inadequate as to result in confiscation through its effect upon
the rate was not sustained by evidence consisting (a) of testimony
of friendly experts who gave widely variant estimates based on
forecasts of production capacity and on the assumption that the
product would be sold in an unregulated market; and (b) actual
sales of other gas leaseholds in sporadic transactions, separate in

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Syllabus.

time and place, and at prices too disparate to supply a helpful
test of value. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 278
U.S. 200. P. 298.
4. Allowance for amortization and depletion of operated gas leaseholds and of the well-structures and equipment used in connection
therewith, held not only adequate, but excessive, due to an overestimate of the value of such leaseholds and an underestimate of
the life expectancy .of the supply from the wells and from other
sources not as yet tapped but available for the future. P. 303.
5. Estimate made by the state commission of accrued depreciation
of wells and equipment of the affiliated gas producing company;
and allowances for maintenance of its other plant and for depreciation of property of the distributing dompany,-considered and
upheld. P. 305.
6. Any excess in estimated accrued depreciation of gas wells and
equipment in this case is offset by excess in allowance for amortization and depletion. P. 306.
7. "Delay rentals" paid by a producing gas company to keep alive
leases of gas land held in reserve, should not be chargdd to operating
expenses When an annual amortization allowance makes provision
.whereby new leases can be acquired and paid for out of current
earnings. P. 306.
8. In deciding upon the reasonableness of a price for gas charged
l y a producing company to an affiliated distributing company, the
state commission was not concluded by evidence of prices between
producers and distributors in other cities, when the prices were not
uniform and the conditions affecting cost of transportation and
delivery were not shown and, for all that appeared, the buyers
and sellers were parts of the same system of sffiliated companies.
P. 306.
9. The burden is upon the public utility to sustain the fairness of
payments for the managerial service of an affiliated company,
which it makes to the affiliate and charges to its own operating
expenses, and which have been found excessive by the public ratemaking authority in fixing its rates. P. 307.
10. Failure to make an allowance for going value in addition to the
valuation of the assets upon the basis of a plant in successful
operation, was not unreasonable or arbitrary in this case, in view
of the smallness of the company and the simplicity of its organization. P. 308.
11. Refusal of a state commission to make allowances for conjectural organization or preconstruction costs, and costs of financing

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

the business, as part of the hypothetical expense of reproduction,
held no ground for declaring rates confiscatory in this case. P. 309.
12. Rate of return of 6A%% for a distributing gas company held
adequate, in view of business conditions judicially noticed. P. 311.
13. When a gas company, resisting a rate reduction, adduces valuations purporting to show that the rates which it has been receiving
and those which it seeks to put into effect, as well as the prices
at which it buys gas from an affiliate, are all greatly below the level
of a fair return, the argument proves too much, and the valuations
are discredited by the test of experience, since in the absencp of
extraordinary conditions, not proved to exist, business is not voluntarily transacted at confiscatory rates. P. 312.
127 Oh. St. 137; 187 N.E. 18, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment which affirmed an order of the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio by which a schedule
of increased rates filed by the appellant Gas Company was
stricken, and the Company was enjoined from putting it
into effect.

Mr. John E. Mullin, with whom Messrs. Edwin P. Matthews, Charles P. Pfarrer,and Chester J. Gerkin were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Donald C. Power, Assistant Attorney General of
Ohio, with whom Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General,
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Dayton Power and Light Company, an Ohio corporation, is here as appellant challenging the validity of
an order of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio,
affirmed by the Supreme Court of that state, which prescribes the rates chargeable to consumers of natural .gas.
The appellant is a distributing company, producing no
gas and owning no wells. The gas that it distributes it
buys from the Ohio Fuel Gas Company, an affiliated corporation, delivery being made to it by the seller at the

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

293

Opinion of the Court.

gateways of the towns and cities where its mains and
service pipes are laid. Both seller and buyer are subsidiaries of the Columbia Gas and Electric Corporation,
which owns the entire capital stock of each of them as well
as that of other companies producing in other fields or
distributing in other cities.
On June 17, 1929, the appellant filed with the Commission a new schedule of "rates and prices" to take effect
thirty days later unless suspended or annulled. The average rate of increase was 5.67 cents per thousand cubic
feet. Under the authority of statute (Pence Law, 110
Ohio Laws 366, General Code, § 614-20), the Commission
suspended the operation of the new schedule for 120 days,
and at the same time initiated an inquiry of its own motion as to the fairness of the increase. The proceedings
being undetermined at the end of the period of suspension,
the statute permitted the appellant to put the schedule
into effect at once upon filing a bond securing the repayment to the consumers of such portion of the increased
rate as the Commission, upon final hearing, might determine to have been unreasonable or excessive. Such a
bond was given on October 9, 1929. The proceeding was
then continued, but a decision was not announced till
November 3, 1932. There had been a pause in the hearings to await the final submission of the testimony in the
case of the Columbus Gas and Fuel Company, an affiliated
corporation serving other territory. Much of the testimony in that case was read into the record by stipulation
as testimony in this. Upon the record thus supplemented
the Commission announced its decision that the revenues
under the earlier schedule were sufficient to yield a yearly
net return of 61/ per cent. upon the fair value of the
property, that this return was reasonable, and that more
must not be charged. An order was therefore made striking the new schedule from the files of the Commission,

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

restraining the appellan* from collecting the higher rates
and directing as to the past that the difference between
the old rates and the new ones, with six per cent. interest,
be refunded to consumers in accordance with the bond.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Ohio, the order
was affirmed, 127 Ohio St. 137; 187 N.E. 18, against the
protest of the appellant that there had been an infringement of its privileges and immunities under the Constitution of the United States. Amendment XIV; Article I,
§ 10. Upon appeal to this court, Judicial Code, § 237 (a);
28 U.S.C. § 344, the protest is renewed.
At the threshold there is a controversy as to the scope
of the problem before us for solution. The appellee argues
that the only question for the Commission was one as to
the reasonableness of the new schedule in the very form
proposed: let the rates be excessive by ever so little, the
schedule, it is said, was to be rejected altogether, and no
other could be substituted. In opposition the appellant
urges that this is too narrow a construction of the function
and powers of the Commission under the applicable statute: if the proposed schedule was too high and the earlier
one too low, there was a duty to fix a rate between, and
thereby make the compensation adequate. We accept this
broader view in the absence of a ruling to the contrary
by the courts of the state. It is borne out by the terms of
the bond and by the requirements of the statute under
which the bond was given: such part of the new collections
as shall be found to be unreasonable, that and no more is
to be refunded to the customers. It is borne out again by
the findings and the order: the rate is to be returned to
what it had been before the change, and the difference
repaid. Finally it is borne out by the opinion of the state
court, which considers upon the merits the objections
enumerated by the appellant in its petition to review the
order of the Commission, and finds them all to be
untenable.

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

With the field of inquiry thus charted, we turn to the
objections in the effort to determine whether separately
or collectively they support the claim of confiscation.
They fall into three classes: (1) objections to the computation of operating expenses; (2) objections to the
valuation of the property making up the rate base; and
(3) objections to the rate itself.
First. Objections to the computation of operating
expenses.
The chief item of controversy under this head is the
price payable to the affiliated seller for gas delivered at
the gates.
The contract between the appellant and the Ohio Fuel
Gas Company called for payment at the rate of 45 cents
per thousand cubic feet; the Commission found this price
to be excessive to the extent of 6 cents, thereby reducing
to 39 cents the allowance to be made as a proper operating expense.' There is no doubt under the decisions of
this court that the Commission was not concluded by the
price fixed in the agreement. This results from the relatiohn of intimate alliance between the buyer and the
seller. They were not dealing with each other at arm's
length, and the prices that they fixed in their intercompany transactions were of no concern to the consumer
unless kept within the bounds of reason. Western Distributing Co. v. Public Service Commission of Kansas,
285 U.S. 119; Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282
U.S. 133; United Fuel Gas Co. v. RailroadCommission of
Kentucky, 278 U.S. 300, 320. Whether the bounds were
overpassed or heeded is next to be considered.
1. First in order of importance is the value of the gas
fields.
1 The appraisal of the appellant's property at the amount fixed by
the Commission will allow a return of 61/2% if operating expenses are
lowered by this reduction of the gateway price. At the contract
price of 45 cents the return will be less.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

The Ohio company, the seller, does not own its fields
in fee. It does own leases covering nearly three million
acres in Ohio and elsewhere. Some of these it uses as
a source of supply to meet the present needs of customers.
Others are held as a standby for the future. Are all to
be included in determining the base on which a fair
price is to be reckoned? Are some to be ruled out until
the wells now in use are wholly depleted, or until depletion is near at hand? If some or all are to be included,
what shall be the principle of appraisal: shall it be market value, or value as shown by the books, or some compromise between them?
These and like questions have been much debated in
the opinions below and in the arguments of counsel.
They suggest interesting and important problems in the
process of rate making for companies with wasting assets. When regard is had, however, to what has been
done by the Commission and the state court as distinguished from what has been said, the case assumes another aspect. Much of the debate is then perceived to
be irrelevant to the issue of confiscation vel non--confiscation, that is to say, of the property interests of the
appellant-which in ultimate analysis is the only issue
to be determined. To bring this out more clearly there
is need to amplify the statement of the subject matter to
be valued and the mode of valuation.
The leaseholds, operated and unoperated, are grouped
into four classes. Class No. 1 (291,396 acres) is made up
of "tracts of land having producing gas wells drilled
thereon from which gas is being furnished to the public."
Class No. 2 (164,739 acres, unoperated) is made up of
"tracts of land proved by actual developments and operations in the immediate vicinity thereof to be good gasproducing lands, but which do not have any producing
wells drilled thereon." Class No. 3 (312,631 acres, unoperated) is made up of "tracts of land shown by sur-

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

297

Opinion of the Court.

rounding or neighboring developments of operations,
geological considerations, etc., to be reasonably certain
to be good gas land, at least as to large portions thereof,
but not yet demonstrated to be such by actual drilling."
Class No. 4 (2,065,421 acres, unoperated) is made up of
"tracts of land situate within the areas of territory where
gas sands are known or assumed to exist from general
geological conditions, but which are so remote from actual
gas-producing wells or territory that they are merely
prospective gas lands."
The Commission has stated in its opinion that the
leases in class No. 1 are the only ones that are presently
"used and useful" in the public business of the owner,
and hence the only ones to be valued in estimating a fair
return.2 The Commission has also stated in effect that
there was no satisfactory evidence before it either of
market or of intrinsic value for any portion of the acreage.
This is what was said, but what was done was different.
The value of the 291,396 acres in class No. 1 was $1,569,479 on the basis of their original cost with certain overheads and expenses added; the book value of the other
classes, after deducting what is found to have been an
arbitrary write up of about $3,700,000, was $3,160,765,
a total for all classes of $4,730,244.' Instead of resorting
to those tests the Commission made an allowance of $25
per acre for the 291,396 acres in class No. 1, selecting that
figure because it had been approved by the Supreme Court
' Under the Ohio law a corporation selling its entire product to
public utilities which in turn sell that product to consumers is itself
a public utility if the shares are owned by the same persons. Ohio
Mining Co. v. P. U. Comm'n, 106 Ohio St.. 138, 146, 150; 140 N.E.
143.
'The Ohio Fuel Gas Company took over in June, 1929, the leases
of an affiliated company, the Logan Gas Company and its predecessor,
the Logan Natural Gas and Fuel Company. These leases, after being
carried on the Logan books at about $2,500,000, were marked up in
1919 so as to show an increase in value of $3,748,036.48.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of Ohio in another litigation affecting part of the same
lands. Logan Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 124
Ohio St. 248; 177 N.E. 587. The result was an appraisal
of $7,284,900, which was about $2,500,000 more than the
book value of all the leases in classes 1 to 4 inclusive.
On appeal this method of valuation did not pass without
impeachment. The Supreme Court of Ohio said in its
opinion (Columbus Gas & Fuel Corp. v. Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio, 127 Ohio St. 109; 187 N.E. 7; Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio, 127 Ohio St. 137; 187 N.E. 18) that theappraisal
at the rate of $25 per acre was too high, and that the limit
of the allowance should have been the book value of the
leases in class No. 1. Once more there must be a distinction between what was said and what was done. Criticizing the appraisal of the Commission as over-liberal to
the company, the court affirmed the order which had been
made on the assumption that there should be an allowance of $7,284,900 because of the ownership of leases.
The appellant may not prevail unless there has been error
in the result as well as error in the reasoning. Is the
appraisal of the leases at over ,seven million dollars an
arbitrary act, which in turn has brought about an arbitrary rejection of the contract for gas delivered at the
gates, and hence an infringement of constitutional
immunities?
As to that issue the burden of proof rests heavily on
the appellant. Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission of California, 289 U.S. 287, 304, 305.
In the endeavor to sustain it there has been an attempt to
establish market and intrinsic values by the estimates of
experts as well as by actual sales.
Webber, a witness for the appellant, placed the value
of the leases in class No. 1 at $11,473,717; Meals at $17,483,760; Wittmer at $21,825,000, and Dally at $26,225,640. For class No. 2 the estimates were: (Webber), $10,-

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

299

Opinion of the Court.

440,300; (Meals), $9,884,340; (Wittmer), $12,300,000;
(Dally), $16,473,900.. For class No. 3, (Webber), $10,504,320; (Meals), $1,250,524; (Wittmer), $3,120,000;
(Dally), $6,252,620. For class No. 4, (Webber), $6,196,263; (Meals), $8,261,684; (Wittmer), $6,195,000; (Dally),
$4,130,842. Variations so wide are sufficient of themselves to disprove the existence of a market in the strict or
proper sense. Sinclair Refining Co. v. Jenkins Petroleum
Process Co., 289 U.S. 689, 697, 698, 699. If they have
any probative effect, it is that of expressions of opinion
by men familiar with the gas business and its opportunities for profit. But plainly opinions thus offered, even if
entitled to some weight, have no such conclusive force
that there is error of law in refusing to follow them. This
is true of opinion evidence generally, whether addressed to
a jury (Head v. Hargrave, 105 U.S. 45, 49) orto a judge
(The Conquer'or, 166 U.S. 110, 131, 133), or to a statutory
board. Uncasville Mfg. Co. v. Commissioner, 55 F (2d)
893, 897; Tracy v. Commissioner, 53 F. (2d) 575, 577;
Anchor Co. v. Commissioner, 42 F. (2d) 99, 100; Gloyd v.
Commissioner, 63 F. (2d) 649, 650. There are reasons
why the principle has special application here. In the
first place, the intrinsic value of the leases is dependent
upon the capacity of the lands to yield productive wells, a
capacity seldom to be judged with even a fair approach to
certainty until tested by experience. Natural Gas Co.
of W.Va. v. Public Service Comm'n, 95 W.Va. 557, 569;
121 S.E. 716. In the second place, the profits to be earned
in a regulated business must vary with the rates established by the supervising agencies of government, with
the result that prophecies, however radiant, may be upset
overnight by the publiqation of a lower schedule. The
witnesses for the appellant were alive to these possibilities
of surprise and disappointment, and there are admissions
that their chief interest was in an unregulated market.
To these perturbing tendencies, all operating to weaken

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

the persuasive force of their opinions, there must be added
still another, that of interest or bias, conscious or unconscious. Webber, a broker, was a stockholder in the
-Columbia Gas and Electric Company, the parent corporation. For fifteeri years he had been in the service of the
Ohio Fuel Supply Co., the predecessor of the Ohio Fuel
Gas Co. He had been a witness for the appellant in other
litigations. Meals was the president of a gas company,
had been engaged in the gas business for over forty years
and had testified in other suits. Wittmer was the owner
of gas fields and sold his gas to the Ohio Fuel Gas Company and affiliated corporations. Dally was in the same
position. The testimony of all is subject to the infirmities that were pointed out by this court in another rate
controversy involving fields in West Virginia. United
Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission of Kentucky, 278
U.S. 300, 316. It is not based, at least to a controlling
extent, "on prevailing prices for gas leases or on actual
sales." It is based upon "an estimated or assumed exhaustible supply of gas available to appellants until exhausted, and upon a predictable price for natural gas in
unregulated maxkets" through a future period of' years.
Cf. Charlestonv. Public Service Comm'n, 110 W.Va. 245;
159 S.E. 38. How uncertain are the data can be gathered
from the variant results.
The appellant has attempted to correct these uncertainties by supplementing the opinions of its experts with
testimony of actual sales. But they were sporadic transactions, separate intime and space, and at prices too dispar.ate to supplk a helpful test of value. Thus in 1929
Wittmer sold 101,600 acres of Ohio leaseholds to the PennOhio Gas Co. for $1,085,000, and in the same year bought
7,000 acres for $100,000. About the same time, Meals
made a sale of 21,000 acres for $2,500,000. Dally had
made purchases at prices ranging from $2 an acre for leaseholds of the quality of class No. 4 up to $50 or $75 an acre

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

for leaseholds of a higher grade. Over against the evidence of these prices must be set the evidence that class
No. 1 eases, acquired by the appellant in 1927, 1928 and
1929, had been bought at an average price of $2.05 an
acre, and if three leases be excluded, at an average of 62
cents an acre. Then too, there are quantitative considerations that are not to be ignored. For the most part
the prices stated by the appellant's witnesses had been
paid for small tracts, if comparison be made with the
vast and often unproved acres in controversy here. Nor
is there any such uniformity of price as to suggest the
existence of a standard. Meals sold 21,000 acres for more
than Wittmer sold a tract almost five times as large. Indeed, the truth becomes obvious when one reads the testimony as a whole that the prices upon sales were playing
a subordinate r6le, and that the ultimate appraisal was a
forecast of productive power. Granting even that the
testimony had an evidential value, it had that and nothing more. It had no such commanding, quality as to
apply coercion to the judgment of the appointed triers of
the facts, and exclude every choice but one.
We do not attempt to determine upon this record
whether the Commission and the state court were in
error in expressing the opinion that only class No. 1 leases
ohould have a place in the appraisal. On the one side
it is argued (cf. Wichita Gas Co. v. Public Service Commn'n,
2 F.Supp. 792, 799) that the discretion of the owner as to
the extent of the reserve essential for prudent management ought not to be overridden by a court unless proved
by convincing testimony to have been fraudulent or arbitrary. On the other side it is argued (cf. Wichita Gas.Co.
v. Public Service Comm'n, supra, p. 816; United Fuel Gas
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 14 F. (2d) 209, 221) that
the values of reserve leases acquired by the owner to
supply the needs of a remote future are not a part of the
rate base upon which profits are presently to be earned at

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

the cost of the consuming public, though they may be
brought into the base afterwards when the time to use
them is at hand. Moreover, the very reason for including in operating expenses a depletion allowance that will
amortize wasting assets is to make provision for a fund
out of which capital may lbe replenished by the purchase of other leases if that use is thought to be preferable to dividing the fund among the shareholders and
winding up the business. These and other arguments we
put aside without expression of a choice, and this for the
reason that the case as it has shaped itself does not
require us to weigh them. Again we emphasize the distinction between dictum and decision. If that distinction
is observed, the upshot of the case is seen to be that the
Supreme Court of Ohio, with authority to revise the findings of the Commission in respect of fact and law (Hocking Valley Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 100 Ohio
St. 321, 326, 327; 126 N.E. 397), has disapproved the
appraisal of the No. 1 leaseholds at $25 an acre, has found
the testimony insufficient to establish a value beyond that
shown by the' books, but has, none the less, upheld an
order whereby rates have been fixed upon the basis of
the book value of leases of every class (numbers 1 to 4
inclusive), and $2,500,000 besides. If the evidence would
have been adequate to uphold a lower rate, a fortiori it
was adequate to uphold the rate prescribed. Plainly in
all this there has been no infringement of constitutional
immunities unless a higher value has been made out by
evidence too strong to be rejected. But for reasons already stated, the evidence is lacking in that high coercive
power. Court and commission were free in their discretion to reject as unsatisfactory the conflicting opinions
of a group of friendly experts. They were free in their
discretion to refuse to draw an inference of value from
the prices stated to have been paid upon a few purchases
and sales.. If those data were unacceptable, the only

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

others left were the entries in the books; and these perforce were followed for lack of anything better. The
result is to reproduce the situation that was found and
commented on in a suit by the United Fuel Gas Company, an affiliated corporation. United Fuel Gas Co. v.
Railroad Commission of Kentucky, 278 U.S. 300, 318.
"On the record as made, appellants have failed to present
any convincing evidence of value of their gas field which
would enable us to assign to it any greater value than
that which they appear to have assigned to it on their
books. This book value, therefore, may be accepted not
as evidence of the real value of the gas field, but as an
assumed value named by the appellants, which, on the
evidence presented cannot reasonably be fixed at any
higher figure." Cf. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service
Commission of West Virginia,278 U.S. 322, 326.
2. Amortization and depletion.
In determining the price to be paid by the appellant
for gas delivered at the gates, the Commission included
among the operating expenses of the affiliated seller an
annual allowance of $4,158,954 to amortize the value of
leaseholds No. 1 (the only leaseholds then in use) and of
the well-structures and equipment used in connection
therewith, and thus provide a fund that would restore
the depleted capital when the gas had. been exhausted.
The Supreme Court of Ohio expressed the view in its
opinion that this allowance was notpermissible under the
statutes of the state. None the lesg it affirmed the order
of the Commission which fixed the rate of gas on the assumption that a charge for amortization was properly
included in the operating expenses. In such circumstances the appellant is not aggrieved through the expression of a belief that the rate would have been lawful if
the charge had been omitted.
The amount of the allowance is adequate and even liberal.' It was made on the assumption (1) that the value

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

of the gas fields in class No. 1 was .$25 an acre, and (2)
that the life expectancy of the contents of the wells and
of the appurtenant structures and equipment was only
three years and two months. Both assumptions are erroneous, though the error results to the appellant's benefit. As to assumption (1), the state court has held that
there is no satisfactory evidence of the value of the leases
in class No. 1 in excess of the value assigned to them upon
the books., A depletion allowance must therefore be excessive if it is made in the belief that a value of $25 per
acre is the'amount to be restored. As to assumption (2),
there has been an underestimate of the life expectancy of
the gas content of the wells, resulting once more in an exaggerated allowance for inroads upon capital. The prediction may .have been correct in respect of the wells
already driven and in use, though this is far from certain,
but it was certainly too low if expectancy is to be measured by sources of supply in the 291,000 acres that had
never been tapped and were available for the future...
'The effect of these errors, and indeed of the first of
them alone, Without attempting to estimate the consequences of the second, is to make the amortization charge
excessive to the extent of $761,098.50. In figuring'the
charge the present value of the leases was treated as
41.8874 per cent. of $7,284,900, or $3,051,455; that of the
gas well construction as $5,944,692, and that of the gas
well equipment as $4,069,434, a total of $13,065,581. The
actual present value of the leases in class No. 1 was not
more than 41.8874 per cent. of $1,569,479, or $657,414.
The fund to be restored through amortization was thus
overestimated to the extent 'of $2,394,041 or 18?f per.
cent., which would reduce the annual charge, without
change of the life expectancy, from $4,158,954 to $3,397,865.50.
We have assumed in what has been written that for
the purpose of amortization the leases ihclass No. 1 are

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

to be taken at the value shown on the books. The appellant will be little helped, however, if another standard is
accepted. No method of valuation supported by the
record will lay a basis for a-holding that the allowance is
inadequate to the point of confiscation. The truth seems
to be, as was stated by a witness for the appellant, that
the percentage of depletion appropriate for gas fields is
"the wildest sort of guess." This results from many circumstances, not the least of which is the probability of
improved methods of production. In an industry subject
to these rapid changes the prophecies of one year are likely
to be overturned by the experience of the next.
We think the allowance for depletion, instead of being
too small, is so manifestly -excessive as to supply a margin
for the correction of other contested items. that may
approach the border line. Los Angeles Gas -& Electric
Corp. v. Railroad Commission of California,supra, p. 317.
3. Reserve for depreciation.
The Commission allowed as a charge against the operating expenses of the affiliated seller an annual reserve of
$667,612 to be placed in a sinking fund and devoted to the
maintenance of the plant, with the exception of the wells
and their equipment which had been separately cared for
in the allowance for depletion.
The appellant has failed to show in any conclusive or
convincing way that this reserve will be inadequate.
The Commission also allowed as a charge against the
appellant's operating expenses an annual reserve in the
amount of 2% of the "depreciable property" employed
by the appellant in the business of distribution.
The percentage so fixed is stated to be in accord with
the practice of the appellant as disclosed in its annual
reports on file with the Commission.
The contention that the percentage of allowance should
have been 4 per cent. instead of 2 has no basis in the
evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

4. Accrued Depreciation.
In determining the price to be paid for gas delivered at
the gateways, the Commission appraised the wells and
equipment of the affiliated seller as having suffered a
depreciation of 58.1126 per cent. The appellant insists
that the depreciation is excessive.
There is evidence that the method of computation
adopted by the Commission is in accordance with the accepted practice of mining engineers. The practice is to
ascertain the rock pressure at the initial flow of the gas
and again at the time of the appraisal, and to measure the
depreciation by the. reduction thus disclosed. The wells
and their equipment have only a scrap value after the exhaustion of the gas, and contents and containers thus
depreciate together.
The appellant, though complaining that the percentage
of depreciation is excessive, has had a benefit, more than
equivalent to any injury, in the enhancement of the
allowance for amortization and depletion.
5. The disallowance of the "delay rentals" for unoperated leases.
To keep alive the leases acquired as a reserve the affiliated seller paid the annual carrying charges (known as
"delay rentals "), and there is objection to the exclusion
of the payments from operating expenses.
We think it a sufficient answer that the annual amortization allowance of $4,158,954 has made provision for a
fund whereby new leases can be acquired and paid for out
of current earnings. Operating expenses are magnified
nduly if they cover both the fund and the payments that
are-made out of it.
6. The rate of 45 cents per thousand cubic feet viewed
in the aspect of a customary charge.
An attempt is made to show that the price paid by the
appellant to the affiliated seller was the current or market
rate in contracts between producers and distributors in

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

other towns and cities. To bolster up that argument a
schedule of contracts was marked as an exhibit. Twentyfive contracts are listed. There is a concession that in all
but two the seller is the Ohio Fuel Gas Company or an
affiliated corporation. There is no evidence as to the rela,tion between the. seller and the buyers. For all that
appears the buyers in most instances are parts of the same
system. The prices are not uniform: many are higher
than 45 cents, but some are lower, one of them being as
low as 39 cents. Distances and other geographical conditions affecting the cost of transportation and delivery are
undescribed and unexplained.
The Commission did not err in its determination that
this was inconclusive evidence.
7. The general administrative expenses incurred by the
appellant in the conduct of its business.
These, as claimed by the appellant, were $38,395; the
Commission reduced them to $32,432.
A contract had been made with the Columbia Engineering and Management Corporation, an affiliated company,
for services as manager in return for a percentage of the
gross earnings. This item ($13,741) was found by the
Commission to be excessive to the extent of $5,963, and
the compensation was reduced accordingly. In view of the
close relation between the affiliated companies, the burden
was upon the appellant to sustain the fairness of the con'tract. We cannot hold that it did so in opposition to the
judgment of a Commission-acquainted with prices and
other conditions in the localities affected.
We have now considered the objections to the allowance
and disallowance of operating expenses.
To determine whether 39 cents per thousand cubic feet
is a fair price to be paid for gas delivered at the gates,
there has been need to consider the assets and expenses of
the affiliated seller, for only thus has it been possible to
estimate a fair return.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

We have kept in mind the principle that "rates substantially higher than the line between validity and unconstitutionality properly may be deemed to be just and
reasonable, and not excessive or extortionate." Banton v.
Belt Line Ry. Corp., 268 U.S. 413, 423.
Even so, the burden of proof was on the buyer of the
gas to show that in these transactions with the affiliated
seller the price was no higher than would fairly be payable
in a regulated bush. ass by a buyer unrelated to the seller
and dealing at arm's length. Western Distributing Co. v.
Public Service Commission of Kansas, 285 U.S. 119, 124.
State court and Commission did not act in an arbitrary
fashion when they held upon the evidence before them
that the burden had not been borne.
There are certain other objections that have relation
to the value of the appellant's property, and not to its
expenses of operation or to the value of the property of
the affiliated seller.
To these we now turn.
Second. The value of appellant'sproperty.
(a) Objection is made that the going value of the appellant's business should have been included in the base.
The decisions of this court show what going value
means (Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad
Commission of California, supra, p. 313), distinguish it
from good will, and hold that upon proof of its existence
it may have a place in the base upon which rates are to
be computed. The Commission was of opinion that there
was here no constituent of property that called for separate appraisal apart from the recognition that had been
given it as a contributory factor in other elements of
value.
The appellant is a new company, engaged in business
for a few years. The value of its physical assets is less
than a million dollars. In the brief term of its existence
it professes to have'added to that value from $125,000 to

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

$140,000 by combining the parts into an organism and
causing them to work together. The Commission took
the view that whatever increment of value had emerged
from these sources was sufficiently reflected in the allowance of the cost of developing "new business" and in the
appraisal of the physical assets as parts of an assembled
whole. A like conclusion has been reached by this court
in very similar conditions. Los Angeles Gas & Electric
Corp. v. Railroad Commission of California, supra, p.
314. Going value is not something to be read into every
balance sheet as a perfunctory addition. "It calls for
consideration of the history and circumstances of the particular enterprise." Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v.
Railroad Commission of California,supra, p. 314. Here.
the company was a small one and its organization simple.
There was no diversified and complex business with ramifying subdivisions. We cannot in fairness say that after
valuing the assets upon the basis of a plant in successful
operation, there was left an element of going value to be
added to the total. Even if the addition might have been
made without departure from accepted principles, the
omission to make it does not appear to have been so unreasonable or arbitrary. as to overleap discretion and reach
the zone of confiscation. "It is necessary again, in this
relation, to distinguish between the legislative and judicial functions." Los Angeles case, supra, p. 314. Much
that the framers of a schedule are at liberty to do, this
court in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction may
not requre them to do. For the legislative process, at
least equally with the judicial, there is an indeterminate
penumbra within which choice is uncontrolled.
(b) A number of other objections may conveniently be
grouped together.
The appellant complains of the refusal to make allowance for organization or pre-construction costs. There is
no evidence that any were incurred, though this of itself

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

is indecisive. Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 267 U.S. 359, 362. It is conjectural whether
they would be incurred in the hypothetical event of a
reproduction of the business, and, if incurred, in what
amount. The appellant's position as a member of an
affiliated system would have a tendency to reduce such
expenses to a minimum. We think the ruling is supported by decisions of this court. Los Angeles Gas &
Electric Corp.v. RaF'road Commission of California,supra,
p. 310; Wabash Valley Electric Co. v. Young, 287 U.S.
488, 500. To this it is to be added that the item is of
negligible importance. Its presence or absence would not
make the difference between confiscation and a fair return. We do'not figure to so fine a point in determining
the application of the constitutional restraints of power.
An intelligent estimate of probable future values (Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public'Service Comm'n,
262 U.S. 276, 288), and even indeed of present ones, is
at best an approximation. The like is true of a forecast
of the extent of future revenues. There is left in every
case a reasonable margin of fluctuation and uncertainty.
The appellant complains also of the failure to include
the hypothetical expense of financing the business as
part of the cost of reproduction.
Considering the absence of evidence that any such
expense had been incurred when the business was established and the uncertainty that it would be incurred if
the plant were destroyed and reproduced, we think this
item under recent decisions was properly rejected as remote and conjectural. Wabash Valley Electric Co. v.
Young, supra, p. 500; Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp.
4 The appellant's yearly revenues during the period of inquiry were
$666 in excess of the amount of money needed to yield a return of
If pre-construc61/2 per cent. on the value fixed by the Commission.
tion costs were to be added to the full extent claimed, the rate of
return would be about .064.

DAYTON P. & L. CO. v. COMM'N.
290

Opinion of the Court.

v. Railroad Commission of California,supra, p. 310. We
are to remember that the cost of reproduction is a guide,
but not a measure. Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v.
Railroad Commission of California,supra, p. 307.
What has been said of the foregoing items applies with
little variation to the reduction of "general overheads,"
or undistributed expenses during the period of construction, from 17%, the amount claimed by the appellant, to
14%, the amount allowed by the Commission.
The cost in imaginary conditions of cutting and restoring pavements was not an increment of value. Des
Moiies Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U.S. 153.
The amount necessary for working capital was carefully
computed, and has not been proved to be too small for the
requirements of the business.
Third. The rate of return on the investment.
The appellant contends that to avoid confiscation the
rate of return should be 8 per cent., instead of 61/2, which
was allowed.
In view of business conditions, of which we take judicial
notice (Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United
States, 284 U.S. 248, 260), the rate allowed was adequate.
Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad.Commission
of California,supra, p. 319.
Whether a lower rate could be upheld is a question not
before us.
Dissection of the several items that have been criticized
in the appellant's argument has thus brought us to the
conclusion that the order of the Commission, whether
generous or ungenerous, is at all events not confiscatory,
and hence not subject to revision here. But the conclusion
has reinforcements that come to it from other avenues of
approach. In a statement put in evidence by the appellant, the rate of return under the new schedule is said to be
1-?h per cent. of the fair value of. the property. Under
the earlier schedule the revenue was even less. So modest

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

a rate suggests an inflation of the base on which the rate
has been computed. It is a strain on credulity to argue
that the appellant, when putting into effect a new schedule
of charges, was satisfied with one productive of so-meagre
a return. The same surprise is excited when we consider
What it claims as to the fair value of the gas delivered at
the gates. All that the affiliated seller asks is 45 cents per
thousand cubic feet, yet according to the appellant's figures nearly 7 cents more, or a price of about 52 cents, is
necessary to protect the seller against the wrong of confiscation. The argument proves too much: the valuations
are discredited by the teachings of experience. Men do
not transact business without protest at confiscatory rates,
at all events in the absence of extraordinary circumstances
making submission to the loss expedient. If such circumstances exist, the appellant has not proved them. Nothing
in the record lays the basis for a belief that the natural gas
business in Ohio is unable to pay its way. That being so,
what the public utility has done belies what it has
said. We shall hardly go astray if we prefer the test of
conduct.
Upon the submision of the cause the appellant made a
motion to amend its assignments of error, which motion
is now granted. The decree of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
affirming the order of the Public Utilities Commission,
does not impair any privileges or immunities secured to
the appellant by the Constitution of the United States,
and must therefore be
Affirmed.
and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of
this case.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs

concur in the result.

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

