ELLIOT v. LOMBARD.
Opinion of the Court.

ELLIOT

ET AL.

v. LOMBARD.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 463. Argued March 6, 1934.-Decided April 9, 1934.
Read in connection with 28 U.S.C. ยง 754, and Admiralty Rules 5, 6,
11 and 12, under which a stipulation with surety was given by a

claimant to release and stand as substitute for an attached vessel,
a decree which awards damages to the libelant against the claimant
alone, grants execution against both the claimant- and surety if
the award is not satisfied or an appeal taken within a time

specified, and dismisses a cross-libel filed by the claimant,-held
not a joint decree against the claimant and surety within the spirit
of the rule requiring that, to appeal from a decree that is joint on
the face of the record, both parties must join in the appeal or
there must be a summons and severance. Hartford Accident &
Ind. Co. v. Bunn, 285 U.S. 169; distinguished.
66 F. (2d) 662, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

290 U.S. 619, to review a decree dismissing

an appeal in a suit in admiralty. The decree of the trial
court was against claimant and surety. The court below
had declined to permit the surety to join in the claimant's appeal after the time for appeal had expired.
Mr. Win. H. McClendon, Jr., with whom Messrs. Win.
A. Van Siclen and J. Zach. Spearing were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Purnell M. Milner for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Respondent Lombard, owner of motor ship "Lucky
Girl" and a sand barge, presented to the District Court,
Canal Zone, a libel in rem against the "Real" and in
personam against her owner, Elliot, to recover damages
resulting from a collision between those vessels-July,

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 17.S.

1930.. The " Real" was seized under admiralty process:
her owner claimed and secured her release under a stipulation, whereon the United States Fidelity & Guaranty
Company was surety, which contained the following
clause.
"Now, therefore, the condition of this stipulation is
such that if.the stipulators undersigned, shall at any time,
upon the interlocutory or final order or decree of the said
District Court, or of any Appellate Court to which the
above named suit may proceed, and upon notice of such
order or decree to Van Siclen and Boggs, Esquires, Proctors for the Claimant of the said Motorship Real, abide
by and pay the money awarded by the final decree rendered by the Court or the Appellate Court if any appeal
intervene, then this stipulation to be void otherwise to
remain in full force and virtue."
The stipulation also contained the further clause"and the parties hereto hereby consenting and agreeing
that in case of default or contumacy on the part of the
claimant or their surety, execution for the above amount
may issue against their goods, chattels and lands,"
Elliot filed an answer, also a cross libel against the
"Lucky Girl."
After a hearing in open court, Lombard prevailed and
had a decree-August 27, 1932, the presently important
portions of which follow-"Ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the libelant herein do have and recover from the respondent herein the
sum of $6,321.29, with interest thereon at the rate of
6% per annum from the 31st day of July, 1930, together
with the libelant's costs taxed in the sum of $117.20,
with interest thereon until paid; and it is further
"Ordered, adjudged and decreed, that unless this decree
be satisfied or an appeal taken within ten days after
service of a copy of this decree with notice of entry upon
the respondent or his proctor, execution, issue against

ELLIOT v. LOMBARD.
139

Opinion of the Court.

Hans Elliot, respondent, and the United States Fidelity
and Guaranty Co., his stipulators for costs and value, their
goods,. chattels and lands to satisfy this decree; and it
is further
"Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the cross-libel
herein be dismissed at cross-libelant's cost."
Notice of the entry of this decree was duly served on the
proctor August 31, 1932.
September 10, 1932, Elliot alone, without notice to the
surety or severance, secured an appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, Fifth Circuit. In April, 1933, Lombard
moved to dismiss the appeal upon the grounds that the
decree was against the claimant Elliot and the surety
jointly, that the surety was a necessary party to the appeal but had not been made such, and that the period
limited therefor had expired. By way of avoiding that
motion the surety then asked to join with Elliot in the
prosecution of the appeal and Elliot moved for leave to
amend so as to include the surety as party appellant.
The Circuit Court of Appeals regarded the matter thus
presented as of uncertain solution but concluded, with
some division in opinion, that the decree was joint and in
that view regarded our decision in Hartford Accident &
Indemnity Co. v. Bunn, 285 U.S. 169, as controlling, and
accordingly dismissed the appeal. The case so relied upon
was a suit in equity which was brought to this Court on
appeal from the Supreme Court of Mississippi which had
awarded a joint judgment for the payment of money
against a litigant and his surety. We there said (pp.
178, 182):
"The judgment is joint in form and. no reason'appears
why either or both of the parties defendant therein might
not have appealed to this Court and submitted claims of
error for our determination. In matters of this kind we
may not disregard the face of the record and treat the
judgment as something other than it appears to be. So

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

to do probably would lead to much confusion and
uncertainty."
"'We'cannot undertake to explore the record to ascertain what issues were relied upon in courts below. So to
do would lead to uncertainty and unfortunate confusion.
We must accept the terms of the judgment as entered.
As pointed out above, this is the approved practice when
it becomes necessary to determine whether a judgment is
final or to what court a writ of error should run. Like
reason&apply and control here."
If the decree in the present admiralty suit were joint,
as the judgment in that equity suit was, we should regard the rule there announced and applied as controlling
here. But we think the decree in the present suit is not
joint within the spirit of that rule. The release stipulation was given by the claimant Elliot under 28 U.S.C.
ยง 754 (Rev. Stat. ยง941), and Admiralty Rules 5, 6, 11 and
12 (254 U.S. Appendix), and its purpose was to secure the
release to him of the vessel then held under admiralty process. Under the statute and the admiralty rules the stipulation was thereby substituted for the vessel and the latter
was released. Had the vessel not been released execution
on the decree subsequently rendered would have run
against the vessel. By the terms of the stipulation the
claimant aud his surety consented and agreed that the
execution might run against their goods, chattels and
lands,- instead of against the vessel.
The decree which was rendered is in three parts. By
the first the libelant is awarded a recovery of damages in
t stated sum, with interest and costs, against the claimant, there called respondent; by the second, execution is
awarded against the claimant and his surety "unless this
decree be satisfied or an appeal taken within ten days
after service of a copy " and by the third the claimant's
cross-libel is dismissed.

HARTFORD IND. 00. v. DELTA CO.
139

Syllabus.

The decree is in a form long recognized as admissible in
such an admiralty proceeding. The principal part--that
which awards a recovery in damages for the collision-is
directed only against the claimant Elliot, not against him
and the surety. The only mention of the surety is in
the dependent and contingent part relating to the issue
of execution, and this part of the decree is based upon
provisions in Admiralty Rules 5, 12 and 20, under which,
where a release stipulation is given and the libelant obtains
a decree for the payment of money, summary process of
execution may be issued against the principal and sureties
for the purpose of enforcing the decree.
We think the decree is to be read in connection with
the applicable statute and admiralty rules and that when
so read it is not joint. That it might have been made joint
is not of present importance. There was no requirement
that it be so made, and in fact it was not so made. So,
giving effect to the face of the record, as the rule in the
Bunn case requires, we are of opinion that the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred in holding that the claimant's
appeal, without the surety joining therein; could not be
entertained. The decree of that court is accordingly reversed, and the cause is remandedto it for consideration
and disposal on the merits.
I Decree reversed.
HARTFORD ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY CO. ,TAL.
v. DELTA & PINE LAND CO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 650. Argued March 15, 1934.-Decided April 9, 1934.
1. A contract between a Connecticut and a Mississippi corporation,
whereby the former insured the latter against loss through dishonesty of one of its employees "in any position anywhere," was
made in Tennessee, where both parties and the employee were

