NICKEY v. MISSISSIPPI.
Counsel for Parties.

NICKEY ET AL. V. MISSISSIPPI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 298.

Argued February 5, 6, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. Contentions based on the Federal Constitution, which were raised
*and adversely decided by a state supreme court, as shown by the
discussion in its opinions with specific reference to that instrument,
are reviewable by this Court, notwithstanding the failure of the
appellant to mention them in his assignment of errors to the state
court, as required by its rules. P. 394.
2. There is no constitutional command that notice of the assessment
of a tax, and opportunity to contest it, must be given in advance
of the assessment. It is enough that all available defenses may
be presented to a competent tribunal before exaction of the tax
and before the command of the State to pay it becomes final and
irrevocable. P. 396.
3. A State may collect taxes, assessed against one parcel of property
within its jurisdiction, from other parcels within the State, owned
by the same person, though he be a nonresident. P. 396.
4. A nonresident who appears in a suit brought against him by a
State to collect a tax on part of his property, and voluntarily gives
a bond to secure the release of his other property from an attachment in the suit, has no ground to contend that the resulting
substitution of his personal liability to the extent of the bond, for
the liability in rem of the property attached, was in violation of
due process. P. 397.
167 Miss. 650; 145 So. 630, affirmed.
See also, 146 So. 859; 147 id. 324.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree for ad valorem
taxes in a suit in chancery brought by the State on the
relation of the Attorney General, and accompanied by

an attachment of other property of the defendants on

which the taxes had been paid.
Mr. W. E. Gore, with whom Mr. George Butler was on

the brief, for appellants.

394

OCTOB:ER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Mr. J. A. Lauderdale, Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, with whom Mr. Greek L. Rice, Attorney General, and Messrs. E. C. Sharp and R. H. Knox were on the
briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on appeal, ยง 237 of the Judicial Code,
from a decree of the Supreme Court of Mississippi allowing recovery of delinquent taxes assessed upon appellants'
lands within the state and overruling their contention
that the assessment of the tax and the decree for its payment infringe the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. 167 Miss. 650; 145 So. 630; 146 So. 859.
So far as the state court discussed these contentions with
specific reference to the Constitution of the United States,
both in its original opinion, and in an opinion denying
the appellants' application for rehearing, they may be reviewed here, notwithstanding the failure of appellants
to mention them in their assignment of errors to the state
supreme court, as required by its rules. Wall v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 256 U.S. 125. Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U.S. 260, 267. Cumberland Coal Co. v.
Board of Revision, 284 U.S. 23, 24. We confine our opinion to the questions thus discussed.
Appellants, non-residents of Mississippi, are owners of
tracts of land in Tunica County, Mississippi, all of which
were assessed for local and state taxation for the year
1928. They failed to pay the tax on one tract alone, and
the state, on relation of the Attorney General, brought
the present suit in the chancery court of Tunica County
to recover the unpaid tax as a debt of the owners. This
suit was begun by attachment of other lands of appellants' on which the tax had been paid. The bill of complaint alleges that the appellants are engaged in removing timber from the land on which the tax has not been
paid; that the land without it is not of sufficient value to

NICKEY v. MISSISSIPPI.
393

Opinion of the Court.

pay the tax, and that unless they are iestrained from
cutting the timber the state and its municipal subdivisions
will be deprived of the tax. The bill prays that appellants b~e enjoined from cutting the timber until the tax is
paid, and that it be satisfied from the attached lands.
Appellants appeared generally in the suit, and secured
the release of the attachment by giving bond, in the sum
of $10,000, an amount in excess of all taxes claimed and
recovered, by which they and their surety became bound
to satisfy any decree which -might be recovered in the
suit. In their answer they set up numerous defenses on
state grounds, all of which so far as now material have
been resolved against them and may not be reviewed here.
They also set up two distinct defenses, which are urged
here,: First, that they are and at all times have been nonresidents of the state and that the tax demanded was assessed without service of any process on them, or notice
to them, or opportunity to be heard in any proceedings
for its assessment, and without tl~eir appearance in any
such proceedings; that in consequence the state taxing
officers were without jurisdiction to assess the tax and
that any collection is an infringement of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Second. that the decree of the state court,
so far as it purports to adjudicate any right of the state
to satisfy the tax liability out of lands of appellants
within the state other than those upon which the tax was
assessed, or to impose upon appellants any personal
liability for the tax, is likewise a violation of due
process.
1. Section 3122 of the Mississippi Code of 1930 declares that every lawful tax is a debt for the recovery of
which an action may be brought in the state courts "and
in all actions for the recovery of ad *valorem taxes the
assessment rolls shall only be prima facie correct." In
construing and applying this section in the present case,
the state court held that the tax, recovery of which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

allowed, was a debt collectible by suit. But as the statute makes the assessment roll only prima facie correct, the
court, following its decision in George County Bridge Co.
v. Catlett, 161 Miss. 120; 135 So. 217, ruled that it is
open to a defendant, in such a suit, to assail the correctness and legal sufficiency of the assessment; that it is the
proceeding in court and not the assessment which finally
fixes the liability to pay the tax, and since appellants had
appeared in the suit and had had full opportunity to be
heard before the decree was rendered upholding the assessment, there was no denial of due process.
Accepting, as we must, this construction of the laws of
,the state by its highest court, they infringe no constitutional limitation. There is no constitutional command
that notice of the assessment of a tax, and opportunity
to contest it, must be given in advance of the assessment.
It is enough that all available defenses may be presented
to a competent tribunal before exaction of the tax and
before the command of the state to pay it becomes final
and irrevocable. Wells, Fargo& Co. v. Nevada, 248 U.S.
165; Bristol v. Washington County, .177 U.S. 133, 146;
McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U.S. 37; see American Surety
Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U.S. 156, 168.
2. The question. remains whether the state, in conformaitywith due process, may declare the tax, lawfully
assessed upon one tract of appellants' land, a debt collectible from other property of theirs' within the state
and from the appellants themselves by a judgment in
personam. It can no longer be questioned that a state
may collect taxes, assessed against one parcel of property
within its jurisdiction, from other parcels within the state,
owned by the same person, though he be a nonresident.
*Scottish Union & National Ins. Co. v. Bowland, 196 U.S.
611, 632; Bristol v. Washington County, supra, 145; compare Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 127 U.S. 117,
123-124; see Iowa v. Slimmer, 248 U.S. 115, 120. To

NICKEY v. MISSISSIPPI.
393

Opinion of the Court.

that extent at least the power of the state over the property within its bounds may be exerted to affect the interest of the common owner. The power to collect the tax
from property within the state is always exercised at the
expense of the owner, even though a nonresident, and an
obligation in rem is thus imposed on his ownership, which
is within the control of the state because of the presence
there of the physical objects which are the subject of
ownership. As it is an incident of property that it may
be made to respond to obligations to which its owner may
be subject, no want of due process is involved in satisfying an obligation imposed upon the ownership of one
item of property by resort to another which is subject to
the same ownership.
][ere the suit was brought to compel payment of the
tax out of the attached property. The end sought was
the same as that constitutionally achieved in Scottish
Union & National Ins. Co. v. Bowland, supra, by distraint
upon the nonresident's property to satisfy a tax assessed
upon other property within the taxing state, and is
equally free from constitutional objection. By giving their
bond to release the attachment, the appellants have voluntarily substituted their personal liability on the bond
for the liability which might otherwise have been satisfied
from the attached property. As the tax, payment of
which is decreed, is less than the amount of the bond, it
is only this personal liability upon the bond which the
state seeks to enforce here.
It is unnecessary to decide the different question with
respect to appellants' personal liability to pay the tax
which would be presented if the decree had exceeded the
amount of the bond, or if appellants had appeared and
defended the suit without giving bond .or securing release
of the attachment. See Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U.S.
193; Scottish Union & National Ins. Co., supra, 632.
Compare York v. Texas, 137 U.S. 15.
Affirmed.

