332

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

292 U.S.

provision prohibiting agreements between States and
foreign powers in the absence of the consent of the Congress. While, in this instance, the proposed suit does
not raise a question of national concern, the constitutional
provision which is said to confer jurisdiction should be
construed in the light of all its applications.
We conclude that the Principality of Monaco, with
respect to the right to maintain the proposed suit, is in no
better case than the donors of the bonds, and that the
application for leave to sue must be denied.
Rule discharged and leave denied.
EASTMAN KODAK CO. ET AL. v. GRAY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 709. Argued May 1, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
A judgment of the District Court holding a patent invalid for want
of novelty and invention, in an action at law tried without a jury
pursuant to §§ 773 and 875, U.S.C., Title 28, is not reviewable in
the absence of any assignment of error based on the pleadings,
and where the bill of exceptions discloses no special findings or
request therefor nor any proposition of law presented and relied
upon during the progress of the trial. P. 336.
67 F. (2d) 190, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 291 U.S. 655, to review a judgment reversing a judgment in an action at law based upon alleged
infringement of a patent.

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, with whom Messrs. William H.
Davis, George E. Middleton, and Allen Hunter White
were on'the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Thomas Raeburn White, with whom Mr. Leon
Edelson was on the brief, for respondent.

EASTMAN KODAK CO. v. GRAY.
332

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

I

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In an action at law, respondent Gray alleged that the
petitioners had infringed his patent for a power transmitting mechanism and asked damages. .The patent
contains six claims; he relied upon all except the fourth.
A plea of the general issue and notice of special matters
raised questions of novelty, invention and infringement.
The cause was first tried to a jury, Judge Dickinson
presiding. Certain facts were stipulated; witnesses were
examined by both parties; there were many exhibits.
The jury found for respondent; the Judge granted a new
trial because he deemed the charge inadequate.
Thereupon, the parties stipulated in writing "that trial
by jury is hereby waived and that the case shall be submitted to the Court for decision upon the record already
made, as if the testimony and exhibits offered in evidence
at the trial before Judge Dickinson and a jury had been
duly offered in evidence before the Judge who may be
assigned to hear this case, subject to any objections which
appear on the record, and that all motions made by either
party at the said trial shall be deemed to have been made
before the Judge trying the case, both parties to have the
right of appeal as in other cases."
Afterwards, at a session held before Judge Kirkpatrick,
the issues between the parties "came to be tried by the
Court without a jury upon the record of the same case
which had been previously tried before a jury and the
Court the tenth to fourteenth days inclusive of December,
1931, the issue between the said parties having been tried
by the Court without a jury on said seventeenth day of
March, 1932, in accordance with a stipulation entered
into by and between the attorneys for the respective

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

parties, at which date, namely March 17, 1932, came as
well the said plaintiff as the said defendants by their respective attorneys; and upon the trial the counsel for
the respective parties offeretl their evidence as particularly set forth in the following stenographic notes of testimony and the stenographer's minutes attached hereto;
and the evidence in the cause being closed the learned
Trial Judge rendered his opinion and decision in writing,
as hereinafter set forth . . ." Judgment went for the
petitioners here, July 16, 1932. A supporting opinion
dealt generally with the issues. Near the end of it he
said: "The statements of fact contained in this opinion
may be taken as findings of fact. If separate findings of
fact are desired the parties may submit requests in accordance herewith." And he thus summarized his conclusions:
" 1. The combination of closed coil inner thrust member and open coil outer sheath member is not patentable
because its elements were known to the prior art and
no new mode of operation or functional relationship arises
from putting them together.
"2. Claims 1 and 2 cannot be interpreted as calling
for a closed coil inner thrust member in view of the file
wrapper history of this patent.
"3. Claims 1 and 2 are anticipated.
'"'4. Claim 3 is not infringed.
"5. Claims 5 and 6 are invalid because United States
patent No. 1,297,327 to Dakin and Underwood antedating the plaintiff's application discloses the method of attaching the thrust member to the stem claimed, and
conclusion '1' applies to these claims."
Finally, he directed, "judgment may be entered for
the defendant."
Counsel for Gray tendered a bill of exceptions "to the
rulings, opinion and action of. the said Court, and re-

EASTMAN KODAK CO. v. GRAY.
332

Opinion of the Court.

quested the seal of the Judge aforesaid should be put to
the same, according to the form of the statute in such
case made and provided." This was duly signed and
sealed July 28, 1932. The bill contains the evidence presented and the minutes of the proceedings. It shows no
exception to any ruling upon a motion presented by respondent during the progress of the cause. The transcript
shows the following docket entry opposite the date January 9, 1932: "Plaintiff's motion for judgment on the
verdict and assessment of treble damages filed" without
more. This is not enough to support the suggestion that
a motion for judgment upon the whole record was duly
presented and overruled accompanied by adequate
exceptions.
August 15, 1932, respondent prayed and obtained allowance of an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
assignment of errors there stated in five separate paragraphs that the trial judge erred in finding as set out in
conclusions 1, 2, 3, and 5, supra, and in granting the
judgment.
Counsel for petitioner correctly affirm---" Examination
of this bill of exceptions discloses that no request or
motion was made, denied, and excepted to, or any like
action taken during the progress of the trial, which presented to the trial court the question whether there was
support in the evidence for the findings challenged by the
assignment of errors or whether the undisputed evidence
required contrary findings. The fact is that respondent
made no request for any findings of fact or for any rulings
of law at any time, either during the first trial before the
jury, or during the progress of the second trial before the
court, or even after the filing of the opinion directing
judgment for defendants."
In the Circuit Court of Appeals petitioners unsuccessfully moved for dismissal of the appeal or affirmation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

the challenged judgment. They pointed out the situation
disclosed by the record, and relied upon Fleischmann Construction Co. v. United States, 270 U.S. 349. The court

examined the record, held the patent valid and infringed,
and reversed the challenged judgment. It declared: "In
substance the trial was a quasi demurrer. No witnesses
were examined. On final hearing neither party asked for
any special findings of fact, for there were no disputed
facts." This, we think, was error. The motion to affirm
should have been granted. The trial was not' in substance
a quasi demurrer.' All the essential facts were not stipulated, or agreed upon by counsel. To proceed upon the
contrary view was improper.
In Fleischmann Construction Co. v. United States, 270
U.S. 349, 355, 356, 357, opinion by Mr. Justice Sanford,
this Court considered and announced the proper interpretation of §§ 649 and 700, R.S. (28 U.S. Code, §§ 773,
875), copied in the margin.* Concerning civil causes
tried without the intervention of a jury, we there said:
"And it is settled by repeated decisions, that in the absence of special findings, the general finding of the court
U.S. Code Ann. "Sec. 773. Trial of issues of fact; by court.
Issues of fact in civil cases in any district court may be tried and
determined by the court, without the intervention of a jury, whenever the parties, or their attorneys of record, file with the clerk a
stipulation in writing waiving a jury. The finding of the court upon
the facts, which may be either general or special, shall have the
same effect as the verdict of a jury."
"Sec. 875. Review in cases tried without jury. When an issue
of fact in any civil cause in a district court is tried and determined
by the court without the intervention of a jury, according to section
773 of this title, the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial
of the cadse, if excepted to at the time, and duly presented by a
bill of exceptions, may be reviewed upon. a writ of error or upon
appeal; and when the finding is special the review may extend to the
determination of the sufficiency of the.facts found to support the
judgment."

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
332

Syllabus.

is conclusive upon all matters of fact, and prevents any
inquiry into the conclusions of law embodied therein,
except in so far as the rulings during the progress of the
trial were excepted to and duly preserved by bill of exceptions, as required by the statute. . . . To obtain a
review by an appellate court of the conclusions of law a
party must either obtain from the trial court special findings which raise the legal propositions, or present the
propositions of law to the court and obtain a ruling on
them." This ruling was followed in Lewellyn v. Electric
Reduction Co., 275 U.S. 243, 248, and in Harvey Co. v.
Malley, 288 U.S. 415, 418. See also General Motors Co.
v. Swan'Carburetor Co.,;44 F. (2d) 24, and Gerlach v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 65 F. (2d) 862.
The assignments of error in the Circuit Court of Appeals presented no point based upon the pleadings. The
bill of exceptions disclosed no special findings of fact nor
any proposition of law duly presented and relied upon
during the progress of the trial. The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed; the one by
the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 742. Argued May 9, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
During the time of his first enlistment, a seaman in the Navy applied
for and obtained a policy of war risk insurance, executing at the
time of his application an authorization for deduction of premiums
from his pay. He rednlisted twice and held a certificate of continuous service. Although the authorization for deduction of
premiums was never formally revoked, and there was sufficient
money due him at the end of each month to meet the premiums,
deductions were in fact made only during the first enlistment; and

