HEALY v. RATTA.
Syllabus.

HEALY, CHIEF OF POLICE, v. RATTA.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 731.

Argued April 4, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.

1. A merchant whose business had been conducted through salesmen
in a city and elsewhere in the State, alleging that a state law
imposing a state-wide license tax on cach salesman or graduated
local tax in cities was in denial of equal protection of the laws,
brought suit in a federal court to enjoin the enforcement of the
law, naming as sole defendant a city officer whose authority to
enforce it was confined to his particular city. Held:
(1) That the matter in controversy did not embrace the right
to restrain enforcement of the law by other officers in other places
in the State, and that the collateral effect of the decree, by virtue
of stare decisis, upon other and distinct controversies with other
officers, could not be considered in ascertaining whether the jurisdictional amount was involved, even though their decision might turn
on the same question of law. P. 266.
(2) Evidence of injury to the plaintiff's business outside of the
city, and of the cost of licenses for doing it, must therefore be
-disregarded in determining the amount in controversy. P. 267.
2. In an injunction suit in a federal court challenging the constitutionality of a state law which imposes license taxes on plaintiff's salesmen and subjects them to arrest and fine for non-payment, the issue
being confined to the right of the State to collect the taxes and
not extending to the method of enforcement, the amount in controversy is the amount of the taxes due from plaintiff or demanded
of him and does not include the penalty or loss of business which
payment of the tax would avoid. P. 267.
3. The inability of a taxpayer to litigate the validity of a tax without
risk of irreparable injury to his business, which is ground for invoking the equitable jurisdiction of a federal court, affords no measure
of the value of the matter in controversy. P. 269.
4. The policy of Congress to'narrow the jurisdiction of federal
courts in suits between citizens of different States or based on
federal questions, calls for strict construction of the statute in
determining the value of the matter in controversy. P. 270.
5. The power reserved to the States, under the Constitution, to provide for the determination of controversies in their courts may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

restricted only by the action of Congress in conformity with the
judiciary sections of the Constitution. P. 270.
6. Due regard for the rightful independence of state government,
which should actuate federal courts, requires that they scrupulously
confine their own jurisdiction to the precise limits which the
statute has defined. P. 270.
7. In suits to enjoin the collection of a tax payable annually or the
imposition. of penalties in case it is not paid, the sum due or demanded is the matter in controversy, and the amount of the tax,
not its capitalized value, is the measure of the jurisdictional
amount. P. 270.
67 F. (2d) 554, reversed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree against Healy, a
police officer, perpetually enjoining him from making
arrests, prosecuting or otherwise interfering with the
plaintiff or his dealers in the City of Manchester, for failure to pay license taxes imposed by a New Hampshire
"Hawkers & Peddlers" law.

Mr. H. Thornton Lorimer, Assistant Attorney General
of New Hampshire, for appellant.
Mr. Fred C. Demond argued the cause, and Mr. Jonathan Piper filed a brief, for appellee.
bIt. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on appeal from a decree of the
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, affirming a decree
of the District Court for New Hampshire, which enjoined appellant, the chief of police for the City of Manchester, from enforcing the "Hawkers and Peddlers Act,"
c. 102, New Hampshire Laws of 1931, as an infringement
of the Fourteenth Amendment. An appeal taken directly
to this Court from the district court, three judges sitting,
was dismissed for want of jurisdiction here since, in the
lower court, appellee had waived his prayer for temporary relief. 289 U.S. 701; see Smith v. Wilson, 273 U.S.
388, 391.

HEALY v. RATTA.
263

Opinion of the Court.

The Act, effective April 14, 1931, requires payment of
an annual license tax or fee for every hawker or peddler,
defined to be "any person, either principal or agent, who
goes from town to town, or place to place in the same
town, selling or bartering, or carrying for sale or barter,
or exposing therefor any goods, wares or merchandise."
The tax is $50.00 for a statewide license. Local licenses
are obtainable at a rate graduated according to population.
That for Manchester is stated to be $85.00 for each license. Violation of the Act is punishable by a fine of not
more than $200.00. Appellee's chief ground of attack
upon the statute, sustained by both the courts below,
is that it denies the equal protection of the laws by excepting from its operation certain classes of hawkers and
peddlers, in which appellee and his agents are not included.
The bill of complaint alleges that until the effective
date of the Act, appellee, a resident of Massachusetts,
was engaged in Manchester and elsewhere in New Hampshire in the distribution of vacuum cleaners through their
safe and delivery to purchasers by traveling salesmen;
that the business was conducted in such a manner as to
subject the salesmen to the tax, which they were unwilling or unable to pay; and that their arrest and prosecution, which appellant threatens if they continue to sell
without paying the tax, would destroy appellee's business.
The value of his business and his loss on account of the
enforcement of the Act are each alleged to be more than
$3,000,00. Appellant's answer and motion to dismiss the
cause, as not within the jurisdiction of the district court,
admit the facts stated in the complaint, so far as now
material, except that they deny the allegation that the
matter in controversy exceeds $3,000, the jurisdictional
amount.
On this issue a trial was had, in the course of which
evidence was given to show the extent of appellee's busi-

266

OCTOBER TERM 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

ness in Manchester and elsewhere in New Hampshire and
in adjoining states, and the profits derived from it in New
Hampshire both before and after the enactment of the
taxing statute. No interlocutory injunction was sought;
and after the effective date of the statute appellee changed
the method of doing his business in New Hampshire in a
way to avoid the necessity of a license, sales being made
by sample, with later delivery by shipping the merchandise directly to the purchaser from outside the state. The
business was carried on in this manner in 1931 at a loss.
It appeared that the total number of salesmen employed
in conducting appellee's business in Manchester during
1931, when the statute was enacted, was six, and that in
earlier years a larger number had-been employed. During those years from twenty-two to twenty-seven salesmen were employed elsewhere in the state.
It is appellee's contention that the. matter in controversy is either the tax which he would be required to
pay annually in order to continue his business in New
Hampshire, or his right to conduct the business there
without payment of the tax, and that the value of each
exceeds- $3,000. He argues upon the evidence that the
expenditure for payment of the tax which he would be
obliged to bear in order to continue his business in Manchester is at least $350.00 per annum, and that the capitalized value of this expenditure would exceed $3,000.00.
The District Court concluded that as the tax which
would be imposed for the conduct of appellee's business in
Manchester "would amount to at least $300.00 per annum,
its capitalized value, which would exceed $3,000, satisfies
the jurisdictional requirement. The Court of Appeals
thought that the matter in controversy was appellee's
right to do business throughout the state, which is valued
at more than $3,000.00
It is conceded .that the authority of appellant, as chief
of police, to make arrests for 'violation of the statute is

HEALY v. RATTA.
263

' 267

Opinion of the Court.

restricted to the City of Manchester. The bill of complaint does not allege, nor does appellee assert, that appellant will cause the arrest of his salesmen or otherwise
interfere with them or with his business outside the city.
The controversy here is that defined by the pleadings, see
Smith v. Adams, 130 U.S. 167, 175, and the matter in
controversy does not embrace more than the right asserted
to restrain appellant from compelling compliance with
the statute in Manchester by criminal prosecutions.
Appellee neither asks nor could he properly be awarded
a decree in the present suit restraining enforce ent of
the law by police officers elsewhere, and the collateral
effect of the decree, by virtue of stare decisis, upon other
and distinct controversies may not be considered in ascertaining whether the jurisdictional amount is involved,
even' though their decision turns on the same question of
law. Lion Bonding Co. v. Karatz, 262 U.S. 77, 85; Colvin
v. Jacksonville, 158 U.S. 456; New England Mortgage Co..
v. Gay, 145 U.S. 123; Vicksburg, S. & P. R. Co. v. Smith,
135 U.S. 195; Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U.S. 27; Elgin v.
Marshall, 106 U.S. 578.
If the threatened action of appellant is not restrained,
the consequence will be either the payment of the tax by
appellee, or the suppression of his business in Manchester
because of his failure to pay it. Hence we disregard evidence of injury to appellee's business outside the city and
of the cost of licenses for doing it, and confine ourselves
to the inquiry whether his right to do the business in
Manchester or the tax which must be paid for doing the
business there is the matter in controversy, and whether
the record shows that its value does not exceed $3,000.00.
That the issue between the parties is the right of the
state to collect the tax cannot be gainsaid. There is no
question of the authority of a state to suppress the conduct of a business for the non-payment of an exaction
lawfully imposed upon'it, or of the appellant's authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

to suppress the business here, by threat of criminal prosecution of the salesmen, if this tax is valid. The dispute
as to the lawfulness of the tax is the controversy which
alone gives vitality to the litigation. Once that is
resolved, no other issue survives for decision.
It has been said that it is the value of the "object of
the suit" which determines the jurisdictional amount in
the federal courts, Mississippi & Missouri R. Co. v. Ward,
2 Black 485; Packardv. Banton, 264 U.S. 140, 142. But
this does not mean objects which are merely collateral
or incidental to the determination of the issue raised by
the pleadings. The statute itself does not speak of objects of the suit. It confers jurisdiction only if "the matter in controversy exceeds . . the sum or value of
$3,000.00." It has never been thought that the federal
courts have jurisdiction of suits to restrain the collection
of a property tax or other money exaction of less than
the jurisdictional amount assailed as unconstitutional
merely because the penalty for non-payment, which has
not been incurred, exceeds that amount. Atlantic Coast
Line Ry. Co. v. RailroadComm'n, 281 Fed. 321. The tax,
payment of which is demanded or resisted, is the matter
in controversy, since payment of it would avoid the penalty and end the dispute. See Ross v. Prentiss, 3 How.
771, 772. Whether and in what manner the penalty for
non-payment may be enforced in the event the tax is valid
are but collateral and incidental to the determination
whether payment may be exacted. Only when the suit
is brought to restrain imposition of a penalty already
accrued-by reason of failure to comply with the statute or
order assailed can the penalty be included as any part of
the matter in controversy. See McNeill v. Southern Ry.
Co., 202 U.S. 543; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Ogden
Levee Dist., 15 F. (2d) 637; compare Barry v. Edmunds,
116 U.S. 550.

HEALY v. RATTA.
263

269

Opinion of the Court.

The case of a tax or fee exacted for the privilege of doing
a particular business presents no different considerations.
Where a challenged statute commands the suppression or
restriction of a business without reference to the payment
of any tax, the right to do the business, or the injury to
it, is the matter in controversy. Scott v. Donald, 165 U.S.
107; see Bitterman v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 207
U.S. 205; Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205 U.S.
322; Gallardo v. Questell, 29 F..(2d) 897.1 But the possible suppression of the business here, through the prosecution of those who conduct it, is but the threatened consequence or penalty for non-payment of the challenged
tax. It is true that where there is no method at law to
test the legality of a tax without risk of incurring a penalty, the imminence of the penalty may involve such a
threat of irreparable injury as to satisfy the requirements
of equity jurisdiction. See Matthews v. Rodgers, 284
U.S. 521, 526. But the inability of a taxpayer to litigate
the validity of a tax without risk of irreparable injury to
his business, which is ground for invoking the equity
powers of a federal court, affords no measure of the value
of the matter in controversy. Atlantic Coast Line Ry.
Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, supra. The disputed tax is the
matter in controversy, and its value, not that of the penalty or loss which payment of the tax would avoid, determines the jurisdiction. See Washington & Georgetown
R. Co. v. District of Columbia, 146 U.S. 227; compare
Elliott v. Empire Natural Gas Co., 4 F. (2d) 493.
Not only does the language of the statute point to this
conclusion, but the policy clearly indicated by the successive acts of Congress regulating the jurisdiction of federal
courts supports it. Compare Davis v. Mills, 99 Fed. 39, 40.
From the beginning suits between citizens of different
'These and other authorities are discussed in 34 Col. L. Rev. 311.

270,

OCTOBER'TERM, 1933.
Opinion ofthe Court.

292 U.S.

states, or involving federal questions, could neither be
brought in the federal courts nor removed to them, unless
the value of the matter in controversy was more than a
specified amountf. Cases involving lesser amounts have
been left to be dealt with exclusively by state courts,
except that judgment of the highest'court of a-state adjudicating a federal right may be reviewed by this Court.
Pursuant to this policy the jurisdiction of federal courts of
first instance has been narrowed by successive acts of Congress, which have progressively increased the jurisdictional
amount.2 The policy of the statute calls for its strict construction. The power reserved to the states, under the
Constitution, to provide for the determination of controveries in their courts may be restricted only by the action
of Congress in conformity to the judiciary sections of the
Constitution. See Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260
U.S. 226, 233-234. Due regard for the rightful independence of state governments, which should actuate federal
courts, requires that they scrupulously confine their own
jurisdiction to the precise limits which the statute has
defined. See Matthews v. Rodgers, supra,at 525; compare
Elgin v. Marshall, 106 U.S. 578.
The contested license fees must be paid annually as a
condition precedent to doing the business. But it does
not follow that capitalization of the tax is the method of
determining the value of the matter in controversy. The
bill of complaint does not allege, nor can it be assumed,
that the appellant will act to compel compliance with the
statute by appellee in future years for which no tax is
yet payable, or that the appellee will seek to continue his
business in Manchester indefinitely in the future, or that
2

The amount originally fixed by ยง 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789

at $500, exclusive of costs, 1 Stat. 78, was increased to $2,000, exclusive of interest and costs by Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552,
and to $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs, by the Act of March 3,
1911, 36 Stat. 1091; see U.S.C.A. ยง 41 (1).

HEALY v. RATTA.
263

Opinion of the Court.

the taxing act will be continued on the statute books, unmodified either as to. the amount of the tax or the features to which the appellee objects. These, or like considerations, have led to the conclusion that, in suits to
enjoin the collection of a tax payable annually or the
imposition of penalties in case it is not paid, the sum due
or demanded is the matter in controversy and the amount
of the tax, not its capitalized value, is the measure of
the jurisdictional amount. Washington & Georgetown
R. Co. v. District of Columbia, supra; Holt v. Indiana
Manufacturing Co., 176 U.S. 68, 72; Citizens Bank v.
Cannon, 164 U.S. 319; see Atlantic Coast Line v. Railroad Comm'n, supra; Vicksburg, S. & P. Ry. Co. v. Nattin,
58 F. (2d) 979; cf. Wright v. Mutual Insurance Co. of
New York, 19 F. (2d) 117; Elliott v. Empire Natural Gas
Co., supra.
A different question is presented where the matter in
controversy is the validity of a permanent exemption by
contract from an annual property tax, Berryman v. Whitman College, 222 U.S. 334, 348; see Riverside & A. Ry.
Co. V'.Riversde, 118 Fed. 736; or the validity of an order
of a state commission directing a railroad to construct and
maintain an unremunerative spur track. Western &
Atlantic R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 261 U.S. 264, 267.
There the value of the matter drawn into controversy, the
contract providing permanent immunity from taxation, or
the order to maintain a permanent structure for an unlimited time, is more than a limited number of the annual
payments demanded. Compare Glenwood Light & Water
Co. v. Mutual Light, Heat & Power Co., 239 U.S. 121.
In such a case the burden which rests on a defendant who
challenges the plaintiff's allegation of the jurisdictional
amount, see Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205
U.S. 322, 333, may well not be sustained by the mere showing that the annual payment is less than the jurisdictional
amount.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

Here the record shows affirmatively, see Vance v. W. A.
Vandercook Co. (No. 2), 170 U.S. 468, that the total
amount of the tax demanded, or which may be demanded,
within any time reasonably required to conclude the litigation, is less than the jurisdictional amount; that any
action by appellant to compel compliance by appellee or
his salesmen with the taxing act in future years is at most
conjectural; and that the effect of any decree rendered in
the present suit upon the tax for other years, or with
respect to appellee's business outside the City of Manchester, is collateral to the present controversy. The decree will be reversed) with instructions to the district court
to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.
SAUDER, ADMINISTRATRIX, ET AL. v. MID-CONTINENT PETROLEUM CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 660. Argued April 3, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.
1. Under an oil and gas lease on a royalty basis for a stated number
of years and so long thereafter as oil or gas can be produced in
paying quantities, a lessee who has produced oil in paying quantities from a fraction of the land and continues such production after
the expiration of the primary term, remains under an implied
obligation to prosecute development of the other part. P. 279.
2. The lessee, in the circumstances stated, can not hold the undeveloped part of the land indefinitely, as against the lessor, merely
because it may contain oil, and without drilling or any present
intention to drill at any time in the future. P. 279.
3. Where the lessee in an oil and gas lease covering a forty-acre tract
and an adjacent -half section produced oil on the forty acres but
for many years abstained from drilling on the half-section, held
- that the lessor was equitably entitled to have the lease canceled
as to the half-section unless within a reasonable time an exploratory
well were drilled upon it. P. 281.
67 F. (2d) 9, reversed.

