FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.

611

Syllabus.

Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401, it is, impossible to hold in the light of
this evidence, as matter of law, that the conduct. of plaintiff
was such as to defeat a recovery. The rule was thus expounded by Mr. Justice Lamar in Grand Trunk Railway v.
Ires, 144 U. S. 408, 417: "There is no fixed standard in the
law by which a court is enabled to arbitrarily say in every
case what conduct shall be considered reasonable and prudent,
and what shall constitute ordinary care, under any and all
circumstances. The terms 'ordinary care,' ' reasonable prudence,' and such like terms, Vs applied to the conduct and
affairs of men, have a relative significance, and cannot be
arbitrarily defined. What may be deemed ordinary care in
one case, may, under different surroundings and circumstances,
be gross negligence. The policy of the law has relegated the
determination of such questions to the jury, under proper instructions from the court. It is their province to note the
special circumstances and surroundings of each particular case,
and then say whether the conduct of the parties in that case
was such as would be expected of reasonable, prudent men,
under a similar state of affairs. When a given state of facts
is such tha t reasonable men may fairly differ upon the question as to whether there was negligence or not, the determination of the matter is for the jury. It is only where the
facts are such that all reasonable men must draw the same
conclusion from them, that the question of negligence is ever
considered as one of law for the court."
Judgment affirmed.

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 854. Submitted December 8, 1894. - Decided November 18, 1895.

When'a township has been created by law as a territorial division of a
State, with no express grant of corporate powers, and with no definition
or restriction of the purposes for which it is created, it is within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
power of the legislature, at any time, to declare it to be a corporation,
and to confer upon it such corporate powers, appropriate to be vested in
a territorial corporation for the benefit of its inhabitants, as the legislature may think fit.
Notwithstanding the decision of the Supreme Court of South Carolina in
Floyd v. Perrin, 30 So. Car. 1, the statute of South Carolina of December 24, 1885, which authorized townships (already defined by names and
boundaries) to subscribe for stock in a railroad company, and county officials to issue bonds accordingly in their behalf, and to assess and levy
taxes upon the property in the township for the payment thereof, and
declared the townships to 6e bodies politic and corporate for the purposes of this act, with the necessary powers to carry out its provisions,
and with rights and liabilities in respect to any causes of action growing
out of Its provisions, must be held by the courts of the United States, as

to bonds issued
consistent with
authorizing the
power to assess

and purchased in good faith before that decision, to be
art. 9, sect. 8, of the constitution of South Carolina,
corporate authorities of townships to be vested with
and collect taxes "for corporate purposes."

THIS was an action, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina, by George
W. Folsom, against Township Ninety Six in the county of
Abbeville and State of South Carolina, to recover the sum of
$5100, the amount of coupons attached to bonds issued in
behalf of that township in aid of the construction of a railroad; and to compel the levy of a tax upon the property in
the, township to pay these coupons. The complaint contained
the following allegations:
That the plaintiff was a citizen of the State of Tennessee;
that the defendant was a corporation, duly chartered under
and by virtue of an act of the general assembly of Sbuth
Carolina Qf December 23, 1882, chartering the railroad company by the name of the Greenville and Port Royal Railroad
Company, and of an act of December 24, 1885, amending its
charter, and changing its name to the Atlantic, Greenville
and Western Railroad Company; and that the defendant
was a citizen and resident of the State of South Carolina.
"That the said acts authorized and empowered the counties
and townships, interested in the construction of said railroad,
to subscribe to the capital stock thereof, and to issue bonds in
aid thereof; and declared the boards of county commissioners
of the several counties to be the corporate agents of the town-

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Statement of the Case.

ships within their limits of said counties, respectively; and
authorized and empowered said boards, respectively, to execute and issue bonds of said townships in aid of said railroad;
as will more fully appear -by reference to said acts, which are
by their terms declared to be public acts."
That Township Ninety Six lay in Abbeville County, in the
State of South Carolina, along the line of said railroad ; that,
in pursuance of said acts, an election was duly held in the said
township, and resulted in favor of a subscription to said railroad company to the amount of $20,800; and that, in pursuance of said acts, the board of county commissioners of Abbeville County, on March 25, 1886, duly executed and issued
bonds of the township, numbered on their face, and aggregating $20,800, as authorized by those acts, with interest coupons
attached at the yearly rate of seven per cent; the bonds and
coupons payable at the First National Bank of Charleston,
S. C.; and the bonds containing a recital that the township
by virtue of those acts had subscribed for $20,800 of the common stock of the railroad company.
That the plaintiff, in 1886, relying upon the recitals contained in the bonds, and upon their being legal and valid
obligations of the township, became the purchaser of certain
of the bonds, with the coupons attached, and was now the
legal owner and holder thereof.
"That at the time of the issue of said bonds, and of the
purchase thereof by the plaintiff, the said bonds and coupons,
and other bonds and coupons issued as obligations of other
townships under said acts and similar acts enacted in 1872 and
1875, when the bonds were also issued, were regarded. and
treated as valid securities by the corporate authorities of said
township, by the public, the legal profession, and by the legislative, executive and judicial departments of the State of
South Carolina; and that they circulated freely in the market,
and large sums of money were invested in them by citizens of
South Carolina, as well as other States, believing them to be
valid and valuable securities."
That by an act of the general assembly of South Carolina
of December 19, 1887., the validity of the bonds issued under

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the former acts was distinctly recognized, and provision was
made for their payment in the same manner, as provided for
coupons by the act of 1885.
That the plaintiff was now the owner and holder of unpaid
coupons to the amount of $5100'upon his bonds; and that
the defendant had failed and refused to assess and collect
taxes, or to place money in the First National Bank of
Charleston, for the payment of these coupons.
The defendant demurred to the complaint. The Circuit
Court held the questions raised to be controlled by the case
of Floyd v. Perrin, 30 So. Car. 1, which the Circuit Court
was bound to follow; and therefore sustained the demurrer,
and dismissed the complaint. 59 Fed. Rep. "67.
The plaintiff took the case by writ of error to the Circuit
,Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, which, desiring the
instructions of this court upon certain questions or propositions of law, certified them to this court as follows:
"First. Whether, upon the averments of the complaint, the
Circuit Court was bound, in passing upon this case, by the
decision of the Supreme Court of South Carolina in Floyd v.
Perrin,30 S.C. 1?

"Second. Whether, if the bonds and coupons in question
were issued, put in circul.ation, and came to the hands of
plaintiff in error, in due course of trade, for valuable consideration and without notice, there having been at the time
no decision of the Supreme Court of South Carolina adverse
to these bonds, or identical bonds issued under similar statutes, the plaintiff in error was entitled to recover on the
coupons mentioned in said complaint?
"Third. Whether the acts of December 23, 1882, and of
December 24, 1885, were constitutional, and the township
bonds issued thereunder, if in compliance with the acts, or in
the hands of bona fide holders for value, constituted valid
indebtedness of, the township issuing the same?
"Fourth. Whether the act of December 19, 1887, had the
effect to validate the bonds and coupons in question,, and
make them binding upon the township of Ninety Six?"

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. John . Shields, (with whom were XrM.James T.
Shields, Mr. 1L J. Jlaynesworth, and -Mr.L. W Parker,) submitted on his brief for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. W C. Miller submitted on his brief for defendant in
error.
I. The bonds sued, on in this case were declared, in Floyd
v. Perrin,30 So. Car. 1, to be void. The train of reasoning
by which the court reached its conclusion in that case may
be briefly stated thus:.
Section 8, Article IX, of the constitution of the State provides: "The corporate authorities of counties, townships,
school districts, cities, towns and villages may be vested with
power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes," tc.
Is Ninety Six township a corporation, and if so, are the
corporate purposes of Ninety Six township of such a nature
as will enable said township under the constitutional limitation, to assess and collect taxes in aid of a railroad?
At the time of the passage of the act creating the Greenville and Port Royal Railroad Company, and attempting to
authorize the township subscriptions to its bonds, the township of Ninety Six did not exist in South Carolina. as a corporate organization.
"It will be conceded," the court said," that at the time of the
passage of the act chartering the Greenville and Port Royal
Railroad Company, Ninety Six township was not a corporate
body.

.

.

.

It is true that under the act of the legislature

passed in 1868, the counties of the State were 'divided into
townships, which were declared to be corporate bodies, with
corporate purposes, and to be organized with various officials,
moderators, town clerks, selectmen, constables, etc., and with
all the machinery of a regular corporation; but this act was
repealed in 1870 by an IAct to repeal an act 'entitled "an act
to organize townships and to define their powers and privileges,"' excepting however that portion of said act fixing the
number, names and boundaries of the respective tow'nships in
the respective counties, which were left as territorial divisions
but with no corporate powers, privileges or purposes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Exception has been taken to the ruling of the Circuit Judge
upon the ground "that the case of Floyd v. Perrin was not
controlling because it is not a well settled decision of the said
court, but is in effect overruled by the later cases of State v.
.Whiteside8, 30 So. Car. 579, and State v. Neely, 30 So. Car.

587."
Floyd v. Perrinis on the contrary followed and reaffirmed
by the cases above mentioned as well as by others.
And in these cases the court held the act of 1888 to be constitutional, but not, however, as an act validating the act of
1885. On the contrary, it was held that the act of 1888 had
no such effect and was.not so intended. The court founded
the constitutionality of the act upon the ground that while,
under the constitutional limitations, the legislature could not
authorize the levy of a tax by a township to meet a railroad
subscription, which is not a corporate purpose so far as such
township is concerned, the bilding of a railroad, which is
regarded as an improved highway, is a public purpose from
the standpoint of the State; and that for such purpose the
legislature may not authorize the levy of a tax by, but directly
impose a tax upon, the townships created under the act of
1885. And thus these cases also reaffirm the doctrine of
Floyd v. Perrin.
The question raised in these cases involves the meaning of
"township," as used in the constitution of South Carolina, the
corporate purpose of the township under that constitution, and
the. constitutional restrictions upon the power of the legislature of South Carolina to vest in such township the right of
taxation.
The decisions of the state Supreme Court are not based
upon general principles of law governing all commercial paper
and applicable alike to all the States.
Admitting the existence in South Carolina of "townships"
similarly constituted to municipal or political bodies of like
name in other States, the power of subscription and taxation
by such bodies might be determinable under the general law
of the subject. But as will hereinafter appear, the pivotal
inquiry is whether Ninety Six exists as a township within the

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Arrglment for Defendant in Error.

meaning of the state constitution. It isconceded to be a
corporation, but is it 'a constitutional township? That question can be determined only by a construction of the constitution and statutes of SouthCarolina, -and is therefore peculiar
to that State. It exclusively relates ".to the internal constitution of the body politic of the State of South Carolina."
It is submitted that these, cases, giving a construction by
the highest court -of the State to its constitution, should be
followed by this court. Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S.
400; Xorton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S.425; Gormley v.
Clark, 134 U. S.338; Stutsman County v. Wallace, 142 U. S.
293.
Insisting that there has been a recognition of township bonds
as valid securities by the legislature, through the several acts
permitting the issuing of such bonds ifi aid of railroads, and
by the courts through the cases above cited, appellant claims
to have brought his case within the exception stated in the
case of Pine Grove Township v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666, to the
rule that the Federal courts upon a question of this character
will follow the decisions of the state tribunals.
But the paramount controlling reason which induced the
court to disregard the state decisions has already been assigned. It lay, not in the fact that the bonds had been recognized by the different departments of government, but that
"the question before us belongs to the domain of general,
jurisprudence. In this class of cases this court is not bound
by the judgment of the courts of the States where the cases.
arise. It must hear and determine for itself."
If, therefore, appellee is right in the postulate that the question at bar is one involving the constitution of South Carolina and relating to the internal policy of that State, this case,
as stated in the complaint, is still within the rule established
in Claiborne County v. Brooks, unaffected by the decision of
Pine Grove Township v. Talcott.
It is also averred in the complaint that the plaintiff, for full
value and without notice of any defect or irregularity therein,
purchased his bonds in reliance upon their recitals, etc.
The doctrine of estoppel is not applicable here. The inva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

lidity of the bonds does not arise -from any failure in the performance of conditions precedent, and-it is not disputed that
all such conditions were performed. The malady lies deeper
than that, and is to be found in the organic existence of the
township itself. That is to say, the unconstitutionality of the
bonds has not been adjudged upon any question of fact, about
which the plaintiff may have been ignorant, but it rests upon
a matter of law which is presumed to have been known to
the plaintiff and all others, namely, upon the legal question
whether or not a subscription to aid in building a railroad was
a corporate purpose so far as the township of Ninety Six was
concerned.
This distinction has. been clearly defined by this court.
Colonma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Dixon County v. Field, 111
U. S. 83; Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674.
II.. It has been earnestly contended by the appellant
in the
argum'ent before the lower court that his bonds were purchased before the decision in Floyd y. Perrin,and that that
decision will not control this court. In no case has this fct
alone determined Federal courts in following or disregarding
the decisions of state courts. Wheneveix the decisions of this
court have been so affected, it has been because of other considerations which are absent in the case at bar, viz.: (1) That
before the decision of the state court was announced the question had been submitted to the Federal tribunal, and was being
considered on its merits; (2) That before the state court had
spoken, this court had announced its own judgment; or (3)
That prior to the purchase of the bonds, earlier decisions of
the state court had upheld their validity. Knox County v.
Ninth National Bank, 147 U. S. 91, citing Cass County v.
Johnston, 95 U. S. 360; Davies County v. Huidekoper, 98
U. S. 98; Douglass v. Pike County, 101 U. S. 677; Carroll
County v. Smith, 111 U. S.556.
IIl. It is submitted that the corporation known as the
"Township of Ninety Six" is not a township within the
meaning of the constitution of South Carolina, nor is it otherwise such a municipal or political division of the State as that
under the constitution it may be vested with the power to tax.

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Opinion of the Court.

IV. The act of December 19, 1887, does not cure the invalidity of appellant's bonds nor otherwise render them obligations of the township.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the constitution of South Carolina of 1868, art. 9, sec. 8,
"The corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districtS, cities, towns and villages may be vested with power to
assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes." 2 Charters
and Constitutions, 1659.
The situation arising out of the subsequent acts of the legislature and decisions of the courts of the State, with regard to
bonds like those now in question, will be best understood by
stating these acts and decisions in chronological order.
By the act of September 26, 1868, entitled "An act to organize townships, and to define their powers and privileges,"
the inhabitants of every township were declared to be a body
politic and corporate, with power to sue and be sued to hold
and convey real and personal estate, to make contracts, to
hold meetings, to elect town officers, to vote money for schools,
burial grounds, highways and bridges, and to lay taxes for the
purpose of keeping highways and bridges in repair; the lines
of the townships were to be perambulated, and the marks and,
bounds renewed, once in every seven years forever; and the
act was to take effect, as to each township, on the completion
6f the'duties assigned to county commissioners under ยง 11, 12,
of another act of the same date, by which'the county commissioners were directed to divide the counties into townships,
to establish their boundaries, and to designate the name of
each, and the time and place of holding its first meeting.
14 Statutes of South Carolina, pp. 128, 143-151.
By the act of January 19, 1870, the township act of 1868
was repealed, "except that portion of the same fixing the
number, names and boundaries of the respective townships
of the respective counties." 14 Statutes of South Carolina,
p. 313.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The act of December 23, 1882, chartering the Greenville
and Port Royal Railroad Company, as amended by the act of
December 24, 1885, (both of which were declared to be public
acts,) contained the following provisions:
"SECT. 6. That, in addition to the provisions contained in
the preceding section for private subscription, it shall and may
be lawful for any city, town, county or township, interested in
the construction of said road, to subscribe to its capital stock
such sum as a majority of their voters, voting at an election
held for that purpose, may authorize the county commissioners
or proper authorities of such city, town, county or township,
to subscribe, which subscription shall be made in seven per
cent coupon bonds, payable in such instalments as the county
commissioners or proper authorities of such city, town, county
or township may determine, and to be received by said company at par; said bonds to be made payable in sixteen, twenty,
twenty-four and twenty-eight years after the date thereof, and
to be of the denomination of one hundred dollars, five hundred
dollars and one thousand dollars: Provided that a sufficient
sum realized from such bonds shall be retained to complete
the grading through the county or township in which it is subscribed: Provided that no election shall be held in any of the
towns, cities or townships in said counties unless one half of
the owners of real estate situate and living in such town, city
or township shall first petition for an election on the subject
of subscribing to the capital stock, as hereinbefore provided;
and no subscription shall be made by any of the towns, cities
or townships until the conditions of this proviso shall have
been complied with."
"SECT. 9. That, for the payment of the interest on such

bonds as may be issued by said counties, cities, towns or townships, the county auditor, or other officer discharging such
duties, or the city or town treasurer, as the case may be, shall
be authorized and required to assess annually upon the property of said city, town, county or township such per centum
as may be necessary to pay said interest of said sum of money
subscribed, which shall be known and described in the tax
book as said railroad tax, which shall be collected by the treas-

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX
Opinion of the Court.

urer under the same regulations as are provided by law for
the collection of taxes in 'any of the counties, cities, towns, or
townships so subscribing, and which shall be paid over by the
said treasurer to the holders of said bonds, as the interest shall
come due, on presentation of the coupons, which said coupons
shall be reported to the county commissioners by said treasurer, or the council of any city or town where there are coupons from the bonds of such city or town, and all such coupons
shall be cancelled by the county treasurer as soon as they are
paid by them.
"That, for the purposes of this act, all the counties and
townships in said counties, along the line of said railroad, or
which are interested in the construction as herein provided for,
shall be, and they are hereby declared to be, bodies politic and
corporate, and vested with the necessary powers to carry out
the provisions of this act ; and shall have all the rights, and
be subject to all the liabilities, in respect to any rights or
causes of action growing out of the provisions of this act.
"The county commissioners of the respective counties are
declared to be the corporate agents of the counties or townships so incorporated and situate within the limits of said
counties." 19 Statutes of South Carolina, pp. 239-241.
The power of the legislature, under the constitution of the
&rate, to authorize townships to subscribe for stock, and to
direct the issue of the bonds, in aid of the construction of railroads, appears to have been assumed, as undoubted, by the
Supreme Court of the State, April 15, 1885, in Chamblee v.
Tribble, 23 So. Car. 70; and July 14, 1886, in Carolina Railway v. Tribble, 25 So. Car. 260, 266.
By the act of December 19, 1887, the amending act of 1885
was further amended by adding a section providing "that,
within ten years of the time when the bonds which may be
subscribed to the capital stock of said corporation shall fall
due, the money to pay the same shall be raised by taxation in
the same manner, and paid out by-the county treasurer, as
provided for the payment- of the annual interest on such
bonds." 19 Statutes of South Carolina, p. 921. The principal, if not the only, object of this act would seem to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

been to extend to the principal sums of the bonds the provision of the earlier statute authorizing the assessment and
collection of taxes "for the payment of the interest on said
bonds."
On November 30, 1888, an action by taxpayers in township Ninety Six. to recover back taxes paid by them, under
protest, to meet the interest on bonds issued by the county
commissioners in behalf of the township under the acts of
1882 and 1885, was sustained by the supreme Court of South
Carolina, by concurring opinions of Chief Justice Simpson and
Justice McIver, upon the ground that by the act of 1870, repealing the ct of 1868, townships were left as mere territorial
divisions, with no corporate powers, privileges or purposes;
that, as no duty was imposed on them, or right given them,
by the acts of 1882 and 1885, except to subscribe to stock in
this particular railroad and to assess taxes to pay the subscription, they were without any corporate purpose; and therefore
those acts, as applied to them, were in violation of the provision of the constitution. Floyd v. Perrin, 30 So. Car. 1;
Whitesides v. Neely, 30 ยงo. Car. 31.
Justice McGowan dissented, upon the grounds that the
township " was certainly a corporation from the adoption of
the constitution (1868) until 1870, when its corporate powers
were withdrawn by the legislature, leaving the territorial division, with its lines, boundaries and name already fixed, like a
lifeless body; ready, however, to have the new life of a corporation breathed into it;" that "no other power but the legislature could give it that new life ;" that in 1885 the legislature passed the act chartering the railroad, in which it declared,
for the purposes of this act, the counties and townships along
the line of the road (of which this was one) to be corporations,
with the necessary powers to carry out the provisions of the
act, and with the rights and liabilities in respect to any causes
of action growing out of its provisions; that "it may be
thought by some to be rather a meagre corporation scant
in powers, authorities and officials as such; but it must not
be overlooked that the legislature, which created it, had the
undou ted right to give it such shape and form as it thought

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Opinion of the Court.

proper - with a single power or a dozen; " and that the power
to aid, in building a railroad, when given by act of the legislature to a township corporation, whether a corporation already
existing, or one created by the same act, was a corporate
purpose, that is to say, a purpose benefiting the corporation.
30 Sq. Car. 24-30.
On December 14, 1888, petitions for rehearing of those
cases were denied. 30 So. Car. 31, 33.
On December 22, 1888, an act, entitled "An act to provide
for the payment of township bonds issued in aid of railroads
in this State," was passed, to take immediate effect, beginning
as follows: " Whereas certain townships in this State have, by
their vote, expressed their willingness to subject themselves to
taxation for the purpose of paying bonds issued by them in
aid of certain railroads; and whereas, by reason of a defect
in the acts authorizing the issue of said bonds, they have been
declared invalid: Now, therefore, for the purpose of carrying
into effect the expressed will of the people of said townships,"
it was enacted as follows:
SxcT. 1. "The township bonds heretofore issued by county

commissioners as the corporate agents of any township in this
State, in aid of any railroad, by vote of the inhabitants of
said township,. are hereby declared to be debts of said township respectively having authorized the issue of the same.
And the interest and principal thereof shall be paid, according to the terms of the said bonds or debt, by the assessment,
levying and collection of an annual tax upon the taxable property in said townships, so far as may be necessary, in like
manner and by the same county officials as the tax levied for
county bonds in aid of railroads is assessed, levied and collected. Said tax to be known and styled in the tax books
as the township railroad tax, and when collected shall be paid
over by the treasurer of the county to the holders of said
bonds as the interest thereon may become due and according
to the terms thereof. All dividends received by or for said
townships, on stock in railroad companies which have been
aided by the said township bonds or debt, shall be applied by
the county commissioners of the county in which said town-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ships are respectively situated, primarily towards the payment
or retirement of said bonds or debt, and the surplus shall be
expended in the improvement of the highways within the
territorial limits of said township."
SECT. 2. "No tax shall. be levied under the provisions of
this act to pay the interest on any township bonds until the
railroad in aid of which they were subscribed shall be completed through such township and accepted by the railroad
commissioners." 20 Statutes of South Carolina, p. 12.
This statute is not mentioned in the questions certified, and,
as it is not alleged or suggested that the railroad has been
completed 'through this township, has no direct application to
this case. We refer to it only as part of the history of legislation and decision in the State upon the subject.
On April 15, 1889, the Supreme Court of South Carolina
held that, since, by its decision in Floyd v. Perrin,a township could. not be authorized by the legislature to issue bonds
in aid of the construction of a railroad, it followed that the
act of 1888 could not be upheld as validating'bonds issued by
a township under the earlier acts, because the legislature could
not ratify what it could not have authorized ; but that the act
of 1888 was an original exercise of the power of the legislature to authorize taxation for any Public purpose, such as was
the building of railroads in the State; and that the legislature,
therefore, being satisfied of the consent of tle township, had
constitutionally fixed upon them the debt represented by the
bonds previously issued without authority, and to be paid according to the provisions of the new act. State v. Whiteside8,
30 So. Car. 579; State v. _Veely, 30 So. Car. 587.
The first question certified to this court by the Circuit Court
of Appeals is, "Whether, upon the averments of the complaint, the Circuit Court was bound, in passing upon this case,
by the decision of the Supreme :Court of South Carolina in
Floyd v. Perrin 30 So. Car. 1 ?"
The general principles which must govern the decision of
this question have been often affirmed by this court, and were
stated by Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering judgment, after
great consideration, ii the leading case of Burgess v. Seligman,
as follows:

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Opinion of the Court.

"The Federal courts have an independent jurisdiction in
the administration of state laws, codrdinate with and not subordinate to that of the state courts, and are bound to exercise
their own judgment as to the meaning and effect of those
laws. The existence of two cobrdinate jurisdictions in the
same'territory is peculiar, and the results would be anomalous
and inconvenient, but for the exercise of mutual respect and
deference. Since the ordinary administration of the law is
carried on by the state courts, it necessarily happens that by
the course of their decisions certain rules are established,
which become rules of property and action in the State, and
have all the effect of law, and which it would be wrong to
disturb. This is especially true with regard to the law of real
estate, and the construction of state constitutions and statutes.
Such established rules are always regarded by the -Federal
courts, no less than by the state courts themselves, as authoritative declarations -of. what the law is. But where the law
has not been thus settled, it is the right and duty of. the Federal courts to exercise their own judgment; as they also
always do in reference to the doctrines of commercial law
and general jurisprudence. So when contracts and transactions have been entered into, and rights have accrued thereon
under a particular state of the decisions, or when there has
been no decision of the state tribunals, the Federal courts
properly claim the right to adopt their own interpretation of
the law applicable to the case, although a different interpretation may be adopted by the state courts after such rights
have accrued. But even in such cases, for the sake of harmony and to avoid confusion, the Federal courts will lean
towards an agreement of views with the state courts if the
question seems to them balanced with doubt. Acting on
these principles, founded as they' are on comity and good
sense, the courts of the United States, -without sacrificing
their own dignity as independent tribunals, endeavor to avoid,
and in most -cases do avoid, any unseemly conflict with the
well-considered decisions of the state courts. As, however,
the very'object of giving to the national courts jurisdiction
to administer the laws of the States in controversies betweeft
VOL, CLix-40

626

OCTOBER TEIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

citizens of different States was to institute independent tribunals which it might be supposed would be unaffected by
local prejudices and sectional views, it would be ,dereliction
of their duty not to exercise an .independent judgment in
cases not foreclosed by previous adjudication." 107 U. S. 20,
33, 34.
In the case at bar, the statutes of the State of South Carolina, under which the bonds were issued, were passed in 1882
and 1885. The bonds were issued in behalf of the township,
and were purchased by the plaintiff, in 1886. It is alleged in
the complaint, and admitted by the demurrer, that he purchased the bonds, relying upon their being legal and valid obligations of the township; and that, at the times of their issue
and purchase, these bonds and like bonds of other townships
were regarded and treated as valid securities by the corporate.
authorities of the township, by the public, by the legal profession, and by the legislative, executive and judicial departments of the State. And the decisions of the Supreme Court
of the State, during the same period, appear to have. assumed
the validity of such bonds. Chamblee v. Tribble, and Carolina
Railway v. Tvibble, above cited.
The decision in Floyd v. Perrin,holding such bonds to be
invalid, was by two judges only, against a strong dissent, and
was not made until November 30, 1888, and a rehearing was
denied December 14, 1888. Eight days after, on December 22,
1888, the legislature passed an act, to take immediate effect,
declaring the bonds previously issued, in behalf of any township, to be debts of the township, and providing for their payment by taxation of the inhabitants. Five months later, on
April 15, 1889, the Supreme Court of the State, in two laboured
opinions, the one 6 y Chief Justice Simpson and the other by
Justice McIver, declared that, it having been. decided in loyd
v. Perrinthat the legislature could not authorize the township
to levy a tax to pay the bonds, it could not ratify the proceedings of the township; but yet that the statute of 1888 was a
constitutional exercise of the unlimited legislative power to
authorize taxation for a public purpose, with the consent of the
township,. In each of the two cases, however, Justice Me-

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Opinion of the Court.

Gowan, who had dissented from the judgment in Floyd v.
Perrin, delivered a concurring opinion ini these words: "I
concur. The meaning of the opinion of the court being that
there is no necessity for the issue of any new bonds; but 'the
debt' fixed upon the several townships by the act of 1888 shall
be represented by the bonds heretofore issued, to be paid
according to the provisions of the act; and I am authorized
to say that such is the view of the other members of the court."
State v. White8idem and State v. Neely, above cited.
As the debt thus held to be imposed upon the township by
the act of 1888 -was the debt represented by the bonds issued
under the act of 1885 ; as the tax for the payment of that debt
under the new act was to be levied upon the property in the
township by county officials in substantially the same manner
as under the earlier statutes; and as the constitution of the
State did not authorize the legislature, with or without the
consent of the township, to vest its corporate authorities with
power to assess and collect taxes for any but corporate purposes; it is not easy to understand how the later taxation
could be held constitutional while the earlier was held unconstitutional; or how the result in State v. Whiteeidee and State v
Neely could be reached without practically overruling Floyd
v. Perrin.
There not being shown to have been a single decision of
the state court against the constitutionality of the act of 1885
before the plaintiff purchased his bonds, nor any settled course
of decision upon the subject, even since his purchase, the question of the validity of these bonds must be determined by this
court according to its own view of the law of South Carolina.
This question, which is presented in different forms by the
second and third questions certified, lies in narrow compass.
The constitution of South Carolina of 1868 authorized the
legislature to vest the corporate authorities of townships or
other municipal corporations with power to assess and collect
taxes "for corporate purposes." By the act of 1870, townships
were deprived of the corporate powers with which they had
been vested by the legislature immediately after the adoption
of the constitution, but were still defined by their names and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

boundaries. By the act of 1882, as amended by the acts of
1885 and 1887, it was enacted that any city, town, county or
township, interested in the construction of the railroad company named, might subscribe for stock and issue bonds in aid
of the building of the railroad; and that, for the payment of
the bonds and coupons, taxes might be assessed and levied upon
the property of the township; and all the counties and townships along the line of the railroad, or interested in its construction, were declared to be bodies politic and corporate, for the
purposes of this act, and to be invested with the necessary
powers to carry out its provisions, and to have all the rights
and be subject to all the liabilities, in respect to any rights or
,causes of action growing out of its provisions.
To aid in the building of a railroad is a public purpose, and,
being for the general welfare of the ordinary municipal conporations, such as counties, cities and towns, through which
the road is to pass, is a corporate purpose, within the meaning
of a constitutional provision vesting in the legislature power
to authorize municipal corporations to assess and collect taxes
Livingston County v. Darlington,
"for corporate purposes."
101 U. S. 407, 411, 413; Harter v. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562,
571; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356, 363; Bolles v.
Brimfeld, 120 U. S. 759; oJohnson. v. Stark County, 24 Illinois, 75, 88; C(hicago &c. Railroad v, Smith, 62 Illinois, 268,
276; Nichol v. Nashville, 9 Humph. 252, 268; Brown v. flertford Commissioners, 100 No. Car. 92.
This is well settled, as to counties, under the constitution
of South Carolina. It was assumed by the Supreme Qourt
of the State in State v. Chester & Lenoir Railroad, 13 So.
Car. 290, 317, and in Connor v. Green Pond &c. Railway, 23
So. Car. 427, 436; and it was admitted by all the judges in
Floyd v. Perrin. 30 So. Car. l, 13, 19, 27. See also State v.
Whitesides, 30 So. Car. 579, 584, and State v. Neely, 30 So.
Car. 587, 604. It has also been affirmed, as to towns, 'by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the ,District of South
Carolina, and by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit. Darlington v. Atlantic Trust Co., 63 Fed, Rep.. 76,
,nm 68 Fed, Rep. 849.

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
Opinion of the Court.

In Floyd v. Perrin,it was also admitted that townships,
having been declared by the legislature in the act of 1885, in
express words, to be bodies politic and corporate, must be
held to be corporations. 30 So. Car. 12, 16, 25. But the.
ground on which the majority of the court in that case held
that act to be unconstitutional was that the townships, having,
under the existing statutes, no other corporate duty or right,
except to subscribe to the railroad and to assess taxes to pay
the subscription, were without any corporate purpose whatever, and therefore to authorize them to assess taxes to pay
the subscription was in violation of the constitution.
We are unable to concur in that view, and are much better
satisfied with the reasoning of the dissenting opinion. When
a township has been created by law, as a territorial division
of the State, with no express grant of corporate powers, and
with no definition or restriction of the purposes for which it
is created, we are of opinion that it is within the power of
the legislature, at any time, to declare it to be a corporation,
and to confer upon it such and so many corporate powers,
appropriate to be vested in a territorial corporation for the
benefit of its inhabitants, as the legislature may think fit;
and that the act of 1885 was therefore a constitutional and
valid act, as far as regards all the kinds of municipal corporations named therein -cities, towns, counties and townships.
In Weightman v. Clark, 103 U. S. 256, the statute held to
be unconstitutional purported to confer the power to issue
bonds in aid of the construction of a railroad upon school districts, established and existing for educational purposes only.
In Lewis v. Pima County, 155 U. S. 54, a territorial statute,
purporting to confer upon a county the power to issue similar
bonds, was held unconstitutional, because the fundamental
law limited obligations of any municipal corporation to such
as should be "necessary for the administration of its internal
affairs."
The result is, that the first question certified must be answered in the negative, and the second and third questions in
the affirmative, and the fourth question becomes immaterial.
Ordered accordingly.

