SIOUX CITY &c. 1RAILROA1)

,. COUNTRYMAN.

377

Syllabus.

could, without a breach of trust, apply lands for the benefit
of one road that had been granted to aid the construction of
another road.
Besides, it is manifest from the face of the act of the Iowa
legislature of 1878 that there was no purpose to give the Milwaukee or McGregor road the benefit of any lands not granted
to aid in its construction. For the language of that act was
that "when said railroad [the McGregor road] shall have been
built and constructed to the point of connection with the Sioux
City and St. Paul Railroad, then and thereupon the governor
of this State shall patent and transfer to said Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company all the remaining
lands belonging to or embraced in said grant appertaining
to their line of railroad,including all or any part or moiety
of the lands in said overlapping limits which, by the terms of
said act of Congress, apertain to their line of road." ยง 3.
It having been finally adjudged as between the Sioux City
company and the Milwaukee company that these lands did
not appertain to the latter road, there is no foundation for a
suit by the Milwaukee company to compel the United States
to surrender any title it may have or claim, however such title
may have been acquired.
.Decreeaffirmed.

SIOUX CITY AND ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY
v. COUNTRYMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 30.

Argued April 16, 17,1895. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

At the time when the United States instituted the suit against the plaintiff
in error which has just been decided, the plaintiff in error had no interest
whatever in the 26,017.33 acres of land certified back to the United States
by the governor of Iowa, pursuant to a statute of that State, and all

such land was then subject to entry under the preemption and homestead
laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. George B. Young, (with whom was Mr. J H1. Swan
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
.Afr. M. B. Davis for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The history of the lands, of which those here in dispute
form a part, is fully stated in the opinion just delivered in
Sioux City & St. Pad Railroad Co. v. United States.
By reference to that opinion it will be seen that the only
certificates given by the governor fo r the bonefit of the Sioux
City company were certificates showing the construction by
it of fifty miles, or five sections of ten consecutive miles each;
that, in 1872 and 1873, the Secretary of the Interior caused to
be issued patents to the State for 407,870.21 acres, of which
322,412.81 acres were certified by the State to the company,
the State retaining within its control 85,457.40 acres; that
of the 322,412.81 acres 41,687.52 acres were awarded to the
Milwaukee company, as successor in right of the McGregor
Western Railroad Company, leaving with the Sioux City company 280,725.29 acres that it has disposed of, and about which
no question is here made; that out of the 85,457.40 acres
37,747.89 acres were awarded to the Milwaukee company;
and thiat of the 85,457.40 acres, 21,692.38 acres were those in
dispute in Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad Co. v. United States,
and 26,017.33 acres were formally relinquished and conveyed
by the governor of Iowa, pursuant to the act of the Iowa
legislature of March 27, 1884. Laws of Iowa, 1884, 78, c. 71;
Laws of Iowa, 1882, 102, c. 107.
After this conveyance by the governor of Iowa, the question
as to the disposition of these 26,017.33 acres came up for consideration in the Department of the Interior. Upon the hearing of this question, Secretary Lamar said: "The certification
by the governor under this act was not made without an effort
on the part of the railroad to prevent it. He was enjoined
by the company, but the injuction was dissolved, and the cer-

SI(UX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. CoUNTRYMAN.

379

Opinion of the Court.

tification followed. The company is stitl opposing reassertion
of title by the United States, and is now here, by its president
and by counsel, claiming in effect that the grant for the benefit of the company was one of quantity and not lands in place,
and that, therefore, the company -has earned the lands in question, notwithstanding they are outside of the fifty-mile terminal limits." The conclusion of the Secretary is thus
*stated: "I must conclude, after a careful examination of the
matter as presented, that neither the State of Iowa nor the
Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company ever had any
title under the granting act of 1864 to the lands in question
beyond the prima facie legal title which would appear from
the face of the patents, which, so far as these lands are concerned, were improperly and illegally issued. This title, such
as it was, had gone no further than the State, for it had not
patented or certified the lands in question to the company.
The State having relinquished and reconveyed to the United
States such title as it had, I have no hesitation in concurring in your recommendation that the lands so certified and
conveyed be restored to entry under the settlement laws
of the United States. You will, therefore, treat them as
public lands and they will be thrown open. to settlement and
entry, as are other public lands of the United States." 6
Land Dec. 47, 53.
By an order of the Interior Department made August 4,
1887, these 26,017.33 acres were restored to entry under the
preemption, homestead, and timber-culture laws of the United
States. Entries were made September 12, 1887, as follows:
By defendants in error, Lewis Countryman and Adam Phillips,
Tespectively, under the homestead laws; and by defendants
in error, Washington Royer and Basil D Battin, respectively,
under the preemption laws.
The railroad company brought separate actions of ejectment in the District Court of Woodbury County, Iowa, against
these persons, in which it asserted title to the lands so entered
by the respective defendants. By stipulation of the parties
the four cases were heard and determined together. Judgment in each case was rendered for the defendant, and upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

error to the Suprem 6 Court of Iowa each judgment was
affirmed.
For the reasons stated in the opinion in Sioum City & St.
Paul Railroad Company v. United States, just decided, it
must be held that the railroad company did not have, at the
time those actions were instituted, any interest whatever in
the 26,017.33 acres, or any of them, certified back to the
U.nited Sfates by the governor of Iowa pursuant to a statute
of that State. It had previously received its full complement
of public lands under the act of May 12, 1864, on account of
road certified by the governor of the State as having been
constructed in accordance with the requirements of that act.
The judgment, in each case, is
Airmed.

SWEET v. RECHEL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 18. Argued December 14, 1894. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

The authority of a legislature to enact provisions for. taking private property for public use rests upon its right of eminent domain; and it is a
condition rrecedent to its exercise that the statute conferring the power
make reasonable provision for compensation to the owner of the land.
Unless the constitution of the State in which the lands are situated requires
payment or tender of payment for land so taken for public use before
the rights of the public therein can become complete, a statute which
authorizes the taking of the property for public use and directs the ascertainment of the damages without improper delay and in a legal mode,
and which gives the owner a right to judgment therefor, to be enforced
by judicial process, is sufficient to transfer the title.
The act of the legislature of Massachusetts of June 1, 1867, c. 308, to enable
the city of Boston to abate a nuisance, and for the preservation of the
public health in sAid city, and which provided for the taking of certain
private lands therein, and for th.eir improvement, filling up, and complete
draining, so as to abate an existing nuisance and preserve the health
of the city, and which further orovided for the payment of the cost
of the lots so taken through judicial proceedings, was within the

