OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

notice of the days of public general elections of members of
the legislature, or of a convention to revise the fundamental
law of the State, as well as of the times of the commencement
of the sitting of those bodies, and of the dates when their acts
take effect. 1 Greenl. Ev. ยง 6; Brown v: Piper, 91 U. S. 37,
42 ; Gardner v. Collector, 6 Wall. 499; Hoyt v. Russell, 117
U..S. 401 ; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 216.
It is obvious, therefore, that, even if the bill could properly
be held to present a case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, no relief within the scope of the bill could now be
granted.
Appeal dismissed, without
costs to eitherparty.

GILLIS v. STINCHFIELD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 661.

Submitted November 11, 1895. -Decided

November 25, 1895.

The decision by the highest court of a State that the grantor of a portion
of the ground of a mining claim is estopped, on general principles of law
and by the statutes of the State, from claiming priority of title to a space
of vein-intersection within the granted premises, by reason of his locating
the portion retained by himself before a location of the granted portion
by his grantee, presents no Federal question.

THIS was an action brought by Stinchfield against Gillis
and others in the Superior Court of Tuolumne County, Cali-.
fornia, to recover the value of certain gold alleged to have
been taken by defendants from the mining claim of plaintiff.
Gillis, for many years, had held and asserted ownership of a
mining claim known as the Carrington, and had sold and conveyed by deed of grant, bargain and sale a portion of the
ground to Stinchfield. Immediately after executing the deed
to Stinchfield, Gillis located that portion of the claim which
he retained, and denominated his location the Carrington, and
afterwards Stinchfield located the ground he had purchased
and denominated it the Pine Tree claim. Thereafter Gillis,

GILLIS v. STINCHFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

or those under him, entered upon the ground he had sold to
Stinchfield at the intersection of two veins, one of which had
its apex in the portion of the original claim which Gillis had
retained, and the other had its apex in the ground sold to
Stinchfield, and dug out and appropriated a large amount of
gold, the space of vein-intersection from which the gold was
taken being entirely in Stinchfield's ground.
The trial court gave judgment for Stinchfield, and Gillis
appealed to the Supreme Court of California, by which the
judgment of the lower court was affirmed. 40 Pac. Rep. 98.
The Supreme Court was of opinion that Gillis was estopped,
under the law of California, by his deed to Stinchfield, from
claiming priority of title to the space of vein-intersection by
reason of the location which he had made after the execution
of the deed, but before the location by Stinchfield of the
ground -conveyed to him. The same conclusion had been
reached and announced on a former appeal. 96 Cal. 33.
A writ of error from this court having been allowed, a
motion to dismiss was submitted.
Mr. . A. Wheaton, Mr. T.
Kierce for the motion.

. Kalloch, and Mr. F. J.

Mr. J. C. Campbell, -Mr. F. W. Street, and Mr. j
Rooney opposing.

F.

THE CHrEF JusTic': Neither in the pleadings nor in the
proceedings during the trial, nor in the specifications of error
below, was any Federal question specifically raised, nor was
any right, title, privilege, or immunity of a Federal niture set
up or claimed. Sayward v. Denny,. 158 U. S. 180. It is,
however, contended that the record shows that a Federal
question arose in the case, as considered by both the Superior
and the Supreme Courts, and was decided adversely to plaintiffs in error, namely, that Gillis had the right to follow what
was 'known as the Rice vein, which had its apex on the Carrington mine, upon its dip, beneath the surface of the'Pine
Tree mine, and to appropriate to his own use the gold found

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in that vein at the point of its intersection with the so-called
West vein, which had its apex on the Pine Tree mine, because
tie Carrington mine was the older or prior location; and
that this could only be determined by an application of sections 2322 and 2336 of the Revised Statutes. But the decision
of the Supreme Court was clearly based upon the estoppel
deemed by that court to operate against plaintiffs in error
upon general principles of law and the statute of California
in respect of such a conveyance as that to Stinchfield, irrespective of any Federal question. And this was an independent ground broad enough to maintain the judgment. The
writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed. Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361; Rutland Railroad Co. v. Central Vermont
Railroad Co., 159 U. S. 630.
Writ of error dismissed.

LAMBERT v. BARRETT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 771.

Submitted November 11, 1895.-

Decided November 18, 1895.

The several questions raised by the counsel for the petitioner are matters
for the determination of the courts of the State, and their determination
there adversely to the petitioner Involves no denial of due process of
law, or the infraction of any provision of the Constitution of the United
States.
The administration of justice ought not to be interfered with on mere pretexts.
THIS is an appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of New Jersey, denying the
petition of Theodore Lambert for a writ of habeas corpus.
It appeared from the petition that Lambert was convicted by
the verdict of a jury, June 15, 1894, of the murder of William
Kairer, in the court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery of Camden County, New Jersey, and sentenced,
October 13. to be hanged on December 13, 1894; that on the

