CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
Syllabus.

struction as to express that idea. But the jury might well
have inferred, from the instruction, as modified, that they
were at liberty to return a verdict of murder because alone of
the way or mode in which the killing was done, even if they
believed that, apart from the way in which the life -of the
deceased was. taken, the facts made a case of manslaughter,
not of murder. We do not think that a verdict of guilty of
manslaughter or -murder should have turned alone upon an
inqtriry as to the way in which the killing was done.. The
inquiry rather should have been whether at the moment the
defendant shot there were present such circumstances, taking
all of them into consideration, including the mode of killing,
as made the taking of the life of the deceased manslaughter
and not murder.
Because of the error above indicated, and without considering other questions presented by the assignments of error,
the judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to set aside the judgment as well as the verdict upon
each count of the indictment, and grant a new trial.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BROWN dissented.

CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE

OF

WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 289.

Argued March 29, April 1, 1895. -Decided

June 8, 1895.

This court has no jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state court, on the
ground that the obligation of a contract has been impaired, when the
validity of the statute under which the contract was made is admitted,
and the only question is of its construction by that court.

When the parties have been fully heard in the regular course of judicial
proceedings, an erroneous decision of a state court does not deprive the
unsuccessful party of his property without due process of law, withiu
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

THis was an action of ejectment, brought in April, 1882, in
the circuit court of Cabell County, in the State of West Virginia, by John B. Laidley against the Central Land Company
of West Virginia, to recover a tract of land in that State.
The material facts were as follows:
Both parties claimed title under- Sarah H. G. Pennybacker.
On February 25, 1870, she, being the owner of the tract, and
the wife of John M. Pennybacker, executed, with her husband,
a "deed purporting to convey the land to C. P. Huntington.
That deed was duly recorded, together with certificates of the
recorder that, on the same day, the husband came before him
and acknowledged it to be his voluntary act and deed for the
uses and purposes therein mentioned; and that the wife came
before him, "and being examined by me privily and apart
from :her husband, and having the deed aforesaid fully explained to her, she, the said Sarah H. G. Pennybacker, acknowledged that she had willingly signed, sealed and delivered
the same, and wished not to retract it." On October 16, 1871,
Huntington conveyed his title to the Central Land Company.
On January 26, 1882, Mrs. Pennybacker, having become a
widow, executed and acknowledged, in due form of law, a
deed of the same land to Laidley. These deeds were duly
.recorded.
At the first trial of this action, in December, 1884, Laidley
requested the court to instruct the jury that'the deed of Mr.
and Mrs. Pennybacker conveyed his interest in the land; but
that, if she was his wife at the time-of its execution and acknowledgment, it was not valid, so far as it purported to be
her deed, and did not convey any interest she might have
Jn the land, and could not operate by way of estoppel against
her or her grantees. The tourt declined to give this instruction; and a verdict was returned for the Central Land Company, and judgment rendered thereon. Laidley took the case
by writ of error to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West
Virginia, which, in November, 1887, held that the instruction
requested by Laidley should have been given; and that the
wife's acknowledgment was defective, because it did not show
that she had met all the requirements of the Code of West

CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
Statement of the Case.

Virginia of 1868, o. 73, ยง 4, (copied in the margin,') which the
court held to be that she should acknowledge the deed to be
her act, should declare that she had willingly executed it, and
should declare that she did not wish to retract it. The court
accordingly reversed the judgment, and ordered the verdict
to be set aside, and a new trial had in the circuit court of
Cabell County. 30 West Virginia, 505.
In March, 1888, the Central Land Company filed in the
county court a bill in equity against Laidley, alleging that
Huntington, through his agent, Laidley's father, purchased
from Mr. and Mrs. Pennybacker the whole title in the land,
and paid the price of $11,000, which was then its full value, and
took possession of it under the deed of February 25, 1870,
and held it until his conveyance to the Central Land Company, which had since been in possession thereof ; that Laidley
procured the deed of January 26,1882, from Mrs. Pennybacker
fraudulently, and with notice of all these facts, and for the
price of only $500, although the land had greatly increased
in value; that the Supreme Court of Appeals, in the action
of ejectment, had decided that the certificate of acknowledgment was defective in law, and consequently the deed did not
convey her title to Huntington, and therefore reversed the
judgment of the court below, and remanded the case for a
new trial. The bill charged that, under and by virtue of that
decision of the Supreme Court of Appeals, the legal title was
in Laidley, but that he held it in trust for the Central Land
Company, and prayed for a &claration and execution of the
trust, and for an injunctiou against the action at law, and for
further relief. That bill was dismissed upon a hearing, and the
decree of dismissal was, on appeal, affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Appeals in February, 1889. 32 West Virginia, 134.
1 When a husband and his wife have signed a writing purporting to convey real estate, she may appear before a recorder authorized to admit such
writing to record in his office ; and if, on being examined privily and apart
from her husband by such recorder, and having such writing fully explained
to her, she acknowledge the same to be her act, and declare that she had
willingly executed the same, and does not wish to retract it, such privy
examination, acknowledgment and declaration shall then be recorded by such
recorder in his office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

In September, 1890, this action of ejectment was tried again
in the circuit court of Cabell County. The Central Land Company requested the court to instruct, the jury that, if they
found from the evidence that Huntington purchased, paid for
and took possession of the land, and afterwards, and before
this action was brought, conveyed it to the Central Land Company, which took and since held possession thereof, then, by
section 8 of article 11 of the constitution of the State of West
Virginia, adopted by the people thereof in 1863; and by section 4 of chapter .73 of the Code of West Virginia of 1868,
which section 4 was taken from the Code of Virginia of 1860,
and was in force in the territory included in the State of West
Vi rginia at the time of the adoption of its constitution; and
by the settled construction and interpretation which, before the
formation of the State of West Virginia, had been given to this
sectiou by the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia in the
cases of Ifairston v. Randolph, 12 Leigh, 445, Siter v. -MeClanachan, 2 Grattan, 280, and Grove v. Zumbro, 14 Grattan, 401;
the deed of February 25, 1870, from Mr. and Mrs. Pennybacker to Huntington, acknowledged as aforesaid, was sufficient to pass to him all the right, title and interest of both the
husband and the wife in the land, and the jury should find a
verdict for the defendant. The-court declined so to instruct the
jury; and, at Laidley's request, instructed them that if, at the
time of the execution of the deed of February 25, 1870, Mrs.
Pennybacker was a married woman, that deed was absolutely
void as to her, and passed no title of hers, legal or equitable,
to Huntington; and by her deed of January 26, 1882, Laidley
became vested with all her title and interest in the land.
The Central Land Company excepted to the. refusal to instruct, and to the instruction given ; and, after verdict and
judgment for Laidley, presented to the Supreme Court of
Appeals a petition for a writ of error, which was refused,
"because the court is of opinion that the judgment complained of is plainly right; and the petitioner desiring to
present to the Supreme Court of the United States a petition for a writ of error from this judgment, leave is hereby
given to the petitioner to withdraw the petition and transcript
of record aforesaid for that purpose."

CENTRAL LA ND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Central Land Company thereupon sued out this writ of
error, and assigned the following errors:

1st. "That the purchase of the said land of the said Pennybackers, and the said deed conveying the same, became an executed contract, which no action of the judiciary of the State of
West Virginia had any right, authority or power to impair or
invalidate by changing the settled construction of said section
4 of chapter 73 of the Code of West Virginia of 1868."
2d. "That under and by virtue of section 10, article 1, of
the Constitution of the United States, no State is permitted
to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts; that
the statutory construction of the laws of West Virginia, as it
existed when the contract was made, governed the rights of
parties, and rights vested under such existing constructions of
the then laws cannot be divested, under said clause of the
Constitution of the United States, by a subsequent decision
of the state courts holding contracts invalid that were valid
when made; such decisions of the state courts are contrary to
the Constitution of the United States."
3d. "Because there appears on the record of said cause a
Federal question in this; that the courts of West Virginia, in
construing the said statute relating to deeds and acknowledgments thereof so as to invalidate the said deed to C. P. Huntington, under which your petitioner claims, changed, without
legislative action, the settled and established constrilction
which existed at the time of the execution and delivery of
said deed, which is contrary to the Constitution of the United
States; and that there is a Federal question raised by said
record in this; that the said decision of the circuit court of
Cabell County, which undertakes to deprive your petitioner
of his property, is without due process of law, retroactive in
its effect, and unconstitutional."
Laidley moved to dismiss the writ of error, for want of
jurisdiction; and the motion to dismiss was argued with the
merits of the case.
Mr. . B. Enslow and Mr. T Hf. Ferguson, (with whom
was Mr. . C. Sims on the brief,) for plaintiff in error. In

OCTOBEt TERM, 1894.
Argument for Defendint in Error.

opposing the motion of the defendant in error to dismiss for
wanjt of jurisdiction they cited, among other cases: Douglass v.
County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677; Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall.
175; Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50; Olcott v. Supervisors,
16 Wall. 678; Chicago Life Insurance Co. v. Needles, 113
U. S. 574; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356; Bostwick v. Brinkerhqf, 106 U. S. 3; Johnson v. Keith, 117 U. S.
199.
Mr. W. . Ohilton and Mr. J. F. Brown, (with whom was
.Mr. John E. Kenna on the briefy) for defendant in error.
In support of the motion to dismiss they cited among other
cases; Mobile & Ohio Railroad v. Tennessee, 153 U. S.
486; Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379; New Orleans
Water Works Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Reftning Co., 125 U. S.
18; Railroad Company v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177; flavemeyer v.
Iowa County, 3 Wall. 294; St. Paul,Minneapolis & Manitoba
Railway v. Todd County, 142 U. S. 282; Blount v. Walker,
134 U. S. 607; Beatty v. Benton, 135 U. S. 244 ;. San Francisco v. Itsell,, 133 U. S. 65; ttopkins v. McLure, 133 U. S.
380; Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; Marrow v. Brinkley, 129
U. S. 178; DeSaussure v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216; Crossley
v. -New Orleans, 108 U. S. 105; Santa Cruz County v. Santa
Cruz Railroad,111 U. S. 361; McManus v. O'Sullivan, 91
U. S. 578; Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590; Commercial
Bankl V. Buckingham, 5 How. 317; Grand Gulf Railroad
v. Marshall, 12 How. 165; Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291; McBride v. floey, 11 Pet. 167; Elmendorfv. Taylor, 10 Wheat.
152; Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44; Railroad Company v.
McClure, 10 Wall. 511; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20;
Crowell v. Randolph, 10 Pet. 368; Cook County v. Calumet &
Chicago Canal Co., 138 U. S. 635; Texas Pacific Railway v.
Southern Pacific Co., 137 U. S. 48; C]happell v. Bradshaw,
128 U. S. 132; Brooks v. Missouri, 124 U. S. 394 ; Detroit
City Railway v. Guthard, 114 U. S. 133; Susqjuehanna Boom
Co. v. West Branch Co., 110 U. S. 57; Simmerman v. Nebraska, 116 U. S. 54; Chouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200;
Brown v. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95.

CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr.John B. Laidley in person also filed a brief in support
of the motion to dismiss.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The questions upon the merits of this case, discussed at
length. by counsel, were whether the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia rightly construed the provision of the
Code of that State of 1868, which was, and was admitted to
be, in all material respects, a reenactment of the corresponding provision of the Code of Virginia of 1860, prescribing the
form of acknowledgment by a married woman of a deed of
real estate; andwhether the court below gave a construction
of that provision less favorable to the validity of such a deed,
than had been given to it by its own earlier decisions, and by
the highest court of Virginia before the creation of the State
of West Virginia. Those questions are not free from difficulty;
and this court, before undertaking to pass upon them, must be
satisfied that it has jurisdiction to do so.
The grounds relied on for invoking the appellate jurisdiction of this court are, in substance, that by the decision of
the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia, without any
legislative action, the obligation of the contract contained in
the deed from Mr. and Mrs. Pennybacker to Huntington, the
grantor of the plaintiff in error, has' been impaired, and the
plaintiff in error has been deprived of its property without
due process of law.
Assuming, without deciding, that these grounds were sufficiently and seasonably taken in the courts of West Virginia,
we are of opinion that they present no Federal question.
In order to come within the provision of the Constitution
of the United States, which declares that no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts, not only must
the obligation of a contract have been impaired, but it must
have been impaired by some act of the legislative power of the
State, and not by a decision of its judicial department only.
The appellate jurisdiction of this court, upon writ of error

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to a state court, on the ground that the obligation of a contract has been impaired, can be invoked only when an act of
the legislature alleged to be repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States has been decided by the state court to be
valid, and not when an act admitted to be valid has been
misconstrued by the court. The statute of West Virginia is
admitted to'have been valid, whether it did or did not apply
to the deed in question; and it necessarily followa that the
question submitted to and decided by the state court was one
of construction only, and not of validity. If this court were
to assume jurisdiction of this case, the question submitted for
its decision would be, not whether the statute was repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, but whether the
highest court of the State has erred in its construction of the
statute. As .was said by this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Grier, in such a case, as long ago as 1847, "It is the peculiar
province and privilege of the state courts to construe their
own statutes; and it is no part of the functions of this court
to review their decisions, or assume jurisdiction over them on
the pretence that their judgments have impaired the obligation of contracts. The power delegated to us is for, the
restraint of unconstitutional legislation by the States, and not
for the correction of alleged errors committed by their judiciary." Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 How. 317, 343;
Lawler v. Walker, 14 How. 149, 154.
It was said by Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering a later judgnient of this court: "We are not authorized by the Judiciary
Act to review the judgments of the state courts because their
judgments refuse to give effect to valid contracts, or because
those judgments, in their effect, impair the obligation of contracts. If we did, every case decided in a state court could be
brought here, where the party setting up a contract alleged
that the court had taken a different view of its obligation to
that which he held." Knox v. Exchange Bank, .12 Wall.
379, 383.
The same doctrine was stated by Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking for this court, as follows: "The state court may erroneously determine questions arising under a contract which con-

CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

stitutes the basis of the suit before it; it may hold a contract
void which, in our opinion, is valid; it may adjudge a contract
to be valid which, in our opinion, is void ; or its interpretation of the contract may, in our opinion, be radically wrong;
but, in neither of such cases, would the judgment be review,
able by this court under the clause of the Constitution protecting the obligation of contracts against impairment by
state legislation, and under the existing statutes defining and
regulating its jurisdiction, unless that judgment, in terms or
by its necessary operation, gives effect to some provision of
the state constitution, or some legislative enactment of the
State, which is claimed by the unsuccessful party to impair
the obligation of the particular contract in question.'? Lehigh
Water Co. v. Ea8ton, 121 U. S. 388, 392.
Many other decisions of this court to -the same effect are
cited in that case. See also New Orleans Waterworks v.
Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18, 30; St. Paul &c. Railway v. Todd County, 142 U. S. 282; Brown v. Smart, 145
U. S. 452; Wood v. Brady, 150 U. S. 18.
The decisions cited by the plaintiff in error to support the
jurisdiction of this court in the case at bar were either cases
in which the writ of error was upon a judgment of a state
court, which gave effect to a statute alleged to impair the
obligation of a contract made before any such statute existed,
as in Louisiana v. Pilbury,105 U. S. 278; in Chicago Ins.
Co. v. -Needles, 113 U. S. 574, and in Mobile & Ohio Railroad
v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; or else the writ of error was to a
Circuit Court of the United States, bringing to this court the
whole case, including the question how far the courts of the
United States should follow the decisions of the highest court
of the State, as in Gelcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, 205;
Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678, 690; Douglass v. Pike
County, 101 U. S. 677, 686; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116
U. S. 356, 361; and other cases cited in Louisiana v. Pilbury, 105 U. S. 278, 295.
The distinction, as to the authority of this court, between
writs of error to a court of the United States and writs of
error to the highest court of a State, is well illustrated by two

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the earliest cases relating to municipal bonds, in both of
which the opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Swayne, and
in each of which the question presented was whether the constitution of the State of Iowa permitted the legislature to
authorize municipal corpqrations to issue bonds in aid of the
construction of a railroad. The Supreme Court of the State,
by decisions made before the bonds in question were issued,
had held that it did; but, by decisions made after they had
been issued, held that it did not. A judgment of the District
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa, following
the later decisions of the state court, was reviewed on the
merits, and reversed by this court, for misconstruction of the
constitution of Iowa. Gelpoke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, 206.
But a writ of error to review one of those decisions of the
Supreme Court of Iowa was dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
because, admitting the constitution of the State to be a law
of the State, within the meaning of the provision of the Constitution of the United States forbidding a State to pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts, the only question
was of its construction by the state court. Railroad Co. v.
XeClure, 10 Wall. 511, 515.
When the parties have been fully heard in the regular course
of judicial proceedings, an erroneous decision of a state court
does not deprive the unsuccessful party of his property without
due process of law, within the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92
U. S. 90; Head v. Amoskeag Co., 113 U. S. 9, 26; Morley v.
Lake Shore Railroad,146 U. S. 162, 171; Bergmann v. Backer,
157 U. S. 655.
This court therefore has no authority to decide the main
questions, argued at the bar, whether the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia, in effect, and erroneously, overruled the prior decisions of that court, and of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia before WestVirginia
became a separate State; and the writ of error must be
Dismisedfor want ofjurisdition.
MIR. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

