OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.,

GRAY v. CONNECTICUT.
ERROR TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

ERRORS OF THE STATE

OF

CONNECTICUT.
No. 258. Submitted April 4, 1895. - Decided June 8, 1895.

A license to pursue any business or occupation, from the governing authority of any municipality or State, can only be invoked for the protection
of one in the pursuit of such business or occupation so long as the same
continues unaffected by existing or new conditions, which it is within the
constitutional power of the legislature to enact.
The provisions in thO statutes of Connecticut that a person selling or
offering for sale, or owning or keeping with intent to sell or exchange,
spirituous liquors, without having a license therefor, and that the granting of such license to a druggist shall be discretionary with the county
commissioners, are not in conflict with any of the provisions contained
In the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

THE plaintiff in error was charged before a justice of the
peace for the county of New London, in the town of Groton,
State of Connecticut, with keeping a place in that town, on the
1st day of January, 1890, and on divers days subsequently,
previous to the time of making the complaint, where it was
reputed that intoxicating and spirituous liquors were kept
for sale; and also of selling on the 1st day of January, 1890,
and at divers days between that date and the time of making
the complaint, in that town and county, without, having a,
license therefor, to persons to the prosecuting agent unknown,
spirituous and intoxicating liquors, on the premises, in quantities less than one gallon to be delivered at one time; and
also with keeping on the 1st day of January, 1890, and at divers
days between that date and the time of making the complaint,
at that town and county without having a license therefor,
spirituous and intoxicating liquors, with intent to sell the
same, all of which acts are alleged to have been done against
the peace of the State, to be of evil example and contrary to
the statute in such case made and provided.
The plaintiff in error, who was thus charged, was arrested,

GRAY v. CONNECTICUT.
Statement of the Case.

and on his plea of not guilty was tried and found guilty before
the justice of the peace, and was ordered to pay a fine of
eighty dollars and costs, and to stand committed until the
judgment was paid.
The accused moved for an appeal from the judgment to the
next session of the criminal court of Common Pleas for New
London County, which was granted, to be held on the second
Tuesday of September, 1890, at Norwich, the accused then
and there to answer the complaint, at which time he appeared,
and, a nolle prosequi being entered upon the first count, for
his plea to the other counts he said "not guilty." After a
full hearing of the cause on a new trial in the criminal court
of Common Pleas the accused was found guilty and sentenced
to pay a fine of fifty dollars and the costs of the prosecution,
and to stand committed until the judgment was complied with.
Upon the trial in that court the counsel of the appellant
contended that the court should charge the jury 1st. That if they found ." that the defendant did not sell
nor keep with intent to sell, spirituous and intoxicating liquors
as such, but kept such liquors to be used in compounding
medicines and in dispensing the prescriptions of physicians, it
was their duty to acquit him."
2d. "That the defendant as a licensed pharmacist had the
right to use in the compounding of his medicines and tinctures
all ingredients necessary to their proper preparation, whether
such ingredients or any of them were spirituous or intoxicating
or otherwise."
3d. "That the State having licensed the accused to pursue
his business and occupation as a pharmacist, the board of commissioners for New London County could not by any action
of theirs deprive him of the right to pursue his said business
in all its branches."
4th. That section 3087 of the Revised Statutes of Connecticut, which declares "that any person who, without having a
license therefor, shall sell or exchange, or shall offer or expose
for sale or exchange, or shall own or keep with intent to sell
or exchange, any spirituous and intoxicating liquors, shall be
fined," and section 3067 of such Revised Statutes, which pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

vides "that a license to a druggist shall not be granted unless
upon application made in the manner prescribed, and ,that the
granting of such license shall be discretionarywith the county
commissioners," - were contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
because they, abridged his privileges and immunities as a citizen
of the United States, and deprived him of his property without
due course of law.
But the court refused so to charge the jury, and on the
judgment rendered upon the verdict, the case was taken to the
Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut, in which court it was
insisted that the court below had erred in instructing the jury
that the only .question, for them to determine was whether the
prisoner had complied with the regulations of the law, and in
conducting his business had used liquors in compounding prescriptions, without having a license therefor from the board of
pharmacy and the county commissioners; and that the court
had erred in directing the jury that if it was necessary that a
man should use liquor in compounding medicines in the State
and could not practise the business of druggist without it, then
the law made it a prerequisite to obtain not only a license from
the board of pharmacy, but also from the county commissioners; and that the court had erred in not charging that
sections 3087 and 3067 were contrary to the provisions of the
constitution of the State and the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States. The court affirmed the
judgment, from which the case was brought to this court on
writ of error, the plaintiff in error assigning the same errors
which were assigned in the Supreme' Court of Errors of Con.
necticut.
Mr. H. C. Robinson for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.
Solomon Lucas for defendant in error.
MP. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
A license to pursue any business or occupation, from the
governing authority of any municipality or State, can only be

GRAY v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

invoked for the protection of one in the pursuit of such business or occupation, so long as the same continues unaffected by
existing or new conditions. The degree of care and scrutiny
which should attend the pursuit of the business or occupation
practised will necessarily dep9nd upon the safety and freedom
from injurious or dangerous conditions attending the prosecution of the same.
In the preparation of medicinal compounds, intoxicating
liquors and even still more dangerous ingredients are often
properly used; but the protecting care of the government,
municipal or state, in their use, should never be relaxed beyond the bounds of absolute safety. The responsibility of the
legal authority, municipal or state, cannot be stipulated or
bartered away, Whatever provisions were prescribed by the
law previous to 1890, in the use of spirituous liquors in the
medicinal preparations of pharmacists, they did not prevent
the subsequent exaction of further conditions Which the lawful
authority might deem necessary or useful.
For reasons which were deemed sufficient after 1890, by the
authorities of Connecticut, the use of spirituous liquors in the
preparation of pharmacists' compounds required still further
provisions than those previously existing, and it was provided
that such liquors could not be subsequently used in their preparation without the pharmacist's first procuring a druggist's
license from the county commissioners.
The imposition by the court of a fine upon the accused for
a disregard of this requirement trespassed in no way upon any
of his rights under the constitution of the State, or under the'
Fourteenth. Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
Judgment afflrmed.

