McKE]E v. LATI{OBE.
Statement of the Case

acknowledge that valuable services had- "heret ofore" been
rendered, and as Cochrane had already been provided for, it
is but natural to suppose that his assignees were the ones
intended to be recognized.
We are, therefore, of opinion that complainants, as suriiving partners of the firm of Black, Lamon & Co., are entitled
to recover the reasonable value of thbse services from the date
of the assignment from McPherson to Black to the date of the
McKee contract, which may be taken as denoting the time
when the Black contract was abandoned. Whatever services
Lamon rendered prior to that time he rendered as a member
of, and for the benefit of, the firm of Black, Lamon & Co.,
and that, too, is the theory of this bill, which is founded upon
a partnership claim. If, subsequently to that time, or to the
time when Lamon first learned of McKee's contract, Lamon
rendered services which were of value to McKee, they would
not fall within the express trust of the McKee contract, but
perhaps might be subject to an implied trust in his favor. As
to that, however, and as to the question whether the bill is
properly framed to cover an individual liability, we express
no opinion.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed and the case remanded for furtherproceedings in
conformity with this op inion.

McKEE v. LATROBE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 85.

Argued and submitted March 13, 14, 1895.

-Decided October 21, 1895.

On the facts set forth in the headuote to Gilfillan v. McKee, just decided,
it is further held that Latrobe was entitled to receive from the general
fund the value of his services, and that their value was $75,000.

THIS case also was argued in connection with Gilflllan v.
icKee, ante, 303. The bill was originally filed by John H. B.
Latrobe, July 13, 1888, six days after the bill of Lamon and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Black was filed, and for the same general purpose of sharing
in the sum recovered by McKee,relying upon the trust con.
tained in the contract' of July 16, 1870, between the Choctaw
Nation and McKee, in favor of persons who had rendered
services theretofore in the prosecution of said claimn
His allegation of service is substantially that, after the close
of the war of the rebellion, the Choctaw Nation employed
him as their professional adviser in all matters, including
the net proceeds claim, pertaining to their rights against the
United States, for which the nation agreed to pay him a reasonable compensation. That he immediately entered upon
the duties thus assumed, and prepared the treaty of 1866
between the nation and the United States, reinstating the
Indians in their, rights and privileges. For this service, however, he seems to have been paid. That he procured and submitted large masses of evidence to the various committees of
Congress having the matters in charge, and made numerous
arguments before said committees, and before the executive
officers of the United States, and stated accounts in behalf of
th e nation against the United States, and was engaged five or
six years in the active prosecution of their claim. That these
services continued until about the time McKee interposed in
the business as the leading agent of the nation. That after
that date, his services were apparently not needed or desired
by the other attorneys, and he did but little, but is informed
and believes that McKee and those working with him prosecuting the case, which he had previously prepared, and, with
the use of the results of his professional skill and industry,
secured the payment of the claim. That, if the McKee contract were held to be valid, then McKee was bound in equity
and justice to pay to complainant a fair and just compensation
for the services theretofore rendered, for which McKee should
be charged as trustee. That it was agreed in 1866, between
himself and the Choctaws, that his services should be rendered
in conjunction with Cochrane, and that he subsequently agreed
with Cochrane that his compensation should be paid out of
the percentage reserved to Coch ane by his contract, and that
I:e is reasonwbly entitled to receive $75,000, which had been

McKEE v. LATROBE.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed upon between himself and McPherson, Cochrane's
executor, as his proper compensation.
In his answer, McKee denied the general employment of
the complainant by the Choctaw Nation, and averred that, if
he were ever employed at all, it was only to assist and advise
with the authorities of said nation in regard to the negotiation
of the treaty of April 28, 1866, and denied that under such
treaty the claim for net proceeds was secured, or that it had
been prosecuted to a successful conclusion through the provisions of such treaty.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the case resulted
in a decree for $75,000 against McKee, with the further provision .that if anything were paid to-the complainant Latrobe
out of the fund deposited in the court by McKee in the interpleader suit, such sum should be credited in favor of McKee
on the decree. Upon the following day, a decree was entered
in the interpleader suit, to which Latrobe was a party defendant, awarding him his distributive share of the entire amount,
$75,000, out of the general fund of $147,057.63 in controversy
in that case. McKee appealed from the decree in this case.
Mr. John J. Weed and Mr. Jefferson Chandler for appellant.
Mr.Enoch Totten, (with whom was Xr.Reginald Fendall
on the brief,) for Mrs. Latrobe.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
This is another one of the claims made under the trust expressed in the McKee contract, "to adjust the claims of all
parties who have rendered service heretofore in the prosecution of said claim, upon the principle of equity and justice,
according to the value of the services so rendered." McKee's
argument in this connection is, that this was a personal agreement and obligation of himself and Blunt with the Choctaw
Nation; was not for the benefit of Latrobe; vested in no one
any interest in the money which might become payable under
that contract; and was not an assignment or dedication of

()CT()BEIt TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

any part of the money which they might .receive from the
Choctaw Nation, in consideration of the performance by them
of their contract - in other words, that it was a contract of
indemnity, by which McKee undertook to save the Choctaw
Nation harmless from any claim that should be made for services that had been theretofore rendered by other agents and
attorneys. We do not so read it. A trust so plainly declared
would be of no avail, if the class of persons who are described
therein could not take advantage of it. It was not needed to
indemnify the Choctaws, since no possible action could lie
against them after the contract had been abandoned by Black.
It was evidently intended to satisfy any moral obligation for
services which had been performed, but not completed, and
to throw the burden of adjusting and paying them upon
McKee.
His theory, too, is inconsistent .with his repeated statements
to leading members of the Choctaw council, whose affidavits,
received in the place of depositions, show that he declared to
the leading authorities of the nation that he considered himself
6bligated under his contract to pay all outstanding obligations
to persons for the services rendered in the prosecution of the
claim prior to his own contract. In addition to that, and in
corroboration of his own statements, he exhibited a letter
written by his own attorney, and by his direction, to Leflore,
in which he stated that "so far as I know, or have ever heard,
every lawyer who has ever rendered service, or pretends to
have rendered service, in regard to the net proceeds claim expects to get his pay out of the thirty per cent, and to get it
through McKee.
For myself, 1 expect to be paid by Mr.
McKee out of his thirty per cent. I have no claim against
the Choctaw Nation if Mr. McKee's thirty per cent is paid,
even if, he should not pay me, but of this I have not the slightest doubt. McKee's contract requires him to stand between
the Choctaws and their attorneys who have rendered service.
He would be liable to suit in the courts, here and elsewhere,
wherever he could be found, if he should neglect or fail to
carry out his agreement with the Choctaws to settle and
adjust the claims of other attorneys, who have rendered ser-

MuKEE v. L&TROBE.
Opinion of the Court.

vice, upon principles of equity and justice. The Choctaws
would not be liable to any such suit anywhere." Here follows
a list of parties who had rendered service in the prosecution of
the claim, among which is the name of John H. B. Latrobe,
with the statement that "he looks to Mr. McPherson, executor of Mr. Cochrane, for his fee. Whatever sum Mr. Latrobe or Mr. Cochrane gets, comes out of McKee's thirty per
cent." McKee's prompt repudiation of this promise, and his
vigorous defence to all these claims, argues either a serious
impairment of memory with reference to the transaction, or a
deliberately dishonest purpose.
The services of Mr. Latrobe in this connection seem to have
had their origin in a visit made by the Choctaw delegation on
their way to Washington, at Latrobe's residence in Baltimore.
It seems they expressed to him the fear that all their treaties
with the government had been abrogated by the war that had
just ended; that he expressed some doubt upon the point, said
he would look into the matter, and a short time afterwards
called upon the delegation and told them that he had made
up his mind that their treaties had not been abrogated by the
war; that the right had been given to the President to abrogate them by proclamation, and that he had not done so; that
the occasion had passed, and that the treaties were still in
force. The value of his services was subsequently agreed
upon by McPherson, executor of Cochrane's estate, and fixed
at $75,000. This was the value put upon them by the court
below, and we see no occasion to disturb it.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Afirrned.

