ISAACS v. UNITED STATES.
Statemnt. of the Case.

business in an elevator is for the grain to be dlealt with in
large cargoes, so that the-identity of a particular lot is lost by
its being mixed with others. After all, the invention resolves
itself into the omission of the storage feature and a necessary
incident thereto.
To make a combination of old elements patentable, there
must be some new result accomplished, and as the result in
this case is a mere aggregation of the several functions of
the different elements of the combination, each performing
its old function in the old way, we see nothing upon which
a claim to invention can be based. The device is undoubtedly
a convenient one, and appears to have proven profitable to the
patentee; but we aire unanimously of opinion that it lacks
the necessary quality of invention.
The application is, therefore,
Denied.

ISAACS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

W1kSTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 609.

Submitted October 28, 1S95.

Decided November 11, 1895.

The action of the trial court upon an application for a continuance is purely
a matter of' discretion, not subject to review by this court, unless it
clearly appears that the discretion has been abused.
The court committed no error in charging that the fact that the man killed
was a white man might be shown by the statement of tim defendant
taken in connection with other facts and circumstances.
It is no ground for reversal that the court omitted to give instructions
which were not requested by the defendant.

THE plaintiff in error, Webber Isaacs, a Cherokee Indian,
was indicted, with two others, for the murder of a white man
in the Indian country. There were four counts in the indictment, two charging that the murdered man was Mike' P.
Cushing, and two that he was an unknown white man. No
witness who testified saw the act of killing; but it was shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
.Opinion of the Court.

by the testimony of several witnesses, that a peddler, about
sixty years of age, with gray whiskers and riding a gray pony,

was seen going towards Isaacs' house, several days before the
body was found. Some days thereafter, within a mile of
Isaacs' house, and off from the public road, the body of a horse,
corresponding to the one the peddler was riding, was found.
The appearances indicated that he had been shot. Near the
horse were the remains of a man, with the clothing and flesh
nearly. consumed by fire. The ground indicated that the body
had been dragged from where the horse lay to where it was.
found, the feet having tied about them what appeared to be
a portion of the bridle, which was found cut up. There was
evidence that the remains were those of a white man. Under
his chin were some gray whiskers unconsumed by the fire.
Near the body were found some bills and letters identified as
belonging to Cushing. The head was crushed and there were
holes under the arm. Shortly after the killing, several witnesses saw defendant with money.
Defendant admitted that a peddler was at his house on the
day that Cushing was last seen alive, and said that he rode
away with one Jack Chewey, who told him the next day that
he had killed the peddler. He admitted that he had never
asked Chewey any questions as to when, how, or where he
had killed him, and that, he had never told any person that
Chewey had told him of the killing. Five witnesses also
swore that defendant told them that he and Chewey had
killed a white peddler at a time corresponding with the disappearance of Cushing.
The jury found the defendant guilty of murder as charged in
the first count of the indictment, and the court sentenced him
to be hanged. Whereupon he sued 6ut this writ of error.
No appearance for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendants
in error submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

ISAACS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In the absence of an oral argument and of a brief by plaintiff in error, we are compelled to dispose of this case upon tie
record, and the brief of the Attorney General.
1. The first error assigned is to the action of the court in
overruling a motion for a continuance, requested because of
the absence of a material witness for the defence.
That the action of the trial court upon an application for a
continuance is purely a matter of discretion, and not subject
to review by this court, unless it be clearly shown that such
discretion has been abused, is settled by too many authorities
to be now open to question. Woods v. Young, 4 Cranch, 237;
Barrow v. ill, 1H
Row. 54; Crumpton v. United States, 138
U. S. 361; Cox v .rfart,145 U. S. 376 ; Earnshaw v. United
States, 146 U. S. 60, 68; Means v. Bonk of Randall, 146 U. S.
620. It appears that forty-nine days before the case was
called for trial, an application was made and granted to have
the witness whose testimony was desired, summoned at the
expense of the government, the affidavit showing that she was
within the jurisdiction of the court. It was not shown that
any diligence was used to procure the attendance of the witness; or that any attachment was asked for, although the
trial continued for several days, or why the subpoena was not
served. The affidavit did not show that the defendant could
not make the same proof by other witnesses, or that he could
not safely go to trial without the testimony of the witness in
question. In fact, all that the affidavit showed that the witness could prove was established by other testimony, including
that of the defendant himself. There was clearly no abuse of,
discretion.
2. The second assignment was to the charge of the court
"that the fact that the man killed was a white man might be
shown by the statement of the defendant in establishing the
corpus delicti."
The charge of the court is not accurately set out in the assignment, but was, in substance, that the fact that Cushing was a
white man might be shown by the testimony of the defendant
as well as by any other means, or that it might be shown by,
that in connection with other facts and circumstances.

OCTOBER

rERM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

We do not understand that any inference can properly be
drawn from this that the court intended to charge that the
corpus delicti might be shown by the mere-statement of the
defendant, but only that his statement, taken in connection
with other facts, might be used to show that the murdered
man was a white man. If any inference could be drawn to
the effect that the court intended to charge that the coqrpus
delicti might be proved by the confession of the defendant, it
is completely removed by the further charge that "that state
of case" (namely, the death of Cushing. by violence inflicted
criminally) "must be proven by circumstances, or by positive
proof, one or the other, before the declarations or admissions
or confessions of the defendant can be taken as sufficient to
warrant a jury in convicting. Now do not make any mistake
about this proposition - the proposition called the corpus
delicti the fact that a crime was committed, or the fact
that the man charged in the indictment, either as Mike P.
Cushing, or an unknown white man, was murdered, must be
proven by evidence outside of the confession of the defendant;" and that "whenever that state of case is established,
then" you may take the declarations of the defendant as tending to show. his guilt."
As there was abundant evidence in the case, outside of
defendant's confession, not only that the man had been murdered, but considerable evidence that he was a white man, we
think there was no error committed in the charge that the
fact that he was a white man might be shown by the testimony of the defendant, as well as by other means, or by that
in connection with other facts and circumstances. The fact
that the murdered man was a white man had no bearing
upon the question of the corpus delicti, or of the fact that
the defendant murdered him, and bore only upon the jurisdiction of the court.
3. The next assignment is to the charge "that the corpus.
delicti could be established by circumstantial testimony, without saying that this circumstantial evidence should be such as
creates cogent, irresistible grounds of presumption." Without
any request on the part of the defendant to add the qualifi-

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

cation suggested, there was no error in the charge actually
given. It is no ground for reversal that the court omitted
to give instructions, where they were not requested by the
defendant. It is sufficient that the court give no erroneous
instructions. Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 15;, Texas &
Pacific Railway v. Volk, 151 U. S. 73, 78.
Beyond this, however, any possible misapprehension upon
this point would be removed by the charge that the law says
that "if the propositions I have namdd to you make up the
crime, and the further proposition that brings the crime home
to this defendant are proven beyond a reasonable doubt in the
case, that your duty in the premises is imperative: it is to find
a verdict of guilty of murder against the defendant. If they
are not proven in that way, either one of them - that is, to
such a degree of certainty that they come under that legal
definition of proof beyond a reasonable doubt- then your
duty will be to acquit the defendant." As the court charged
the jury repeatedly that the crime and every element thereof
must be made out to their satisfaction beyond a reasonable
doubt, it is impossible that they could have been misled by
the omission of the qualification suggested.
The remaining assignments are either covered by those
already considered, or are so obviously frivolous that no discussion of them is necessary The judgment of the court
below is, therefore,
Aflirmed.

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 548. Submitted October 15, 1895, - Decided November 11, 1895.

Land, duly and properly entered for a homestead, under the homestead laws
of the United States, is not, from the time of entry, and pending proceedings before the land department, and until final disposition by that
department, so appropriated for special purpose, and so segregated from
the public domain as to be no longer lands of the United States within
the purview and meaning of section 2461 of the Revised Statutes of the

