OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

the effect that the article imported was not known commercially as "scoured wool ;" but in the view taken by the court
below, which we think was correct, this was immaterial.
The act does not impose a duty upon scoured wool as such by
its commercial designation, but provides that "the duty on
wools . . . which shall be imported washed, shall be twice
the amount of duty to which they would be subject if im-.
p)orted univashed; and the duty on wools of all classes which
shall be imported scoured, shall be three times the duty to
which they would be subjected if imported unwashed." In
short, the act refers not to the commercial designation but
to the fact whether the wool has been actually scoured or
washed, or is imported unwashed. If the wools have in fact
undergone the process of scouring, they are properly classified
:is imported scoured, although they may not be known coinine 'cially as scoured wools.
There was no error in the rulings of the court below, of
which the defendants were entitled to complain, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
.A4firmed.

THIEDE v. UTAH TERRITORY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 633. Submitted October 21, 1895. -

Decided November 11, 1895.

It is not error in Utah to proceed to trial of a person accused of murder
before the filing of the transcript of the preliminary examination had
under the Compiled Laws of Utah, § 4883.
The provision in Rev. Stat. § 1033, that the defendant in a capital case is
entitled to have delivered to him at least two entire days before the
trial a copy of the indictment and a list of the witnesses to be pro(uced on the trial does not control the practice and procedure of the
local courts of Utah.
In Utah a juror in a capital case who states on his voir dire that he had read
an account of the homicide 'in
the newspaper and formed some impression touching it, but that he could lay that aside and try the case fairly
and impartially on the evidence, is not subject to challenge for cause.
A juror is lot subject to cldlnge for cause in a criminal proceedling

THIEDE v. UTAH

TERRITORY.

Opinion of the Court.
against a saloon keeper for homicide, who states on his voir dire, that he
has a prejudice against the business of saloon keeping, but none against
the defeudant, whom he does not know.
When the relations between a defendant, charged with murdering his wife
and the wife are to be settled, not by direct and positive but by circumstantial evidence, any circumstance which tends to throw light thereon
may be fairly admitted in evidence.
The order in which testimony shall be admitted is largely within the discretion of the trial court.
When the court rules correctly that certain matters are not proper subjects of cross-examination, and notifies the questioning party that he
can recall the witness and examine him fully in reference to those
matters, and he fails to recall him or introduce testimony thereon, he
has no grounds of complaint.
The credibility of a female witness cannot ue impeached by asking her
whether she has not had some difficulty with her husband.
When the defendant in a criminal case consents that a member of the jury
shall act as interpreter for a witness speaking a foreign language, none
of his rights are prejudiced by the juryman's so doing.
An exception in bulk to a refusal to charge several propositions, separately
numbered but offered in bulk, cannot be maintained if any one proposition be unsound.
Deliberation and premeditation to commit orime need not exist in the
criminal's mind for any fixed period before the commission of the act.
Exceptions to the ruling of the court in a jury trial, tendered twelve days
after the verdict was rendered, are too late.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

No appearance for plaintiff in error.

Xr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendant
inerror.
MR.

JUSTic

BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On November 5, 1894, in the District Court of Salt Lake
County, Utah Territory, Charles Thiede, the plaintiff in error,
was found guilty of the crime of murder, and sentenced to be
hanged. On March 16, 1895, this judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the Territory, whereupon he sued out
this writ of error.
The record of thc proccedings in the trial court is Volunii.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

nous, consisting of over four hundred printed pages, and we
have not been assisted in our examination by either brief or
argument on the part of counsel for plaintiff in error. We
have, however, carefully examined the record, with the several
assignments of error, and now state our conclusions thereon.
The first alleged error is in overruling the defendant's objection to going to trial on October 10, 1894, on the ground that
the evidehce taken at the preliminary hearing had not been
transcribed, certified, and filed with the clerk of the District
Court, as provided by law. The homicide was charged to
have been committed on April 30, 1894.. The indictment was
returned on September 24. On September 28 the defendant
was arraigned and pleaded "not guilty." On October 2 the
trial was fixed by order of the court for October 10, and on
that day when the case was called for trial the objection heretofore referred to was made and overruled. It was admitted
that a preliminary examination had been had, that the testimony before the justice of the peace had been taken down in
shorthand by one Fred. McGurrin, under direction of the justine; that about ten days before the trial said McGurrin was
asked by the prosecuting attorney to transcribe the same, and
that he declined to do so. McGurrin stated in open court that
he had in a prior.case transcribed the evidence and been refused
payment therefor both by the county and the Territory, and
upon such refusal had brought suit against both, and in such
suits it had been adjudged that he had no cause of action
against either, and that the -only reason he failed to transcribe
the testimony was that he would not be paid for the same.
By section 4883, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1888, in cases of
homicide the testimony taken upon the preliminary examination is required to be reduced to writing as a deposition by the
magistrate, or under his direction. If taken down in shorthand it must be transcribed into longhand by the reporter,
within ten days after the close of the examination, and by him
certified and filed with the clerk of the District Court. The
fees for this are to be paid .out of the county treasury. The
defendant did not ask for a continuance, but simply objected
to going to trial because this transcript of the testimony had,

THIEDE v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

not been transcribed, certified, and filed. As the time within
which this was by the statute required to be done had already
passed, the objection, if sustained, would either have been
fatal to the entire proceeding, and prevented any trial under
that indictment, or at least would have caused a delay of the
trial until such time as, by suitable proceedings, the filing of
the transcript of the testimony could have been completed,
and many things might interfere to postpone or prevent the
obtaining of such transcript.
Before a ruling is made which necessarily works out such a
result it should appear either that the statute gives an absolute right to the defendant to insist upon this preliminary
filing, or else that the want of it would cause material injury
to his defence. Neither can be affirmed. A preliminary examination is not indispensable to the finding of an indictment or
a trial thereon ; and if the examination itself is not indispensable it would seem to follow that no step taken in the course-or
as a part of it can be. Further, the statute does not provide
that this transcript shall be filed at any time before the finding of the indictment or before the trial, but only within ten
(lays after the examination.. There is no prohibition against
finding an indictment or bringing on of the trial at any time
after the commission of the offence. The statute nowhere
expressly places the filing of this transcript as something necessarily happening intermediate the examination and the trial,
nor does it make the latter depend upon such filing or even
upon a preliminary examination.
Further, supposing the transcript is filed, of' what avail is it
to the defendant? Simply this, that, as such a transcript is
by the statute made prima Joie a correct statement of the
testimony and proceedings at the preliminary examination, if
the defendant wishes to impeach any witness by proof of contradictory testimony at such examination, it is convenient to
have on file that which is yrimna fcacie such testimony. But
if the defendant can secure the same evidence without the
transcript, the lack of it is no material injury; and that he
could do so in this case appears from the fact that the stenog
raipher was present in the cotrt, ',own, and his attendance could
VOL. CIX-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

have been secured by a subpcena, and he compelled under oath
to develop from his notes any testimony taken on the preliminary examination. We conclude, therefore, that the law does
not forbid a trial before the filing of this transcript, nor was,
in this case, the failure so to file an error working substantial
injury to the rights of the defendant.
The second matter presented is, that the court permitted
certain witnesses to testify in the case over the objection of
the defendant, when their names were not endorsed on the
indictment nor included in a list furnished the defendant by
the prosecuting attorney; and defendant had no knowledge
that they would be called to testify until the trial had begun.
It appears that on October 2, when the case was set for trial,
the defendant's counsel, in open court, requested the district
attorney to furnish them before the trial began with the names
of all witnesses to be called by the prosecution on the trial,
stating that they did not claim it as a matter of right but of
favor, and thought it was only fair to the defendant that he
should be so advised. Thereupon the district attorney stated
that he was unaware of any witnesses other than those whose
names were on the back of the indictment, excepting four
whom he then named, but promised that if he ascertained
there were any others he would give information in regard to
them as soon as received; on the 8th of October he furnished
the defendant with a list of other witnesses; on the 11th, the
day after the trial commenced, he notified the defendant
of still another witness, who was in fact not called until the
15th, and four days before the defence rested.
By § 1033 Rev. Stat., the defendant in a capital case is entitled to have delivered to him at least two entire days before
the 'trial a copy of the indictment and a list of the witnesses
to be produced on the trial. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
203, 304. But this section applies to the Circuit and District
Courts of the United States, and does not control the practice
and procedure of the courts of Utah, which are regulated by
the statutes of that Territory. This question was fully considered in Hornbuckle v. Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, and it was held,
overruling prior decisions, that the pleadings and procedure of

THIEDE v. UTAH TERIEITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

the territorial courts, as well as their respective jurisdictions,
were intended by Congress to be left to the legislative action
of the territorial assemblies and to the regulations which might
be adopted by the courts themselves.. See also Clinton v.
Englerecht, 13 Wall. 4394, in which it was held that the selection of jurors in territorial courts was to be made in conformity
to the territorial statutes; Good v. 3latvtin, 95 U. S. 90, in
which a like ruling was made as to the competency of witnesses; le!/1h4618 v. United Statey, 98 U. S. 145, where the
same rule was applied to the inpanelling of grand jurors and
the number of jurors ; also u;/les, v. United 5'tale8, 103 U. S.
304, a case coming from the Territory of Utah, in which the
same doetrine was anLm 1(hl] with regard to the mode of challenging petit jurors. ]Paye v. Bai'rnst-ne, 102 U. S.664, 668.
Referring, therefore, to the territorial statutes, there is none
which directs that a list of the witnesses be furnished to the
defendant. Section 4925, Comp. Laws Utah, requires that
the names of witnesses examined before the grand jury be
endorsed on the indictment before it is presented. There is no
pretence that this direction was not complied with. In the
absence of some statutory provision there is no irregularity in
calling a witness whose name does not appear on the back of
the indictment or has not been furnished to the defendant
before the trial. The action of counsel for defendant in asking
that as a favor the names be furnished, them indicates their
understanding of thQ extent of defendant's right, and, so far
as appears, the district attorney fully complied with this
request and furnished the names as fast as he was advised that
they would be called. There is no suggestion that the defendant was surprised by the calling of any witness or the testimony that he gave. This allegation of error, therefore, is
without foundation.
The third assignment is that the court erred in overruling
defendant's challenges for cause directed against four jurors
on the ground that on the voir dire they showed themselves
incompetent to serve. These jurors testified substantially that
at the time of the homicide they had read accounts thereof in
the newspaper, and that some im)ression had been formed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

their minds from such reading, but each stated that he could
lay aside any such impression and could try the case fairly and
impartially uponthe evidence presented. Section 5024, Compiled Laws of Utah, reads that " no person shall be disqualified
as a juror. by reason of having formed or expressed an opinion
upon the matter or cause to be submitted to such jury, founded
upon public rumor, statements in public journals, or common
notoriety: Provided, It appears to the court, upon his declaration, under oath or otherwise, that he can and will, notwithstanding such an opinion, act impartially and fairly upon the
matters submitted to him."
The testimony of these jurors clearly placed them within
the terms of this statute, and there was no error in overruling
the challenges. Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145;
Hopt v, Utah, 120 U. S. 430; Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131;
Connors v. United States, 158 U. S. 408.
The defendant was a saloon keeper, and one of the jurors
also said that he had a prejudice against that business; that
he did not know the defendant and had no prejudice against
him individually, but simply against the business of saloon
keeping; that such prejudice would not influence him in any
way in passing upon the guilt or innocence of the defendant,
but that his occupation, like that of any other witness, might
affect the credit he would give to his testimony. But the
charge against the defendant, the matter to be tried, had no
reference to the occupation in which he- was engaged, and,
therefore, a prejudice against such occupation is entirely immaterial. In Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, a juror testified
to a decided prejudice against iocialists and communists, as
the defendants were said to be, but as the charge to be tried
was murder, and there was no prejudice against the defendants
as individuals, he wqs accepted and sworn as a juror. In the
case at bar the juror was, however, excused by the defendant
before all his peremptory challenges were exhausted. Hopt
v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71.
A fourth assignment is that the court erred in admitting
irrelevant, incompetent, and immaterial testimony. In order
to appreciate this assignment of error it becomes necessary to

THIEDE v. UTAH TERRITORy.
Opinion of the Court.

state briefly the circumstances of the homicide. The defendant owned a brewery., and adjoining it kept a saloon; he had
for some time prior to the homicide been sleeping in the saloon,
while his wife and their child - a girl of about nine years of
age -slept at the dwelling-house a short distance away. Somewhere about one o'clock in the morning of Tuesday, May 1',
1894, the defendant awakened one Jacob Lauenberger, and
informed him that he had found his wife lying dead, with her
throat cut. Upon examination it appeared that the head had
been almost severed from the body by a wound made with
some sharp instrument, probably not a pocket-knife or a razor,
but some large knife or similar instrument. The deceased was
lying within three to five feet of the southeast corner of the
saloon. About thirty feet further east was a pool of blood,
with evidences of a struggle, and from that -point to where the
body lay there were marks of blood. The defendant was in or
near the saloon during the night until he went with the witness Lauenberger for a physician, and the saloon was lighted
during the whole of the night. There was blood upon his
hands and upon his clothing. When he awakened Lauenberger, and thereafter when going for a physician, and after
his return, he manifested grief at the loss of his wife. There
was evidence of ill treatment by the defendant of his wife for
a number of years, though this was denied by him, and. his
denial sustained by other testimony. On the Sunday evening
preceding the murder the defendant and his wife had quarrelled. The witness Lauenberger called them into his house,
and, according to his testimony and that of his wife, the defendant while there slapped his wife in the face, and ordered
her to go home, and she refused to go, saying that if she went
home the defendant would kill her that night. The last time
the deceased was seen by any witness other than the defendant was about ten o'clock Monday evening, when she was sitting outside the defendant's saloon. The night was dark.
Now the most of the testimony objected to Nvas introduced
for the purpose of showing ill treatment by defendant of deceased, and a state of bitter feeling between them. This, of
course, bears on the question of motive, and tends to rebut the

OCTOBER{ TER-M, 1895.
• Opinion of the Court.

presumed improbability of a husband murdering his wife. The
witnesses testified to hearing the deceased scream at several
times; to seeing her with black eyes and a bruised face; to
her eyes looking red; to her crying on several occasions, and
appearing alarmed and scared, and to bruises and discolorations of her body. The objection was that these witnesses did
not connect the defendant with these appearances, or testify
that he was the cause of them. It is true these matters do
not constitute direct evidence of ill treatment or a long-continued quarrel, but they are circumstances which, taken in
connection with the testimony of what was seen and heard
passing between the defendant and his wife, were fairly to be
considered by the jury in determining the truth in respect
thereto. Whether the relations between the defendant and
his wife were friendly or the reverse, was to be settled, not by
direct or positive but by circumstantial evidence, and any circumstance which tended to throw light thereon might fairly
be admitted in evidence before the jury. Alexander v. United
States, 138 U. S. 353; Holmes v. Goldsmith, 147 U. S. 150;
.Moore v. United States, 150 U. S. 57. In the second of these
cases, page 164, this court observed: "As has been frequently
said, great latitude is allowed in the reception of circumstantial evidence, the aid of which is constantly required, and,
therbfore, where direct evidence of the fact is wanting, the
more the jury can see of the surrounding facts and circumstances the more correct their judgment is likely to be."
Another witness, after stating that he knew the defendant
prior to the homicide, was permitted to testify that he was
"a strong, powerful man." While this was not very material,
as the defendant was in the presence of the jury, yet, in view
of the medical testimony that the wound must have been
caused by a powerful blow, we cannot say that it was either
incompetent or immaterial, or that the court erred in admitting it.
There was testimony that after the defendant had returned
with Lauenberger and the physician to his saloon a stranger
came in and bought some whiskey. This was before daylight
on the morning of Tuesday. The physician testified that he

THIEDE v. UTAH TERRYFIORY.
Opinion of the Court.

noticed this stranger carefully, and saw him the next day, and
that there were no blood stains on him or his clothing. The
latter testimony was objected to, yet, as there was evidence
tending to show that there must have been something of a
struggle between the deceased and her murderer, with the
probability that in such struggle blood would have gotten on
to the person and the clothing of the latter, we cannot say
that the testimony was absolutely immaterial; at any rate,
we cannot see how it in any manner tended to prejudice the
defendant.
We may remark in.regard to other alleged errors in the
introduction of testimony, that the order in which testimony
shall be admitted is largely within the discretion of the trial
court; that when the court rules correctly that certain matters
are not proper subjects of cross-examination, and at the same
time notifies the defendant that he can recall the Witness and
examine him fully in reference to those matters, and the
defendant fails to recall the witness or introduce his testimony thereon, it is difficult to see any ground of complaint;
and further, that the credibility of a witness cannot be impeached by asking her whether she has not had some difficulty
with her husband.
Another assignment of error is that one of the jurors was
permitted to act as interpreter. The record discloses that
when Lauenberger was called as a witness one Fritz Lomax
was sworn as interpreter. After the examination had proceeded a little while defendant's counsel suggested that the
interpreter was.not correctly translating the answers of the
witness; that the defendant had so informed him, which
statement was corroborated by one of the jurors. This juror
was asked if he fully understood the peculiar dialect of the
German language which the witness spoke, and replied that
he did, whereupon,, with the consent of defendant, he was
sworn to act as an interpreter, and the subsequent examina•tion of the witness was carried on through him. We cannot
see that in this any substantial right of the defendant was
prejudiced. The juror certainly heard all that the witness
stated,. and was, therefore, fully prepared to 4 ct with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

other, jurors in considering his testimony, and as his interpre.tation of the witness's testimony was with the consent of the
defendant, the latter cannot now question its propriety.
The remaining assignments of error relate to the matter of
instructions. It appears that at the close of the testimony
the defendant presented a body of instructions in twenty-two
paragraphs, and asked the court to give them to the jury.
They were marked "refused as a whole except as given," and
the only exception to such refusal was in this language, "the
defendant excepts to the refusal of the court to give the instructions requested by the defendant, being numbered 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, and 21." Such an
exception is insufficient to compel an examination of each separate instruction. It is enough that any one of the series is
erroneous. In Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46, 54, this precise
question was presented, and the court said: "The entire series
of propositions was presented as one request; and, if any one
proposition was unsound, an exception to a refusal to charge
the series cannot be maintained." See also Indianapolis &
St. Louis Railroad v. iorst, 93 U. S. 291, 295; Block v.
Darling, 140 U. S. 234; Bogk v. Gassert, 149 U. S. 17, S6;
Holder v. United States, 150 U. S. 91; ilickory v. United
States, 151 U. S. 303, 316; Allis v. United States, 155 U. S.
117; New port News &c. Valley Co. v. Pace, 158 U. S. 36.
An examination of the twenty-two instructions shows that
they are mainly directed to the matters of reasonable doubt,
presumption of innocence, circumstantial testimony, and confessions, in respect to which the court, while not using the
language of counsel, substantially expressed the same propositions in its charge. Of course, it was under no obligation to
use the precise language adopted by counsel, and if it fully
covered the ground indicated by the requests it is sufficient.
One of the requests, to wit, N6. 21, reads as follows:
"The jury are instructed that marital discord and quarrels
are relevant to prove motive in cases of marital homicide, but,
as instances of such quarrels are very numerous, generally
expending their force in words, such proof is entitled to little
weight, unless connected in some way with the fatal wound."

Tii LEDE 'v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

This, if true under any circumstances, was obviously improper as applied to the facts of this case, for, as there was no
evidence of what took place between the deceased and her
murderer at the night of the homicide, it might carry the
impression to the jury that they were to ignore all the testimony of marital discord and quarrels because there was no
express connection shown between such quarrels and the homicide.
It also appeared that defendant's counsel, at the close of the
charge, excepted as follows:
"Further, the defendant excepts to the giving of the instructions to the jury on the definition of the word 'malice'
and application to this case, as being misleading, confusing, and not correctly stating the law as applicable to this
case and tending to influence the jury to find a verdict not justified by the evidence in this case.
"The defendant excepts to the giving of the instruction of
the court to the jury on'the question of murder in.
the second
degree, as not being justified by the evidence and tending to
mislead and confuse the jury and cause them to render a verdict not sustained by the evidence in this case.
"The defendant excepts to the instruction of the court to
the jury in defining deliberation, that the same does not properly and legally define the meaning of the words used in the
indictment in this case.
"The defendant excepts to the instruction of the court to
the jury in the definition and meaning of premeditation, as
misleading and not correct as charged in the indictment in
this case."
It may well be doubted whether these exceptions are sufficiently specific to call the attention of the court to the precise
matters complained of. Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46, 55, in
which this court observes: "It is not the duty of a judge at
the Circuit Court, or of an appellate court, to analyze and
compare the requests and the chafge, to discover what are the
portions thus excepted to. One object of an exception is to
call the attention of the circuit judge to the precise point as to
which it is supposed he has erred, that he may then and there

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

consider it, and give new and different instructions to the jury,
if in his judgment it should be proper to do so." Allis v. United
States, 155 U. S. 117; Newport News &c. Valley 0o. v. Pace,
158 U. S. 36. But if they are, we find nothing in the charge of
the court in respect to those matters which can be deemed erroneous. This was the definition of malice: "The term' malice'
denotes a wicked intention of the mind; an act done with a
depraved mind attendant with circumstances which indicate
a wilful disregard of the rights or safety of others indicates
malice. Malice aforethought is such wicked intention of the
mind previously entertained." Evidently, there is nothing in
this of which the defendant can complain. I Bishop's New
Criminal Law, § 429. Following this definition of malice the
court in its' charge referred to the divisions of express and
implied malice, and discussed them at some length, but we find
nothing in such discussion which is not supported by accepted
defi nitions, or which in any manner would tend to the prejudice of defendant's rights.
With reference to the giving of an instruction on the question
of murder in the second degree, the accuracy of the instruction is not questioned, and that it was proper to give one has
been already determined by this court. In Hopt v. Utah, 110
U. S. 574, 582,. it was said : "It was competent for the judge,
under the statutes of Utah, to state to the jury ' all matters
of law necessary for their information,' and, consequently, to
inform them what those statutes defined as -murder in the
first degree and murder in the second degree. Laws of Utah,
1878, p. 120; Code of Crim. Pro. secs. 283, 284."
As to the other matters, we do not find in the charge any
separate definition of the terms "deliberation" or " premeditation." Probably counsel referred to the statement that such
deliberation and premeditation need not exist for any fixed
period of time; that it is enough that they were formed before
the act. This is the accepted law. 2 Bishop's New Crim.
Law, § 728.
Again, the verdict was returned on October 21. On November 2 counsel for defendant came into court, and sought to
save other exceptions to the charge. The court noted those

WHEELEIR v. UNITE)

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

exceptions but declined to make any ruling on them. Obviously, they were too late. Mich. ns. Bank v. Eldred, 143
U. S. 293, 298.
These are all the errors assigned. We find nothing in the
record of which the defendant has any just complaint, and,
therefore, the judgment is
Afyirmed.

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 571. Submitted October 24, 1895. - Decided November 11, 1895.

An indictment for murder in the Eastern District of Texas which alleges that
the accused and the deceased were not Indians nor citizens of the Indian
Territory is sufficient, without the further allegation that they were not
citizens of any Indian tribe or nation.
The overruling a motion for a new trial is not assignable as error.
A boy five years of age is not, as matter of law, absolutely disqualified as a
witness; and in this case the disclosures on the voir dire were sufficient
to authorize his admission to testify.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

No appearance for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On January 2, 1895, George L. Wheeler was by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas
adjudged guilty of the crime of murder and sentenced to be
hanged. Whereupon he sued out this writ of error. Three
errors are alleged: First, that the indictment is fatally defective in failing to allege that the defendant and the deceased
were not citizens of any Indian tribe or nation. It charges

