MOORE v. MISSOURI.
Statement of the Case.

larly established as such by law. Ingraham v. United States,
155 U. S. 434; Wright v. United States, 158 U. S. 232.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Aflrmed.

MOORE v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 493. Argued and submitted October 80, 1895. -Decided

November 25, 1895.

The provision in ยง 3959 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri that prisoners
convicted two or more times of committing offences punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary shall be punished with Increased severity
for the later offences, does not in any way conflict with the provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
A State may provide that persons who have been before convicted of crime
may suffer severer punishment for. subsequent offences than for a first
offence against the law, and that a different punishment for the same
offence may be inflicted under particular circumstances, provided it is
dealt out to all alike who are similarly situated.
Whether an indictment in a state court is sufficient in its description of the
degree of the offence charged is a matter for the state court to determine,
and its decision in that respect presents no Federal question.
No question which could be regarded as a Federal question having been
raised at his trial, the prisoner was not subjected to al unconstitutional
kuling in not being allowed to have his case heard at large by seven
judges, instead of by three.
FRANK MOORE was indicted in the St. Louis Criminal Court
for burglary in the first degree and larceny in a dwellinghouse, on May 26, 1893. The indictment also charged that
defendant "on the eleventh day of January, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, at the
city of St. Louis aforesaid, in the St. Louis Criminal Court,
was duly convicted on his own confession of the offence of
grand larceny, and in accordance with said conviction was
duly sentenced by said court to an imprisonment in the peni.
tentiary for the terni of three years, and was duly imprisoned
VOL. CLIX-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in said penitentiary in accordance with said sentence, and that
after his discharge from the penitentiary upon compliance
with the sentence, he committed the said offences of burglary
and larceny." Being duly arraigned, he pleaded not guilty,
but subsequently withdrew his plea, and filed a motion to
quash the indictment for duplicity, and " because section 3959,
under which the said indictment purports to charge the defendant with a former conviction, is unconstitutional and
illegal and void and in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States and the State of Missouri." The motion being
overruled, he was again arraigned, pleaded not guilty.and was
put upon his trial, which resulted in a verdict of guilty of
burglary in the second degree, his punishment being fixed by
the jury at imprisonment in the penitentiary for life. A motion for a new trial was made for the following cause among
others, "because the court erred in overruling defendant's
motion to quash the indictment for the reason that it violated
both the state and Federal Constitutions;" and, that motion
being overruled, Moore filed a motion in arrest of judgment
upon various grounds, and among them, that burglary in the
second degree was not included in the offence of burglary in
the first degree, but was a separate and distinct offence; tha.
the statute upon which the indictment was founded was "unconstitutional and void, in that it violates the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution, and violates the
'bill of rights' in the constitution of Missouri in prescribing
a second punishment for the same offence, and different
punishment for different persons for committing the same
offence;" that the indictment in charging the former conviction attacked defendant's character when not in issue; and that
the indictment failed to inform the defendant of the accusation against him. The motion in arrest was overruled and
Moore sentenced to the penitentiary for life in accordance with
the verdict, whereupon he appealed to the Supreme Court
of Missouri, Division No. 2, by which the judgment was affirmed. 121 Missouri 514. Moore afterwards moved for a
rehearing upon the ground, among others, that he "was acquitted by the jury of all and every charge against him in the

MOORE v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

indictment, and yet stands sentenced for an offence not'named
in the indictment, nor included in any offence described therein,
and thus is deprived of his constitutional right of being proser.
cuted under an indictment informing him of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him;" and also moved that
the motion and cause be transferred to the court in banc.
These motions were denied, and, thereafter, Moore moved the
Supreme Court sitting in banc to set aside the judgment of
Division No. 2, and to order that division to transfer the cause
to the court in bane for the reason that the cause involved a
Federal question, or questions, raised by his motions to quash
the indictment, for new trial, and in arrest of judgment. The
Supreme Court in bane denied this motion, and also a second
motion to the same effect. A writ of error from this court was
subsequently allowed.
Mr.Charles T. Noland for plaintiff in error.
Yr. R. F. Walker, Attorney General of Missouri, Mr.C. 0.
Bishop, and Hr. Morton Jourdan, for defendant in error, submitted on their briefs.
MR.CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating

the case, delivered

the opinion of the court,
Admitting that the first ten articles of amendment to the
Constitution of the United States were adopted as limitations
on Federal power, it is argued for plaintiff in error that the
fundamental rights secured thereby are protected by the fourteenth article of amendment from invasion by the States, in
the prohibition of the abridgment of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States; of the deprivation
of life, liberty, or pr.operty without due process of law; and
of the denial of the equal protection of the laws; and it is contended that section 3959 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of
1889 is in violation of that amendment, in that persons are
thereby subjected to be twice put in jeopardy for the same
offence, and to cruel and unusual punishment; and deprived of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the equal protection of the laws. That section, which is also
to be found in the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879 and
the General Statutes of Missouri of 1865, is as follows:
"SEc. 3959. Second offence, how punished. If any person
convicted of any offence punishable by imprisonment in the
penitentiary, or of petit larceny, or of any attempt to commit
an offence, which, if perpetrated, would be punishable by
imprisonment in the penitentiary, shall be discharged, either
upon pardon or upon compliance with the sentence, and shall
subsequently be convicted of any offence committed after such
pardon or discharge, he shall be punished as follows: First,
if such subsequent offence be such that, upon a first conviction,
the offender would be punishable by imprisonment in the
penitentiary for life, or for a term which, under the provisions
of this law, might extend to imprisonment in the penitentiary
for life, then such person shall be punished by imprisonment
for life ; second, if such subsequent offence be such that upon
a first conviction the offender would be punishable by imprisonment for a limited term of years, then such person shall be
punished by imprisonment in the .penitentiary for the longest
term prescribed upon a conviction for such first offence; third,
if such subsequent conviction be for petit larceny, or for an
attempt to commit an offence which, if perpetrated, would be
punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, the person
convicted of such subsequent offence shall be punished by
imprisonment in the -- nitentiary for a term not exceeding
ive years."
Similar provisions have been contained in state statutes
for many years, and they have been uniformly sustained by
the courts. In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri
it is said: " The increased severity of the punishment for the
subsequent offence is not a punishment for. the same offence
for the second time, but a severer punishment for the subsequent offence, the law which imposes the increased punishment being presumed to be known by all persons, and to
deter. those so inclined from the further commission of crime;
and we are unable to see how the statute which imposes such
increased punishment violates the provisions of our constitu-

MOORE v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

tion hereinbefore quoted.

.

.

.

The fact that the indict-

ment charged a former conviction of another and entirely
different offence, is not in fact charging him with an offence
with respect of the former offence in the case in hand. The
averments as to the former offence go as to the punishment
only." And People v. Stanley, 47 California, 113; Rand
v. Commonwealth, 9 Gratt. 738; Ross's case, 2 Pick. 165;
Plumbly v. Commonwealth, 2' Met. (Mass.) 413; Ingalls v.
State, 48 Wisconsin, 647; Yaguire v. State, 47 Maryland, 485;
State v. Austin, 113 Missouri, 538; and Reg. v. Clark, 6 Cox
Cr. Cases, 210, are cited. And see People v. Butler, 3 Cowen,
347; Johnson v. State, 55 N. Y. 512; Kelly v. People, 115
Illinois, 583; Blackburn v. State, 50 Ohio St. 428; Sturtevant
v. Commonwealth, 158 Mass. 598.
The reason for holding that the accused is not again punished for the first offence is given in Ross's case by Chief Justice
Parker, that "the punishment is for the last offence committed,
and-it is rendered more severe in consequence of the situation
into which the party had previously brought himself;" in
Plumbly v. Commonwealth, by Chief Justice Shaw, that the
statute "imposes a higher punishment for the same offence
upon one who proves, by a second or third conviction, that
the former punishment has been inefficacious in doing the
work of reform for which it was designed;" in Peopie v.
Stanley, that "the punishment for the second is increased, because by his persistence in the pdrpetration of crime, he has
evinced a depravity, which merits a greater punishment, and
needs to be restrained by severer penalties than if it were his
first offence;" and in Kelly v. People, "that it is just that an
old offender should be punished more severely for a second
offence -that repetition of the offence aggravates guilt."
It is quite impossible for us to conclude that the Supreme
Court of Missouri erred in holding that plaintiff in error
was not twice put in jeopardy for the same offence, or that
the increase of his punishment by reason of the commission
of the first offence was not cruel and unusual. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436. Nor can we perceive that plaintiff in error
was denied the equal protection of the laws, for every other

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

1

Opinion of the Court.

person in like case with him, and convicted as he had been,
would be subjected to the like punishment.
The. Fourteenth Amendment means "that no person or
class of persons shall be denied the same protection of the
laws which is enjoyed by other persons or other classes in
the same place and under like circumstances." Missouri v.
Lewis, 101 U. S. 22. The general doctrine is that that amendment, in respect of the administration of criminal justice, requires that no different degree or higher punishment shall be
imposed on one than is imposed on all for like offences; but
it was not designed to interfere with the power of the State
to protect the lives, liberty, or property of its citizens, nor
with the exercise of that power in the adjudication of the
courts of the State in administering the process provided by
the law of the State. In re Converse, 137 U. S. 624. And
the State may undoubtedly provide that persons who have
been before convicted of crime may suffer severer punishment
for subsequent offences than for a first offence against the law,
and that a different punishment for the same offence may be
inflicted under particular circumstances, provided it is dealt
out to all alike who are similarly situated. Pace v. Alabama,
106 U. S. 583; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462.
2. It is further urged, by plaintiff in error, that the crimes
of burglary in the first degree and burglary in the second
degree were so distinct and separate that plaintiff in error
was not sufficiently informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation against him by the indictment for burglary in the
first degree, and was in fact convicted under what was, in
effect, no indictment at all, and, therefore, denied due process
of law. It is true that in order to a conviction for a minor
offence it must be an ingredient of the major and substantially included in the offence charged in the indictment, but
it is clearly a matter for the state courts to determine whether
in a given case an indictment is sufficient in that regard.
Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692.

Under the statutes of Missouri burglary in the first.degree
is-defined to be "breaking into and entering the dwellinghouse of another, in which there shall be at the time some

MOORE v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

human being, with intent to commit some felony or anylarceny therein, "in the several -modes pointed out ; and burglary in the second degree consists in breaking into a dwelling-house with intent to commit a felony or any larceny, "but
under such circumstances as shall not constitute the offence of
burglary in the first degree," or entrance into a dwelling-house
in such manner as not to constitute burglary as hereinbefore
specified, "with intent to commit a felony or any larceny,"
or the commission by a person being in, of felony or larceny,
and the breaking of any door or otherwise, to get out, or the
breaking of an inner door with intent to commit felony or
larceny, when entrance is made through an open outer door
or window, or where a person is lawfully in the house, etc.
The St. Louis Criminal Court and the Supreme Court of
the State appear to have had no difficulty in concluding upon
the evidence that it was for the jury to say whether plaintiff
in error had committed the crime of burglary in the second
degree, and that he could be lawfully convicted therefor under
an indictment for the greater offence. It may be admitted
that these courts did not, suppose that they were passing on
any Federal question in this regard, for no such question was
specifically and seasonably raised; but if it had been we do
not think that plaintiff in error was denied due process of law
in the view which was taken of his case.
3. Finally, it is said that plaintiff in error was denied
due process of law because his case was not heard by the court
in banc, consisting of seven judges, but was left on the disposition of it by Division No. 2, consisting of three judges.
In an amendment to the constitution of Missouri, adopted in
1890, the Supreme Court was divided into two divisions, Division No. 1 consisting of four judges and Division No. 2 of- the
remaining three, the latter division having exclusive cognizance of all criminal cases. It was also provided that when a
Federal question was involved the cause, on the application
of the losing party, should be transferred to the full bench for
its decision. .Duncanv. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377.
In Bennett v. Missouri Pacific Railway, 105 Missouri, 642,
it was held that the court would not take' jurisdiction on the

OCTOBER TERM, i895.
Syllabus.

ground that a Federal question was involved, unless that question was raised in and submitted to the trial court, and such
court had the opportunity to pass upon it; and that while it
could not be laid down by rule how every such question must
be raised in the trial court, it should, at least, be fairly and
directly presented by some of the methods recognized by the
practice and procedure of the court. In this instance, the
Supreme Court in banc refused to direct the case to be transferred, and we cannot say that it was not justified in that
refusal. The interjection into the motions to quash and for a
new trial, of the assertion that section 3959 was in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States, and also in the
motion 'in arrest, was perhaps regarded as not sufficiently
definite to invoke a distinct ruling on the points afterwards
suggested, and, moreover, the full court may have been of the
opinion that there was no sufficient ground for the contention
that a violation of the Federal Constitution had occurred to
require it to hear argument upon that subject. At all events,
as we find that there was no ground for questioning the judgment of the Supreme Court because of such violation in the
legislation on which that judgment was based or in the conduct of the trial, we cannot hold that the plaintiff in error
was subjected to an unconstitutional ruling in not being allowed to have his case heard at large by seven judges instead
of three.
Judgment affrmed.

BUCKLIN v. UNITED STATES (No. 1).
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 246. Submitted October 21, 1895. - Decided November 18, 1895.

The final judgment of a court of the United States in a case of tb9 conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime is not reviewable here
except on writ of error; and the Keview is confined to questions of law,
properly presented.

