OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
SMITH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued and submitted December 19,. 1894. -- Decided June 3, 1895.

When the receipt gi'en by a local land office to a pre~mptionist, acknowledging the payment of the preihnption money, is sufficient on its face
to transfer the full equitable title to him and does not disclose when
his rights tJ the land were initiated, his vendees are not chargeable, as
matter of law, with knowledge of the fact that the land at the time was
not subject to pretimption or homestead.
THE facts in this case were as follows: On May 14, 1853,
William W. Smith purchased from the State of ,Louisiana a
tract known as Cross Lake, in section 25, township 18, range
14, containing twenty-one and eighteen one-hundredths acres.
The title of the State rested on the claim that the land was
swamp and overflowed, and passed to it under the acts of
Congress granting such lands to the States. On December 3,
1857, the State filed a petition in the District Court of the
parish of Caddo to set aside such purchase and cancel the
certificate of entry. While this action was pending, and
before any trial, William W. Smith died, and the action was
revived in the name of John W. Smith, administrator of his
succession. Such administrator appeared and answered. The
heirs of William W. Smith were not made parties, but upon
the petition of the State and the answer of the administrator
the action was tried before a jury, and a verdict returned in
favor of the State, annulling the sale and cancelling the
certificate. A judgment was, on November 20, 1860, entered
upon this verdict, from which the administrator took an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, but such appeal
was afterwards and on August 11, 1869, dismissed by the
consent of counsel.
On February 24, 1872, at the local land office of the United
States, W. D. Wylie entered as a homestead the same tract

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. SMITH.-

67

Opinion of the Court.

under the description of lot 15, in section 25, etc. On October
19 of that year he changed his homestead to a pregmption
entry, paid the government price for the land, and received
a final receipt therefor. This receipt was recorded in the
recorder's office of the parish of Caddo on November 20, 1872,
and on the same day he conveyed a two-thirds interest in
the land to llotchkiss & Tomkies. On December 1, 1874, a
United States patent was issued to Wylie for the land. Prior
to his homestead entry, and on April 27, 1871, an act was
passed by the State of Louisiana incorporating the city of
Shreveport, and the tract in controversy was within the
boundaries of that city-as defined in the act of incorporation.
In the spring of 1872 Wylie went into actual possession of
the premises, and such possession has continued in him and
his grantees up to the present time. By sundry mesne conveyances the title of Wylie passed to plaintiff in error.
This action was commenced in the Circuit Court on May 1,
1886, by the defendants in error, as heirs of William W. Smith,
to recover possession of the land. Among the defences set up
by the railway company was that of the statute of limitations,
or prescription as it is called in the legislation of Louisiana.
The case came on for trial on February 28, 1891, and resulted
in a verdict and judgment* for plaintiffs. Thereupon the
defendant sued out this writ of error.
Mr. . T. Howe for plaintiff in error. Yr. John,F. Dillon
and Mr. Winslow S. Pierce were on his brief, on which they
submitted.
Yr. A. H. Leonard for defendants in error submitted on
his brief.
MR. JUSTI E BauwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

It is unnecessary to consider any questions other than those
which arise upon the instructions of the court in respect to
the matter of prescription. The possession of the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and its grantors had continued from the spring of 1872 until
the commencement of 'this action - about fourteen years four years longer than the time named in the statute. And
the title under which this possession commenced was under
instruments in legal form, executed by the proper officers of
the United States, and apparently conveying full title. The
receiver's receipt issued to Wylie was in these words:
"No. 17,830.
OFFICE AT NATCHITOCIIEs, LA.1 Oct. 19, 1872.
"Received from William D. Wylie, of Caddo Parish, Louisiana, the sum of forty-seven dollars and forty cents, being in
full for the lot No. 15 south of the bayou, of section No. 25,
in township No. eighteen (18), of range No. fourteen (14) west,
containing eighteen acres and ninety-six hundredths, at $2.50
per acre.
"47.40.
J. JULES BOSSIER."

"RECEIVER'S

There is nothing on the face of this receipt or in the deed
made on November 20 following by Wylie to Hotchkiss &
Tomkies to indicate that the land was swamp or overflowed,
or that it was within the corporate limits of the city of Shreve-

port, or tending to show when Wylie first entered upon it
and initiated the right of homestead or preemption. And the
same is true of the patent issued two years thereafter. Such
a title is
Louisiana
And this
receipt or

the "just title" which, within the terms of the
statutes, is the beginning of a right by prescription.
is true whether we .regard simply the receiver's
the patent. Indeed, a patent from the United States

is the highest evidence of title.

As said by Mr. Justice Catron,

in Ioopeer v. Sckeirner, 23 Ivow. 235; 249 : "This court held,
in the case of Bagnell et al. v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 450, 'that

Congress had the sole power to declare the dignity and effect
of a patent issuing from the United States; that a patent
carries the fee, and is the best title known to a court of law.'
Such is the settled doctrine of this court."
There may be a question whether the patent in this case was

not something more than the "just title" needed in prescrip-

TEXAS AID PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. SMITH

69

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and whether it was not conclusive as to the full title
upon all the parties to this litigation. But that matter we
shall not stop to consider, as it does not seem to have been
discussed by counsel. It is enough for the purposes of this
case if it be only a "just title." Articles (3447) 3481, (3448)
3482, and (3450) 3484 of the Louisiana Civil Code are as
follows:
"Article (3447) 3481. Good faith is always presumed in
matters of prescription, and'he who alleges bad faith in the
possessor must prove it."
"Article (3448) 3482. It is sufficient if the possession has
commenced in good faith; and if the possession should have
afterwards been held in bad faith, that shall not prevent the
prescription."
"Article (3450) 3484. By the term just title, in cases of prescription, we do not understand that which the possessor may
have derived from the true owner, for then no true prescription would be necessary, but a title which the possessor may
have received from any person whom be honestly believed to
be the real owner, provided the title were such as to transfer the property."
This matter has been frequently considered by the Supreme
Court of that State. See among other the following cases:
Carrel's Heirs v. Cabaret, 7 Martin, 0. S. 375, 406; Fort v.
Metayer, 10 Matin, 0. S. 436, 439; Dufour v. Camfranc,
11 Martin, 0. S. 675, 715; Frique v. Itopkis, 4 Martin, N. S.
212, 225 ; Eastman v. Beiller, 3 Robinson, La. 220, 223; Hall
v. Mooring, 27 La. Ann. 596; Giddens, Executor, v. Mobley;
37 La. Ann. 417, 419; Barrow v. Wilson, 38 La. Ain. 209,
213; Pattison v. Maloney, 38 La. Ann. 885, 888.
In the first of these cases the court said: "When the law
says that a title defective in point of form shall not be the basis
of prescription, what does it mean? A title, which, though
apparently good, has some latent defect? Certainly not. A
title, which, though apparently clothed with all the formalities
required by law, may be proved defective by cxtensive evidence? No. It means a title, on the face of which the
defect is stamped. And why? Because the holder of such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

title cannot pretend that he possesses in good faith; for he is
supposed to know the defect of form which his title shows, and
cannot plead ignorance of law. But admit latent nullities,
,unknown in point of fact to the possessor to prevent prescription, and what does good faith avail him? Or, rather, what
becomes of the whole doctrine of prescription ." In the second: " H e who alleges ill faith, is bound to the strictest proof,
for the presumption is against him." In the third case the
title relied on was a sheriff's deed, and in respect to this the
court observed: "The title presented here is perfect as it
respects form ; it pursues the very words of the statute; the
defect is a want of right or authori,y in the sheriff to make
such a conveyance, not a defect in the manner he made it.
As nothing, therefore, appears on the face of the deed which
is defective, the knowledge of want of right, in the person
who sold, is not brought home to the vendee, and his error
was one of fact, not of law. It is difficult to see where is the
difference between this case and an ordinary one of sale, where
the purchaser acquires, from a person who has no title, by a
regularly executed act, before a notary publid; p. 715. In
such case the buyer acquires none, but he has that good faith
which enables him to plead prescription." In Eastman v.
Beiller we find this language: "A title defective in point of
form cannot be a basis for prescription. By this the law
means a title, on the face of which some defect appears, and
not one that may be proved defective by circumstances, or
evidence dekors the instrument." In Hall v. Mooring the
title of the defendant was a patent from the United States
and a.deed from one apparently the agent of the heirs of the
patentee, It was objected that the agent did not in~fact have
authority, but, nevertheless, the deed made by him was held
sufficient for the purposes of prescription, the court saying,
p. 597: "The want of authority in Wright [the agent] to sell
the lands is the only defect in defendant's title. If that
defect did not exist, his title would be perfect without the
help of prescription. The defendant's title is apparently per
feet; so is the mandate of Wright. The defect complained
of is dekor both acts, and was only made manifest on the

TEXAS AND PACIFIC ItALLWAY CO. v. SMITH.

71

Opinion of the Court.

trial of this case." In Giddens, Lxector, v. Mobley, a tax
deed was shown, and it was held sufficient for the purpose of
prescription, the court saying: "Where the deed is perfect in
form, and the defect is want of right or authority in the
officer to make it and not in the manner of making it, the
knowledge that the officer had no right to make the sale is
not brought home to the buyer." In Barrow v. Wilson the

defendant claimed two tracts, and the title under which he
claimed prescription was as to one, a patent from the State
for -land as swamp land, and the other, a, tax deed, and the
cQnclusions were as in the other cases, the court saying, in
reference to the patent from the State : "Upon its face that
muniment of title is transferable of the ownership of the property which it purports to convey."
These authorities sufficiently disclose the rule of law recognized in the State of Louisiana, and, of course, are controlling in
the Federal courts. The learned circuit judge deemed that the
principles sustaindd by these decisions were inapplicable on
the ground that this land was swamp and overflowed land,
and was also within the limits of an incorporated city, and
that knowledge of these facts was chargeable to the parties in
the chain of title. We quote from the bill of exceptions:
" As to Wylie, I charged that his title was a nullity, and,
under the undisputed facts in relation to the land lying within
the city limits, and as to its character being that of swamp
and overflowed land in 1"849 and continuously afterwards, and
under the law forbidding public lands to be sold when lying
within a city's limits, and the lav of Congress of 1849 donating such swamp and overflowed lands to the State, Wylie. is
charged with knowledge of such facts and law, and the certificate given to him cannot be taken as a basis for the beginning
or recurring in his favor of the prescription of ten years.
"I charged further in relation to testing the good faith of
Wylie and vendors, Hotchkiss & Tomkies, that they should
be charged with such knowledge as is shown to have beenin
the common knowledge of the men and community of Shreveport, their place of residence, as to the land being swamp and
overflowed land in 1849 and continuously thereafter, unless

OCTOBEt, TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury from other evidence in the case should believe otherwise as to such knowledge in them; that they should be
charged with knowledge of the fact that the land was in the
city limits by the description of the land in the certificate
under which Wylie sold, and which was recited in the act of
sale to them, and they should be charged with knowledge of
the act limiting the swamp and overflowed lands in 1849 to
the State and of the law forbidding public lands of the United
States lying within city limits to be sold to any one under the
homestead or general land laws.",
We think there was error in these instructions. Neither
the fact that this was swamp and overflowed land, nor that it
was within the limits of the city of Shreveport, appear upon
the face of the receipt or patent. They are facts dehors those
instruments. So far as respects the character of the land as
swamp and overflowed land, it must be assumed from the
statement made by the judge that the testimony showed that
it was of such character in 1849 and continuously afterward.
It must have been so in 1849 or no title passed to the State;
but the fact that it was swamp and overflowed land in 1872
when Wiley entered it as a homestead does not prove that it
was of similar character in 1849, nor that the title passed to
the State under the act of Congress. It is a well known fact
that land, by subsidence or elevation or through other causes,
in a series of years may change its character, at one time
being swamp and overflowed and at another dry upland. If
it be conceded that Wylie was charged with knowledge of the
fact that in 1872 it was swamp and overflowed, it does not follow that he is also chargeable with knowledge of the fact that
t wenty years before it was in. like condition. No patent or
conveyance had been made from the United States to the
State. No selection or identification of the land as swamp
land had ever been made by the land department of the government, and when Wylie's application to enter it as a homestead was recognized in that department he had a right to
assume that it was land which did not pass by the act of 1849
to the State. At least, he is not chargeable as a matter of
law with knowledge of its condition in 1849, or that by reason

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. SMITH.

73

Opinion pf the Court.

of such condition it was among the lands granted by act of
Congress to the State.
With reference to its location within the limits of an incorporated town, even if it be true that Wylie, as the party
entering, was charged with knowledge of the territorial limits
of the town, and that this tract was within such limits at that
time, (a matter upon which we deem it unnecessary to express
an opinion,) it must be borne in mind that neither the receivers:
receipt nor the patent disclosed when Wylie first entered upon
the land for the purposes of making it his homestead, or when
he first initiated his rights in respect thereto. The city was
incorporated in 1871, the receiver's receipt was issued in October, 1872. Wylie might have.been in occupation of the land
years before the incorporation of the city, might have made
application to enter it as a homestead before such incorporation, and a right thus initiated would not be defeated by the
subsequent act of the State in incorporating the city. It follows, therefore, that as the receipt, which was upon its face
sufficient to transfer the full equitable title to Wylie, did not
disclose when his rights to the land were initiated, his vendees,
Hotchkiss & Tomkies, were not chargeable as matter of law
with knowledge of the fact that the land was, at that time,
not subject to preemption or homestead. In other words,
upon the face of the papers a good title was transferred to
Wylie, and the matters upon which the learned judge relied
were not such as of law the purchasers were charged with
knowledge of. Other circumstances must appear to show
knowledge and a want of good faith on their part, or else the
title presented must be held a" just title" upon which to rest
the claim of prescription.
For the error in these respects the judgment is
Reversed, and a new trial ordered.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE

reasons given therefor.

concurs in the judgment, but not inthe

