THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

423

Syllabus.

mercial designation fails to give an article its proper place
in the classifications of the law, then resort must necessarily
be had to the common designation.
We think, therefore,
that the court erred both in its charge and in the exclusion
of the evidence offered; especially as, without any evidence,
and with the common knowledge which we all possess, the
court might almost have been justified in directing a verdict
for the defendant." In this case the court was not only
almost but altogether justified in such direction, and while
,there are expressions in that opinion which have been laid
hold of as qualifying the general rule as to judicial knowledge, they must be treated as. induced by the state of the
record, and are not to be regarded as having that effect.
Many exceptions were taken to the exclusion and admission
of evidence, and to the refusal of the court to give instructions asked on plaintiff's behalf, but we find no reversible
error in either of the rulings thus questioned and they need
not be discussed.
Judgment afrmed.

THORN WIRE HEDGEt COMPANY v. WASHBURN
AND MOEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
WASHBURN AND MOEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. THORN WIRE HEDGE COMPANY.
APPEALS

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 57, 58.

Argued April 29, 80, 1895. -'Decided Novqmber 11, 1895.

The parties to thes6 suits having had extensive dealings founded upon
mutual agreements and arrangements respecting the manufacture
of and licenses to manufacture patented articles, and having had serious misunderstandings touching their accounts, came-to an agreement
whereby the Thorn Company, in consideration of the sum of $10,000
paid to it by the Washburn and Moen Company, released and discharged
the latter from all claims and demands of everykind and nature lvhatso.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
ever, which It had or could have against that company for and on account
of any moneys, properties, or valuable things which the Waghburn Coinpany-had received from any persons in settlement for damages or profits
accruing to it, on account of infringements committed upon any letters
patent, and also on account of any moneys which it had received by way
of bonuses or premiums paid to it by parties receiving licenses from it;
and discharged and released the Washburn Company from any obligation
to account to the Thorn Company for any sums which it might thereafter
receive in settlement of claims for damages for infringements prior to
the date of that agreement, or for moneys which it should thereafter receive for bonuses or premiums for licenses. The parties worked under
,this agreement for several years, the Washburn Company paying and the
Thorn Company receiving, without objection, from time to time considerable sums as royalties, etc., due thereunder, the Washburn Company
settling with parties from whom the royalties were due, sometimes receiving cash in full, sometimes notes, and sometimes compromising on
receipt of a lesser sum. After the lapse of about eight years the Thorn
Company filed its bill in equity to set aside the agreement anti the settlements made under it, claiming that it was entitled to a much larger sum
than it had received; and the Washburn Company in its answer denied
this claim and filed a cross-bill claiming to recover from the Thorn Company large sums which it had been obliged to yield to licensees in. compromising settlements with them. Held,
(1) That the agreement released the Washburn Company from claims
for damages due at its date, but received subsequent thereto, and
from claims for royalties due on its own products, or products of
its licensees sold prior to its date;
(2) That under the circumstances disclosed it was not open to the Thorn
Company to claim that $10,000 was not a sufficient consideration
for such release ;
(8) That the Thorn Company, by receiving, for so long a period, royalties
as accruing and receipting for them as collected without challenging the accounts rendered, and by its delay in setting up claims for
moneys received by the Washburn Company before the date of
the agreement, and its delay in contesting settlements and
compromises made by that company, must be deemed to have acquiesced in the construction put upon the contract by the Washburn
Company, and to have assented to its settlements with licensees;
and that the evidence showed no want of diligence or good faith
bymthe latter company in this respect;
(4) That the Washburn Company was not entitled to recover the sums
claimed in its cross-bill.

IN the year 1875 the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company, a Massachusetts corporation doing business
at Worcester, Massachusetts, was engaged extensively in the

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

425

Statement of the Case.

manufacture of wire. H1aving had its attention directed to
barbed fence wire, an article then little known or used, the
company determined to begin the making of it, conceiving
that the future demand for such wire might serve to increase
the output of its mill. There being no machine then in use
for making barbed wire by steam power, the company contracted with H. W. Putnam, of Bennington, Vermont, for the
invention of one; and in the fall of 1875 such a machine was
made in accordance with Putnam's plans, and a patent for it
granted to him on February 15, 1876. The rights of Putnam
in the invention were purchased by the company on Septemher 28, 1875, the consideration being the sum of 25 cents per
100 pounds on all barbed fence wire-that might thereafter be
made by the company and its licensees, the company reserving
the right, however, to cease the payment of such sums by
paying at any time a sum of money which, added to the
amounts previously paid, should equal $150,000.
The persons engaged in the barbed wire business in the
spring of 1876 were J. F. Glidden and I. L. Ellwood, of
De Kalb; Jacob Haish, of De Kalb; H. B. Scutt, of Joliet,
and Charles Kennedy, of Aurora, all of the State of Illinois;
Doolittle & Co., (licensees of Kennedy,) of Bridgeport, Connecticut, and the Thorn Wire Hedge Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of Illinois, and having its place of
business at Chicago.
Various patents had been granted for barbed fence wire
and machines for making the same, and of these J. F. Glidden, I. L. Ellwood, and Charles Kennedy owned the W. D. Hunt
reissued patent No. 6976, dated March 7, 1876, and the L.
B. Smith reissued patent No. 7137, dated May 23, 1876; J. F.
Glidden and I. L. Ellwood owned the J. F. Glidden patent,
No. 157,124, dated November 24, 1874, and the J. F. Glidden
reissued patents, No. 6913 (division A), dated February 8, 1876,
and No. 6914 (division B), dated February 8, 1876, being divisions of a reissue of an original patent, No. 150,683, dated
May 12, 1874; Charles Kennedy owned the Charles Kennedy
patents, No. 153,965, dated August 11, 1874, and No. 164,181,
dated June 8, 1875; Jacob Haish owned, besides other patents,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the Jacob Haish patent, No. 167,240,,dated August 31, 1875;
and the Thorn Wire Hedge Company owned the Michael
Kelly reissued patent, No. 6902, dated February 8, 1876, and
the Mqichael Kelly reissued patents, No. 7035 (division A),
dated April 4, 1876, and No. 7036 (division B), dated April 4,
1876, being divisions of a reissue of an original patent,
No. 84,062, for an improvement in "metallic fences," dated
November 17, 1868. Of the machine patents, the Washburn
and Moen Manufacturing Company owned the Putnam patent;
J. F. Glidden and I. L. Ellwood owned the J; F. Glidden and
P. W. Vaughan patent, No. 157,508, dated December 8, 1874;
and the Thorn Wire Hedge Company owned the E. W. Mitchell
patents, No. 172,760, dated January 26, 1876, and No. 173,491,
dated February 15, 1876.
On May 10, 1876, the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company purchased the interest of J. F. Glidden in the said
Hunt., Smith, and Glidden wire patents, and in the Glidden
and Vaughan machine patent, paying him therefor the sum of
$60,000, and agreeing to pay him, in addition, 25 cents per
100 pounds on all wire manufactured and sold under those
patents after the date of the purchase; and on the 23d of the
same month the company bought of Kennedy his own patents,
and his interest in the Hunt and Smith patents, the consideration being the payment to him of 25 cents per 100 pounds
on all wire that should thereafter be manufactured and sold
under the patents in which the company, by this purchase,
acquired his interest, until the aggregate of the amounts paid
should equal $100,000.
At the same time that the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company purchased the interest of Glidden in the patents,
it purchased also his interest in the manufacturing business of
Glidden and Ellwood, and a new partnership was formed for
the purpose of making barbed fence wire at De Kalb, Illinois,
under the style of I. L. Ellwood & Co.; C. F. Washburn, as
trustee of the company, becoming a partner with Ellwood.
On July 3, 1876, the company purchased of the Thorn Wire
Hedge Company the said Kelly patents, agreeing to pay for
them, as appears by a contract in writing executed by the com-

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

427

Statement of the Case.

panies on that date, the sum of 37- cents per 100 pounds upon,
all barbed fence wire which the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company should manufacture and sell and cause to
be manufactured and sold, under the said (Kelly) patents, or
any one of them, and also upon all barbed fence wire which
might be manufactured and sold by others under any license
which might be granted by it under the said patents, or any
one of them, for which pay should have been received by sudh
licensees, for and during the term of the said patents. It was
agreed, as further appears by- the written contract, that the
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company should keep separate and accurate accounts of the entire product manufactured
and sold under the said patents, and of the part of the product
for which they should actually receive pay in any form; that
the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company should enter
upon the manufacture of barbed fence wire under the said
patents, and should use reasonable and diligent efforts "to
supply the demand for this article" throughout the country,
and should also use proper and reasonable diligence in prosecuting infringers of the said patents, or any of them, to the end that
the said patents might be fully enforced and sustained ; that
the consideration received by the Thorn Wire Hedge Company
for the said patents was to be the payment to them of the
percentage upon sales as above specified, and that if at any
time the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company should,
for any reason whatever, discontinue permanently the manufacture of barbed fence wire under the said patents, then the said
patents should be retransferred to the Thorn Wire Hedge
Company within ninety days from the receipt of a writtendemand from it for such retransfer ; that the Thorn Wire
Hedge Company should assign all its interest in all claims for
damages and profits for past infringements of the said several
patents and each of them; and that the Washburn and Moen
Manufacturing Company might prosecute in the name of
the Thorn Wire Hedge Company all suits that they might
wish to institute against past infringers of the said several
patents, or any of them. The agreement also contained, among
other provisions, the following: " Said Washburn and Moen

.08

OCTO3ER TEtiM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Manufacturing Company, party of the second part, agrees that
three-eighths of one cent per pound shall be paid on all the
barbed fence wire which was made by Glidden and Ellwood
and I. L. Ellwood & Company, from the dates of the several
reissue patents aforesaid up to the date hereof; and also the
same amount per pound upon all wire upon which they shall recover from past infringers of said reissue patents, or either of
them, under any suit or suits which they may hereafter institute and prosecute to final judgment, or which ,may be settled
without judgment by payment of royalty by the defendants."
IAt the same time, July 3, 1876, the Thorn Wire Hedge
.Company assigned the said Mitchell patents to the Washburn
and Moen Manufacturing Company, and the latter granted to
the former a license to use the Mitchell machines, under the
Mitchell patent, at a single shop or factory in Chicago, or
elsewhere, and a license to manufacture and sell the forms of
wire described in the Kelly patents at a single shop or factory
in that city, or elsewhere after giving thirty days' notice of
intention to remove.
The Washburn 'and Moen Manufacturing Company and I.
L. Ellwood & Company began the manufacture and sale of
barbed fence wire in the spring of 1876. The rights which
the company asserted under the patents acquired by it were
not at once generally acquiesced in, and the making and selling of barbed fence wire was for a time carried on by a few
persons without the company's authority. Licenses were
granted on December 7 and 18, 1878, to the Ohio Steel Barb
Fence Company, of Cleveland, Ohio, and to IL B. Scutt, doing
business as H. B. Scutt & Co., (successor to the Joliet Wire
Fenue Company,) of Joliet, Illinois. In granting these licenses
the company released all claims it might have against the
licensees on account of damages for past infringement of its
patents. The company granted no other licenses until January, 1881.
Some matters of dispute having arisen between the Thorn
Wire Hedge Company and the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company as to the time in which payments were to
be made on wire previously made -by the firm of Glidden &

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

429

Statement of the Case.,

Ellwood, and the suggestion having been made by the latter
company that the former, in using the Mitchell machines, was
infringing the Putnam patent, and it being thought for some
reason that the 37J cents per 100 pounds provided for in the
agreement of July 3, 1876, should be reduced, the companies,
on December 2, 1878, executed another agreement, as an
amendment and supplement to that of July 3, 1876. This
contract made provisions adjusting the matters of difference between the companies, and reduced the amount required to be
paid to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company to 25 cents per 100
pounds. A portion of the contract was as follows: ",The
party of the first part [the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company] hereby covenants and agrees that it will make
monthly reports of the amount of wire reported as sold by
each of its licensees, said report to be on or before the 15th of
each and every month, and to embrace the report of the sales
of the licensees made during the previous month, or any
month not previously reported, and that it will pay over to
the party of the second part, or its legal representatives, the
money that it collects of said licensees, that is to be paid to
the party of the second part hereto quarterly; that is to say,
on or before the last day of each January, April, July, and
October it will pay the party of the second part such proportion of the money that it has received from its licensees during
the previous quarter as royalties, as one-fourth of a cent per
pound is to the entire amount per pound which said licensees
agree to pay as royalty; and the said party of the second
part hereby agrees to waive and does hereby relinquish any
and all claim on the said first party, for royalties on barbed
wire, made by its licensees, which it may so fail to collec,
after using due diligence and lawful means to collect the same,
but in that case the party of the first part shall make a, report
to the party of the second part of all such royalties as it shall
fail to collect and from whom due and the cause of such failure to collect, and the first party agrees to make each of its
licensees agree to pay it for the second party one-quarter of a
cent a pound on all the barbed wire it makes and sells during
the term of the Kelly patents, and to use its best endeavors to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.Statement of the Case.

collect the same." The agreement also provided: "And the
party of the second part also releases all right and claim it
may have on the party of the first part and the parties hereinafter named on account of the infringement of any of the
Kelly patents, so called, which it formerly owned, by the
Ohio Steel Barb Fence Company, Jacob Haish, the Joliet
Wire Fence Company and H. B. Scutt, and James Ayres and
Alexander C. Decker and their customers on account of selling
their respective barbed wires; provided, however, the party
.of the first part makes a settlement with them or either of
them whereby it condones or waives the past royalties or
damages inthe settlement of the suits which it, or it and I. L.
Ellwood now have pending against them or either of them,
then and in that case the party of the second part releases as
aforesaid as to the party so settled with."
About the time such reduction was made in the amount required to be paid to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company, reduction was also made by another of the assignors, thus reducing
the aggregate of the amounts to be paid by the Washburn and
Moen Manufacturing Company to the assignors of the patents,
to 87j cents per 100 pounds.
As already'shown, the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company, a short time after the execution of the agreement,
granted licenses to the Ohio Steel Barb Fence Company and
H. B. Scutt & Co. Other persons engaged in making barbed
wire 'refused, however, to become licensees and pay royalty,
and in January, 1879, they formed an association for the purpose of resisting the efforts which, by litigation and other
means, were being made by the company to stop infringement
by them of the patents, and to induce them to take licenses.
The Ohio Steel Barb Fence Company reported sales of wire
under its license for the months of March, April, and May,
1879, but refused to pay royalties after April 30, 1879. I-. B.
Scutt & Co. continued to manufacture under their license, and
paid royalty at the rate of 137j cents per 100 pounds.
On August 7, 1879, the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company and the Thorn Wire Hedge Company executed a
third agreement, supplemental to the contracts of July 3,

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

431

Statement of the Case.

1876, and December 2, 1878, a part of which was as follows:
"That for the purpose of increasing the manufacture and sale
of the barbed fence wire mentioned in said agreements and
license, and inducing other parties to pay royalties thereon, it
is mutually agreed by the parties hereto that the party of the
second part [the Thorn Wire Hedge Companyj will reduce
the amount to be paid to it per pound by the party of the
first part on all barbed fence wire hereafter manufactured or
caused to be manufactured and sold by it, as provided by the
said contracts of July 3,1876, and December 2, 1878, to 15
cents per 100 pounds; and it is understood and agreed that all
the provisions and agreements hereinbefore referred to, relating to the price per pound in said agreements agreed to be
paid by the party of the first part to the party of the second
part, shall apply to the price per pound to be paid as reduced
by this supplemental agreement; and the said party of the
first part agrees to reduce the royalty or amount required to
be paid to it on account of its ownership of any patents used in
the manufacture of said wire by it or its licensees, or persons
manufacturing or selling barbed fence wire under its authority,
or who shall hereafter be so licensed by it, to at least seventyfive cents per hundred pounds of said barbed fence wire so
manufactured and sold."
Reductions were also made by other assignors, so that after
August 7, 1879, the aggregate of the amounts required to be
paid by the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company on
account of the various patents was 681 cents per 100 pounds.
On August 10, 1879, the company reduced the royalty payable to it by H. B. Scutt & Co. to 81j cents on general
sales and 56j cents on Texas sales; and on August 1, 1880,
a further reduction was made to 50 cents on all sales of that
firm.
The company and I. L. Ellwood continued the prosecution
of suits against alleged infringers of the patents, and in 1880
about fourteen of these suits were pending in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the No-rthern District of Illinois, and
were being contested by the association of unlicensed manu,
facturers. A final decision was reached in the cases on De

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

cember 15, 1880, by which the Kelly reissued patent No. 6902
and the Hunt and Glidden patents were held valid, and subsequently decrees were entered referring the causes to a master to ascertain and report the amounts of damages. The
Kelly reissued patent No. 7035, in so far as it may have been
relied upon to affect the cases, was held invalid. It did not
appear to the court that any of the defendants had infringed
the Smith patent, and, therefore, the question of its validity
was not passed upon. Washburn & Moen JanufacturingCo.
v. flaish, 4 Fed. Rep. 900.; 7 Fed. Rep. 906. After this decision was announced, a large number of manufacturers recognized the rights asserted by the company under the patents,
and applied to it for license. C. F. Washburn, vice-president
of the company, and I. L. Ellwood met the applicants in the
city of Chicago, and -in January and February, 1881, granted
more than forty licenses. Each of the persons licensed paid
to the company either damages for past infringement, estimated at 60 cents per 100 pounds on all wire that the licensee
had theretofore made, or a bonus of from five to ten dollars
for each ton of wire authorized to be made in any one year
thereafter, and in most instances both damages and bonus
were exacted. The company also required all the licensees,
except two, to assign to it whatever patents they owned.
The licenses were printed, and were all of the same form,
with the exception of the date, name of licensee, and amount
of tonnage authorized; and each license provided for the payment of royalty at the rate of three-fourths of a cent per pound.
The printed form contained this provision: "And the royalty
to be paid under this license shall not be greater than that
charged to any other party licensed after the
day of December, A.D. 1880, under the said several letters patent, or any
of them, hereinbefore mentioned by date and number, by said
Washburn and ,Moen Manufacturing Company; that is, if said
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company shall hereafter
conclude, to and does license any other party or parties during
the continuance of this license to manufacture and sell barbed
fence wire in the United States and Territories, and this license is confined to the United States and Territories, under

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

433

Statement of the Case.

said letters patent, or any of them, hereinbefore mentioned by
of a cent,
date and number, at a less sum per pound than to
then and thereafter the royalty to be paid by siid
said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company under this
license shall be the same as such reduoed royalty."
When the licenses were granted in January and February,
1881, the Thorn Wire Hedge Company requested Mr. C. F.
Washburn to furnish it a statement of the amount of the.
said back damages and bonuses. The statement not being.
furnished, the Thorn Wire Hedge .Company wrote to the
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company on March 21,
1881, saying: "We have not yet received report of sales for
month of February, nor official notice of settlements with
the various infringing companies, all of which should be due
by the 15th of this month." On the 28th of the same month
the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company answered:
"With reference to official notice of settlements with the
various infringing companies, etc., we shall defer making our
report on that subject until we have had an opportunity of
seeing Mr. Ellwood here in Worcester, which will happen
early in the month of April." On April 25, 1881, the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company wrote again, to the
effect that it was under no obligation to pay the Thorn Wire
Hedge Company any part of the damages recovered or
received in settlement for past infringement of the patents,
or any part of the bonus money. The Thorn Wire Hedge
Company answered this letter on May 16, 1881, and submitted
an opinion of its counsel, asserting its right to a share in the
back damages.
More correspondence followed, but no adjustment of these
differences between the companies was made until one was
effected by an agreement in writing, dated July 27, 1881.
About that time there was also made what is called in the
testimony and argument the "Haish settlement," which it is
necessary here to explain.
Jacob Ilaish was one of the persons against whom the
above-mentioned decision was rendered at the suit of the
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company on December
VOL. CLIX-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

An interlocutory decree had previously been
15, 1880.
entered requiring Haish to pay into court an amount equal
to 75 cents per 100 pounds on all wire made by him after
such decree, and up to the entry of the final decree against
him he had paid into court the sum of $25,000. After the
decision of December 15, 1880, Ilaish, instead of following
the course which was adopted by all the other defendants and
making settlement with the company, refused to become its
licensee, and continued his opposition to its patents. This
placed the company, as it believed, in a very unfavorable position. Haish was the owner of patents which the company
feared might be used by him to disturb its licensees, and for
various reasons his persistent opposition was regarded by the
company as harmful to its interests. Vigorous efforts were
therefore made to effect a settlement with him, and these
resulted in a statement by him on June 29, 1881, of the terms.
upon which a settlement would be consented to. The terms
proposed by him were, (1) a release from all claims for back
damages; (2) each party to pay his own costs in court ; (3) a
license to him from the company to manufacture 10,000 tons
of. barbed wire a year, he to pay royalty at the rate of 75
cents per 100 pounds; (4) he to assign to the company all his
patents and to receive from it an exclusive license under the
same; (5) the company to pay him for the patents $10,000
cash and 75 cents per 100 pounds on all barbed wire made by
himself up to the quantity of 4000 tons per year, and the
further amount of 25 cents per 100 pounds on the next 4000
tons made by him in the same year.
Under date of July 26, 1881, the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company and Haish executed an agreement in
writing which recited that the company had theretofore
granted divers licenses under several patents for barbed wire
fencing and for machinery; that Haish claimed that some of
the licensees were infringing patents owned by him; that for
the better protection of the licensees it had become necessary
for the company to acquire, by purchase from Haish, all his
patents relating to barbed fencing or machinery; that Haish,
by an instrument of even date, had assigned all his patents to

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

435

Statement of the Case.

the company, and transferred to it all claims for damages for
the infringement of the same, and had released the company
and its licensees from all claims for damages for infringement
of the patents; and that Haish had accepted. from the company a license to manufacture 10,000 tons of barbed fence
wire annually under the patents, and agreed to pay royalty
at the rate of 75 cents per 100 pounds. The agreement then
provided, in substance, that the company or its licensees should
manufacture 8000 tons of barbed fence wire every year until
February 27, 1894, and should pay to Haish until that time
75 cents per 100 pounds on the wire so manufactured not exceeding 4000 tons each year, and a further sum of 25 cents
per 100 pounds on any excess over that quantity each year,
up to, but not exceeding, 4000 tons; that the company should
not, however, pay any part of such sum to Haish unless he
should first have paid or tendered to the company, as royalty
under the license accepted by him, a sum equal to the amount
which he should demand from the company.
On the same day Haish assigned his patents to the company
and Ellwood, and released the company and its licensees and
Ellwood from all damages for past infringement of the same,
and received from the company the license mentioned in the
recitals of the above agreement, and exclusive licenses to make
barbed fence wire and to use machinery under the patents
assigned by him to the company without paying royalty. He
also received from the company and Ellwood a release of all
claims for damages for infringement of their patents, and the
company paid him the sum of $10,000 in cash, and agreed
that he might withdraw the money which he had paid into
court, and that decrees might be entered in the suits against
him for nominal damages without costs.
Under date of July 27, 1881, the Thorn Wire Hedge Company executed the following instrument: "In consideration
of the sum of one dollar and other valuable considerations to
it paid, the Thorn Wire Hedge Company, a corporation duly
organized under the laws of the State of Illinois, and located
at the city of Chicago, in said State, does authorize the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company and Isaac L. Ellwood

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

to make settlement with Jacob Haish, of De Kalb, Illinois,
for his past infringements of the letters patent for barbed
fence wire and machinery for making the same, owned by the
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company, or by said
company and Isaac L. Ellwood, and to grant to the said Haish
a license to manufacture and sell annually ten thousand tons
of barbed fence wire under said patents, as provided in a proposed agreement between the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company and the said Jacob Haish, and assented to by
Isaac L. Ellwood, (copies of which proposed agreement and
license being hereto attached,) and does release the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company from all its agreements with the said Thorn Wire Hedge Company, dated
respectively July 3, 1876, December 2, 1878, and August 7,
1879, to account for any proportion of the moneys received
from the said Jacob Haish whether in settlement of past infringements or for royalties hereafter paid under the said
license, which may be required to be expended or remitted in
the settlement with said Jacob Haish, or in payment of the
consideration money for the transfer and conveyance of all
the patent rights to letters patent and inventions, which are
or shall be conveyed by the said Haish to the said Washburn
and Moen Manufacturing Company and Isaac L. Ellwood, as
provided in said proposed agreement."
On the same day that the settlement with Haish was consummated the companies, as already stated, reached an agreement with regard to the back damages and bonuses. This
agreement was expressed in an instrument of writing, bearing
date July 27, 1881, a portion of which was as follows:
"Whereas there are certain agreements in writing subsisting
between the parties above named, bearing date, respectively,
July 3, 1876, December 2, 1878, and August 7, 1879, to which
reference may be had for all matters therein contained; and
whereas the Thorn Wire Hedge Company claims that under
the effect of said agreements it is entitled to a share of the
damages or moneys or other valuable things which the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company have received from
the different persons, li'nus, or corporations who have infringed

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASH BURN & MOEN CO.

437

Statement of the Case.

upon the patents owned by the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company and I. L. Ellwood, and have accepted
licenses from them to manufacture barbed fence wire under
the several patents owned and controlled by them; and also
claims that it is entitled to share in certain bonuses or premiums
which have been paid by various licensees for the privilege of
obtaining a license; and for other causes makes other claims
for damages or compensation on various grounds against said
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company :
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises
and of
the sum of ten thousand dollars to it paid, the said the Thorn
Wire Hedge Company does bv these presents hereby release
and discharge the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company from all claims or demands of every kind and nature
whatsoever, which it has or can have against said company
for and on account of any moneys, properties, or valuable
things which the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company has received from any persons in -settlement for
damages or profits accruing to it, or to it and I. L. Ellwood,
on account of infringements committed upon any letters
patent for barbed fence wire or machinery for making the
sauie, and also for and on account of any moneys which it
has received by way of bonuses or premiums paid to it by
parties receiving licenses from it hnd from I. L. Ellwood to
.manufacture barbed fence wire; and does also discharge and
release the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company
from any obligation to account to the Thorn Wire Hedge
Company for any sums of money or valuable things which
it shall or may hereafter receive or acquire from any parties
in settlement of suits or claims for damages for the infringements, prior to the date of this agreement, of letters patent
owned by the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company, or by it and I. L. Ellwood, or for moneys which it
shall hereafter receive for bonuses or premiums paid for
licenses.
"Furthermore, in the execution of the existing agreements
between the parties, bearing date July 3, 1876, December 2,
1878, and August 7, 1879, before referred to, providing for

OCT()HEII

Tlrf ,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

the payment of fifteen cents by the Washburn and Moen
Manufacturing Company to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company,
as consideration money for the Kelly patents, upon every one
hundred pounds of barbed fence wire manufactured and sold
by it, or its licensees, or by its authority, the said the Thorn
Wire Hedge Company does release and surrender any claim
against the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company for
any share in or proportion of the license fees or royalties
which it shall receive from Jabob Haish, under the agreement
between the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company
and the said Jacob Haish, (a copy of which has been furnished
to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company,) which shall be required
under said agreement to be applied by the Washburn and
Moen Manufacturing Company or used in the payment of any
consideration for the purchase from said Haish of certain patent
properties, and the release of claims for infringements against
licensees under said agreement."
As heretofore stated, most of the manufacturers of barbed
fence wire throughout the country applied to the Washburn
and Moen Manufacturing Company in January and February,
1881, and obtained licenses. Subsequently, however, some
persons in Iowa and Missouri began manufacturing without
license, and the company thereupon brought suits against
them for infringement of the patents which had been held
valid in the Northern District of Illinois. The Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, in
which some of these cases were heard, decided adversely to
the company on June 4, 1883, holding that the Kelly and
Glidden reissued patents were void. lVarkburn and Moen
Manufacturing Company v. Fuchs, 16 Fed. Rep. 661.

This

decision, although its direct effect was confined, of course, to
the States composing the Eighth Circuit, tended greatly to
weaken the company's control over the barbed wire business,
and in order to maintain its position as a receiver of royalties
it became necessary for it to reduce the royalties required to
be paid by its licensees to 30 cents per 100 pounds. The more
important of the Kelly patents having been held valid in the
Seventh Circuit, the company was not disposed to exercise its

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN

& MOEN CO.

439

Statement of the Case.

option, provided for in its contract with the Thorn Wire
Hedge Company of July 3, 1876, of discontinuing its manufacture under those patents and reassigning them to the last
named company, but entered 'into an agreement in writing
with that company, dated June 12, 1883, by which the Thorn
Wire Hedge Company agreed to reduce the amounts to be
paid to it to five cents per 100 pounds, and to shorten the
time for which the payments should continue to be made from
November 17, 1885, to February 12, 1885. Among the provisions of this agreement were the following:
"Seventh. Said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company agree to pay said reduced royalty of five cents on each
and every one hundred pounds of barbed fence wire which it
shalT license to be made, or which shall be sold under a license
from it, on and after June 1, 1883, to and including February
11, 1885. Payments of said reduced royalty of five cents for
each one hundred pounds on licensed wire to be made in accordance with the said original agreement and the amendment thereof ; but no payments or royalty on licensed wire to
be made until it shall have been first collected by said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company.
"Eighth. Said party of the second part [the Washburn and
Moen Manufacturing Company] further covenants and agrees
with the party of the first part, its successors or assigns, that
-it will pay the said reduced royalty of five cents per one hundred pounds to the party of the first part, its successors or
assigns, on the barbed wire made and sold by itself, I. L. Ellwood & Co., or its licensees, at the time, in the manner, and
on the same terms and conditions as payments are now required to be made by the provisions of the agreements now
existing between the parties hereto, and that such payments.
when due and payabld shall be promptly and punctually
made to said party of the first part, or its successors or assigng,
without any delay or rebate on account of any claim or demand, or question of claim or demand, of said party of the
second part, or said I. L. Ellwood & Co., against said party
f the first part, and independently of any and all questions of
dispute or otherwise which may arise between said party of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the first part and said party of the second part, or said I. L.
Ellwood & Co., or any or either of them."
After February 12, 1885, the Thorn Wire Hedge Company
made certain demands upon the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company, asserting that that company had failed in
various ways to perform its obligations under the several contracts. The justice of these demands having been denied, the
Thorn Wire Hedge Company, on June 6, 1887, filed its bill
in equity in the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois,
against the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company,
setting up the grounds of its complaint and praying for discovery and an accounting. Upon petition of the defendant
the cause was removed, on June 21, 1887, into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, where the defendant company filed its answer on July 2,
1887. After the greater part of the testimony had been
taken, the complainant, on June 19, 1889, filed an amended
bill, and the defendant, on the 21st of the same month, filed
an amended answer, and a cross-bill. The complainant filed
its answer to .the cross-bill on June 29, 1889. The taking of
-testimony was resumed and completed, and the cause having
been heard in the said Circuit Court upon the pleadings and
evidence a final decree was entered on November 29, 1889,
dismissing both the bill and the cross-bill for want of equity.
Thereupon both parties appealed to this court.
.Mr. George C. Fry for the Thorn Wire Hedge Company.
Air. F. IF. Lehmann and Mr. C. C. Washburn for the
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company.
MR.

JUSTICE SHIRAs,

after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This record contains nearly thirtedn hundred pages, consisting chiefly of evidence. There Were no findings of facts, nor
did the court below file any opinion. It has hence been necessary to make a long statement, of no interest except to the
parties, which will occupy many pages of the reports.
The Thorn Wire Hedge Company sought, by its bill of

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASH11'UN & MOEN CO.

441

Opinion of the Court.

complaint, to compel the Washburn and Moen .Company to
account for moneys claimed to be due under certain contracts
subsisting between the companies.
It was one of the provisions of those contracts that the
Washburn and Moen Company should pay, at a stipulated
rate, a royalty upon all barbed fence wire which should be
manufactured and sold by third parties under licenses granted
them by said company; and one of the complaints in the bill
is that the Washburn and Moen Company had not correctly
reported to the complainant, from time to time, the issuing of
licenses and the amount of moneys collected or of settlements
made. Further complaints are that the Washburn and Moen
Company had, in some instances, accepted notes from its
licensees, and refused to.account to complainant for its proper
share thereof; that the Washburn and Moen Company had
received moneys from infringers for damages and certain
bonuses, which had not been accounted for; and that, after
the making of the supplemental agreement of August 7, 1879,
whereby the rate of royalties to be paid' by the licensees was
reduced, the Washburn and Moen Company did not, in point
of fact, in some cases, reduce said royalties, but continued to
collect at the old rate, and had failed to account therefor.
To meet these charges the Washburn and Moen Company put
in evidence the agreement and release, dated July 27, 1881.
Thereupon the complainant amended its bill by adding allegations respecting the said release, seeking to have it declared
void because executed in ignorance of all the facts and because
the complainant was fearful that legal proceedings against
the Washburn and Moen Company would imperil complainant's royalties for the remaining four years of the term of
contract. The Washburn and Moen Company, by amendments to its answer, denied the allegations attacking the
release and settlement, and averred that the complainant had
executed the same with full knowledge.
Did this agreement of July 27, 1881, legally impoit a settlement and release of the claims in questi6n? and, if so, were
the facts and circumstances attending its execution such as to
relieve the complainant from its operation?

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The complainant's contention is that the release was, when
drawn and executed, intended only to apply to the bonuses
and damages received by and unaccounted for by the Washburn and Moen Company prior to the date of said release;
that it does not purport to release that company from back
damages received subsequent to its date, or for royalty due
upon the product of the Washburn and Moen Company, or
upon the product of its licensees previously sold under
licenses granted by said company.
We are unable to accept this view of the scope and effect of
the release. Its language plainly was that, in consideration of
the payment of ten thousand dollars and of a release by the
Washbutn and Moen Company of certain specified claims made
-by said company against the company complainant, the latter
,would and did" release and discharge the said Washburn and
,Moen Manufacturing Company from all claims and demands
of every kind and nature whatsoever, which it has or can have
against said company for and on account of any moneys, properties, or valuable things which the spid Washburn and. Moen
Manufacturing Company has received from any persons in
settlement for damages or profits accruing to it, or to it and
I. L. Ellwood, on account o( infringements committed upon
any letters patent for barbed wire fence or machinery for
making the same, and also for and on account of any moneys
which it has received by way of bonuses or premiums paid to
it by parties receiving licenses from it and from I. L. Ellwood
to manufacture barbed fence wire; and does also discharge and
release the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing C 6 mpany
from any obligation to account to the Thorn Wire Hedge
Company for any sums of money or aluable things which it
shall or may hereafter receive or acquire from any parties in
settlement of suits or claims for damages for the infringements, prior to the date of this agreement, of letters patent
owned by the said Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company, or by it and I. L. Ellwood, or for moneys which it shall
hereafter receive for bonuses or premiums paid for licenses'"
It is, indeed, true, as argued by complainant's counsel,
that general expressions in a release may not carry its effect

THORN WIRE (O. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO. 443
Opinion of the Court.

beyond the particular matters which the parties had inview,
but the language in the present instance seems to us to be clear
and explicit, and to be unmistakably applicable to the matters
Qomplained of in the bill.
But it is claimed that, in the circumstances disclosed by
this record, a court of equity should not permit the release to
stand.
I The first reason urged is that the payment of ten thousand
dollars was not a sufficient consideration for the release. It has
often been held that where the party executing the release, by
reason of youth or advanced age, was incapacitated to act
judiciously, or where the release was executed during the
existence of fiduciary relations, calculated to beget unquestioning confidence, courts of equity will grant relief where the
consideration was plainly inadequate. It is enough to say
that the present is not such a case. The parties, in respect to
their capacity to act, stood upon an equal footing. We are
scarcely prepared to extend a doctrine, devised in equity to
protect those who are disabled by age or inexperience, to cover
the case of a business corporation, whose affairs are managed
by a president and board of directors. Moreover, it is not
clear that the consideration, in the present cnse, was inadequate. While it is true that the evidence tends to show that,
upon the theory of the complainant's bill, a much larger sum
than ten thousand dollars was due, yet the release discloses
that, in addition to the payment of that amount, and as a
further consideration, the Washburn and Moen Company
released the complainant from claims theretofore made by the
former, and also agreed to protbct the complainant from any
suit for infringement of the patents held by Jacob Haish.
The validity of the release is also assailed because neither
the complainant nor its counsel were fully advised as to the
facts, and because the Washburn and Moen Company falsely
misrepresented and fraudulently concealed the facts from the
complainant.
This contention presents an issue of facts under the allegations of the amended bill and answer. Although an oath
to the answer was waived and thereby the force of the latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

as evidence was prevented, still the burthen of proof to set
aside a settlement deliberately executed is upon the complainant, and that burthen is greatly increased by the fact that
eight years had elapsed before the complainant attempted to
avoid the operation of such settlement by the allegations of
its amended bill.
We do not think it necessary to extend this opinion by a
minute aftalysis of the evidence adduced under this issue.
That evidence consists of a large amount of testimony and of
a correspondence by letter between the parties for a period of
several years. We have examined and considered this evidence and the full and able discussion of it found in the briefs
of the counsel. Our conclusion is that the complainant has
failed to show such a tate of facts as would warrant a court
of equity in holding the release and settlement of July 27,
1881, to be void, either for gross inadequacy of consideration,
or by reason of any false statements or fraudulent concealment on the part of the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing
Company. Not only is there a failure of convincing affirmative evidence on the part of the complainant, but the long
period during which the settlement was allowed to stand is,
of itself, almost enough to estop the complainant. The effort
made to explain and extenuate such delay does not help the
complainant's case. It is said that complainant was constrained to execute the release and rest under it, because it
feared that litigation to recover its demands would imperil
its receipt of future royalties under the contract. Courts of
equity, it has often been said, will not assist one who has slept
upon his rights, and shows no excuse for his laches in asserting them. The complainant's excuse, in this instalce, that it
preferred for prudential reasons to receive money and an
acquittance of claims from the Washburn and Moen Company,
and to abide by the settlement for a period of several years,
rather than to assert its existing demands, is entitled to a less
favorable consideration by a court of equity than if its conduct
had been that of mere inaction. Lane & Bodley Co. v. Locke,
150 U. S. 193, 201 ; Hager v. Thomson, 1 Black, 80..
Besides the claims covered by the settlement of July 27,

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

445

Opinion of the Court.

1881, there were certain other demands made by the complainant which shall now receive our attention.
It appears that on June 12, 1883, the parties entered into
a supplementary agreement, whereby the royalty which the
Washburn and Moen Company was to pay to complainant on
barbed wire made by itself or its licensees was reduced from
fifteen cents to five cents per hundred pounds from June 1,
1883, to February 12, 1885; and it is now claimed that complainant did not pay for royalties payable by its licensees at
the rate of fifteen but at the rate of five cents per hundred
pounds for the month of May, 1883, and that hence the Washburn and Moen Company owes complainant for -barbed wire
made by the licensees of the former during said month the
difference between five, and fifteen cents per hundred pounds.
As against this claim, the Washburn and Moen Company
point to a clause of said agreement which provides that said
company "shall not be under obligation to pay said royalty
on the barbed wire manufactured and sold by its licensees
until after it shall have collected the same from its said licensees," and gave evidence tending to show that they only collected from their licensees, for the complainant, royalties at
the rate of five cents per hundred pounds for the month of
May, 1883: It is plausibly contended on behalf of the complainant that the clause cited did not relieve the Washburn
and Moen Company from accounting for the higher rate of
license until and after June 1, !883, and if, indeed, the Washburn and Moen Company had actually received from its licensees royalties at the rate of fifteen cents per hundred pounds
for the month of May, 1883, i'would apparently be accountable therefor. As, however, that company only received
royalties for said month for the complainant at the rate of
five per cent and so reported to the complainant, which receipted for the royalties so collected, and as the matter stood
unchallenged for so long a period, we think no injustice is
done by leaving the settlement undisturbed. It is permissible
to infer from the conduct of the complainant that it acquiesced
in the construction put by the Washburn and Moen Company
on the clause in question, as exonerating them from liability

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

for license fees which were not actually paid to and received
by it for the month of May, 1883.
The fourth, fifth, and seventh assignments claim error in
the failure of the court below to decree that complainant was
entitled to recover from the Washburn and Moen Company
royalty upon barbed fencing made and sold by divers licensees of said company prior to February 12, 1885, the royalty
accruing bn which was abated, released, or compromised by
the said company. To dispose of these errors we must turn
our attention to a settlement or agreement made by the Washburn and Moen Company with one Jacob Haish.
Haish was the owner of certain patents relating to barb
wire and barb wire machinery. Litigation had arisen between
him and the Washburn and Moen Company, as the owner of
the Kelly and other patents, on questions of infringement.
Ultimately the Washburn and Moen Company deemed a settlement with Haish to be for the benefit of all concerned, and
hence, on July 26, 1881, such settlement was effected, whereby
the Washburn and Moen Company and Ellwood purchased
from Ilaish his patents, and he took a license from them
authorizing him to manufacture ten thousand tons of barb
wire per annum. As a condition of this settlement the
Thorn Wire Hedge Company executed a collateral agreement, authorizing the Washburn and Moen Company to make
said settlement with Haish, and releasing said company from
all obligation under its agreements with the Thorn Wire
Hedge Company "to account for any proportion of the
moneys received from the said Jacob Haish whether in settlement of past infringements or for royalties hereafter paid
under the said license, which may be required to be expended
or remitted in the settlement with said Jacob Haish, or in payment of the corlsideration money for the transfer and conveyance of all the patents, rights to letters patent, and inventions,
which are or shall be conveyed by the said Haish to the said
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company and Isaac I,
Ellwood, as provided in said proposed agreement."
Subsequently, certain other licensees of the Washburn and
Moen Cornpany refused to pay their royalties because of the

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

447

Opinion of the Court.

settlement made by that company with Haish. They claimed
that the agreement with Haish in effect gave him a free
license for four thousand tons annually, and a license at fifty
cents per hundred pounds for four thousand tons more. Owing
to this contention, the Washburn and Moen Company was
disabled from collecting royalty from some of their licensees
until new arrangements were made with them, and the claims
of the Thorn Wire Hedge Company we are now considering
are for its proportion of the royalties made uncollectible or
released by the Haish settlement. The complainant construes the release which it had given to the Washburn and
Moen Company as extending only to the royalty accruing to
it on laish's own manufacture, and not to the royalty upon
wire manufactured and sold by any other licensee, and as not
releasing the Washburn and Moen Company from its duty
to "use due diligence and lawful means" to collect such
royalties.
That the settlement with Haish was made with the full
knowledge and approval, as to substance and terms, of the
Thorn Wire Hedge Company cannot be denied. That such
settlement would operate to release any other licensees, in
whose royalties both the Washburn and Moen Company and
the Thorn Wire Hedge Company had interests was probably
not foreseen by either party. When it was subsequently
determined by the Supreme Court of Illinois, in the case of
Washburn and ioen .Manufacturing Company v. Chicago
Galvanized Wire Fence Co., 109 Illinois 71, 119 Illinois 30,

that the other non-assenting licensees of the latter company
had a right to object to those' terms of the settlement with
Haish which, to some extent, relieved him from license fees,
and it hence became necessary for the Washburn and Moen
Company to make new terms with such licensees, we think it
bY no means follows that the Washburn and Moen Company
became liable to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company to make
good the loss thereby occasioned. On the contrary, such a
result of the settlement with Haish must be deemed to have
been an incident thereof, and to have been, in a legal sense,
-within the contemplation of the Thorn Wire Hedge Company.

OCTOBIER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor do we find any satisfactory evidence that, in the litigation, or in the settlements made with the other licensees, the
Washburn and Moen Company were guilty of negligence, passive or active, which would create any liability on its part to
the complainant company. To occasionally take promissory
notes from licensees in lieu of cash for accrued royalties would,
if done in good faith, not be so far out of the course of ordinary busihess transactions as to render the Washburn and
Moen Company liable for losses occurring through the insolvency of any of the licensees. The contract was to pay quarterly to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company its share of royalties
that had been collected and received by the Washburn and
Moen Company, obviously showing that the parties contemplated that the royalties would not necessarily be paid as they
accrued.
Upon this part of the case our conclusion is, that the contracts between these parties did not import that the Washburn and Moen Company should guarantee the payment by
the licensees of the royalties, but should exercise reasonable
diligence in their collection; and that the evidence does not
disclose any such want of diligence or of good faith as to
create the liability asserted in the bill.
The tenth assignment avers error in the court below in not
decreeing'that appellant was entitled to have and recover of
and from the appellee royalty upon the barbed fencing manufactured and sold by defendant under the designation of Brinkerhoff Barbed Fencing.
The allegation of the bill touching this ground of complaint was as follows: "There was manufactured and dealt
in by the defendant a certain patented barbed wire, known
as the ' Brinkerhoff Patent;' that the form or construction of
such wire was slightly different from the barbed wire made
under the Kelly patent, heretofore mentioned, but orator
claims that the same was and is barbed wire within the meaning of said contracts."
In respect to this the defendant in its answer stated : "It
admits that there was manufactured and sold by it a certain
patented article known as the 'JBrinkerhoff Fencing,' but says

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.

that the form and construction of such fencing was widely
different from the barbed wire made under the Kelly patent
heretofore mentioned, and says that the same was not and is
not barbed wire within the meaning of said contracts."
The evidence discloses that the Washburn and Moen company manufactured and sold, prior to February 19, 1885, upwards of 4000 tons of Brinkerhoff barb wire, upon which it
paid no royalty to appellant. The contract provided that the
Washburn and Moen Company should enter upon the manufacture of barbed fence wire under the Kelly patents aforesaid,
and use reasonable and diligent efforts to supply the demand
for this article throughout the country, and also should use
proper and reasonable diligence in prosecuting infringers of the
several letters patent as aforesaid, or any of them, to the end
that said patents might be fully enforced and sustained.
If the issue thus raised under the pleadings presented the
question whether the Washburn and Moen Company should
account for royalty received by it from the sale of Brinkerhoff
barb fencing, because such fencing was an infringement of the
Kelly patents, and thus within the terms of the contract, it
would be necessary for us to investigate the state of the art at
the time the patents were granted, as well as to compare the
several claims of the respective patents, and our inspection of
this record has not disclosed to us the materials necessary to
enable us to do this intelligently.
We do not, however, perceive that such an issue or question
was raised by the pleadings or was intended by the parties.
That the complainant did not intend to raise an issue under
the patent laws of the United States is seen in the fact that it
filed its bill of complaint in a state court. Nor did the defendant, in its petition for removal, place the right to remove
upon any allegation that the subject matter of the suit belonged
exclusively to the Federal court, but upon the diverse citizenship of the parties. But any doubt upon this subject is removed by the admission of the appellant's counsel, who, in
his careful brief, says : "The question of infringement upon
the Kelly letters patent is not raised by the pleadings in this
case. The bill is not drawn in the form of, nor does it contain,
VOL. cLux-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the usual allegations requisite to a bill for infringement of letters patent. The answer does not aver that the Brinkerhoff
patent does not infringe the Kelly patents, or any of them.
This issue is not presented."
The learned counsel then proceeds to state and discuss the
question as he claims it to be, and that is, that the terms of
the contract import a covenant, on the part of the Washburn
and Moen Company, not to manufacture and sell barb wire
under any other letters patent than the Kelly patents, and to
use reasonable diligence to supply the demand for the article
made under the Kelly patents, and not made under patents in
competition with them.
Our reading of the contract between the parties fails to
reveal any express covenant to the effect claimed, nor do we
perceive that such a covenant can be fairly implied from the
language used, even when read in the light of all the facts
and circumstances.
The provision of the contract is that the Washburn and
Mv[oen Company shall pay royalty on all barb fence wire which
shall be made and sold "under said several letters patent or
any of them." The letters patent referred to are expressly
mentioned, and do not include the Brinkerhoff patent, which
indeed was subsequently granted. Nor does the history of the
case show any reason for the contention that the Washburn
and Moen Company was disabled, by the contract, from buying
the Brinkerhoff patent, and making wire under it. If that
company had not purchased the Brinkerhoff patent, the owner
could have made and sold wire outside of the Kelly patents,
and such competition would plainly have been more largely
detrimental to the common interests of the parties to this controversy than that which arose under the purchase as made.
It is true that, in 1881, the Thorn Wire Hedge Company
claimed that the Brinkerhoff wire strip was covered by the
agreement, and demanded an account of royalty thereon. But
this claim was then rejected by the Washburn and Moen Company, which, while admitting that no sales under the Brinkerhoff patent had been reported, asserted that it was in no
sense subject to the Kelly patents.

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

451

Opinion of the Court.

No further claim in this behalf was made by the appellant
for five years, during which perioa reports were duly made
by the Washburn and Moen Company, without including any
statement of sales made by it of wire made under the Brinkerhoff patent, and monthly settlements were made and differences adjusted. So long a period of acquiescence discredits
any renewal of the demand.
In the absence, then, of any express covenant, and in view of
the long course of dealing between the parties, in which this
claim sank out of sight, we think the complainant's claim for
an account of royalty for wire made under the Brinkerhoff
patent cannot be sustained. We therefore find no error in
the decree of the court below dismissing the original and
amended bill of complaint.
This brings us to a consideration of the cross-appeal of the
Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company, wherein complaint is made of the court below in dismissing the defendant's
cross-bill.
The Washburn and Moen Company seeks by its cross-bill to
recover from the Thorn Wire Hedge Company its alleged proportion of moneys which the Washburn and Moen Company
had been compelled to refund to certain licensees by reason of
its purchase of the Haish patents. But the Thorn Wire Hedge
Company was not a party to the purchase. True, as we have
seen, it assented to the purchase and released the Washburn
and Moen Company from any obligation arising out of it, but
we are unable to see that the relation between the parties
justifies the demand that the Thorn Wire Hedge Company
should return any part of the moneys theretofore or thereafter paid to it. The payments to it were of moneys due to
it, and which it had a right to receive. The, subsequent disclosure that by its settlement with Haish the Washburn and
Moen Company became responsible to its own licensees for damages arising out of the transaction with Haish did not, in our
judgment, operate to affect the payments previously made
to the Thorn Wire Hedge Company. Besides, the record discloses that the latter company continued to pay over royalty,
month by month, to the Thorn Wire Hedge Compahy after

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

the date of the filing of the bill by the Chicago Galvanized
Wire Fence Company, in September, 1881, down to the time
of filing the cross-bill in July, 1889, without abating or
diminishing such payments by setting off the moneys now
demanded. Moreover, the moneys now sought to be recovered in this cross-bill were for royalties accruing to the Thorn
Wire Hedge Company prior to the amendment or supplement
of June 12, 1883, and no claim or suggestion was then made
on account of the demands of the other licensees, although the
adverse decision in favor of the Chicago Galvanized Wire Company had been rendered eight months before. These payments
were, therefore, voluntarily made with full knowledge of the
facts.
Without pursuing the subject further, our conclusion is that
the court below committed no error in dismissing as well the
cross-bill as the original and amended bill, and its decree is
accordingly
Afirmed : the costs in this court to be paid by the appellant
in each case.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 196. Argued October 28,1895. - Decided November 11, 1895.

It to the usage of the civilized nations of the world, when territory is ceded,
to stipulate for the property of its inhabitants.

The courts of the United States are bound to take judicial notice of the laws
and regulations of Mexico prior to the cessions under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and the treaty of December 80, 1853.
It Is the general rule of American law that a grant will be presumed upon
proof of an adverse, exclusive, and uninterrupted possession for twenty
years, and such rule will be applied as a presumptio juris et de jure whenever, by possibility, a right may be acquired in any manner known to the
law, including occupations of claimants under alleged Mexican grants
prior to the said treaties.
On the facts the court decides that the land in controversy in this case was
the property of the claimants before the treaties with Mexico, and consequently that its protection Is guaranteed as well by those treaties as by
the law of nations.

