In re 1ELT, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

parties. But since the grant to the respective States of all
swamp and overflowed lands therein, this cannot be done. In
the present case it cannot be seriously contended that any
palpable mistake was made, or that any fraud was committed
by the surveyor who made the survey of 1834-5."
We have no doubt upon the evidence that the circumstances
were such at the time of the survey as naturally induced the
surveyor to decline to survey this particular spot as an island.
There is nothing to indicate mistake or fraud, and the government has never taken any steps predicated on such a theory;
and did not survey the so called Island No. 5 until twenty-five
years after the survey of 1831, and nearly twenty years after
that of 1837.
Although the facts were wholly different in Horne v. Smith,
ante, 40, that case will be found instructive in connection with
the questions arising here.
The Supreme Court of Michigan was right in holding
that
whatever there was of this conformation passed under the
grant to Lyon and Hastings.
Judgment afirmed.

In re BELT, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted April 29, 1895. -Decided

June 8, 1895.

The Supreme Courtof the District of Columbia had jurisdiction and authority to determine the validity of the act of July 23, 1892, c. 236, which

authorized the waiver of a jury and to dispose of the question as to
whether the record of a conviction before a judge without a jury, where
the prisoner waived trial by jury according to statute, was legitimate
proof of a first offence, and this being so, this court cannot review the

action of that court and the Court of Appeals in this particular on
habeas corpus.
The general rule is that the writ of habeas corpus will not issue unless the
court, under whose warrant the petitioner is held, is without jurisdiction; and that it cannot be used to correct errors.
Ordinarily a writ of habeas corpus will not lie where there is a remedy by
writ of error or appeal; but in rare and exceptional cases it may be issued
although such remedy exists.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Georae Kearney and Mr. Perry Allen for petitioner.
Mr. Solicitor General, opposing.
MR.
Court.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

This is an application for leave to file a petition for the
writ of habeas corpu, directed to the superintendent of the
Albany County penitentiary, in the State of New York, for
the discharge of petitioner now held in the custody of said
superintendent under sentence of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia. The case is thus stated by the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia on affirming the judginent below: "The appellant, William Belt, alias William
Jones, was indicted in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, holding a criminal court, and convicted on the
twentieth day of February, A.D. 1894, of a second offence
of larceny, and sentenced to three years' imprisonment in the
penitentiary. The conviction was under section 1158 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States for the District of
Columbia, which provides that 'Every 'person convicted of
feloniously stealing, taking, and carrying away any goods or
chattels, or other personal property, of the value of thirty-five
dollars or upwards,

.

.

.

shall be sentenced to suffer im-

prisonment and labor, for the first offence for a period not less
than one nor more than three years, and for the second offence
for a period not less than three nor more than ten years.'
At the trial of the case, after proof of the special offence
charged against the defendant, the prosecution proceeded to
pr6ve that it was the defendant's second offence of the kind
by offering in evidence the record of his previous conviction
of the crime of larceny in the police court of the District of
Columbia on April 8, 1893. To the admission of this record
in evidence objection was made on the ground that it showed
on its face a waiver of the right of trial by jury on the part
of the prisoner and a trial and conviction by the court alone

In re BELT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

without a jury, a method of procedure claimed to be in violation of the Constitution of the United States and therefore
null and void The objection was overruled, and exception
taken; and upon that exception the case has been brought
by appeal to this court."
The opinion of the Court of Appeals will be found reported
22 Wash. Law Rep. 447. The court held that the-act of Congress of July 23, 1892, c. 236, 27 Stat. 261, providing that in
prosecutions in the police court of the District, in which, according to the Constitution, the accused would be entitled to
a jury trial, the accused* might in open court expressly waive
such trial by jury and request to be tried by the judge, in
which case the trial should be by the judge, and the judgment
and sentence should have the same force and effect as if entered and pronounced upon the verdict of a jury, was constitutional and valid; and that the record of, a trial, conviction,
and sentence by a judge under such a waiver was competent
evidence on an indictment for a similar offence, to prove that
it was the defendant's second offence of the same kind.
It is contended that the sentence as for a second offence
under which petitioner is held is void because the first conviction of petitioner was void and of no effect in law, inasmuch
as the constitutional requirement of trial by jury in criminal
cases could not be waived by the accused person though in
pursuance of a statute that authorized such waiver.
Does the ground of this application go to the jurisdiction or
authority of the Supreme Court of the District, or rather is it
not an allegation of mere error? If the latter, it cannot be
reviewed in this proceeding. In re Schneider, 148 U. S. 162,
and cases cited.
In Ex parte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328, 330, which was a motion
for leave to file a petition for habeas corpus, the petitioner had
been convicted and sentenced in the Supreme Court of the
District to impisonment for five years under an indictment
for embezzlement.
It appeared that there were pending
before that court fourteen indictments against the petitioner
for embezzlement, and an order of the court had directed that
they be consolidated under the 1tatute and tried together. A
vox. cuXx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

jury was empanelled and sworn, and the district attorney had
inade his opening statement to the jury, when the court took
a recess, and, upon reconvening a short time afterwards, the
court decided that the indictments could not be well tried
together, and directed the jury to be discharged from the
further consideration of them, and rescinded the order of consolidation. The prisoner was thereupon tried before the same
jury on one of the indictments and found guilty. All of this
was against his protest and without his consent. The judgment on the verdict was taken by appeal to the Supreme
Court of the District in general term, where it was affirmed.
It was argued here, as it was in the court in general term, that
the empanelling and swearing of the jury and the statement
of his case by the district attorney put the prisoner in jeopardy
in respect of all the offences charged in the consolidated indictment, within the meaning of the.Fifth Amendment, so that he
could not be again tried for any of these offences, and Mr.
Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the coure, after
'remarking that if the court of the District was without
authority in the matter, this court would have power to discharge the prisoner from confinement, said: "But that court
had jurisdiction of the offence described in the indictment ont
which the prisoner was tried. It had jurisdiction of the
prisoner, who was properly brought bef-ore the
court. It had
jurisdiction to hear the charge and the evidence against the
prisoner. It had jurisdiction to hear and decide upon the
defences offered by him. The matter now presented was one
of those defences. Whether it was a sufficient defence was
a matter of law on which that court must pass so far as it was.
purely a question of law, and on which the jury under the instructions of the court must pass if we can suppose any of the
facts were such as required submission to the jury. If the
question had been one of former acquittal -a
much stronger
.case than this,- the cburt would have had jurisdiction to
decide upon the record whether there had been a former
acquittal for the same offence, and if the identity of the
offence were in dispute, it might be necessary on such a plea
to submit that question to the jury on the issue raised by

In re BELT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

the plea. The same principle would apply to a plea of
a former conviction. Clearly in these cases the court 'not
only has jurisdiction to try and decide the question raised, but
it is its imperative duty to do so. If the court makes a mistake oii such trial it is error which may be corrected by the
usual modes of correcting such errors, but that the court had
jurisdiction to decide upon the' matter raised by the plea both
as matter of law and of fact cannot be doubted.

.

.

.

It

may be confessed that it is not always very easy to determine
what matters go to the jurisdiction of a court so as to make its
action when erroneous a nullity. But the general rule is that
when the court has jurisdiction .by law of the offence charged,
and of the party who is so charged, its judgments are not
nullities." And the application was denied.
In Ballinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314, 318, it was said by
this court: "Upon the question of the right of one charged
with crime to waive a trial by jury, and elect to be tried by the
court, when there is a positive legislative enactment, giving
the right so to do, and conferring power on the, court to try
the accused in such a case, there are numerous decisions by
state courts, upholding the validity of such proceeding. Dailey v. The State, 4 Ohio St. 57; Dillingham v. The State, 5
Ohio St. 280; People v. Noll, 20 California, 164; State v.
Worden, 46 Connecticut, 349; State v. Albee, 61 N. H. 423,
428." And see Edwards v. State, 45 N. J. L. 419, 423; Ward
v. People, 30 Michigan, 116; Connelly v. State, 60 Alabama, 89;
Murphy v. State, 97 Indiana, 579; State v. Sackett, 39 Minnesota, 69; Lavery v. Commonwealth, 101 Penn. St. 560; Lerigue
v. State, 36 Maryland, 257, cited by the Court of Appeals.
Without in the least suggesting a doubt as to the efficacy,
value, and importance of the system of trial by jury in criminal
as well as in civil actions, we are clearly of opinion that the
Supreme Court of the District had jurisdiction and authority
to determine the validity of the act which authorized the
waiver of a jury and to dispose of the question as to whether
the record of a conviction before a judge without a jury,
where the prisoner waived trial by jury according to statute,
was legitimate proof of a first offence, and this being so, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Parties.

cannot review the action of that court and the Court of
Appeals in this particular on habeas corpus.
The general rule is that the writ of habeas corpus will not
issue unless the court, under whose warrant the petitioner is
held, is without jurisdiction; and that it cannot be used to
correct errors. Ordinarily the writ will not lie where there is
a remedy by writ of error or appeal; but in rare and exceptional cases it may be issued although such remedy exists.
We have heretofore decided that this court has no appellate
jurisdiction over the judgments of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in criminal cases or on habeas corpus;
but whether or not the judgments of the Supreme Court of
the District, reviewable in the Court of Appeals, may be
reviewed ultimately in this court in such cases, when the
validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United States is drawn in question, we have as yet not been
obliged to determine. In re iapman, Petitioner,156 U. S.
211. And that inquiry is immaterial here, as we have no doubt
that the courts below had jurisdiction.
Leave denied.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 863.

Submitted March 5, 1895. - Decided June 3, 1895.

An instruction on the trial of a person indicted for murder, whereby the
verdict of guilty of murder or manslaughter turns alone upon an inquiry
as to the way in which the killing was done, is held to be reversible

error.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. T X1. Cravens for plaintiff in error.
21hr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney and Mr. William
II. Pope for defendants in error.

