GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

may grant reprieves "to extend until the expiration of a time
not exceeding ninety days after conviction ;" and by section
123 of the Criminal Procedure Act of that State, it is provided
that when. a reprieve is granted to any convict sentenced to
the punishment of death and he is not pardoned, it shall be the
duty of the governor to issue his warrant to the sheriff of the
proper county for the execution of the sentence at such time
as is therein appointed and expressed. It is contended that
if there is no reprieve there can be no warrant; that there was
no authority to issue either, except within ninety days after
conviction; and that appellant must be brought before the
trial court and a new date be fixed for the execution. But
these are matters for the determination of the state courts, and
they appear to have been passed upon adversely to the petitioner. That result involves no denial of due process of law,
or the infraction of any provision of the Constitution of the
United States. Lambert v. Barrett,157 U. S. 697; Jlolden v.
Minnesota, 137 U. S.483 ; Schwab v. Berggren, 143 U. S.442 ;
McElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155, 159; In re Cross, 146
U. S.271, 278.
Order afirmed.

GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 616. Argued November 1, 1S95. -Decided

November 25, 1895.

When a verdict is general upon all the counts in an indictment, sufficient in
form, it must stand if any one of the counts was sustained by competent
testimony.
In an indictment under Rev. Stat. § 5467, against a letter carrier charged
with secreting, embezzling or destroying a letter containing postage
stamps, the fact that the letter was a decoy is no defence.
A letter addressed to a fictitious person, known to be such, is a letter

within the meaning of the statute, and for the purposes of Rev. Stat.
§§ 5467 and 5469 a letter which bears the outward semblance of a genuine
communication, and comes into the possession of the employ6 in the

OUCTOBER TEEI-M, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
regular course of his official business, is a writing or document within
the meaning of the statute.
Where a general verdict of guilty is rendered, an objection taken to evidence
admissible under one, or a part of the counts, is untenable.
The term "branch post office," as employed in those sections, includes every
place within such office where letters are kept in the regular course of
business, for reception, stamping, assorting or delivery.
It being shown, in this case, that the branch post office in which the offence
was alleged to have been committed, was known as the Roxbury station
of the Boston post office, that it had been used as such for years, and
that it was a post office de facto, it was unnecessary to show that it had
been regularly established as such by law.
GEORGE GOODE, a letter-carrier, was indicted and convicted
in the District Court for the District of Massachusetts for
embezzlement and theft from the mail. The indictment
contained seven counts, the first three of which charged a
violation of Rev. Stat.,. § 5467, and the last four a violation of
§ 5469. (The substance of these sections is printed in the
margin.) The case was submitted to the jury under certain
instructions, hereafter to be considered, who returned a verdict
of guilty upon the whole indictment.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows:
Goode, the plaintiff in error, was a letter carrier employed
in the branch post office at Roxbury, which had formerly been
an independent post office, but is now known as the Roxbury
station of the Boston post office. Complaints having been

SSEc. 5467. Any person -employed in any department of the postal
service who shall secrete, embezzle, or destroy any lettei . . . intrusted
to him, or which shall come into his possession, and which was intended to
he conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mail carrier, mailmessenger, route-agent, letter carrier, or other person employed in any
department of the postal service, or forwarded through or delivered from
any post office or branch post office established by authority of the Postmaster-General, and which shall contain any . . . postage stamp . . or other pecuniary obligation or security of the government, . . . any
such person who shall steal or take any of the things aforesaid out of any
letter, . . . which shall have come in his possession, either in the
regular course of his official duties or in any other manner whatever, and
provided the same shall not have been delivered to the party to whom it is
directed, shall be punishable by imprisonment at hard labor for not less
than one year nor more than five years.

GOOI)E v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

made of thefts from the mails at this office, Thomas J. Boynton, a post-office inspector, prepared two decoy letters, one of
which was addressed to Whitcomb, Keys & Co., a firm of
merchant tailors on Washington Street, in the Roxbury district, and was subsequently delivered to them in the regular
course of business, and one addressed to John Muldoon, Esq.,
153 Ziegler street, Boston, Mass., and postmarked West
Cheshire, Conn.
Boynton, in fact, took an envelope containing that postmark,
filled in the date, which was missing on the postmark, with
type which he had in his office for that purpose, and cancelled
the stamp with a canceller, such as was used ordinarily in
the smaller post offices. He enclosed in the letter two one
'dollar silver certificates and five two cent postage stamps,
marked the postage stamps by means of pin holes, and gave
the letter to one McGrath, who was assistant superintendent
of the mailing division of the main post office in Boston, but
who was stationed temporarily, by direction of the postmaster,
at the Roxbury office.
McGrath, when the letter carriers were out, called as witness
the superintendent and person having charge 6f the branch
post office, and in his presence put the letter into defendant
Goode's box. This was not the ordinary method of depositing
the mail. Indeed, he passed by the places on the outside as
well as the inside of the post office, where letters are usually
mailed, and went into the back room, where the letters after
Sc. 5469. Any person who .shall steal the mail or steal or take from or
out of any mail or post office, branch post office, or other authorized depository for mail matter, any'letter or packet; any person who shall take the
mail, or any letter or packet therefrom, or from any post office, branch post
office, or other authorized depository for mail matter, with or without
the consent of the person having custody thereof, and open, embezzle, or
destroy any such mail, letter, or package which shall contain any .
postage stamp . . . or other pecuniary obligation or security of the
government; . . . any person'who shall, by fraud or deception, obtain
from any person having custody thereof, any such mall, letter, or packet
containing any such article of value shall, although not employed by the
postal service, be punishable by imprisonment at hard labor for not less
than one year and not more than five years.

OCTO3E1I TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

passing through the mails are sorted. Goode returned from
his route, took up all the letters in his box, and went to his
desk, which was situated in the same room. His own route
terminated at No. 51 Ziegler Street, and it was his duty to put
this Ziegler Street letter into the box of the carrier whose
route included the higher numbers of Ziegler Street, or to put
it into what was known as the "list box." This list box was
kept for the reception of any letter known as a "beat" or a
"nixie," that is, a letter addressed to a person not to be found
in the district. On Goode's return from his route, the letter
not being found in either of these boxes or elsewhere, he was
searched and the five marked postage stamps were found upon
his person. It was shown that, while absent on his route, he
had the opportunity of disposing of the letter and the silver
certificates therein contained. There were a large number of
other letters in the box in which this Muldoon letter was
put by McGrath. McGrath knew at the time that there was
no such place as 153 Ziegler Street, and that there was no
such person as John Muldoon. He put the letter in the box
for the purpose of being able to identify its contents in case
Goode embezzled them.
Goode was sentenced upon conviction to imprisonment at
hard labor for three years, and thereupon sued out. this writ
of error.
-Mr.Elbridge R. Anderson, (with whom was Mr. Charles
W. Bartlett on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
This case is one of great importance both to the government
and to the defendant.
The question has not been before this court before, and it is
one upon which there have been various rulings by the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States, and which should be
considered fully upon its merits for the future guidance of the
various courts in which cases of this character are being continually tried.
The Muldoon letter was not a letter. There can be no letter
is, message or communication - to that which is not
-that

GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in existence. United States v. Denicke, 35 Fed. Rep. 407;
Regina v. Gardner,1 Car. & K. 628.
It never became a letter or mail matter, under the statute,
because it never got into the mail in any of the ways provided
by the post office authorities. United States v. Rapp, 30 Fed.
Rep. 818; United States v. Denicke, ub. sup.; Regina v. Rathbone, 1 Car. & M.-220.
It was never deposited in the Roxbury post office nor in the
mail for the Roxbury district deposited in the branch post
office of the United States. . It never went into the office so
as to get into the custody of the postmaster. The mere fact
that it was carried into the post office building and put into a
sorting case and in a sorter's box is not enough. It must get
into the mail through the usual channels and by proper means.
Had it been thrown on the floor it could not be said that it
had been deposited in the mail, and the contention is that
what was done amounted to no more. Regina v. Rathbone,
ub. sUP,; United States v. Ravp, ub. sup. A 'letter, to be
"deposited," must be confided to the care of the postal department for transmission. Walster v. United States, 42 Fed.
Rep. 891. A letter addressed to a person not in existence and
to a place that does not exist, and one that does not get into
the mail in the usual course, is not intended to be conveyed by
mail nor carried by a letter carrier, under §§ 5467 and 5469 of
the Revised Statutes. United States v. .Matthews, 35 Fed.
Rep. 890; United States v. Denicke, ub. sup.; United States
v. Rapp, ub. sup.

United States v. Foye, 1 Curtis, 364; United States v. Wright,
38 Fed. Rep. 106; United Statds v. Dorsey, 40 Fed. Rep. 752;
United States v. Bethen, 44.Fed. Rep. 802; and United States
v. Cottingham, 2 Blatchford, 470, supposed to hold a contrary
doctrine, will be found, on examination, not to do so.
There is another principle which the plaintiff in error
invokes in his behalf, which is, that wherever error is apparent
on the record it is open to revision whether it be made
to appear by a bill of exceptions or in any other manner.
Suydam v. Williamson et al., 20 How. 427. Where error is
apparent on a record, no exception need be shown, and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

need not have been presented by a bill of exceptions. .oline
Plow Co. v. Webb, 141 United States, 616; Clinton v. misSouri Pacific 'Railway, 122 U. S. 469; Potomac Railroad
(ompany v. Trustees of Presbyterian Church, 91 U. S. 127.
Anything appearing upon the record which would have been
fatal on a motion in arrest of judgment is equally as fatal
upon a writ of error, although objection was not taken below.
Slacum v. Pomery, 6 Cranch, 221.
Xr. Assistant Attorney General-Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE

BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
To make a case under Rev. Stat., § 5467, it is necessary for
the government to prove (1.) That the person charged was employed in the postal
service.
(2.) That the letter that he is charged with secreting,
embezzling, or destroying was entrusted to him or came into
his possession, and was intended to be conveyed by mail,
carried, or delivered by carrier, messenger, route agent, or
other person employed in the postal service, or forwarded
through or delivered from any post office or branch office, etc.
(3.) That it contained one of the articles of value described
in the statute, one of which is postage stamps.
(4.) Or that the person so employed stole one of such arti
cles out of any such letter, etc., provided the same had not
been delivered to the party to whom it was directed.
Upon the other hand, § 5469 applies to every person, irrespective of his employment in the post office, and to establish
a case under this section it is only necessary to prove
(1.) That the 'defendant stole the mail or that he took from
out of the mail or post office or other authorized depository a
letter or packet, or took such mail or letter or packet therefrom, or from any post office, etc., or otherwise authorized
depository, with or without the consent of the person having
the custody thereof.

GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

(2.) That he opened, embezzled, or destroyed any such
mail, letter, or packet containing an article of value.
(3.) Or, by fraud or deception, obtained from any person
having custody thereof any such mail, letter, or packet, containing such article of value.
As the verdict was general. upon all the counts, which are
conceded to be sufficient in form, if any one of the counts
was sustained by competent testimony, the verdict must
stand. Claassen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140; Evans v.
United States, 153 U. S. 584.
1. The main contention of the defendant is that the Muldoon letter was not a letter in point of fact, inasmuch as it
was not only a decoy, that is, not written in good faith as a
message or communication to the person addressed, but was
wholly fictitious; that there was no such person as John Muldoon, no such place as 153 Ziegler Street, and the letter could
not possibly have been delivered.
That the fact that the letter was a decoy is no defence is
too well settled by the modern authorities to be now open to
contention. King v. Egginton, 2 Bos. & Pull. 508; United
States v. Foye, 1 Curtis, 364; United States v. Cottingham, 2
Blatchford, 470; Bates v. United States, 10 Fed. Rep. 92, 97;
United States v. Whittier, 5 Dillon, 35, 39; United States v.
Moore' 19 Fed. Rep. 39; United States v. Wight, 38 Fed.
Rep. 106; United States v. Matthews, 35 Fed. Rep. 890, 896;
United States v. Dorsey, 40 Fed. Rep. 752. Indeed, this court
held at the last term, in Grimm v. United States, 156 U. S.
604, that the fact that certain prohibited pictures and prints
were drawn out of the defendant, by a decoy letter written
by a government detective, was no defence to an indictment
for mailing such prohibited publications.
The question whether a letter addressed to a fictitious person, known to be such, is a letter within the meaning of the
statute, is more serious, and there are certainly authorities
which lend support to the theory of the defendant in that
regard. Thus in, Regina v. Rathbone, I Car. & M. 220, a
detective mailed a decoy letter, containing a marked sovereign,
to a fictitious address in London, and placed it in a heap of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

letters which the prisoner was about to sort, and which he
had to deliver that day. The letter was not delivered, and, in
the course of the same day, the prisoner was arrested and
searched, and the marked sovereign found in his pocket. It
was held that this was not a "post letter," or a letter put into
the post; but as there was a separate count for the larceny of
the sovereign, he was held to have been properly convicted of
that. A similar ruling was made (in Regina v. Gardner, 1
Car. & K. 628, wherein the prisoner was held to have been
properly convicted of the larceny of certain marked money
contained in a letter which was addressed to a fictitious person, the court adhering to its previous ruling that it was not
the stealing of a post letter.
The authority of these cases, however, was seriously shaken
by that of Regina v. Young, 1 Den. Cr. Cas. 194. In that
case the letter contained a half sovereign, and was addressed
to a fictitious person. -The prisoner, instead of transmitting
the letter to the general post office, abstracted it from the
receiving box, opened it, took out the half sovereign, and
kept both the letter and the money. It was held to be a post
letter, having, all the ingredients under the statute, and
"whether it can be delivered or no seems beside the question."
On the Gardner case being cited, Pollock, Chief Baron, said
he had seen reason to think his dictum in that case was incorrect, and the judges were unanimously of the opinion that the
conviction was right.
The question has been generally ruled in the same way
in this country. United States v. Foye, 1 CurtiS, 364;
United States v. Wight, 38 Fed. Rep. 106; United States v.
Dorsey, 40 Fed. Rep. 752; United States v. Rethen, 44 Fed.
Rep. 802.
If the word "letter" were given the technical construction
of a written message or communication from one person to
another, it would strike at the whole system of decoy or test
letters, none of which contain bonafide communications. This
would render it practically impossible, to detect thefts and
embezzlements by employ~s, since, in a large majority of
cases, the letters and their envelopes are thrown away or

GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

destroyed for the very purpose of preventing their being identified in case the employs is arrested; and the contents of the
letter, which it is ordinarily impossible to identify, only are
abstracted. If, however, the contents can be identified, as
they always are in test letters, by a private mark put upon
them, the discovery of such contents upon the person of the
employs affords almost conclusive evidence of the theft of the
letter in which they are enclosed.
It makes no difference with respect to the duty of the carrier, whether the letter be genuine or a decoy, with a fictitious
address. Coming into his possession as such carrier, it is his
duty to treat it for what it appears to be on its face- a
genuine communication; to make an effort to deliver it, or,
if the address be not upon his route, to hand it to the proper
carrier, or put it into the list box. Certainly he has no more
right to appropriate it to himself than he would have if it
were a genuine letter. For the purposes of these sections a
letter is a writing or document, which bears the outward
semblance of a genuine communication, and comes into the
possession of the employs in the regular course of his official
business. His duties in respect to it are not relaxed by
the fact or by his knowledge that it is not what it purports
to be -in other words, it is not for him to judge of its genuineness.
2. The question whether this letter "was intended to be
conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mail carrier,
mail messenger, route agent, letter carrier, or other person,"
etc., does not properly arise at this stage of the case, since,
under § 5469, it is only necessaky to show that the article embezzled or taken was a letter or packet properly deposited, etc.,
the subsequent limitation of the prior section with respect to
the intention of the party mailing the letter being omitted
,here. Whether the court erred in refusing the defendant's
request in that particular, therefore, becomes immaterial, in
view of the last four counts, which are drawn under § 5469,
and contain no allegation that the letter in question was ii
tended to be conveyed by mail or carrier. Indeed, it is some.
what doubtful whether it could be material at all in view of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

5468, declaring that the fact that any letter, etc., has been
deposited in any post office or branch post office, or in charge
of any agent of the postal service, shall be evidence that
the same was "intended to be conveyed by mail" within the
meaning of § 5467. Had defendant been convicted under the
first three counts and acquitted under the last four, of course
the objection might be material; but where a general verdict
of guilty is rendered, an objection taken to evidence admissible
under one or a part of the counts is untenable.
3. Was there competent evidence to show that the letter
was deposited in any mail or post office, branch post office, or
other authorized depository for mail matter, within the meaning of § 5469 ? IIf, to meet the requirements of this section,
it were necessary to show that the letter was deposited in one
of the ordinary boxes accessible to the public and used for
the reception of letters regularly mailed, the evidence is obviously insufficient, since it is shown that McGrath, in mailing
this letter, passed by the place where letters were usually
mailed, entered the back room of the office, where letters were
sorted, and put this letter into Goode's box. This was clearly
sufficient to charge Goode with the duty of delivering or
attempting to deliver, the letter, and it makes no difference
that, before it was put into this box, it did not go through the
usual channel or reach it in the ordinary way. The term
"branch post office," within the meaning of the act, includes
every place within such office where letters are kept in the
regular course of business, for reception, stamping, assorting,
or delivery. Of course, a letter thrown upon the floor, or laid
upon a desk appropriated to other and different purposes, could
not be said to have been deposited in the post office; but if it
be put in any place where letters are usually kept or deposited
for any purpose, we think it is within the act.
4. While there was no direct evidence that this branch post
office was established by authority of the Postmaster General,
there was evidence that it was known as the Roxbary station
of the Boston post office, had been used as such for years,-and
that it was a post office defacto. For the purposes of this
case, it was quite unnecessary to show that it had been regtl-

MOORE v. MISSOURI.
Statement of the Case.

larly established as such by law. Ingraham v. United States,
155 U. S. 434; Wright v. United States, 158 U. S. 232.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Aflrmed.

MOORE v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 493. Argued and submitted October 80, 1895. -Decided

November 25, 1895.

The provision in § 3959 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri that prisoners
convicted two or more times of committing offences punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary shall be punished with Increased severity
for the later offences, does not in any way conflict with the provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
A State may provide that persons who have been before convicted of crime
may suffer severer punishment for. subsequent offences than for a first
offence against the law, and that a different punishment for the same
offence may be inflicted under particular circumstances, provided it is
dealt out to all alike who are similarly situated.
Whether an indictment in a state court is sufficient in its description of the
degree of the offence charged is a matter for the state court to determine,
and its decision in that respect presents no Federal question.
No question which could be regarded as a Federal question having been
raised at his trial, the prisoner was not subjected to al unconstitutional
kuling in not being allowed to have his case heard at large by seven
judges, instead of by three.
FRANK MOORE was indicted in the St. Louis Criminal Court
for burglary in the first degree and larceny in a dwellinghouse, on May 26, 1893. The indictment also charged that
defendant "on the eleventh day of January, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, at the
city of St. Louis aforesaid, in the St. Louis Criminal Court,
was duly convicted on his own confession of the offence of
grand larceny, and in accordance with said conviction was
duly sentenced by said court to an imprisonment in the peni.
tentiary for the terni of three years, and was duly imprisoned
VOL. CLIX-43

