GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA

I)

CO. v. BUTLER.

87

Syllabus

by the act of 1890. As to such importations the first section
of the act of 1894 could not be literally carried out, unless by
holding it to operate as a retroactive repeal, notwithstanding
the saving clause, and this we consider altogether inadmissible.
The language of section one was that on and after the first of
August there shall be levied, and of the second section, that
on and after the first day of August certain enumerated
articles when imported shall be exempt from duty. In our
judgment, the word "shall' spoke for the future and was
not intended to apply to transactions completed when the act
became a law.
We regard the third question as too general and unnecessary
to be answered, but
Answer the first question in the affirmative, and the second
in the negative, and it will be so certifd.

GRAND RAPIDS AND INDIANA RAILROAD COMPANY v. BUTLER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 198. Argued and submitted January 29, 1895. - Decided June 8, 1895.

The decision by a state court that the pleadings were sufficient to permit
the examination and determination of the case presents no Federal
question.
While the rule is that this court, upon a writ of error to the highest court
of a State, in an action at law, cannot review its judgment upon a question of fact, it is unnecessary to consider the extent of the power of the
court in that particular in chancery cases, as this court concurs with the
result reached by the state court that when the survey was made of
the land in controversy, there was no reservation made of the island, and
no act on the part of the government showing any intention to reserve it.
In Michigan a grant of land bounded by a stream, whether navigable in fact
or not, carries with it the bed of the stream to the centre of the thread
thereof.
The court has no doubt, upon the evidence, that the circumstances were
such at the time of the survey as naturally induced the surveyor to decline to survey the tract in controversy as an island ; that there is notb-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
ing to indicate mistake or fraud, and the government has taken no steps
predicated on that theory; and that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Michigan was right.

THis was a bill filed by John Butler in the Circuit Court of
the county of Kent, in the State of Michigan, against the
Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company and others, to
quiet title to certain land in that county, resulting in a decree
in complainant's favor, which was afterwards affirmed by the
Sipreme Court of the State, to review whose judgment this
writ of error was sued out. The case is reported 85 Michigan,
246.
Mr. T. J O'Brien for plaintiffs in error submitted on his
brief.
Mr. Willard F. Keeney, (with whom was Mr. Roger W.,
Butterfield on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTIciE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The fractional north half of the southeast quarter of section
25, township 7 north, range 12 west, is located on the east
bank of Grand River, and early in 1831 that part of the town
lying east of the river was surveyed and subdivided, and the
east bank of the river was meandered and surveyed. In 1837
the west bank of the river was meandered and surveyed, as
were also four islands in the stream, designated as Islands Nos.
1, 2, 3, and 4; and that part of the town lying west of the
river was surveyed and subdivided.
The north fractional half of the southeast quarter of iection
25 was entered by Lyon and Hastings, September 25, 1832,
and patent therefor issued to them November 5, 1833. Butler
derived title under Lyon and Hastings, and claimed the land
in dispute by virtue of riparian "ownership, as taking, under
the laws of Michigan, the bed of the stream to the thread
thereof.
In 1855 a piece of ground in the river lying opposite land of.
which Butler's formed a part was surveyed and marked by
the deputy surveyor Island No. 5 in Grand River. This sur-

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA E"D CO. v. BUTLER.

89

Opinion of the Court.

vey purported to be made in pursuance of instructions given
May 24, 1854, by the surveyor-general for Ohio, Indiana, and
Michigan, whereby the deputy was authorized to survey the
islands in certain lakes and in Grand River, Michigan, and was
made in the third quarter of 1855. The verification by the
deputy was in February, 1856, and by the chainmen November
22, 1856.
In 1871 the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company
procured from the General Land Office a patent, which, with
many thousand acres of land, covered Island No. 5 in Grand
River, containing 2.56 acres, but this patent was not recorded
until August 9, 1887, and on September 9 following this bill
was filed.
Complainant put himself upon these two propositions:
"First. At the time of the survey and sale of the lands on the
bank the spot in question was not an island in fact, and was
not treated by the authorities as such. Second. Whatever
its character, inasmuch as it was not meandered or set apart
as an island, it passed to the riparian proprietor as appurtenant
to the grant of the lands on the bank."
The Supreme Court of Michigan said (p. 250): "A large
mass of testimony was taken as to the character of this
so called island at the time of the original surveys and for
some years subsequent, the complainant's testimony tending
to show that it was at first a low sand bar, covered a good
part of the year with water, and the defendant's testimony
tending to show that it was then a well-defined island. It is
immaterial to determine what the facts are as to the condition
of this land in those early days, for in our judgment it is of no
consequence whether it was what might be termed ' an island'
or a ' sand bar' or a ' piece of low, wet ground.' The law is
the same in either case."
The court called attention to the surveys of 1831 and 1837,
in neither of which was any island meandered or surveyed* n
the site of Island No. 5, and to the fact that in the survey of
1837 the acreage of the four islands and of the mainland was
given, and observed: "In surveying Island No. 3 the surveyor
began at the lower end of the island. The eleventh course

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

took him ' to maple on the head of island.' After taking his
next course from the maple he made the following record:
'Channel between this and low willow isle 75 lks. wide and 3
feet deep opposite ft. of willow isle on left, 250 of low, wet
ground on left to channel.'
This ' low willow isle' is evidently what is now known as Island No. 5 as changed by the
action of the water."
It was further stated: "The channel between the islands
and the east bank was from seventy-five to one hundred feet
wide. The channel between the islands and the west bank
was several times wider. The depth of the water in each -was
about the same. The middle thread of the river was therefore
west of the islands. About. the year 1836 steamboats were
placed on the river and docks were erected on the east bank
nearly opposite Island No. 1. The principal business by boat
was with the east side, where the city of Grand Rapids was
situated. Steamboats also ran up the west channel to a steamboat warehouse on the west side of the river. About the
year 1870 the east channel opposite islands Nos. 1 and 2 was
filled up, and the city constructed a sewer into and through
that channel. The upper part of this channel was gradually
filled, mainly by the owners of land upon the east bank. By
these fillings this island has for some time been connected with
and become a part of the mainland. The channel has been
dredged out east of Island INo. 3, and a steamboat slip and
landing constructed, the upper end of which is a considerable
distance below Island No. 5."
The court also found that Butler's possession of the premises
was sufficient to maintain his suit, and some other matters
were considered not necessary to be adverted to.
The court held that the well-recognized rule in Michigan
was that a grantee of land bounded in the deed of conveyance
by a stream takes title to the land under the water to the
thread of the stream in the absence of an express reservation;
that reservation cannot be implied; that when the government
has surveyed its lands along the bank of a river and has sold
and conveyed such lands by government subdivisions, its patent
conveys the title to all islands lying between the meander line

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA R'D CO. v. BUTLER.

91

Opinion of the Court.

and the middle thread of the river, unless previous to such
patent it has surveyed such islands as governmental subdivisions or expressly reserves them when not surveyed; that the
grant to Lyon and Hastings was made under the survey of 1831,
by which, as the court found, "both banks of Grand River were
meandered and by which the middle thread of the river was
fixed west of this island;" and that the grant clearly vested
in them title to the land in controversy, of which no subsequent survey by the government, could deprive them; that
there was no force in the objection that this was equivalent to
a proceeding to cancel the patent, since in this or any similar
action, what was involved was the establishment of the fact
that the title had passed by a former grant, and, therefore,
that the government had no title to convey; in which cases
courts protect purchasers from subsequent surveys.
. The errors assigned are grouped by counsel, and stated thus:
That the point that the land in question, even though an island,
passed to Lyon and, Hastings under their patent, if not reserved, was not properly before the court under the pleadings;
that "the court erred in holding as matter of fact, on this
record, that the island was not reserved in the Lyon and Hastings patent;" and that "the court erred in holding, upon this
record, that Island 5 passed to Lyon and Hastings under the
patent to them in 1833 of the north fraction of the southeast
1 of section 25, township 7-12."
The state court held, however, the pleadings sufficient to
permit of the examination and determination of the point on
which its decision turned, and that conclusion involved no
Federal question.
And as to the second, proposition, it may be said that while
the rule is that this court, upon a writ of error to the highest
court of a State, in an action at law, cannot review its judgment upon a question of fact, -Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658, it is unnecessary to consider the extent of the power of
this court, in that particular, in chancery cases, as we entirely
concur in the result reached by the state court that there was
no such reservation, and in its findings as follows: "In the
present case there is no act on the part of.the government

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

showing any intention to reserve this land. The only inference
that can be drawn from the facts is that the government agents,
its surveyors, did not consider it of sufficient value to survey.
It was not surveyed until about twenty-five years. after the
survey of 1831, and not till nearly twenty years after the survey of 1837, when the other islands and the lands upon the
west bank were surveyed, thus completing the survey in that
region."
The inquiry is reduced then to this, did the court err in
holding as matter of law, upon this record, that the grant
vested in Lyon and Hastings the title to the particular land
in controversy?
In Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, it was held that grants
,by the United States of its public lands bounded on streams
and other waters, made without reservation or restriction, are
to be construed as to their effect according to the law of the.
State in which the land lies, and the following from the opinion
of Scates, J., in Middleton v. Pritchard,3 Scammon, 510, 520,
was quoted with approval: "Where the government has not
reserved any right or interest that might pass by the grant,
nor done any act showing an intention of reservation, such as
platting or surveying, we must construe its grant most favorably for the grantee, and that it intended all that might pass
by it. What will pass, then, by a grant bounded by a stream
of water? At common law, this depended upon the character
of the stream, or water. If it were a navigable stream, or
water, the riparian proprietor extended only to high-water
mark. If it were a stream not navigable, the rights of the
riparian owner extended to the centre thread of the current.
-

.

.At

common law, only arms of the sea, and streams

where the tide ebbs and flows, are deemed navigable. Streams
above tide water, although navigable in fact at all times, or in
freshets, were not deemed navigable in law. To these riparian
proprietors, bounded on or by the river, could acquire exclusive
ownership of the soil, water and fishery, to the middle thread
of the current; subject, however, to the public easement of
navigation. And this latter, Chancellor Kent says, bears a
perfect resemblance to public highways. The consequence of

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA R'D CO. v. BUTLER.

93

Opinion of the Court.

this doctrine is, that all grants bounded upon a river not navigable by common law, entitle the grantee to all islands lying
between the mainland and the centre thread of the current.
And we feel bound so to construe grants by the government,
according to the principles of the common law, unless the
government has done some act to qualify or exclude the right.
. . . The United States have not repealed the common law
as to the interpretation of their own grants, nor explained
what interpretation or limitation should be given to, or imposed upon the terms of the ordinary conveyances which they
use, except in a few special instances; but these are left to the
principles of law, and rules adopted by each local government,
where the land may lie. We have adopted the common law,
and must, therefore, apply its principles to the interpretation
of their grant."
Hardinv. Jordan was a case from Illinois, and the question
was as to the effect of the title granted by the United States
along a small lake, in respect of the bed of the lake in front
of the land actually described in the grant, and we said, p. 380:
"This question must be decided by some rule of law, and no
rule of law cmn be resorted to for the purpose except the local
law of the State of Illinois. If the boundary of the land
granted had been a fresh-water river, there can be no doubt
that the effect of the grant would have been such as is given
to such grants by the law of the State, extending either to the
margin or centre of the stream, according to the rules of that
law. It has been the practice of the government from its
origin, in disposing of the public lands, to measure the price
to be paid for them by the quantity of upland granted, no
charge being made for the lands under the bed of the stream,
or other body of water. The meander lines run along or near
the margin of such waters are run for the purpose of ascertaining the exact quantity of the upland to be charged for, and
not for the purpose of limiting the title of the grantee to such
meander lines." And see Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661; St.
Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226; Shively v. Bowby, 152 U. S. 1.
In Michigan the common law prevails, and the rule is sustained by an unbroken line of authorities that a grant of land

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

bounded by a stream, whether navigable in fact or not, carries
with it the bed of the stream to the centre of the thread
thereof. Norris v. Hill, 1 Michigan, 202; LormaA v. Benson,
8 Michigan, 18; Rice v. Ruddiman, 10 Michigan, 125; Ryan
v. Brown, 18 Michigan, 196; Watson v. Peters, 26 Michigan,
508; Pre Marquette Boom Co. v. Adams, 44 Michigan, 403;
Fletcher v. Thunder Bay Co., 51 Michigan, 277; Turner v.
Holland, 65 Michigan, 453; City of GrandRapids v. Powers,
89 Michigan, 94, and many other cases.
In Mitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S. 406, 412, 413, 414, a similar
question to that disposed of in Hardin v. Jordan arose, and
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, said: "We think
it a great hardship, and one not to be endured, for the government officers to make new surveys and grants of the beds of'
such lakes after selling and granting the lands bordering
thereon, or represented so to be. It is nothing more nor less
than taking from the first grantee a most valuable, and often
the most valuable, part of his grant. Plenty of speculators
will always be found, as such property increases in value, to
enter it and deprive the proper owner of its enjoyment; and
to place such persons in possession under a new survey and
grant, and put the original grantee of the adjoining property
to his action of ejectment and plenary proof of his own title, is
a cause of vexatious litigation, which ought not to be created
or sanctioned.

.

.

.

We do not mean to say that, in run-

ning a pretended meander line, the surveyor may not make a
plain and obvious mistake, or be guilty of a palpable. fraud;
in which case the government would have the right to recall
the survey, and have it corrected by the courts, or in some
other way. Cases have happened in which, by mistake, the
meander line described by a surveyor in the field-notes of his
survey did not approach the water line intended to be portrayed. Such mistakes, of course, do not bind the government. Nor do we mean to say that, in granting lands
bordering on a non-navigable lake or stream, the authorities
might not formerly, by express words, have limited the
granted premises to the water's edge, and reserved the right
to survey and grant out the lake or river bottom to otier

In re 1ELT, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

parties. But since the grant to the respective States of all
swamp and overflowed lands therein, this cannot be done. In
the present case it cannot be seriously contended that any
palpable mistake was made, or that any fraud was committed
by the surveyor who made the survey of 1834-5."
We have no doubt upon the evidence that the circumstances
were such at the time of the survey as naturally induced the
surveyor to decline to survey this particular spot as an island.
There is nothing to indicate mistake or fraud, and the government has never taken any steps predicated on such a theory;
and did not survey the so called Island No. 5 until twenty-five
years after the survey of 1831, and nearly twenty years after
that of 1837.
Although the facts were wholly different in Horne v. Smith,
ante, 40, that case will be found instructive in connection with
the questions arising here.
The Supreme Court of Michigan was right in holding
that
whatever there was of this conformation passed under the
grant to Lyon and Hastings.
Judgment afirmed.

In re BELT, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted April 29, 1895. -Decided

June 8, 1895.

The Supreme Courtof the District of Columbia had jurisdiction and authority to determine the validity of the act of July 23, 1892, c. 236, which

authorized the waiver of a jury and to dispose of the question as to
whether the record of a conviction before a judge without a jury, where
the prisoner waived trial by jury according to statute, was legitimate
proof of a first offence, and this being so, this court cannot review the

action of that court and the Court of Appeals in this particular on
habeas corpus.
The general rule is that the writ of habeas corpus will not issue unless the
court, under whose warrant the petitioner is held, is without jurisdiction; and that it cannot be used to correct errors.
Ordinarily a writ of habeas corpus will not lie where there is a remedy by
writ of error or appeal; but in rare and exceptional cases it may be issued
although such remedy exists.

