OCTOBER TER.M, 1894.
Counsel for Parties.

ments expends the paltry sum of $200, and the plaintiff fails
to file a complaint in ejectment for two months and a half
after the decision of the land department, and perhaps, nearly
that time after the defendant had entered into possession.
Surely the defendant had no reason to believe that the plaintiff had abandoned its claim to the land. Both the time of
plaintiff's delay and the amount of his expenditures suggest
the rule de minimis non ourat lex. The title of $8800 worth
of land is not lost in such a way.
For these reasons we are of the opinion that the Circuit
Court erred in its decision, and its judgment is, therefore,
Reversed, and a new trial ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.

SPENCER v. McDOUGAL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 245. Argued April 3, 1895. -Decided

June 3, 1895.

By the order of the Commissioner of the General Land Office of June 12,
1856, he land in controversy in this case was withdrawn from' pre mption or sale; and the validity of that order was not affected by the fact

that the order covered more land than was included in the grant by
Congress which caused its issue.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis D. Brandeis for plaintiff in error. Mr. Edwin
JI. Abbot, Mr. Howard Morris, and Jr. William Hf Dunbar
were on his brief.
Mr. George G. Greene and Mr. A. B. Browne for defendant
in error,

SPENCER v. NoDOUGAL.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejeetment brought by the plaintiff
in error, plaintiff below, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Wisconsin, to recover possession of the east half of the southwest quarter and the east
half of the northwest quarter of section number seven (7), in
township number forty-seven (47) north, of range number four
(4) west, in the county of Ashland and State of Wisconsin.
The land, found by the jury to be worth sixteen thousand
dollars, is situated within the limits of the city of Ashland,
more than six and less than ten miles from the Bayfield branch
of the. Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railroad
Company, and also within ten miles of the Wisconsin Central
Railroad Company. The title of the plaintiff rests upon an
agreement between the two railroad companies settling all
differences between themselves as to the lands withii the place
limits of each road, a patent from the State of Wisconsin to
the Omaha company in pursuance of such agreement, and a
deed from the latter to himself.
The same questions arise in this case as in that just decided,
Wisconsin CentralRailroadCo. v. Forsythe,ante, p. 46, and it is
unnecessary to enter into any detailed statement Of the facts
concerning the two land grants, or a discussion of the questions
arising thereon. Obviously, as the land in controversy was
within the place. limits of each road, it either passed wholly
to the Omaha company or in equal moieties to the two, and
in the latter event the agreement referred to transferred all
rights to the Omaha company.
As against this, the defendant offered evidence that on
May 3, 1858, and June 16, 1858, respectively, two preemption
declaratory statements were filed in the local land office, one in
respect to one-half of the tract and the other in respect to the
remainder, and contends -that up to those dates there had been
no valid withdrawals of any lands by the land department,
and, as a consequence, that these preemption claims attached
to the land and excluded it from the operation of the grant.
It may be remarked, in passing, that it does not appear that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

any attempt was ever made to prove up or acquire title under
and in accordance with these declaratory statements. But
the contention is that, by the simple filing of the statements,
the land was excluded from the operation of the grant made
by either act.
We are unable to assent to this contention. On May 29, 1856,
the Commissioner of the General Land Office telegraphed to
the local land officers of the district in which the land is situated to suspend from sale and location all lands in the district.
This was prior to the passage of the act of 1856. On June 12,
nine days after its passage, the Commissioner wrote to the same
officers, referring to his telegraphic despatch, and saying that
the object of the withdrawal thus ordered was to protect from
sale the lands granted to the State by a bill which had passed
both houses of Congress, though not then approved by the
President. But, it having been approved on June 3, he directs
the continuance of the withdrawal. On October 26, 1856, he
again wrote to the local land officers that upon the filing in
their office of a duly certified map of the line of route as definitely fixed they " will, without waiting for further instructions
from this office, cease to permit locations by entries or preemption, or for any purpose whatever of the lands within
fifteen miles of said route," and on March 1, 1859, which was
after the filing of these declaratory statements, he sent a letter,
enclosing a diagram of the lands in their district with the line
of route as definitely selected designated thereon, and again
notified them to withhold from sale all lands within the indemnity limits. The only objection which can be made to the
order of June 12, 1856, which was after the passage of the
act, is that the Commissioner withdrew too much land, to wit,
all land in the district, but that was a matter for the determination of the land department, and cannot be revised or
disregarded by the courts.
Walcott v. De8 Moinem Co., 5 Wall. 681, is in point. In August, 1846, Congress granted to the Territory of Iowa five
alternate sections of the public lands, on each side of the Des
Moines River, to aid in improving its navigation. It was a
disputed question whether the grant terminated at the mouth

SPENCER v. McDOUGAL.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Raccoon Fork, or extended along the whole length of
the river to the northern boundary of the State. The land
department ordered that lands the whole length of the river
within the State should be withdrawn from sale. In the course
of subsequent litigation it was decided by this court that the
grant terminated at the mouth of the Raccoon River. But in
the case cited it was held that the withdrawal by the land.
department of lands above the mouth of the Raccoon River
was valid, and that a subsequent railroad grant, with the ordinary reservation clause in it, did not operate upon lands so
withdrawn. If a withdrawal of land beyond the terminus of
a grant can be sustained, as it was in that case, equally so
should be one made in anticipation of the locations of two lines
of road, which locations were as yet undetermined, and might
be such as to bring almost any portion of the lands withdrawn
within the indemnity limits of the grant.
The order of June 12, 1856, was never set aside. The letter
of October 26, 1856, simply gave authority for a reduction in
the area of the withdrawn territory upon the filing of a map
of definite location, and that of March 1, 1859, forwarded a
diagram showing the line of definite location of a part of one
of the roads aided, and directed the continued- withdrawal of
land within the indemnity limits as disclosed thereby, but
neither of them set aside the withdrawal of June 12, 1856, or
in any other way affected it. These declaratory statements
were of no validity; the land was then withdrawn from preemption or other sale, and withdrawn for the purpose of satisfying the grant to the State of Wisconsin.
]Thejudgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be rever8ed,
and a new trial ordered.

The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.
VOL. CLIX-5

