OCTr)I Ewl

TERM, 1895.

Statement of the Case.

each of them, shall be and appear before either the clerk of
this court or the clerk of the United States Circuit Court
within and for either the District of Indiana, Kentucky, or
Ohio and take an oath faithfully to. discharge the duties
required of them as such commissioners, which oaths shall
be forthwith transmitted to and filed with the clerk of this
court and in this cause.

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND
NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND NORTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. SIMMONS.
Nos. 11 and 12.

Argued November 1, 1894. -

Decided October 21. 1895

When a junior mortgagee is a party defendant to a foreclosure bill in which
there is a prayer that he be decreed to redeem, and when the priority of
the plaintiff's mortgage is found or conceded, and a sale is ordered in
default of payment, declaring the right of the debtor to redeem to be
forever barred, a similar order as to right of redemption by the junior
mortgagee is not substantially, or even formally, necessary.
In such case a junior mortgagee, who stands by while the sale is made and
confirmed, must be deemed, in equity, to have waived his right to redeem.
A decree in such a suit that the sale is to be made subject to the rights of
the junior mortgagee and of intervening creditors, and reserving to the
court the right to make further orders and directions, and providing
that no sale shall be binding until reported to the court for its approval,
and a subsequent order that the property shall be sold subject to the
future adjudication as to such rights, and the property conveyed subject
thereto, while it warrants a contention that the court intended to make a
future disposition of the claims of such parties, does not authorize the
junior mortgagee to wait for a period of seven years before attempting
to enforce his alleged rights; and such delay deprives him of the right to
ask the aid of a court of equity in enforcing them.

THE. Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway
Company was a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Iowa, and, in pursuance of its granted powers,
had, prior to the litigation which brought the case here, con-

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTOIX &u. IRAILWAY CO.

279

Statement of the Case.

structed a main line and three branches known as "the
Milwaukee Extension," "the Pacific Extension," and "the Muscatine Western." It had at different times executed mortgages, one upon the main line, covering the railway, rolling
stock, and franchises held or thereafter to be acquired, securing bonds to the amount of $5,400,000; one subsequent in
date upon the Milwaukee extension, securing bonds to the
amount of $2,200,000; one later in date, upon the Muscatine
Western extension, securing bonds to the amount of $800,000;
and one, still later in date, upon the Pacific extension, securing
bonds in the sun of $1,800,000; and, finally, one known as
the income and equipment mortgage, which was a second
mortgage upon the railway and branches, and purporting to
be a first mortgage upon the income and upon certain rolling
stock not covered by the first mortgages.
On the 15th day of May, 1875, Charles L. Frost, as surviving trustee in the "main line" mortgage, filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa an original bill against the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota
Railway Company, as sole defendant, to foreclose the mortgage
on the main line. By amendment the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company was made a party defendant upon an averment that said company were trustees in a mortgage executed
subsequent to the plaintiff's mortgage, and praying that "their
lien on the income and equipment of said road may be declared subsequent to that of the plaintiffs', and they may be
decreed to redeem plaintiffs' mortgage or their equity be
barred and foreclosed, and for such other relief as the plaintiffs' case may require." A demurrer to this bill had been
filed by the railway company, and, after the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company was added as a party defendant, it joined
in the demurrer.
The several trustees in the Milwaukee extension mortgage
and the Muscatine extension mortgage likewise filed in the
same court foreclosure bills, in which, by amendment, the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was made a party defendant, and as to which the same relief was prayed as that
contained in the bill filed by Frost, trustee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

On June 23, 1875, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
as trustee in the mortgage on the Pacific division and as
trustee in the income and equipment mortgage, filed an original bill against the railway company, praying a foreclosure of
both of said mortgages. In that portion of the bill that dealt
with the income and equipment mortgage it was alleged that
said mortgage was a first lien on two engines, known as Nos.
30 and 31, and upon one hundred and thirty box cars, known
as the even numbers from 882 to 1140. An answer was filed
by the railway company, not traversing or denying the allegations of the bill as respected the mortgage on the Pacific
division, but denying that as many equipment or income bonds
had been sold as were averred to have been sold. On! the
30th of October, 1875, the case came on for hearing, and a
final decree was entered, ordering that the property covered
*by the Pacific division mortgage be sold without appraisement
or redemption at public auction, etc., but ordering that "that
portion of complainants' bill relating to the income and
equipment mortgage, so called, is ordered to be consolidated
with the causes pending in this court against said respondent,
wherein said Frost, Taylor, and others are respectively complainants."
On the same day on which this decree was entered there was
filed in the cause wherein Charles L. Frost and others, trustees,
were plaintiffs, and the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company was defendant, an answer on behalf
of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, in which it was
admitted that the deed of trust to Frost was a first lien upon
the main line and upon the ordinary rolling stock used thereon,
not included in the mortgages executed by the company,
known as the Pacific, Milwaukee, and Muscatine Western mortgages, and not including also engines Nos. 30 and 31 and box
cars Nos. 882 to 1140.
On the same day the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
filed a cross-bill against the complainants in the several bills
-of complaint heretofore mentioned. The prayer of this crossbill was as follows: "Wherefore your orator prays that said
several suits be consolidated; that an equitable portion, as

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILWAY CO.:

281

Statement of the Case.

above shown, be decreed as against all of said parties to be
included in said deed, of trust, (the income mortgage,) and that
the same be properly designated as proper to be sold with said
division under said mortgage; and that your orator have a
decree declaring its lien upon said two engines 30 and 31 and
said 130 box cars, under said mortgage, to be prior and paramount to any held by any of said trustees and parties."
The record discloses that on October 30, 1875, the causes
were ordered to be consolidated; the defendant railway company withdrew its demurrers, pleas, and answers in the said
several causes; and thereupon "said several causes and said
consolidated cause came on for final hearing, and trial before
the court on the several bills of complaint, the amended
bill, the several mortgages, and deeds of trust, and the proofs."
The decree found the amount remaining due and unpaid on
the bonds secured by the'main line mortgage, and adjudged
the defendant to pay the same within ten days, in default of
which payment its equity of redemption was to be forever
barred, and W. A. Kaiser was appointed a special master to
advertise and sell said main line and -its franchises and appurtenant property "without redemption or appraisement," and it
was ordered that James Grant be a special trustee to purchase
the property for all holders of bonds secured by the main line
mortgage who shall assent to such purchase, and pay their
share of the expenses, and he was ordered to convey the property, under the direction of the court or one of its judges, to
such corporation as such bondholders might organize, to hold
the title thus acquired for the benefit of the whole or such part
as should assent thereto.
Pending the foreclosure 'Proceedings, a new corporation,
called the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway
Company, was formed for the purpose of purchasing the
several mortgaged properties at the foreclosure sales. On
the 22d day of June, 1876, the main line was sold by the
master to a committee, who purchased for the benefit of all
bondholders, and who directed that a conveyance be made
by deed to the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company. On the same day the Muscatine western

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

extension was sold to the same purchasers, and at their
request a deed was made to the said new company. Likewise, on the same day, the Pacific division was sold by the
master, named in that decree, and the purchaser, John I.
Blair, acting as trustee for the bondholders of the Pacific
division, directed that the conveyance should be made -to
the said new company.
The niasters making these sales executed deeds of the
main line and of the several branches to the said the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company,
conveying in terms an absolute title to the property described in each deed.
The reports of the several sales,
accompanied by the deeds executed by the masters, were
submitted to the court for approval, as required by the decree, and on July 20, 1876, the Circuit Court judge appr6ved
said sales and deeds, and ordered the property to be delivered to said new company as of July 1, 1876.
The plan of reorganization provided for the execution of
a mortgage of the entire property of the new company to
the amount of $6,500,000, and such a mortgage, bearing date
1st of September, 1875, was, on November 9, 1876, executed
and delivered to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company as
trustee.
It appears that the stock and bonds of the new organization were put upon the market, and have been bought
and sold as mercantile securities since their issue in 1876.
In February, 1882, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
addressed to the holders of the income and equipment bonds
of the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway
Company, and to Hubbard, Clark and Dawley, attorneys of
some of said bonds, a communication, resigning as trustee
under the income and equipment mortgage.
On April 13, 1883, there was presented to the District
Judge of the United States for the Southern District of Iowa
a petition of one Lawrence Turnure and others, claiming to
be holders of income and equipment bonds of the Burlington,
Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company. The petition alleged the resignation as trustee of the Farmers' Loan

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON &(!.

!HAILWAY CO.

283

Statement of the Case.

and Trust Company, asked that Charles. E. Simmons should
be appointed trustee, and that he should be authorized, as
such, to file an "amended and supplemental cross-bill in
the nature of a bill of revivor and supplement," and that he be
permitted to bring in new parties in accordance with such
amended and supplemental cross-bill. ,
On this petition an order was endorsed by the judge,
appointing Simmons trustee and giving him leave to file
his cross-bill in the nature of a bill of revivor and supplement, "subject to the right of all parties interested to move
the vacation of this order after process to or appearance of
the defendants."
On the following day the cross-bill of Charles E. Simmons,
as trustee succeeding the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
was filed against Frederick Taylor, as successor to Charles L.
Frost, trustee, the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota
Railway Company, the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company, and the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company.
This cross-bill set up a history of the proceedings, not
differing in substantial particulars from the statement herein
previously made, but claimed that in no proceeding had there
been any adjudication, determination, decree, or order in any
manner affecting or determining the rights of the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, as trustee under the income and
equipment mortgage, or of the bondholders claiming under
said mortgage.
The cross-bill prayed for an account to be rendered by the
Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company
of the earnings of the main line since the said company had
had control and management of the same, and prayed for a
decree permitting the complainant to redeem the said main
line upon payment of the amount.bid by the committee of
bondholders at the foreclosure sale, less the profits and gains
ascertained by the accounting prayed for, and that, upon such
redemption, the complainant should be decreed to take the
title to said railway, franchises and property free and clear
from the trust deed of Frost and the decree of the court in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

his behalf, and from all rights of the Burlington, Cedar
Rapids and Northern Railway Company in the property,
and that the trust deed or mortgage from the Burlington,
Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, trustee, and the lien
thereof be utterly cancelled as to said main line, and as to
the complainant and bondholders claiming under said trust
deed.
Issue was made by answer filed by the Burlington, Cedar
Rapids and Northern Railway Company, in which answer,
among other things, that company denied that there had been
no adjudication determining the rights of the trustee under
the income and equipment mortgage, and denied that any
right of redemption remained in the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, or in its successors, after the sale under the
decree of October 30, 1875. This answer likewise denied
that the, bonds held by those on whose behalf the cross-bill
was filed by Simmons were ever legally issued.
On November 28, 1883, the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company filed its answer to the cross-bill. In this answer
it was averred that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
had, in fact or law, no valid claim to the said engines and
box cars, except subject to the prior claims of the other
mortgages, and that all such claims were cut off and foreclosed
by the sale under the decree of October 30, 1875.
Replications were 'filed and evidence taken, and on October
28, 1885, an opinion and decree were filed, finding, first, ,that
the income and equipment mortgage was a valid lien upon
the main line of the railway, and that the right of redemption
under it had not been foreclosed by the decree of October 30,
1875, nor by the sale thereunder; second, that the Burlington,
Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company was entitled
to redeem the main line by paying off the income and equipment mortgage; third, that, in the event such redemption
should not be made, then the bondholders secured by the income and equipment mortgage should be entitled to redeem
said main line of railway by paying into court the amount
due thereon, as the same should be determined in the manner

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILWAY CO.

285

Counsel for Parties.

provided in the decree ; fourth, that in the event of neither of
these redemptions taking place, the Burlington, Cedar Rapids
and Minnesota Railway Company should be entitled to redeem said main line by paying off the amount due on the deed of
trust, or deeds of trust, against which such redemptions should
be made; fifth, that in the event that neither the Burlington,
Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company, nor the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company,
should so redeem, then the income and equipment mortgage
should be foreclosed and a sale of the property had, and the
proceeds be applied, first, to the payment of the bonds issued
under the main line mortgage, and second, the amount, thereafter to be determined, that should be due upon the income
and equipment mortgage. The cause was then referred to a
master to determine sundry matters stated in the decree.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court, which
appeal was dismissed for the reason that the decree appealed
from was not a final decree. Burlington, Cedar Rapids &
Northern Railway v. Simmons, 123 U. S.52. Subsequently, a
report was filed by the master, which was excepted to by
Simmons, trustee, and by the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and
Northern Railway Company. This report and the exceptions
thereto were passed upon by the court below in an opinion
filed on May 15, 1889, reported in 38 Fed. Rep. 683; and on
May 29, 1889, a final decree was entered in accordance with
the opinion of the court.
From this decree the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company appealed, as well from so much thereof
as found the cross-complainant entitled to redeem at all, as
from those portions thereof which affirmed the validity of any
of the bonds and which held the railway company bound to
account; and the cross-complainant appealed from such portions thereof as found invalid some of the bonds asserted in
the cross-bill.
Mr. Charles A. Clark for Simmons.
XMr. William A. Abbott filed a brief for Henry Clews.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

(ook on
Mr. J. M. Woolworth, (with whom was Mr. EJ. C
the brief,) for the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern
Railway Company.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The de6isive questions in this case turn on the character and
effect of the decree entered on October 30, 1875. Did that
decree leave the rights under the second mortgage, known as
the income and equipment mortgage, unadjudicated, and
thereby subject the purchasers at the sale under the decree to
a future inquiry into those rights, or was the decree final, as
respects the property sold thereunder, and do the purchasers,
the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company, hold the property free from the lien of the second mortgage?
The answer to these questions must be found in the allegations and proofs upon which the decree was based, as well as
in the terms of the decree itself.
The record shows that all the parties to be affected by the
decree were before the court - the Burlington, Cedar Rapids
and Minnesota Railway Company as a mortgage debtor in
default, and the trustees in the several mortgages. The property against which the proceedings were aimed was a railroad
consisting of a main road and several branches. That the railway company was insolvent and utterly unable to satisfy
decrees for the payment of money was evident..
In such circumstances what kind of a decree would be probable, and in the natural course of events? Would it not be
expected that the proceedings would eventuate in a sale, in such
a way as to dispose of the questions raised in the several cases,
and to vest in the purchasers an unincumbered title to the
entire railway system?
' We learn from the pleadings and evidence that such a plan
of sale was apparently pursued, and resulted in the organization of a new company whose mortgage bonds and stock were
(listributed among the original bondholders upon terms satis-

SIMMONS 9). BURLINGTON &c. RAILWAY CO.

287

Opinion of the Court.

factory to all, including a number of those who likewise held
bonds secured by the income mortgage. The sales were reported to the court, and, with the deeds in pursuance thereof,
were duly approved. The new company went into possession
and management of the railroad and branches, and has increased largely their value by important extensions. The
bonds and stock of the new company, it is safe to presume,
have gone largely into new hands. The possession and title
of the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company remained undisturbed and unchallenged till April, 1883
-a period of more than seven years- when the petition of
certain alleged bondholders under the income mortgage was
filed, asking leave to file what is termed "an amended and
supplemental cross-bill in the nature of a bill of revivor and
supplement," the avowed purpose of which is to have the title
of the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company declared subject to the lien of the income mortgage;
to have the mortgage issued in pursuance of the plan of reorganization declared void, as respects the main line; and to
hold that company to account for the earnings during the
period of its possession.
To constrain a court of equity to grant relief so apparently
inconsistent with the previous proceedings, and so destructive
of the rights.of persons who have since become interested, the
case presented should be clear and free from doubt.
What, then, are the reasons urged in favor of the complainant in the amended and supplemental cross-bill?
It is claimed, in the first place, that the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, a party in the cause as trustee named in the
income and equipment mortgage, had an equitable right to
redeem, and that as the decree of October, 1875, contained no
declaration or recital that said trustee was barred of the equity
of redemption, and as no time was given to it to redeem from
the first mortgages, the rights of the trustee and of the income
bondholders were wholly unaffected by the decree and by the
sales in accordance therewith. In. other words, the proposition is that, in a decree which orders a sale of the property to
pay the first mortgage debt, an express' order cutting off. the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

equity of redemption of a junior mortgagee, although a party
to the suit, is necessary to divest the latter of his lien and of
his right of redemption.
We are unwilling to accept this as a sound statement of the
law, or, at all events, to concede it as invariably true. Where
a junior mortgagee is a party defendant to a foreclosure bill
in which, as in the present case, there is a prayer that he be
decreed to redeem, and where. the priority of the plaintiff's
mortgage is found or conceded, and a sale is ordered in default
of payment, declaring the right of the debtor to redeem to be
forever barred, we do not deem a similar order as to right of
redemption by the junior mortgagee'to be substantially or even
formally necessary. He has, of course, a right to redeem,
but if he chooses not to assert such right, and stands by while
the sale is made and confirmed, he must in equity be deemed
to have waived his right.
We think the law was correctly stated by Mr. Justice
Matthews in Chicago &$ Vincennes Railroad v. Fosdick, 106
U. S. 47, 68, where he said: "In case the proceeding results
finally in a sale of the mortgaged premises, the sale is made free
from the equity of redemption of the mortgagor, and all holders
of junior incumbrances, if made parties to the suit, and is of the
whole premises, when necessary to the payment of the amount
due, or when the property isnot properly divisible; -it conveys a clear and absolute title as against all parties to the suit,
or their privies, and the proceeds of the sale are distributed
after payment of the amount due, for non-payment of which
the sale was ordered, in satisfaction of the unpaid debt remaining, whether due or not."
So in Lansing'v. Goelet, 9 Cowen, 346, 391, in which case
there was an elaborate examination of the subject, the law
was expressed in the following terms: "A judicial sale of the
estate under the decree of the court, if the court has power to
make the decree, whether it be in the form of a decree of sale
preceded by a formal decree of foreclosure, or in the form of
a decree of sale without a formal decree of foreclosure, effectually bars the right of the mortgagor to redeem; and the
purchaser will hold it under the title he acquires to it by virtue

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON &c. IPAILWAY CO.

9,89

Opinion of the Court.

of the sale and conveyance he receives from the master, free
and discharged from the equity of redemption. The purchase
money then stands in the place of the estate, and will be applicable, as that was, first, to the satisfaction of ,the debt of
the mortgagee, and the overplus and residue, if any, to the
use of the mortgagor."
In 3 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur., ยง 1228, it is said that "the sale
under a valid decree immediately cuts off, bars, and forecloses
the rights of the mortga'gor and of all subsequent grantees,
owners, incumbrancers, and other persons interested, who
were made parties defendant, and of all grantees, owners, and
incumbrancers subsequent to the filing of a notice of lis pendens, although not made defendants."
it is contended in the next place that the rights of the
junior mortgagee were. saved by the express terms of the
decree. The language relied upon was as follows: "And
this decree is made subject to the rights of any intervening
creditors now before this court, and the claim of the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company in the income and equipment
mortgage to any of the cars and machinery named in that
mortgage is to be submitted to this court in term time or
vacation, as soon as counsel can agree on the facts in relation
thereto." And again: "The court reserves the power to
make further orders and directions; and no sale under this
decree is to be binding until reported to the court for its
approval."
.Reliance is also placed upon the language of a subsequent
ordei of the court, on October 26, 1876, in which, after
affirming the sales and conveyances, it is said that said order
"shall in nowise be taken to affect any claim, right, interest,
or lien upon or to the property sold and conveyed by said
master's deeds, now pending in this court, but that the said
claim, rights, interests, and liens, are merely reserved, subject
to future adjudication, and the said grantees in said deeds take
the property hereby conveyed subject thereto."
The construction sought to be put upon this language,
namely, that the court thereby intended to make a future
disposition of the claims of the income and equipment mort.VOL. crix-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

gage one of the terms of the sale, is an admissible one, and,
if it had been urged by timely action, it might properly
have been adopted. But, as we have seen, those interested
under the income and equipment mortgage not only failed
to embrace the opportunity afforded to redeem as against
the first mortgages, but suspended all action for a period of
more than seven years. The condition of the record, as it
existed before the filing of the amended and supplemental
cross-bill, 'disclosed no intention to ask for a redemption, and
even if the condition of the case prior to the sale and the
terms of the decree left it a debatable matter whether the
court intended to bar any right of redemption on the part of
the junior mortgage, we think the contemporaneous and subsequent conduct of those interested in that mortgage deprives
them of any right, after so long a period, to demand the
assistance of a court of equity as against the purchasers and
those who may have become interested with them.
We do not find it necessary to determine whether
those of
the bondholders under the income and equipment mortgage,
and who also held first mortgage bonds, estopped themselves
from asserting a right of redemption by accepting the new
securities issued under the plan of reorganization. If, indeed,
those so acting constituted all of the income bondholders,
such a determination might be a ready method of disposing of
the entire case. But as there seems to have been some who
did not receive the new bonds in payment of first mortgage
bonds, and would not, therefore, be brought within the range
of the suggested estoppel, we prefer to pass by that question
and consider whether all the holders of bonds under the
income and equipment mortgage did not, by their inaction
and acquiescence under the decree ard sale, lose any right to
redeem which they might otherwise have had as against the
purchasers.
As we have seen, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
in its answer and cross-bill, as they stood before and at the
time of the decree of October 30, 1875, did not assert any
right or any intention to redeem, although in the bill an
opportunity was afforded it so to do. It restricted its allega-

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILWAY CO.

291

Opinion of the Court.

tions and claims for relief entirely to the engines and box
cars. When the cases, as well the case of Frost, trustee, in
respect to the foreclosure of the main line, and the other consolidated bills of foreclosure, came on to be heard, there was
no assertion of any fight or wish to redeem. There was record notice to the said trustee that a plan of sale and reorganization was intended which contemplated the issue of new stock
and bonds. Not only was there a tacit acquiescence in the
proceedings, but no sign of any intention to disturb the title
of the purchasers was given until more than seven years had
elapsed, during which period large expenditures were made,
and, beyond a doubt, third persons had become interested on
the faith of that title.
The principle upon which this ground of defence rests has
been so often vindicated and applied by this court that we do
not feel it necessary to further enforce it by argument, nor to
cite cases so numerous. It is sufficient to refer to Abraham v.
Ordway, 158 U. S. 416.
The rule is aptly expressed by 2 Pomeroy's Eq, Jur., ยง 816,
as follows: "Acquiescence is an important factor in determining equitable rights and remedies in obedience to the maxims:
He who seeks equity must do equity, and he who comes into
equity must come with clean hands. Even when it does not
work a true estoppel upon rights of property or of contract,
it may operate in analogy to estoppel- may produce a quasi
estoppel - upon the rights of remedy." And in ยง 965: "When
a party with full knowledge, or at least with sufficient notice
or means of knowledge, of his rights, and of all the material
facts, freely does what amounts to a recognition of the trans
action as existing, or acts in a manner inconsistent with its
repudiation, or lies by for a considerable time and knowingly
permits the other party to deal with the subject-matter under
the belief that the transaction has been recognized, or freely
abstains for a considerable length of time from impeaching it,
so that the other party is thereby reasonably induced to suppose that it is recognized, there is acquiescence, and the transaction, although originally impeachable, becomes unimpeachable
in equity. Even where there has been no act nor language

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

properly amounting to an acquiescence, a mere delay, a mere
suffering time to elapse unreasonably, may of itself be a reason
why courts of equity refuse to exercise their jurisdiction in
cases of actual and constructive fraud, as well as in other
instances. It has always been a principle of equity to discourage stale demands; laches are often a defence wholly independent of the statute of limitations."
As these views lead to the conclusion that the so-called
amended and supplemental cross-bill, filedby Simmons, trustee,
in April, 1883, cannot be maintained against the Burlington,
Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company, nor against the
trustee name(1 in the new mortgage, it is unnecessary for us
to enter into questions that arose affecting the title of alleged
bondholders under the income and equipment mortgage, and
with respect to which a cross-appeal was taken from the decree
of the court below.
It may be that whatever questions existed between the
Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company
and the trustee of the income and equipment mortgage were
left open as between them, if, indeed, any property remained
to which a decree of foreclosure could apply. As to this we
express no opinion. But so far as the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company and the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company, trustee, under the new mortgage, are
concerned, the so-called amended and supplemental cross-bill
should be dismissed.
The decree of the court below, under the said amended and
supplemental cross-bill, is therefore reversed, and the record
remitted with directions to enter a decree in accordance
with this opinion, the costs in the court below and in this
court to be paid by the appellants in No. 11.
MR. JUsTICe. BREWER

ion of the case.

took no part in the hearing or decis-

