THE INCANDESCENT LAMP PATENT.
Statement of the Case.

The objection that the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, as grantee from the United States, of a part of the
tract in question, was a necessary party defendant, ,has not
been pressed in argument and we only notice it to say that,
under the provisions of the fifth section of this act, the private
rights of third parties are not affected by any proceeding or
decree under said act.
The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
THE INCANDESCENT LAMP PATENT.1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 10. Argued October 29, 30, 1894. -Decided

November 11, 1815.

With the exception of the third claim, viz., for "the incandescing conductor
for an electric lamp, formed of carbonized paper, substantially as described," the claims in the letters patent No. 317,076, issued May 1'4,

1885, to the Electro-Dynamic Light Company, assignee of Sawyer and
Man, for an electric light, are too indefinite to be the subject of a valid
monopoly.

THIS was a bill in equity, filed by the consolidated Electric
Light Company against the McKeesport Light Company, to
recover damages for the infringement of letters patent No.
317,076, issued May 12, 1885, to the Electro-Dynamic Light
Company, assignee of Sawyer and Man, for an electric light.
The defendants justified under certain patents to Thomas A.
Edison, particularly No. 223,898, issued January 27, 1880;
denied the novelty and utility of the complainants' patent,
and averred that the same had been fraudulently and illegally
procured. The real defendant was the Edison Electric Light
Company, and the case involved a contest between what are
known as the Sawyer and Man and the Edison systems of
electric lighting.

IThis Is the title of this case in the opinion of the court; but its docket
title is, "The Consolidated Electric Light Company, Appellant, v. The McKeesport Light Company."
VOi). Cux-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

In their application, Sawyer and Man stated that their
invention related to " that class of electric lamps employing
an incandescent conductor enclosed in a transparent, hermetically-sealed vessel or chamber, from which oxygen is excluded,
more especially to the incandescing conductor,
.
and
its substance, its form, and its combination with the other
elements composing the lamp. Its object is to secure a cheap
and effective apparatus; and our improvement consists, first,
of the combination, in a lamp chamber, composed wholly of
glass, as described in patent No. 205,144," upon which this
patent was declared to be an improvement, "of an incandescing conductor of carbon made from a vegetable fibrous
material, in contradistinction to a similar conductor made
from mineral or gas carbon, and also in the form of such conductor so made from such vegetable carbon, and combined in
the lighting circuit with the exhausted chamber of the lamp."
The following drawings exhibit the substance of the invention:
Apuwv2.

THE INCANDESCENT LAMP PATENT.
Statement of the Case.

The specification further stated that:
"In the pi-actice of our invention we have made use of carbonized paper, and also wood carbon. We have also used such
conductors or burners of various shapes, such as pieces with
their lower ends secured to their respective supports, and having their upper ends united so as to form an inverted V-shaped
burner. We have also used conductors of varying contours that is, with rectangular bends instead of curvilinear ones;
but we prefer the arch shape."
"No especial description of making the illuminating carbon
conductors, described in this specification and making the subject-matter of this improvement, is thought necessary, as any
of the ordinary methods of forming the material to be carbonized to the desired shape and size, and carbonizing it while
confined in retorts in powdered carbon, substantially according to the methods in practice before the date of this improvement, may be adopted in the practice thereof by any one
skilled in the arts appertaining to the making of carbons for
electric lighting or for other use in the arts."
"An important practical advantage which is secured by the
arch form of incandescing carbon is that it permits the carbon
to expand and contract under the varying temperatures to
which it issubjected when the electric current is turned on or
off without altering the position of its fixed terininals. Thus
the necessity for a special mechanical device to compensate
for the expansion and contraction which has heretofore been
necessary is entirely dispensed with, and thus the lamp is
materially simplified in its construction. Another advantage
of the arch form is that the shadow cast by such burners is
less than that produced by other forms of burners when fitted
with the necessary devices to support them."
"Another important advantage resulting from our construction of the lamp results from the fact that the' wall forming
the chamber of the lamp through which the electrodes pass to
the interior of the lamp is made wholly of glass, by which all
danger of oxidation, leakage, or short circuiting is avoided."
"The advantages resulting from the manufacture of the
carbon from vegetable fibrous or textile material instead of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Caae.

mineral or gas carbon are many. Among them may be mentioned the convenience afforded for cutting and making the
conductor .in the desired form and size, the purity and equality
of the carbon obtained, its susceptibility to tempering, both as
to hardness and resistance, and its toughness and durability.
We have used such burners in closed or hermetically-sealed
transparent chambers, in a vacuum, in nitrogen gas, and in
hydrogen gas; but we have obtained the best results in a
vacuum, or an attenuated atmosphere of nitrogen gas, the
great desideratum being to exclude oxygen or other gases
capable of combining with carbon at high temperatures from
the incandescing chamber as is well understood."
The claims were as follows:
"1. An incandescing conductor for an electric lamp, of carbonized fibrous or textile material and of an arch or horseshoe
shape, substantially as hereinbefore set forth."
"2. The combination, substantially as hereinbefore set forth,
of an electric circuit and an incandescing conductor of carbonized fibrous material, included in and forming part of said
circuit, and a transparent hermetically sealed chamber in which
the conductor is enclosed."
"3. The incandescing conductor for an electric lamp, formed
of carbonized paper, substantially as described."
"4. An incandescing electric lamp consists of the following
elements in combination: first, an illuminating chamber made
wholly of glass hermetically-sealed, and out of which all carbon-consuming gas has been exhausted or driven; second, an
electric-circuit conductor passing through the glass wall of said
chamber and hermetically sealed therein, as described ; third,
an illuminating conductor in said circuit, and forming part
thereof within said chamber, consisting of carbon made from
a fibrous or textile material, having the form of an arch or
loop, substantially as described, for the purpose specified."
The commercial Edison lamp used by the appellee, and'
which is illustrated below, is composed of a burner, A, made
of carbonized bamboo of a peculiar quality discovered by Mr.
Edison, to be highly useful for the purpose, and having a
length of about six inches, a diameter of about five one thou-

THE

NCANDI)ESCENT L A MP PATEN T .
Statement of the Case.

sandths of an inch, and an electrical resistance of upwards of
100 ohms. This filament of carbon is bent into the form of a
loop, and its ends are secured by good electrical and mechanical connections to two fine platinum wires BB. These wires
pass through a glass stem, C, the glass being melted and fused
upon the platinum wires. A glass globe, D, is fused to the
gla3s stem C. This glass globe has originally attached to it,
at the point d, a glass tube, by means of which a connection
is made with highly organized and refined exhausting apparatus, which produces in the globe a high vacuum, whereupon
the glass tube is melted off by a flame, and the globe is closed
by the fusion of the glass at the point d.

Upon a hearing in the Circuit Court before Mr. Justice
Bradley upon pleadings and proofs, the court held the patent
to be invalid, and dismissed the bill. 40 Fed. Rep. 21. Thereupon complainant appealed to this court.

OCTrOBEI

TERM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edmund Wetmore and Mr. Leonard E. Curtis, (with
whom were Mr. John W. iouston and Mr. Thomas B. Kerr
on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish, (with whom was Mr. Richard N.
Dyer, on the brief,) for appellee.
MR.

JUSTwCE

BnowN, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to obtain a complete understanding of the scope of
the Sawyer and Man patent, it is desirable to consider briefly
the state of the art at the time the application was originally
made, which was in January, 1880.
Two general forms of electric illumination had
for many
years been the subject of experiments more or less successful,
one of which was known as the arc light, produced by the
passage of a current of electricity between the points of two
carbon pencils, placed end to end, and slightly separated from
each other. In its passage from one point to the other through
the air, the electric current took the form of an arc, and gave
the name to the light. This form of light-had been produced
by Sir Humphry Davy as early as 1810, and by successive
improvements in the carbon pencils and in their relative adjustment to each other, had come into general use as a means
of lighting streets, balls, and other large spaces; but by reason
of its intensity, the uncertain and flickering character of the
light, and the rapid consumption of the carbon pencils, it was
wholly unfitted for domestic use. The second form of illumination is what is known as the incandescent system, and consists generally in the passage of a current of electricity through
a continuous strip or piece of refractory material, -which is
a conductor of electricity, but a poor conductor--in other
words, a conductor offering a considerable resistance to the
flow of the current through it. It was discovered early in this
century that various substances might be heated to a white
heat by passing a sufficiently strong qurrent of electricity

THE INCANDESCENT, LAMP PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

through them. The production of a light in this way does
not in any manner depend upon the consumption or wearing
away of the conductor, as it does in the arc light. A third
system was a combination of the two others, but it never
seems to have come into general use, and is unimportant in
giving a history of the art.
For many years prior to 1880, experiments had been made
by a large number of persons, in various countries, with a
view to the production of an incandescent light which could
be made available for domestic purposes, and could compete
with gas in the matter of expense. Owing partly to a failure
to find a proper material, which should burn but not consume,
partly to the difficulty of obtaining a perfect vacuum in the
globe in which the light was suspended, and partly to a misapprehension of the true principle of incandescent lighting,
these experiments had not been attended with success; although it had been demonstrated as early as 1845 that, whatever material was used, the conductor must be enclosed in an
air-tight bulb, to prevent it from being consumed by the oxygen in the atmosphere. The chief difficulty was that the
carbon burners were subject to a rapid disintegration or evaporation, which electricians assumed was due to the disrupting
action of the electric current, and, hence, the conclusion was
reached that carbon contained in itself the elements of its
own destruction, and was not a suitable material for the
burner of an incandescent lamp.
It is admitted that the lamp described in the Sawyer and Man
patent is no longer in use, and was never a commercial success; that it does not embody the principle of high resistance
with a small illuminating surface; that it does not have the
filament burner of the modern incandescent lamp; that the
lamp chamber is defective, and that the lamp manufactured
by the complainant and put upon the market is substantially
the Edison lamp , but it is said that, in the conductor used by
Edison, (a particular part of the stem. of the bamboo lying
directly beneath the silicious cuticle, the peculiar fitness for
which purpose was undoubtedly discovered by him,) he made
use of a fibrous or textile material, covered by the patent to

OCTOBER TEI{ M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Sawyer and Man, and is, therefore, an infringer. It was
adimitted, however, that the third claim -for a conductor of
carbonized paper - was not infringed.
The two main defences to this patent are (1) that it is defective upon its face, in attempting to monopolize the use of
all fibrous and textile materials for the purpose of electric
illumination; and (2) that Sawyer and Alan were not in fact
the first to discover that these were better adapted than
mineral carbons to such purposes.
Is the complainant entitled to a monopoly of all fibrous and
textile materials for incandescent conductors ? If the patentees
had discovered in fibrous and textile substances a quality common to them all, or to them generally, as distinguishing them
from other materials, such as minerals, etc., and such quality
or characteriF:;ic adapted them peculiarly to incandescent conductors, such claim might not be too broad. If, for instance,
minerals or porcelains had always been used for a particular
purpose, and a person should take out a patent for a similar
article of wood, and woods generally were adapted to that
purpose, the claim might not be too broad, though defendant
used wood of a different kind from that of the patentee. But
if woods generally were not adapted to the purpose, and yet
the patentee had discovered a wood possessing certain qualities, which gave it a peculiar fitness for such purpose, it would
not constitute an infringement for another to discover and use
a different kind of wood, which was found to contain similar
or superior qualities. The present case is an apt illustration
of this principle. Sawyer and Man supposed they had discovered in carbonized paper the best material for an incandescent
conductor. Instead of confining themselves to carbonized
paper, as they might properly have done, and in fact did in
their third claim, they made a broad claim for every fibrous
or textile material, when in fact an examination of over six
thousand vegetable growths showed that none of them possessed the peculiar qualities that fitted them for that purpose.
Was everybody then precluded by this broad claim from making further investigation? We think not.
The injustice of so holding is manifest in view of the ex-

THE INCAN])I S( IE'NT L,\

l PiATEINT.

Opinion of the Court.

periments made, and continued for several nioilths, by Mr.
Edison and his assistants, among the different species of vegetable growth, for the purpose of ascertaining the one best
adapted to an incandescent conductor. Of these he found
suitable for his purpose only about three species of bamboo,
one species of cane from the 'Valley of the Amazon, impossible to be procured in quantities on account of the climate,
and one or two species of fibres from the agave family. Of
the special bamboo, the walls of which have a thickness of
about three-eighths of an inch, he used only about twentythousandths of an inch in thickness. In this portion of the
bamboo the fibres are more nearly parallel, the cell walls are
apparently smallest, and the pithy matter between the fibres
is at its minimum. It seems that carbon filaments cannot be
made of wood-that is, exogenous vegetable growth-because the fibres are not parallel and the longitudinal fibres
are intercepted by radial fibres. The cells composing the
fibres are all so large that the resulting carbon is very porous
and friable. Lamps made of this material proved of no commercial value. After trying as many as thirty or forty different woods of exogenous growth, he gave them up as
hopeless. But finally, while experimenting with a bamboo
strip which formed the edge of a palmieaf fan, cut into filaments, he obtained surprising results. After microscopic
examination of the material, he despatched a man to Japan
to make arrangements for securing the bamboo in quantities.
It seems that the characteristic of the bamboo which makes
it particularly suitable is, that the fibres run more nearly parallel than in other species of w6od. Owing to this, it can be
cut up into filaments having parallel fibres, running throughout their length, and producing a homogeneous carbon. There
is no generic quality, however, in vegetable fibres, because they
are fibrous, which adapts them to the purpose. Indeed, the
fibres are rather a disadvantage. If the bamboo grew solid
without fibres, but had its peculiar cellular formation, it
would be a perfect material, and incandescent lamps would
last at least six times as long as at present. All vegetable
fibrous growths do not have a suitable cellular structure. In

0'I(TOElt TEr0M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

some the cells are so large that they are valueless for that
purpose. No exogenous, and very few endogenous, growths
are suitable. The messenger whom he despatched to different parts of Japan and China sent him about forty different
kinds of bamboo, in such quantities as to enable him to make
a number of lamps, and from a test of these different species
he ascertained which was best for the purpose. From this it
appears very clearly that there is no such quality common to
fibrous and textile substances generally as makes them suitable for an incandescent conductor, and that the bamboo
which Was finally pitched upon, and is now generally used,
was not selected because it was of vegetable growth, but because it contained certain peculiarities in its fibrous structure
which distinguished it from every other fibrous substance.
The question really is whether the imperfectly successful experiments of Sawyer and Man, with carbonized paper and
wood carbon, conceding all that is claimed for them, authorize them to put under tribute the results of the brilliant discoveries made by others.
It is required by Rev. Stat. ยง 4888 that the application shall
contain a written description of the device "and of the manner
and process of making, constructing, compounding, and using
it in such full, clear, concise, and exact terms as to enable any
person, skilled in the art or science to which it appertains or
with which it is most nearly connected, to make, construct,
compound, and use the same." The object of this is to apprise
the public of what the patentee claims as his own, the courts
of what they are called upon to construe, and competing
manufacturers and dealers of exactly what they are bound
to avoid. Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 247. If the description be so vague and uncertain that no one can tell,
except by independent experiments, how to construct the
patented device, the patent is void.
It was said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Wood v. Underhill, 5 flow. 1, 5, with respect to a patented compound for
the purpose of making brick or tile, which 4id not give the
relative proportions of the different ingredients: "But when
the specification of a new composition of matter gives only

THE INCANDESCENT LAMP PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

the names of the substances which are to be mixod together,
without stating any relative proportion, undoubtedly it would
be the duty of the court to declare the patent void. And the
same rule would prevail where it was apparent that the proportions were stated ambiguously and vaguely. For in such
cases it would be evident, on the face of the specification,
that no one could use the invention without first ascertaining,
by experiment, the exact proportion of the different ingredients required to produce the result intended to be obtained
And if, from the nature and character of the ingredients to be used, they are not susceptible of such exact description, the inventor is not entitled to a patent."
So in Tyler v. Boston, 7 Wall. 327, 330, wherein the plaintiff professed to have discovered a combination of fusel oil
with the mineral and earthy oils, constituting a burning fluid,
the patentee stated that the exact quantity of fusel oil, which
is necessary to produce the most desirable compound, must be
determined by experiment. And the court observed: "Where
a patent is claimed for such a discovery it should state the
component parts of the new manufacture claimed with clearness and precision, and not leave a person attempting to use
the discovery to find it out ' by experiment.'" See also Bgng
v. Jeantet,129 U. S. 683; Howard v. Detroit Stove Works, 150
U. S.164, 167; Schneider v. Lovell, 10 Fed. Rep. 666; Welling v. Crane, 14 Fed. Rep. 571.
Applying this principle to the patent under consideration,
how would it be possible for a person to know what fibrous
or textile material was adapted to the purpose of an incandescent conductor, except by the most careful and painstaking
experimentation? If, as before observed, there were some
general quality, running through the whole fibrous and textile kingdom, which distinguished it from every other, and
gave it a peculiar fitness for. the particular purpose, the man
who discovered such quality might justly be entitled to a
patent; but that is not the case here. An examination of
materials of this class carried on for months revealed nothing
that seemed to be adapted to the purpose; and even the
carbonized paper and wood carbons specified in the patent,

OCTOBER TErDM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

experiments with which first suggested their incorporation
therein, were found to be so inferior to the bamboo, afterwards discovered by Edison, that the complainant was forced
to abandon its patent in that particular, and take up with the
material discovered by its rival. Under these circumstances,
to hold that one, who had discovered that a certain fibrous
or textile material answered the required purpose, should
obtain th6 right to exclude everybody from the whole domain of fibrous and textile materials, and thereby shut out
any further efforts to discover a better specimen of that class
than the patentee had employed, would be an unwarranted
extension of his monopoly, and operate rather to discourage
than to promote invention. If Sawyer and Man had discovered that a certain carbonized paper would answer the
purpose, their claim to all carbonized paper would, perhaps,
not be extravagant; but the fact that paper happens to belong to the fibrous kingdom did not invest them with sovereignty over this entire kingdom, and thereby practically
limit other experimenters to the domain of minerals.
In fact, such a construction of this patent as would exclude
competitors from making use of any fibrous or textile material would probably defeat itself, since, if the patent were
infringed by the use of any such material, it would be anticipated by proof of the prior use of any such material. In this
connection it would appear, not only that wood charcoal had
been constantly used since the days of Sir llumphry Davy
for arc lighting, but that in the English patent to Greener and
Staite of 1846, for an incandescent light, "charcoal, reduced
to a state of powder," was one of the imiaterials employed.
So also, in the English patent of 1841 to De Moleyns, "1a finely
pulverized boxwood charcoal or plumbago" was used for an
incandescent electric lamp. Indeed, in the experiments of Sir
Humphry Davy, early in the century, pieces of well-burned
charcoal were heated to a vivid whiteness by the electric
current, and other experiments were made which evidently
contemplated the use of charcoal heated to the point of incandescence. Mr. Broadnax, the attorney who prepared the application, it seems, was also of opinion that a broad claim for

RICHARDS

o. CHASE ELEVATOR

COMPANY.

Syllabus.

vegetable carbons could not be sustained because charcoal had
been used before in incandescent lighting. There is undoubtedly a good deal of testimony tending to show that, for the
past fifty or sixty years, the word "charcoal" has been used
in the art, not only to designate carbonized wood, but mineral
or hard carbons, such as were commonly employed for the
carbon pencils of arc lamps. But we think it quite evident
that, in the patents and experiments above referred to, it was
used in its ordinary sense of charcoal obtained from wood.
The very fact of the use of such word to designate mineral
carbons indicates that such carbons were believed to possess
peculiar properties required for illumination, which before that
had been supposed to belong to wood charcoal.
We have not found it necessary in this connection to consider the amendments that were made to the original specification, upon which so much stress was laid in the opinion of
the court below, since we are all agreed that the claims of
this patent, with the exception of the third, are too indefinite
to be the subject of a valid monopoly.
As these suggestions are of themselves sufficient to dispose
of the case adversely to the complainant, a consideration of
the question of priority of invention, or rather of the extent
and results of the Sawyer and Man experiments, which was so
fully argued upon both sides, and passed upon by the court below, becomes unnecessary.
For the reasons above stated the decree of the Circuit
Court is

Affirmed.

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.
PETITION FOR A REHEARING.
No. 819 of October term, 1894.

Received June 8,1895- Denied November 11, 1895.

The court, on application to file a petition for rehearing, adheres to Its
opinion, reported in 158 IT. S. 299, that letters patent No. 308,095, issued

Ntveinber 18, 1884, 1t JEdward S. Itie hards fr a grain

transqferring a p-

