,I{(EE

v. LAMON.

Statement of the Cue.

VoKEE v. LAMON.
LAMON v. MoKEE.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA:
Nos. 33,
84. Argued and submitted March 18, 14, 1895. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

Where money is placed in the hands of one person to be delivered to
another, a trust arises in favor of the latter, which may be enforced
by bill in equity, if not by action at law.
The acceptance of money, with notice of its ultimate destination, is sufficient to create a duty on the part of the bailee to devote it to the purpose intended by the bailor.
In enforcing such a trust a court of equity may make such incidental orders
as may be necessary for the proper distribution of the fund.
On the facts set forth In the headnote to Gilfillan v. Mciee, just decided, it
is in this suit, further Held,
(1) That when the Choctaws transferred the work from Black & Lamon
to McKee, there was no intention on the part of anybody to
ignore what had already been done ;
(2) That Lamon, as representing the surviving partners of Black, Lamon
& Company, was entitled to recover the reasonable value of their
services from the date of the -assignment by McPherson to the
date of the McKee contract.

THESE cases were argued in connection with (ilfllan v.
McKee and McPherson v. Mcaee, ante, 303. This was the
original bill therein referred to filed against McKee by Lamon
and Black, surviving partners, and was based upon the assignment of the original Cochrane contract for a compensation of
thirty per cent to Jeremiah S. -Black, and the substitution of
Black, in the place of Cochrane, as the attorney, counsel, and
agent of the Choctaw Nation for the prosecution of their
claim. This contract was entered into between McPherson,
as the executor of Cochrane, and Jeremiah S. Black, on the.
8th of November, 1866, and was assented to by the delegates
of the Choctaw Nation, whereby the right of Cochrane to
receive the thirty per cent became vested in Black. This assignment seems really to have ben mnade for the benefit of
Lamon, who raise(] and paid $25,000 of the $75,000, which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

was contemplated should be paid to Cochrane in the verbal
arrangements carried on between Lamon and Cochrane before
his death. The bill, after setting forth the facts stated in the
interpleader case, averred that, on the dissolution of the firm
of Black, Lamon & Co., in 1872, Lamon succeeded to the
interest of Black in the remainder of the thirty per cent, after
certain prior claims thereon should be paid.
The only averment of the performance of the Cochrane and
Black contracts by the firm of Black, Lamon & Co., or either
member of such firm, was that "they undertook the prosecution of said claim, and urged the same with great persistence
before the committees of Congress, and did all in their power
to bring about such legislation, as the situation demanded, and
they so continued so long as the firm of Black, Lamon & Co.
existed. That, after some years, said Jeremiah S. Black, by
reason of his failing strength and advanced life, was compelled
to abandon the active work of his profession, and the said
copartnership was for that reason dissolved, and the duty of
prosecuting said claim devolved solely upon said Lamon."
The bill was subsequently amended in this particular by
averring "that said services were rendered and said advances
were made with the full knowledge and consent, and at the
special instance and request of the Choctaw Nation, with the
agreement and understanding that the said plaintiffs were to
receive as compensation for said services such sum as the same
were reasonably worth, to be paid out of the money claimed
as aforesaid, when paid by the United States, and that said
agreement and understanding was independent of the said
Cochrane contract and of the rights claimed by the plaintiffs
under and by virtue of the said Cochrane contract." A subsequent paragraph set up a lien upon the judgment rendered
in favor of the Choctaws, and upon the amount due from the
United States and upon the thirty per cent fund set apart by
the Choctaw Nation for payment for services.
The amended bill further'averred that while the question
of the payment of the claim was pending before Congress,
McKee procured the passage of two acts of the council of
the Choctaw Nation, which acts were passed, as requested by

McKEE v. LAMON.
Statement of the Case.

McKee, with the express understanding and agreement between McKee and the Choctaw Nation that he would "pay to
these complainants and others such sum or sums of money as
they were justly entitled to receive for the services rendered
and money expended by them in the prosecution of said claim,
and with the further agreement that when said Mckee should
receive" the money set apart by said acts, as aforesaid, "that
he, the said McKee, would hold the same in his possession in
trust for the benefit of such persons, including these complainants, as might be entitled to some part thereof." The prayer
was that McKee be enjoined from collecting the thirty per
cent set apart for the payment of expenses; that a receiver be.
appointed to collect the same from the Treasury and pay it
out to the plaintiffs and such other persons as had a just and
equitable claim thereto.
Upon filing this bill, an order was entered enjoining the
defendant from receiving this money from the Treasury.
McKee, however, disregarded this order, no bond having been
given as required by the rule of the court, and drew from the
Treasury $783,768.82, which was twenty-five per cent of the
whole judgment, five per cent of the thirty per cent having
been paid to one Luce, who had taken Blunt's place in the
contract. A rule was issued against McKee to show cause
why he should not be punished for contempt in violating the
restraining order of the court, but it appearing that no bond
had been filed, the motion was overruled and McKee was discharged. On the discharge of the rule, plaintiffs filed a petition based on the bill, answer, and affidavits, and prayed for
the appointment of a receiver. After full argument, the
court ordered that McKee should pay into court the sum of
$136,500.00, to be held subject to the order of the court.
McKee refused to obey this order, and absconded from the
jurisdiction of the court. An appeal, however, was taken
from the order, and the same was vacated and rescinded on
December 3, 1889.
Subsequently, upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, a
decree was rendered in favor of Ward H. Lamon against
McKee as compensation for his services rendered and of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

disbursements and expenditures, for $35,000.00, with interest
thereon at the rate of six per cent, and so much of the bill as
related to the claim of Lamon and Black, or either of them, as
assignees of the so-called Cochrane contract, and as surviving
partners of Black and Lamon, or Black, Lamon & Co., was
dismissed.*
From this decree the defendants Ward H. Lamon and
Chauncy V. Black appealed to this court.
Mr. John J. Weed and Mr. Jeferson Chandler.for McKee.
Mr. James Coleman and Mr. Nathaniel Wilson for Lamon
submitted on their brief.
Mr. Enoch Totten and Mr. Reginald Fendall for IMrs.
Latrobe, submitted on their brief.
Yr. Willis B. Smith for Marbury, Administrator, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In these cases, Nos. 33 and 34, we are concerned only with
the decree in Lamon's favor for $35,000, and with that part of
the decree dismissing the 'claim of Lamon. and Black. The
bill was originally filed for the purpose of securing the payment to Lamon and Black of thirty per cent of the sum of
$2,858,798.62 which the appellant was about to receive from
the United States, under the authority received by him from
the Choctaw Nation, and also for an injunction restraining him
from receiving such sum of money, and for the appointment
of a receiver, who should be authorized to collect this sum
from the Treasury, whenever the same should become due
and payable; and also for an accounting between the appellant and Lamon and Black in respect to the amount due them
for services rendered and money expended in the prosecution
of the claim. It appearing, however, that the contract of
February 13, 1855, was never carried out, nor the money ever
collected as required by the contract between Cochrane and

McKEE v. LAMON.

1321

Opinion of the Court.

the Choctaw Nation, before Cochrane could become entitled
to his thirty per cent, complainants amended their bill, by
averring that McKee procured an act of the Choctaw council
of February 25, 1888, making provision for the payment of,
the amount due under his contract with them, by an express
understanding and agreement that he would pay to the complainants and others such sum or sums of money as they were
justly entitled to receive, for services rendered and money
expended by them in the prosecution of their claim. In his
answer, McKee denied the allegations of the bill so far as it
related to services alleged to have been rendered in the prosecution of the said claim by the firm of Black, Lamon & Co., or
either of them, previous or subsequent to July 16, 1870, but on
the contrary averred that Black retired from and abandoned
the case before such date; that by reason of such abandonment, the Choctaws, being without counsel, solicited himself
and Blunt to take charge.of the prosecution of such claim.
1. The first point made by the appellant McKee, that the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia was without jurisdiction to entertain the suit, because upon the averments of
the bill the suit was in legal effect one against the Choctaw
Nation, to which the nation was a necessary party, is without
foundation.. The suit is neither directly nor indirectly against
the Choctaw Nation; nor if made a party defendant would
the complainants be entitled to any relief against the nation.
No claim is made:against it, nor is any attempt made to impair the effect of its legislation. By its first contract with
Cochrane, made by its agents February 13, 1855, in pursuance
and by virtue of resolutions of its legislative council of November 9, 1853, and November 10, 1854, it agreed to pay Cochrane
for his services thirty per cent of all collections miade by him
in their behalf. By its second contract, it doubtless assumed
that the first contract had been abandoned by Cochrane and
his successors Lamon and Black, and agreed to pay the same
thirty per cent upon an amount which had already been fixed,
with the further stipulation that Blunt and McKee should
pay to Mrs. Cochrane five per cent upon such thirty per cent,
and should adjust the clains of all parties who had theretofore
VOL. CLIX-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

rendered service in the prosecution of such claim upon the
principles of equity and justice, according to the value of the
services so rendered.
The Choctaw Nation had really no interest in the thirty
per cent. The stipulation was made by Blunt and -cKee
for the benefit of' the parties interested in the percentage, and
as soon as the money should be received by them, or either of
them, they would hold it as trustees for the persons legally
and equitably entitled to it. McKee, having obtained possession of the money, may be held accountable by a court of
equity for its proper distribution. There can be no doubt of
the general proposition that where money is placed in the
hands of one person to be delivered to another, a trust arises
in favor of the latter, which he may enforce by bill in equity,
if not by action at law. The acceptance of the money with
notice of its ultimate destination is sufficient to create a duty
on the part of the bailee to devote it to the purposes intended
by the bailor. Taylor v. Benham, 5 How. 233, 274; Kane
v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch. 90, 110; Baring. v. Dabney, 19
Wall. 1; National Bank v. Iasurance Co., 104 U. S. 54 ; Keller v. Ashford, 133 U. S. 610; Union, Life Insurance Co. v.
Hanford, 143 U. S. 187; Ryan v. Dox, 34 N. Y. 307; Story's
Equity Jurisprudence, §§ 1041, 1255 ; Mechem on Agency,
§ 568. And in enforcing such trust, a court of equity may
make such incidental orders as may be necessary for the
proper protection and distribution of the fund.
It is true that in this case the names of the beneficiaries are
not given in the instrument creating the trust, but they are
designated by class as "all parties who have rendered service
heretofore in the prosecution of said claim,' and were to be
rewarded "upon the principles of equity and justice, according
to the value of the services so rendered." And if there be any
conflict between individuals of such class, a court of equity is
the proper tribunal for the adjustment of their respective
claims. In such case, where the property is disposed of absolutely, the original assignor or party creating the trust ,need
not be made a party to the bill. Story's Equity Pleadings,
§ 153. This proposition renders it unnecessary to consider

McKEE v. LAMON.
Opinion of the Court.

whether the Choctaw Nation is subject to be sued in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The fact that
the actof Congress. making the appropriation required the
money to be paid "upon the requisition or requisitions" issued
by "the proper authorities of the. Choctaw Nation" did not
oust the court of equity from controlling its subsequent disposition. The object of the bill is not to change the direction of
Congress in respect to such payment, but to determine the
further disposition of the money after it has reached the hands
of the designated payee.
The objection that there was no consideration for the promise made by the appellant to adjust the claims of all parties,
etc., is untenable, since the original receipt of the money is a
sufficient consideration for all promises expressed or implied
with reference to its final disposition. Walker v. Rostron, 9
]M. & W. 411; Mechem on Agency, § 568.

2. The history of this controversy may be epitomized as
follows: The Choctaws, believing that they had certain just
claiins against the government, and particularly for the net
proceeds of lands ceded to the United States by the treaty of
Dancing Rabbit Creek of'September 22, 1830, at first employed
Albert Pike to prosecute such claims, and upon his abandoning
the same annulled his contract, employed Cochrane and agreed
to pay him thirty per cent of the amount collected by him.
The contract with him was made February 13, 1855, and continued in force until it was superseded by the contract made
with Black, Noveniber 8, 1866

indeed, the contract of 1855

indicates that, for three years before that, Cochrane had been
acting as the agent of the Choctaw Nation in the prosecution

of certain other claims, in regard to which he had rendered
most important and valuable services, etc. During these fourteen years he seems to have had charge of the Choctaw claims,
and been engaged in their active, prosecution. During this
time the treaty of 1855, submitting the Choctaw claim for the
.net proceeds to the Senate, was concluded, and the award of the
Senate of 1859 made, by which the Choctaws were allowed
the proceeds from the sale of such lan !s as had been sold by
the United States on the first of Jandary preceding, deducting

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

certain expenses therefrom, and referring the claim to the
Secretary of the Interior to state the amount due them according to certain principles of settlement laid down by the Senate.
During this time, also, the act of Congress of 1861 was passed,
which ratified and confirmed the Senate award, and provided
for a partial payment thereof.. At the same time Cochrane's
express contract with the Choctaws was that his compensation
of thirty per cent was only payable when the money was paid
over by the United States to the Choctaw Nation or its legally
authorized representatives -in other words, it was contingent
upon success. Under this contract he seems to have been
paid, for moneys collected before his death, the sum of $282,
600, thirty per cent of the amount he had procured for the
Choctaws.
On November 8, 1866, McPherson, the executor of Cochrane's estate, Cochrane in the meantime having died, acting
under an authority contained in his will, assigned to Black all
the interest of Cochrane in the thirty per cent compensation,
and substituted him in the place of Cochrane, with the proviso
that he should pay out of the money to be received by him
to Cochrane's executor such sum as should be agreed upon
between the parties, as well as all other demands justly due
and payable out of such thirty per cent. In this connection
Black seems to have been acting principally for his partner,
Mr. Lamon. It appears that the firm of Black, Lamon & Co.
were actively engaged in an effort to secure from Congress an
appropriation to pay the Senate award during several sessions,
Judge Black appearing before committees of Congress on behalf
of the nation and their award, and the other parties preparing
memoranda and briefs; that both Lamon and Black devoted
much time in explaining the §aid award, and the claims upon
which it was founded, to individual members of. Congress.
That, in '1870, Mr. Lamon, who had the principal charge of
the case, advised the Choctaw delegates to discontinue further
efforts to obtain from Congress-the payment of the award by
direct 'appropriation, and to apply for tle passage of a bill
referring the same to the Court of Claims for adjudication;
that the delegates declinedto accede to this proposition, and

McKEE v. LAMON.
Opinion of the Court.

insisted upon a further effort to secure the appropriation direct
from Congress. That about this time they entered into the
contract with McKee, and that thereafter Lamon, who does
not seem to have been apprised of such contract, continued to
urge upon Congress the justice of their claim and the duty
of the United States to pay said award, until about 1878, when
he prepared, at the request of Pitchlynn, the chief delegate, a
bill authorizing the reference of such claim to the Court of
Claims and a memorial to accompany the same.
About 1870, however, Black appears to have withdrawn
from the case, except so far as was necessary for the proteetion of ;he interests of Thomas A. Scott, who had advanced
some $75,000 to Cochrane's executor, whom Black felt in
honor bound to protect. His reasons for so retiring are fully
stated in a letter of March 27, 1883.
Whether, under Revised Statutes, § 3477, prohibiting the
assignment of claims against the United States, as interpreted
by this court in Spqflo'rd v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484, and subsequent
cases, the original contract between Cochrane and the Choctaw
Nation, or the assignment thereof to Black by Cochrane's
executor McPherson, was of any force or validity or not, it
is unnecessary to inquire. It is sufficient to say that the contract was entirely contingent upon the money buing collected,
and the compensation therein provided for was payable only
from such money. As none was ever collected by Black or
Lamon, they never obtained a legal right to compensation.
But the question still arises whether, notwithstanding there
was no legal claim, the Choctaws were not at liberty to recognize the fact that important services had been' rendered, and
that a moral obligation to pay for them existed on the part of
those who should ultimately succeed in making the collection.
In this posture of affairs the, contract of July 16, 1870,
between the Choctaws and McKee was entered into. There
is very little, if any, testimony to justify the charge in the
amended bill that this contract was fraudulently obtained for
the purpose 'of cheating the- complainants and other persons
interested in the claim, and to obtain possession of the funds
which McKee knew were due and justly payable out of the

Oc(

Bi(El

TEM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeds. The truth seems to be that the Choctaws were
either discontented with the advice given by Lamon and Black
to discontinue their efforts to secure a direct appropriation for
the payment of the award and apply for leave to go to the
Court of Claims, or became satisfied that Black and Lamon
were so much engrossed in other matters that they could not
bestow the proper attention upon this; in short, that Black
had practically abandoned the case, and that further assistance
must be obtained. That there was no intention on the part of
either party to ignore what had already been done is evident
from the concluding paragraph of their contract, out of which
the express trust i claimed to arise, that Blunt and McKee
would adjust the claims of all parties who had theretofore
rendered services in the prosecution of the claim upon the
principles of equity and justice, according to the value of the
services so rendered. That this clause must have referred to
Cochrane and his assignees is evident from the fact that the
stipulation was made expressly in favor of those who had
"heretofore" rendered services. As such services had been
rendered only by Cochrane and his assignees, and as Cochrane's
individual claim was already provided for by the donation
of five per cent to his wife, it is difficult to understand for
what the subsequent reservation was made if not for Black
and Lamon, who had succeeded him, and who had certainly
rendered some valuable services in the prosecution.
The court below was of the opinion "that the Choctaws, in
defining the trust, did not mean that people whose contracts
they had annulled were to come within the trust," and hence
that Black and Lamon, whose services were all rendered under
the Cochrane contract, were not intended to be included. We
do not think this necessarily follows. It is true that, in 1874,
the general council of the Choctaw Nation did pass an act
annulling the contract with Cochrane, but this act is really of
very little value, since the contract had already been practically abandoned as early as 1870, and Was as dead as any act
-of the legislative council could make it. This act may have
given it its coup de grace, but for all practical purposes it was
null already. The object of the stipulation in question was to

McKE]E v. LATI{OBE.
Statement of the Case

acknowledge that valuable services had- "heret ofore" been
rendered, and as Cochrane had already been provided for, it
is but natural to suppose that his assignees were the ones
intended to be recognized.
We are, therefore, of opinion that complainants, as suriiving partners of the firm of Black, Lamon & Co., are entitled
to recover the reasonable value of thbse services from the date
of the assignment from McPherson to Black to the date of the
McKee contract, which may be taken as denoting the time
when the Black contract was abandoned. Whatever services
Lamon rendered prior to that time he rendered as a member
of, and for the benefit of, the firm of Black, Lamon & Co.,
and that, too, is the theory of this bill, which is founded upon
a partnership claim. If, subsequently to that time, or to the
time when Lamon first learned of McKee's contract, Lamon
rendered services which were of value to McKee, they would
not fall within the express trust of the McKee contract, but
perhaps might be subject to an implied trust in his favor. As
to that, however, and as to the question whether the bill is
properly framed to cover an individual liability, we express
no opinion.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed and the case remanded for furtherproceedings in
conformity with this op inion.

McKEE v. LATROBE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 85.

Argued and submitted March 13, 14, 1895.

-Decided October 21, 1895.

On the facts set forth in the headuote to Gilfillan v. McKee, just decided,
it is further held that Latrobe was entitled to receive from the general
fund the value of his services, and that their value was $75,000.

THIS case also was argued in connection with Gilflllan v.
icKee, ante, 303. The bill was originally filed by John H. B.
Latrobe, July 13, 1888, six days after the bill of Lamon and

