OCTOBER TERMI,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

RUTLAND -RAILROAD COMPANY v. CENTRAL
VERMONT RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CHANCERY OF FRANKLIN COUNTY IN
THE STATE OF VERMONT.
Nos. 51, 472. Argued April 19, 22, 1895. -Decided

November 19i 1895.

When the highest court of a State, in rendering judgment, decides a Federal
question, and also decides against the plaintiff in error upon an independent ground, not involving a Federal question, 'and. broad enough to support the judgment, this court will dismiss the writ of error, without
considering the Federal question.
A statute of a State imposed a tax upon the gross earnings of railroad companies, and provided that the tax upon a leased railroad should be paid
by the lessee, and deducted from the rent. A lessee paid the tax upon
the railroad of its lessor, and deducted it from the rent, and was sued in
equity by the lessor for the rent, Without deduction for the tax. The
highest court of the State gave judgment for the lessee; and held that
the statute, so.far as it imposed a tax upon gross earnings derived from
interstate commerce, was contrary to the Constitution of the United
States; but that the provision for the payment of the tax by.the lessee,
and Its deduction from the rent, was constitutional; and further held,
independently of the question of constitutionality, that, as between the
lessor and' the lessee, It was the duty of the lessor to pay the tax; that
the lessee having been compelled by law to make the payment to discharge an obligation of the lessor, the law implied a promise to repay;
that the lessor having made no suggestion that the statute was unconstitutional, and no offer to indemnify the lessee, the lessee could not, in
prudence, do otherwise than pay the tax, and was under no duty to incur
the expense, delay and perils of litigation to test the constitutionality of
the statute; and that the lessor, In a court of equity, could not have relief for what, as between the parties, itself should have done, and what,
by its own laches it had suffered to be done, professedly in its behalf,
by the lessee. Held, that this court had no jurisdiction to review the
judgment.
THESE were two writs of error to review decrees of the
Court of Chancery for the county of Franklin and State of

RUTLAND RAILROAD v. CENT. VT. RAILROAD.

631

Statement of the Case.

Vermont, denying, in accordance with mandates of the
Supreme Court of the State, the right of the Rutland Railroad Company, which had leased its railroad to the Central
Vermont Railroad Company, to recover the amount of taxes
assessed upon the gross earnings of that railroad under the
laws of the State, and paid by the Central Vermont Railroad
Company, and by it deducted from the rent due to the Rutland
Railroad Company under the lease. The case appeared by
the record to be as follows:
On December 30, 1870, the Rutland Railroad Company
leased its road, including a branch known as the Addison
Railroad, for twenty years, to the receivers of the Vermont
Central and Vermont and Canada Railroad Companies at a
fixed rent, payable semi-annually. On June 21, 1873, the
Central Vermont Railroad Company became the receiver of
the Vermont Central and the Vermont and Canada Railroad
Companies, and took possession of the Rutland Railroad under
the lease. Disputes arose between the parties, and on February 23, 1876, they made an agreement in writing, modifying
the lease, and by which the rent was made payable monthly,
and was to be a certain proportion of the gross earnings, which
the lessee guaranteed should be not less than $250,000 a year.
Neither of the contracts contained any provision for the payment of taxes.
Under the statutes of Vermont of 1874 and 1876,
railroads
were taxed by the mile in the towns through which they passed;
and the Supreme Court of Vermont, at January term, 1878, in
Rutland County, in a case between these parties, not reported,
but stated in the opinion of the court below in this case, held
that the lessor, and not the lessee, was bound to pay such
taxes. See 63 Vermont, 12, 25, 26.
On November 28, 1882, the legislature of Vermont passed a
statute, entitled "An act to provide a revenue for the payment of state expenses," which repealed all former statutes
taxing the property of railroad companies, and required them
to pay to the State a tax of a certain proportion of their gross
earnings, and provided that the lessee of a railroad should pay
this tax, and might deduct the amount from any payments

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

due to the lessor. The material provisions of this statute are
copied in the margin. 1
As required by this statute, blank returns of statements of
gross earnings were sent in August, 1883, by the commissioner
of state taxes to the Central Vermont Railroad Company;
and that company filled out the returns, and paid the taxes on
such earnings under protest.
A large part of the gross earnings so returned and taxed
accrued from the transportation of persons and property
between other 'States and countries through Vermont, and
between Vermont and other States and countries.
' SECT. 8. A corporation, company, person or persons, failing to pay the
amount of any annual or semi-annual tax within the time required by this
act, shall forfeit to the State the sum of one hundred dollars for each day's
neglect to pay the same after the expiration of the time limited by law.
SECT. 11. Every corporation, person or persons, owning or operating a
railroad in this State, whether as owner, lessee, receiver, trustee or otherwise, shall pay a tax to the State on the entire gross earnings of such railroad, if such railroad is situated wholly within the State. If such railroad
is situated partly within and partly without the State, the tax shall be upon
such proportion of the entire gross earnings of such railroad as the mileage
of trains run in this State bears to the mileage of all the trains run on the
entire main line of the road.
SinoT. 12. The tax upon such earnings shall be rated according to the
earnings per mile of road in this State, and is hereby assessed, at the rate
of two per cent on the first two thousand dollars a mile, dr total earnings
if less than that sum; at the rate of three per cbnt on the first thousand or

part thereof above two thousand dollars a mile; at the rate of four per
cent on the first thousand or part thereof above three thousand dollars a
mile; and when the earnings exceed four thousand dollars a mile, at the
rate of five per cent on all earnings above that sum.
SECT. 13. Such tax shall be payable one half semi-annually in the months
of February and August, and shall be based ,upon the gross earnings during
the six months terminating with the last day of December or June next
preceding.
SECT. 14. When a railroad is operated In this State by a
corporation,
person or persons, by virtue of a liase or other -contract, the aforesaid tax
shall be paid by the lessee of such railroad, or holder of such cont' 'act, as
the case may be; and the said tax shall be charged against and de(ucted
from any paymenits due or to become due the lessor of such railroad, or
person, persons or corporation granting such contract, as the case may
be, on'account of such lease or contract; unless in the provisions of such
otherwise.
lease or contract it is stipulated

RUTLAND RAILROAD v. CENT. VT. RAIL1OAID.

633

Statement of the Case.

The Central Vermont Railroad Company paid the rents,
when due according to the agreement, until July 31, 1883;
but afterwards delayed such payments, and deducted therefrom the sums paid for taxes on gross earnings.
On September 19, 1883, the treasurer of the Rutland Company, by direction of its officers, wrote a letter to the treasurer
of the Central Vermont Railroad Company, claiming that the
tax was invalid against the Rutland Company, and demanding
payment of the rent in full, without deduction on account of
the tax. The- president of the Rutland Company afterwards,
in conversation with the president of the Central Vermont
Company, without intending to limit, or being understood to
limit, the grounds of objection of the Rutland Company to
the payment of the taxes, stated that it had no gross earnings,
and therefore could not be liable for the taxes. No other
reason for the denial of its liability for the taxes under the
statute of 1882 was ever given to the Central Vermont
Company.
By an order of court of January 19, 1884, the Central
Vermont Railroad Company was discharged of the recbivership, and ordered to transfer and make over all the ptoperty
in its hands, including the lease of the Rutland Railroad, to
the Consolidated Railroad Company of Vermont. On June
30, 1884, the -transfer was made accordingly; and on the
same day, the latter company leased all the railroads to the
Central Vermont Railroad Company, which afterwards continued in possession and operation thereof.
On November 9, 1886, the Rutland Company filed in the
Court of Chancery a petition, praying that the Central
Vermont Company and the Consolidated Railroad Company
of Vermont be ordered to pay the rent due in full, with
interest, and without deduction for taxes. The two defendant
,companies filed an answer denying their liability. The case
was referred to a master, upon whose report, embodying the
facts above stated, the Court of Chancery, on January 1, 1889,
dismissed the petition.
The petitioner appealed to the Supreme Court of Vermont
which. at October term, 1890, delivered an opinion, copied in

OCrfODE R TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the record, and reported 63 Vermont, 1, allowing the claim
for interest on rents, reversing the decree, and remanding the
case to the Court of Chancery, with the following mandate:
" In the matter of the petition of the Rutland Railroad
Company, it is considered, adjudged and decreed as follows:
"The act of the legislature of Vermont, entitled ' An act to
provide a revenue for the payment of state expenses,' approved
November 28, 1882, so far as it imposes a tax upon the gross
earnings of railroads derived from interstate transportation of
persons or property, is unconstitutional and void, as being in
conflict with that clause of the Federal Constitution which
confers upon Congress the exclusive power to regulate commerce among the States.
"That section 14 of said act, providing that taxes assessed
under said act upon the earnings of railroads operated by
lessees thereof shall be paid by such lessees, and charged
against and deducted from the rents due to the lessor of such
railroads, is constitutional and valid.
"That all taxes paid to the State by the respondent, in accordance with the provisions of said act of 1882, notwithstanding its invalidity, as above held, were, as against the petitioner,
valid payments, and so,.pro tanto, payments inextinguishment
'of rents due the petitioner.
"That the petitioner is entitled to recover interest upon
the deferred payments of monthly rent, mentioned in the
master's report,. from the last day of the month on which it
is held such monthly instalments of rent respectively fell due
under the lease and the modification thereof mentioned in
said report.
"The decree of the Court of Chancery is reversed, and the
cause remanded."
In August, 1891, the Court of Chancery entered a decree,
purporting to pursue the mandate; and allowed an appeal
taken to the Supreme Court of the State by the respondents,
claiming that the decree did not conform to the mandate.
The petitioner, on September 8, 1891, sued out a writ of error
from this court to review that decree.
At October term, 1892, the Supreme Court of Vermont

RUTLAND I1AILROAI) v. CENT. VTr. RAILROA]).

635

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

affirmed that decree, and remanded the cause. 65 Vermont, 360. The Court of Chancery, in August, 1894, entered
a final decree accordingly. The petitioner, on October 9,
1894, sued out a writ of error from this court to review this
decree.
The defendants in error moved to dismiss both writs of
error for want of jurisdiction; the first, because the decree
which it sought to review was not a final one; and both, because no Federal question was involved.
Mr. George F. Edmund8 and Mr. C. F. Prouty for plaintiff
in error. On the question of jurisdiction, on which the case
turned, in this court, they said:
If the decision of the Vermont court, that the act, although invalid as a regulation of commerce, would nevertheless protect the defendant, was erroneous, this court has
jurisdiction to review that judgment.
The Federal Constitution declares that no State shall pass
a law which regulates commerce between the States, or which
impairs the obligation of a contract.
The defendant has
promised to pay the plaintiff a sum of money. It concedes
that it has not paid according to its contract. As an excuse
for not paying it sets up the statute of the State of Vermont.
It makes no other excuse. The only question before the Vermont court is whether that statute protects the defendant.
The plaintiff says it does not because it is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, and upon that question
comes to this court. The powdr to declare that act unconstitutional carries with it, by necessary implication, the power
to further declare that, as an act, it is not binding upon the
plaintiff; and unless that be so, the right of appeal in this
ease is a senseless formality.
The practical question is, can the plaintiff be divested of
its property by virtue of this statute?
That question this
court has the power to answer, and to make its answer effectual. If the state court can hold that this statute is unconstitutional and nevertheless binding as a statute, and if the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

citizen is thereby cut off from all redress in this court, the
Federal Constitution becomes a nullity.
If the Vermont court could say that this law was to be
treated as valid, because so declared by judicial interpretation, it might also say that it was presumed to be valid until
declared invalid by some court of competent jurisdiction, and
that, therefore, whatever was done under an unconstitutional
act was to be regarded as rightfully done until this court had
pronounced it unconstitutional. Would not such a decision
present a case for the interposition -of this court? If not,
what protection has the citizen?
The remedy is an essential part of the obligation. It has
been repeatedly held that the legislature cannot take away
nor materially change the remedy existing when a contract is
entered into without impairing its obligation. When this
contract was made the plaintiff could enforce the payment of
its stipulated ren.
Under the decision of the Vermont court
that right is absolutely taken away. That decision must be
reviewable here. Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall. 610; White v.
Hart, 13 Wall. 646; Hoffman V. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535;
Edwards v. Rearzey, 96 U. S. 595; Louisiana v. Pi8sury,
105 U. S. 278.
The authorities all hold that when the validity of a statute
under the Federal Constitution is drawn in issue, this court
has the fullest. power to review every incidental matter which
enters into the determintion of the question. Does the judgment of the state court infringe the right of the citizen, so
far as that right is guaranteed under the Constitution 'of the
United States? The state court cannot escape this power of
review by resting its judgment upon some principle of general
law, provided thatjudgment gives effet to the statute drawn in
question. Bridge Pr(prietors v. Hoboken Co., I Wall. 116;
Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; _Delmas v.
Insurance Co., 14 Wall. 661; University V. People, 99 U. S.
309; Given v. Wright, 117 U. S. 648.
I Given v. Wright presented the exact question under discussion. Certain lands in New Jersey had by legislative enactment been set apart to the Indians of that State. The act

RUTLAND RAILROAD s. -CENT. VT. RAILROAD.

637

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

provided that they should be free from taxation. This was
in 1778. In 1801, at the request of the Indians, an act was
passed providing that these lands should be sold, and the proceeds invested for the benefit of the Indians, which was done.
Nothing was said in this act about the exemption from taxation, and the New Jersey court held that the lands were
exempt in the hands of the new purchasers. In 1804, after
the rendition of this judgment, the legislature repealed the
exempting clause of the original act, and the state court then
held that the lands were then subject to taxation. This decision was reversed upon appeal to the United States Supreme
Court, New Jersey v. Wil8on, 7 Cranch, 164, where it was
held that the act of 1804 violated the obligation of the
contract.
Notwithstanding this decision the lands were regularly assessed and the taxes paid down to 1876, when proceedings
were begun in the state court to prevent the collection of
these taxes. The state court sustained the assessment, holding that the uninterrupted payment of these taxes for more
than sixty years raised a conclusive presumption that the exemption had been surrendered. To review this judgment a
writ of error was prosecuted in this court.
The plaintiffs insisted that the state statute impaired the
obligation of the qontract. The state court said this was true,
but that nevertheless the plaintiffs were not entitled to the
benefit of the exemption clause by reason of the application
of certain general principles of law. This court held that a
Federal question was involved and that the Federal court
should consider whether the 6tate court had correctly applied those principles which deprived the plaintiffs of the
exemption which they claimed.
Mr. Justice Bradley said: "The question, then, will be
whether the long acquiescence of the land owners under
the imposition of taxes raises a presumption that the exemption which once existed has been surrendered. This question
by itself would be a mere question of state municipal law, and
would itot involve any appeal to the Constitution or laws of
the United States. But where it is charged that the obliga.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of a contract has been impaired by a state law, as in this
case, by the general tax law of New Jersey as administered
by the state authorities, and the state courts justify such impairment by the application of some general rule of law to the
facts of the case, it is our duty to inquire whether the justification is well grounded. If it is not, the party is entitled to
the benefit of the constitutional protection."
The. cade at bar should be carefully distinguished from those
in which the state court puts its decision upon an independent
ground. By independent ground is meant some ground apart
from the statute, upon which the case may have been decided
without any reference to the statute. If the judgment of the
state court necessarily give, efect to the statute, a Federal
question is presented. Lehigh Water Co. v. Eaton, 121 U. S.
388; Chicago Life 1n8. Co. v. Needle,, 113 U. S. 574, 579;
Dale Tile i fg. Co. v. Hyatt, 125 U. S. 46, 51.
Mr. Edward . Phely8 for defendant in error. Mr.B. F.
Fifield was with him on the brief.
MR.JusTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
It was hardly denied at the bar, that the first writ of error
was prematurely sued out, befoie a final decree had been entered. But it is unnecessary to dwell upon that, because in
other respects the questions arising upon the two writs of
error are identical.
The decree below, as appears by the mandate of the
Supreme Court of Vermont, and still more clearly by its
opinion, made part of the record, and reported in 63 Vermont,
1, did not proceed exclusively on the decision of a Federal
question, but also upon grounds of general law.
The conclusion of that court, following the decision of this
court in Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326, that the statute of Vermont of 1882, so far as it
sought to tax the earnings derived from interstate commerce,
was unconstitutional, was in favor of the Rutland Railroad

RUTLAND RAILROAD v. CENT. VT. RAILROAD.

639

Opinion of the Court.

Company, and therefore cannot be questioned on a writ of
error sued out by that company.
The court did declare that the provision of the statute,
which requires the lessee to pay the tax and deduct the
amount from the rent, does not impair the obligation of a
contract, because both railroad companies, as well as the rent
due from the one to the other, were proper subjects for
taxation under the laws of Vermont, and the method to be
adopted for the collection of the tax was purely a question
of legislative discretion.
But the decision of'this part of the case (the only part
decided against the plaintiff in error) was not put upon that
consideration alone. On the contrary, the court went oi-to
say: "But it by no means follows, because the defendant has
paid to the State taxes, under a law afterwards held to be
void, by withholding the amount thereof from the rent, that
the Rutland Company can now claim the balance of the rent
for this reason." And this proposition was rested on several
distinct grounds.
The first of these grounds, as summed up by the state court,
was as follows: "Down to May 27, 1887, the date on which
the decision in PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326, was promulgated, the doctrine of the cases
decided by the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of
the taxation in question. The State Tax on Railway Gross
Recevpts, 15 Wall. 284; The DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall.
206." "The Supreme Cburt of the United States is the supreme
arbiter when a Federal question is involved. Down to 1887
that court had ruled the I'ederdl question now under consideration in a way that upheld the legislation in question. Its
decisions then promulgated were the supreme law of the land,
absolutely binding upon both parties to this cause. Hence all
payments of taxes, made under our law, which down to that
time must be treated as valid for present purposes, were made
in strict conformity to law. The subsequent change in the
decisions of the United States Supreme Court is only operative
prospectively, and all acts done in obedience to the former'
decisions are valid and cannot be disturbed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Conrt.

But the conclusion that "the defendants are not liable to
pay as rent the amount paid by them as taxes upon the
earnings of the Rutland Road," was also put upon other
grounds, namely, that the taxes upon the earnings of the
Rutland Railroad were taxes, which, as between the Rutland
Company and the Central Vermont Company, it was the duty
of the Rutland Company to pay; that, the lease being silent,
the duty to pay, under the common law, rested upon the
lessor; that this question had been decided in the former suit
between the parties; that by the statute of 1882 the thing
taxed was the property of the Rutland Company, and the
Central Vermont Company was but the collector of the tax;
that the Central Vermont Company having been compelled
by law to make the payments to discharge an obligation of
another, the law implied a promise to repay, and the Central
Vermont Company would'have an action to recover the amount
from the Rutland Company, and a court of equity would avoid
circuity of action; that the Rutland Company, in its treasurer's
letter of September 19, 1883, had simply objected that the
tax was invalid, and had made no suggestion that the statute
was unconstitutional, and no offer to indemnify the 'Central
Vermont Conpany, and the latter could not, in prudence, do
otherwise, than pay the taxes, and was under no duty to incur
the expense and assume the perils of delay and of litigation,
to test the constitutionality of the statute; and that the Rutland Company, in a court of equity, could not have relief for
what, as between the parties, itself should have done, and
what, by its own laches, it had suffered to. be done, professedly in its behalf, by the Central Vermorit Company.
These grounds involved no Federal question, and were broad
enough to support the judgment, without regard to the question whether the provision of the statute, under which the
Central Vermont Company paid the taxes and deducted them
from the rent, was or was not constitutional.
Such being the case, the conclusion is inevitable, that this
court has no jurisdiction to review the decision of the state
court.
Jt is well settled, by a long series of decisions of this court,

RUTLAND RAILROAD v. CENT. VT. RAILROAD.

641

Opinion of the Court.

that where the highest court of a State, in rendering judgment, decides a Federal question, and also decides against the
plaintiff in error upon an independent ground, not involving
a Federal question, and broad enough to support the judgment, the writ of error will be dismissed, without considering
the Federal question. Jurdock v. Menphis, 20 Wall. 590;
Jenkins v. Loewenthal, 110 U. S. 222; Beaupre v. N7 oyes, 138
U. S. 397; Walter A. Wood Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S. 293;
flaminond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73; Tyler v. Cass tounty,
142 U. S. 288; Delaware Co. v. Reybold, 142 U. S. 636; Eustis
v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361 ; in the last two of which many other
cases to the same effect are cited.
In Williams v. Weaver, the Court of Appeals of New York
held that assessors of taxes were not personally liable in damages to the owner of national bank shares alleged to have been
taxed in violation of a statute of the United States. 75 N. Y.
30. A writ of error to review the judgment was dismissed
by this court, because, as was said by Mr. Justice Miller in
delivering the opinion, "If the defendants, in assessing property for taxation, incur no personal liability for any error
they may commit, the fact that the error committed is a misconstruction of an act of Congress can make no difference."
100 U. S. 547.
In Young v. Steamship Co., 105 U. S. 41, it was held, in an
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Field, that the question
whether'fees exacted in violation of a statute of the United
States, and paid without objection, could be recovered back,
was not a Federal question, the decision of which by the highest court of a State could be reviewed by this court on writ of
error.
In Tyler v. Cass County, above cited, an action was brought
against a county to recover back money paid at a sale for
taxes of lands alleged to be subject to a lien of the United
States, and therefore exempt from taxation. The Supreme
Court of North Dakota -while holding that, in view of the
decision of this court in Northern Pacifc Railroadv. Traill
County, 115 U. S. 600, the lands were not taxable, and nothing passed by the sale-gave judgment for the defendant.
VOL. CLIX-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

1 No. Dak. 369.

In support of a writ of error sued out by the
plaintiff from this court, it was argued that the assessor had
no jurisdiction to decide whether the lands in question were
or were not taxable; and that the state court, in holding that
the act of the assessor, in assessing the lands against private
parties in possession, though they in fact belonged to the
United States, would not be without jurisdiction, decided
against the immunity from the jurisdiction of the assessor.
But this court dismissed the writ of error, and, speaking by
the Chief Justice, said: "The question arising for determination in the state court was whether the money which had been
paid by the purchaser of the lands at the tax sale could be
recovered back, either at common law, or under the Dakota
statute in that behalf. The ground upon which the tax title
was held to have failed was that the United States had a lien
upon the lands, and that, therefore, they could not, under the
laws of the United States, be sold for taxes; but that fact did
not impress with a Federal character the inquiry as to the
right of recovery." 142 U. S. 290.
That case cannot be distinguished in principle from the case
at bar. In this case, as in that, it was argued that the state
court, while it declared the statute to be unconstitutional, yet
by its decision gave effect to the unconstitutional statute.
But in each case the decision of the Federal question was not
an essential element in determining whether the plaintiff was
entitled to recover against the defendant.
Writs of eror dismissedfor want of jurisdition.

