OCTOBER TERM, 1894
Statement of the Case.

WHITE v. EWING.
OERTIFIOATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 913. Submitted May 20, 1895. -Decided

June 3, 1895.

A Circuit Court of the United States has "jurisdiction, in a general creditor's
suit properly pending therein for the collection, administration, and
distribution of the assets of an insolvent corporation, to hear and determine an ancillary suit instituted in the same cause by its receiver in
accordance with its order, against debtors of such corporation, so far as
in said suit, the receiver claims the right to recover from any one debtor
a sum not exceeding $2000."

THIS case arose upon a certificate of the Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, based upon the following facts:
The Cardiff Coal and Iron Company, a corporation of Tennessee, becoming insolvent, a creditors' bill was filed in the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee by George
F. Bosworth, a citizen of Massachusetts, and a judgment creditor of the company, setting forth the insolvency of the company, the wasting of its assets, etc., and praying for a sale of
the property, the collection of its choses in action, the appointment of a receiver, and for an injunction. In pursuance of
the prayer of this bill the appellee, Ewing, was appointed
receiver of the company, ordered to take possession of its
assets, and to manage and protect the same for the benefit of
the creditors under orders from the court. All creditors were
ordered to file their claims.
Subsequently the receiver filed a petition stating that a large
proportion of the company's assets consisted of promissory
notes, amounting to about $225,000, given for land purchased
from the company, upon which liens had been retained to
secure their payment. These notes were executed by 130
different persons and were for various amounts, many of them
for less than $2000. The receiver petitioned for authority
from the court to institute suits for the collection of such
notes, stating that, in order to save costs and expense, he had

WHITE v. EWING.
Statement of the Case.

been advised that it was proper, if it might be done, to bring
in all the debtors by bill or petition and join them as defendants in one suit; that he was requested by the creditors to
proceed in this manner; and that to sue the debtors separately
would require more than one hundred suits with the enormous
expense incident thereto.
In compliance with this petition, the court made an order
that the receiver be directed to institute suit by proper bill or
petition in the pending case against all persons indebted to
the defendant company, (the Cardiff Coal and Iron Company,)
by note or account, as set forth in his petition.
In pursuance of this order, the receiver filed his bill in
the Circuit Court against 130 persons, of whom thirty were
alleged to be citizens of Tennessee, and the remainder citizens
of other States, all of whom were joined as defendants, and
the amounts alleged to be due from them, respectively, were
in most cases less than $2000. It was also alleged that special
liens were retained in each case in the deed to the purchaser,
to secure the deferred payments of the purchase money, and
the court was asked to enforce such liens by sale of the lands,
for the satisfaction of the balance of the purchase money
due separately from each and all said defendants, upon their
respective notes.
The resident defendants were personally served with subpoena, and an order of publication made against the non-resident defendants. No exception was taken to the form of the
bill by demurrer or otherwise; and the defendants nearly all
answered, denying their liability. The case was referred to
a master, and on his report decrees were entered against those
found to be indebted; such decrees being in a majority of
instances for sums less than $2000. The lots were ordered
to be sold to pay the amounts so found due. Appeals from
these decrees were duly taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and perfected by the appellants in this case.
Upon this statement of facts, the Circuit Court of Appeals
certified the following question to this court for its determination:
"Had the Circuit Court of .;e United States in a general

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

creditor's suit properly pending therein for the collection,
administration, and distribution of the assets of an insolvent
corporation, the jurisdiction to hear and determine an ancillary
.suit instituted in the same cause by its receiver in accordance
with its order, against debtors of such corporation, so far as in
said suit, the receiver claimed the right to recover from any
one debtor a sum not exceeding $2000."
.Mr. Rleber J. May, .Mr. John W. Yoe, Mr. John F.
MXNutt, and Mr. Tully R. Corniek for appellants.
.Mr. Robert Pritohard,Mr. Foster V. Brown, and Mr. Frank
Spurlock for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE

BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
While the receiver prayed in his petition to bring in all the
debtors by bill or petition in one suit, alleging that it was so
requested by creditors, in order to avoid the expense of a
separate suit against each; and the bill was brought in that
form against 130 defendants, who were charged to be severally indebted upon notes given for lots of land purchased from
the company, no exception was taken to the form of the bill
by demurrer or otherwise, but the defendants answered, denylng their liability. The question certified does not, as we
understand it, demand the opinion of this court as to whether
a single bill against all these defendants would lie for the
amounts severally due by them (upon which point we do not
feel called upon to express an opinion); but whether so far as
in said suit the receiver claimed the right to recover from any
one debtor a sum not exceeding $2000, the court had jurisdiction to render a judgment against them.
This question must be answered in the affirmative. As was
observed by this court in Porterv. Sabin, 149 U. S. 473, 479:
"When a court exercising a jurisdiction in equity appoints a
receiver to hold the property of a corporation that court
assumes the administration of the estate ; the possession of the

WHITE v. EWING.
Opinion of the Court.

receiver is the possession of the court; and the court itself
holds and administers the estate, through the receiver as
its officer, for the benefit of those whom the court shall ultimately adjudge to be entitled to it."
The Circuit Court obtained jurisdiction over the Cardiff
Coal and Iron Company by the filing of the original creditor's bill by Bosworth, a citizen of Massachusetts, and by the
appointment of a receiver, and any suit by or against such
receiver, in the course of the winding up of such corporation,
whether for the collection of its assets or for the defence of
its property rights, must be regarded as ancillary to the main
suit, and as cognizable in the Circuit Court, regardless either of
the citizenship of the parties, or of the amount in'controversy.
Freeman v. Howe, 24 how. 450, 460 ; Krippendorf v. Hyde,
110 U. S. 276; Dewey v. West Fairmont Gas Coal Co., 123

U. S. 329; In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, 181; Root v. Woolworth, 15,0 U. S. 401, 413 ; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47, 49.
Indeed, it was conceded that where an insolvent corporation
is placed in the hands of a receiver of the Circuit Court, such
appointment draws to the jurisdiction of that court the control
of its assets, so far as persons having claims to participate in
the distribution of such assets are concerned, and that parties
must go into that court in order to assert their rights, prove
their demands, and receive whatever may be due them, or
their share or interest in the estate. But it is insisted that
there is a distinction between cases where parties are brought
before the court for the purpose of the payment to them of
claims they may hold against the estate, and cases where it
is sought to recover of them claims which the receiver insists
they owe the estate; that the receiver stands in the shoes of
the company, and has no higher rights than the corporation,
and having sued for less than the jurisdictional amounts, that
as to them the cases must be dismissed.
This position is entirely correct, so far as the right of the
receiver to recover upon the merits is concerned ; but it has
no bearing whatever upoh the question of the jurisdiction of
the court to pass upon such merits. The receiver does not
take his authority as an ordinary endorsee of the paper, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

subject to the disability to sue in the Federal court, which
attaches to such endorsee, but he takes title by operation of
law, and as an instrument of the court which appointed him.
The cases upon which the appellant relies of the New Orleans
'aoific Railway v. Parker, 143 U. S. 42, and Walter v.
Northeastern Railroad,147 U. S. 370, were both original bills,
over which jurisdiction could only be acquired upon proper
allegations of citizenship and amount. In this case, however,
the court proceeds upon its own authority to collect the assets
of an estate, with the administration of which it is charged;
and, if the receiver in such cases appears as a party to the suit,
it is only because he represents the court in its inherent power
to wind up the estate of an insolvent corporation, over which
it has by an original bill obtained jurisdiction. In this particular, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court does not materially
differ from that of the District Court in bankruptcy, the right

of which to collect the assets of a bankrupt estate we do not
understand ever to have been doubted. There is just as much
reason for questioning the jurisdiction of the court in this case
upon the ground of the want of diverse citizenship, as upon
the ground that the requisite amount is not involved.
Two cases decided by Justices of this court are directly in
point. Price v. A bbott, 17 Fed. Rep. 506; Armstrong v.
Trautman, 36 Fed. Rep. 275.
The question eert4fled will, therefore, be answered in the

affirmative.
HORNE v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 841.

Submitted May 2, 1895. -Decided

June 8, 1895.

In this case the United States Surveyors obviously surveyed the plaintiff's
lot only to a bayou which they called the Indian River, leaving a tract
between the bayou and that river unsurveyed; -and the plaintiff has no

right to challenge the correctness of their action, or to claim that the
bayou was not the Indian River or a proper water line on which to bound
the lots.

