STEWART v. McHARRY.

643

Syllabus.

STEWART v. MoHARRY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 866.

Subnitted October 22, 1895. - Decided November 18, 1895.

In March, 1876, S. went into actual possession and occupation of a tract-of
public land in California, which was then reserved fromf settlement on
account of unsettled Spanish and Mexican land grants, and which continued so reserved until April, 1883. On the 2d of October, 1882, the
wife of S., being then the owner of an adjoining tract, on which she and
S. resided, conveyed that tract to her husband. On the 10th of December, 1883, S. appeared in person at the United States land office in San
Francisco, and represented that he was a naturalized citizen of the United
States, the head of a family, that he was 56 years of age, and that since
October 2, 1882, he had been the owner of and in actual and peaceable
possession of the tract conveyed to him by his wife, and he applied to
enter, as an adjoining farm 'homestead, under Rev. Stat. §§ 2289 and
2290, the tract so taken possession of by him in March, 1876. After payment of -the fees and commissions required by law, he was permitted to
On the 13th of
enter that tract as an adjoining farm homestead.
December, 1883, M. filed a preemptive declaratory statement in the same
land office, which statement included the tract so occupied and entered
by S., and alleged a settlement thereon by himself on the 19th of
January, 1876. Thereupon a contest took place between S. and M., first
before the register and receiver of the local land office; then, on appeal,
before the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and, finally, on
appeal, before the Secretary of the Interior. In these proceedings It
appeared that S. had not resided continuously on the original farm, but
bad leased it to a tenant for a number of years, including the period of
his adjoining farm entry; and S., in reply, claimed that he did not reside
there because of danger of violence and injury at the hands of M. The
Secretary of the Interior, while intimating that the proof failed to show
the required residence on the part of S., decided that the excuse set up
by him for non-residence was not sustained by the evidence. Hteld, that
the ownership and title shown by S. were sufficient to entitle him to an
additional farm homestead; but that the question of his residence on the
land conveyed to him by his wife was one of fact, which the courts had
no jurisdiction to rebxamine, in the absence of a clear showing that the
decision was procured by fraud or imposition.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. E. W. McGraw and Mr. T. Wagner for plaintiff in
error.
Ar. Charles E. Wilson and Mr. W. S. Wells for defendant
inerror.
MR.

JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on error to the Supreme Court of

California.

The action was ejectment, commenced in July,

1891, to recover possession of certain parcels of land situated
in the county of Contra Costa, in that State.
The plaintiff in the court below, defendant in error here,
alleges in his complaint that on the 26th of February of that
year he was the owner in fee and entitled to the possession of
certain parcels of land, described as lots Nos. 2 and 3 of section No. 22, and lot No. 1, and the northeast quarter of the
northeast quarter of section No. 27, in township No. 2 north,
of range No. 3 west, Mount Diablo base and meridian, according to the official survey of the government of the United
States.
Thaf while he was such owner, and thus seized and entitled
to the possession of the premises, the defendant, on the day
mentioned, without right or title, entered upon the premises
and ejected him therefrom, and ever since has withheld, and
still unlawfully withholds, the possession thereof, to the damage of plaintiff of $1000.
That the value of the rents, issues, and profits of the premises from the entry stated and while the plaintiff has been
excluded therefrom is $50.
The plaintiff, therefore, prays judgment against the defendant for the possession of the premises and the recovery of the
sum of $1000 for withholding the same, and the sum of $50
.for the value of its rents and profits, and for such other and
further relief as to the court may seem meet and proper.
The defendant in his amended answer denies generally and
specifically each of its allegations, except that he is and has
been in the possession of the premises, which he admits, and

STEWART v. McHARRY.
Opinion of the Court.

claims that he is the owner thereof and entitled to their pos.
session. And he denies that the plaintiff, by reason of the
defendant's possession, has been damaged i4 the sum of $1000,
or in any other sum.
And in his answer, treated as a cross-complaint, the defendant makes certain allegations as to the acquisition and possession of other property, upon which he asserts a right to enter
the tract in controversy as an adjoining farm homestead; averring that on the 2d day of October, 1882, he became the
owner and went into the actual possession of a tract of land
situate in the county of Contra Costa, being a portion of the
land which was awarded to one James McClellan, under partition of a certain rancho entitled Piiole Rancho in which he
was interested, as it was surveyed and patented by the United
States, and which portion Getta Stewart, his wife, acquired
from him.
That the portion thus acquired, a tract of land containing
about sixty (60) acres, was, on October 2, 1882, conveyed to
the cross-complainant by deed executed and acknowledged
by her. And he alleges that in the month of March, 1876,
he went into actual possession of certain public lands of the
United States situate in the county of Contra Costa, embracing a portion of the property for which this action is brought,
containing, according to the public surveys, seventy (70) acres
and twenty-five (.25) hundredths of an acre, and that he has
from that date remained in the actual possession thereof, and
used and cultivated the same, and that the public lands adjoin the land conveyed to him by Getta Stewart, and were
reserved from settlement under the United States laws, on
account of unsettled Spanish and Mexican land grants, until
the 16th of April, 1883, when the boundaries of the Rancho
El Sobrante, of which they were a part, were finally settled.
That on the 10th day of December, 1883, the survey of the
public lands was approved by the United States surveyor general of California, and the map of the township was filed in
the United States land office of California.
That the cross-complainant, in the month of March, 1876,
and on the 16th day of April, 1883, and since those periods,

OCTttR TERl~f, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and on the 10th day of December, 1883, and thereafter,
resided upon the land acquired by him from Getta Stewart.
That on the 10th of December, 1883, and since the month
,of March, 1876, he was the head of a family, and was then of
the age of forty-nine years, and was, at the dates mentioned,
a naturalized citizen of the United States; and was on the
2d day, of October, 1882, and thereafter, on the 10th day of
December, 1883, and since the owner of and in the actual
and peaceable possession of the land conveyed to him by
Getta Stewart.
That on December 10, 1883, he appeared in person at the
United States land office at 'San Francisco, State of California,
and applied to the register to enter as an adjoining farm
homestead under the provisions of sections 2289 and 2290 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, the public land
above referred to as' in his possession. The sections of the
Revised Statutes referred to are as follows:
"SEc. 2289. Every person who is the head of a family, or
who has arrived at the age of twenty-one years, and is a citizen of the United States, or who has filed his declaration of
intention to become such, as required by the naturalization
laws, shall be entitled to enter one quarter section or a less
quantity of unappropriated public lands, upon which such person may have filed a preemption claim, or which may, at the
time the application is made, be subject to preemption at one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre; or eighty acres or less
of such unappropriated lands, at two dollars and fifty cents
per acre, to be located in a body, in conformity to the legal
subdivisions of the public lands, and after the same have been
surveyed. And every, person owning and residing on land
may, under the provisions of this section, enter other landlying contiguous to his land, which shall not, with the land so
already owned and occupied, exceed in the aggregate one
hundred and sixty 'acres.
"Sec. 290. The person applying for the benefit of the
preceding section shall, upon application to the register of
the land office in Which be is about to make such entry,
make iffidavit before the register or receiver that he is the

STEWART v. McHARRY.
Opinion of the Court.

head of a family, or is twenty-one years or more of age, or
has performed service in the army or navy of the United
States, and that such application is made for his exclusive use
and benefit, and that his entry is made for the purpose of
actual settlement and cultivation, and not either directly or
indirectly for the use or benefit of any other person; and
upon filing such affidavit with the register or receiver on payment of five dollars when the entry is Of not more than eighty
acres, and on payment .of ten dollars when the entry is for
more than eighty acres, he shall thereupon be permitted to
enter the amount of land specified."
That in compliance with these sections of the Revised Statutes, and on December 10, 1883, the cross-complainant made
affidavit before the register of the United States land office at
San Francisco, California, that he was then the head of a
family, and of the age of fifty-six years, and a naturalized citizen of the United States, and that the application was for
his exclusive use and benefit; that the entry of the land was
made for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation, and
not either directly or indirectly for the use and benefit of any
other person, and that the land was not mineral land, and
that he was the owner of adjoining land upon which he was
then residing, and the amount of land applied for would not,
with the land already owned by him, exceed in the aggregate
one hundred and sixty acres.
That he paid the fees and commissions required by law and
demanded by the land officers, and thereupon was permitted
to enter the land as an adjoining farm homestead, and that
the receiver of the land office gave to him a receipt therefor.
He further alleges that on the 13th of December, 1883, the
plaintiff in the action, IMcdIarry, filed a preemption declaratory
statement in the United States land office at San Francisco,
alleging settlement on the 19th of January, 1876, upon a tract
of larfd described substantially as the premises for which recovery is sought in the present action, and gave notice that he
claimed a preemption right to the land.
That the land described in the preemption declaratory statement of the plaintiff included the land in the actual possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of, and entered by, the cross-complainant as an adjoining farm
homestead. That plaintiff did not then, nor has he ever since,
had possession of the land included in the cross-complainant's
homestead entry, or any part thereof.
He further alleges that a hearing of their respective claims
was had before the register and receiver of the United States
land office at San Francisco, and that he,,the cross-complain
ant, and the plaintiff produced witnesses in support of their
respective claims to the land, whose testimony was taken and
reduced to writing in the land office.
That at such hearing the fact was proved that the crosscomplainant had been in the actual, peaceable, and continuous
possession of the land included in his homestead entry since the
month of March, 1876; that Getta Stewart, his wife, was in
the actual possession of the land conveyed to him, by her deed,
and had been in such actual possession since the year 1871 to
the date of the conveyance, and that with the deed she delivered possession thereof to him, and that he then took possession thereof and continued in'actual possession thereof with
his family, consisting of his wife, said Getta Stewart, and her
children by her former marriage, on the 10th day of December, 1883; and that the facts thus'proved were not disputed,
and that no evidence whatever to put the facts so proved in
issue was ever brought before said land officers at the hearing.
That at the hearing of the contest before the register -and
receiver the fact was proven that the plaintiff and members of
his family threatened the life of the cross-complainant and
attacked him at various times since he took possession of the
lands, shot at him at the house in which he and his family
resided, and thus put.him in reasonable fear of his life and
of personal violence of himself and family, and thereby compelled him to remove to the town of Martinez, and that thereafter he employed tenants who held actual possession of the
land for him, and that the tenants were assaulted by the plaintiff in a similar manner, and that upon two occasions the plaintiff and members of his family were arrested for such assaults.
That the register and receiver refused to find facts from such
testimony, and decided that it was unnecessary to consider the
same.

STEWART v. McHARRY.
Opinion of the Court.

That the plaintiff claimed to have made a settlement upon
adjoining subdivisions of land, and by reason of such settlement included the land in the possession of, and contained in
the homestead entry of the cross-complainant, in his prei1mption claim, and the register and receiver found such facts to be
true, but nevertheless decided that the land included in the
cross-complainant's homestead entry was not a valid adverse
claim to the plaintiff's preemption claim, for the reason that
the cross-complainant did not acquire any right or title by the
deed from his wife to the land adjoining the land embraced in
his homestead entry, in which ruling they erred.
And the cross-complainant further avers that on March 7,
1885, the land officers made a decision in the matter of the
conflicting claims of the cross-complainant and plaintiff to the
land, in favor of the plaintiff.
That on the 10th day of March, 1885, being within the
time required by, and in accordance with, the rules and regulations of the General Land Office, the cross-complainant filed
his appeal from the decision of the register and receiver to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
That thereupon the Commissioner of the General Land Office
considered the same and reviewed the evidence and the
decision of the register and receiver, and on the 1st day of
September, 1886, rendered a decision reversing that of the
register and receiver, and awarding to the cross-complainant.
the land claimed by him and included in his homestead entry.
That thereupon the plaintiff Mcdlarry, on the 6th day of
November, 1886, appealed from the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office in the contest to the
Secretary of the Interior.
That on the 16th day of September, 1889, the Secretary of
the Interior reversed the decision of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, awarding the public land claimed by the
cross-complainant to the plaintiff. One ground of the decision of the Secretary, awarding the public land to the plaintiff,
is thus stated in his opinion:
" The statute requires re8idenee on the original farm. The
proof shows that Stewart and his family, while making a show

OCTO3EIR TEIVM, 18915.
Opinion of the Court.

of residence on the tract claimed as an original farm, had in
fact leased said farm to a tenant for a number of years,
covering the period of his adjoining farm entry, and that they
in fact resided several miles from said farm in the town
of Martinez, where Stewart had an established permanent
business and a residence connected with his place of business.
The excuse set up by Stewart for such non-residence, namely,
that it was because of danger of violence and injury at the
hands of the McHarrys, is not sustained by the evidence.
Mrs. Stewart testifies that she went to the farm and remained
there for short periods, whenever she felt inclined, and seems
never to have been molested, and no attempt by the McArrys
to prevent Stewart or his family from residing on'the original
farm at any time is shown."
The plaintiff demurred to the. cross-complaint, the demurrer
was sustained, and judgment was rendered thereon, and on
the answver, in favor of plaintiff, and defendant appealed to
the Supreme Court of the. State by which the judgment was
affirmed. 35 Pac. Rep. 141.
The Supreme Court held that Stewart's ownership and title
were sufficient to entitle him to an additional farm homestead,
and that the land department erred as matter of law in its
conclusion in regard thereto, but that in respect of Stewart's
residence on the land conveyed to him by his wife, that was
a question of fact, and the court had no jurisdiction to reexamine the conclusions of the land department thereon in the
absence of a clear showing that the decision was procured by
fraud or imposition, which did not appear in the case. With
these views we concur.
Judgment affirmed.

