OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

The case of Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205, is relied
upon by the Government, as it was in United States v.
Jones, supra, but for reasons there given we think it is
not in point here.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

KTRMEYER v. STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 145.

Argued January 22, 1915.-Decided March 1, 1915.

Beer is a recognized article of commerce, and the right to send it from

one State to another, and the act of doing so, are interstate commerce,
the regulation whereof has been committed to Congress, and a state
law interfering with or handling the same conflicts with the Federal
Constitution.
Transportation is not complete until delivery to the consignee or the
expiration of a reasonable time therefor and prior thereto the provisions of the Wilson Act of August 8, 1890, do not apply.
Whether commerce is interstate or intrastate must be tested by the
actual transaction; it does not depend upon the methods employed,
distance between the points, or the domicil or character of the parties
engaged therein.
The packages in which goods involved in this case were transported
in interstate commerce were those customarily used for transportation of such articles, and not a mere plan or device to defeat the
policy of the State, and the rulings in that respect in Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343, and Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261, do
not apply.
88 Kansas, 589, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution,
are stated in the opinion.

KIRMEYER v. KANSAS.
23.6 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. E. Dempsey, with whom Mr. Frank Doster was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John S. Dawson, Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
-The State of Kansas instituted this cause in a local
court, September 29, 1910. Kirmeyer was charged with
carrying on a liquor business at Leavenworth in open and
persistent violation of law and thereby committing a
nuisance. The relief sought was "that he be enjoined
from conducting said unlawful business; that he be enjoined from maintaining, using and employing said
wagons, vehicles, conveyances, horses, mules, telephones
and any other property in the said unlawful manner herein
alleged; that upon the final determination of this action
said injunction be made permanent; that said wagons,
vehicles, conveyances, horses, mules, telephones and other
property used in said unlawful business be declared common nuisances and that the same be abated."
In the opinion of the trial court the transactions disclosed constituted a part of interstate commerce within
the protection of the Constitution of the United States;
and judgment was rendered for Kirmeyer. Upon appeal
the Supreme Court of the State declared, "The broad
question here is whether the defendant was really engaged
in commerce between the States of Missouri and Kansas,
or was he only seeking by tricks and devices to evade the
laws of his State--doing by indirection that which could
not lawfully be done by ordinary and direct methods."
Referring to numerous opinions of this court it further
said they "do not preclude a fair inquiry into methods
and practices in order to determine whether transactions

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

under investigation constitute legitimate interstate commerce or are colorable merely and intended to evade and
defeat the just operation of the constitution and law of
the State." And the conclusion was- "It is true that a
citizen of Kansas who finds that his business is prohibited
by our laws may in good faith engage in the same business
in another State where the legal obstacle does not exist.
But he may not under the guise of moving across the state
line, and other shifts or devices to evade the statutes of
the State, continue in the prohibited business here and
be immune from the penalties of our law. From the
facts found by the court and from the testimony of the
defendant, it appears that his business was not legitimate
interstate commerce but was carried on in violation of the
statutes of this State and is subject to abatement and injunction." Accordingly the action of the district court
was reversed with instructions to grant the relief prayed
for (88 Kansas, 589, 600, 603). Thereupon this writ of
error was sued out.
The essential facts disclosed by the record are summarized in paragraphs (a) and (b) following.
(a) Rigorous statutes have long prohibited the sale of
intoxicating liquors within the State of Kansas. The city
of Leavenworth lies on the Missouri River; on the opposite bank in Missouri is Stilings, a village with one
store, roundhouse, a few residences, eight or ten beer warehouses, and a freight depot without a regular agent, but
no post office. For a long time plaintiff in error has resided in Leavenworth and prior to 1907 he carried on
there an illicit beer trade; for use in the same he there
maintained a business place and warehouse and kept
wagons and teams. In that year, alarmed by the activities of officials, he discontinued this office and warehouse
and immediately opened others in Stillings and connected
them with the Leavenworth telephone exchange. He did
not change his residence nor remove his wagons and teams

KIRMEYER v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from Leavenworth but kept them in quarters connected
by telephone with the local exchange and continued to use
them for hauling to and from the new warehouse and making deliveries. Thereafter he received at Stillings barrels,
cases and casks of beer in carload lots from Kansas City
and other points; sometimes he received like merchandise
at the railroad depot in Leavenworth which was then
hauled across the river. At the Stillings office he received
and'accepted orders for beer to be delivered in Leavenworth and other points inKansas. Eighty-five per cent.
came by telephone; the remainder through the Leavenworth post office, but these were carried to his place of
business before being opened.
(b) Accepted orders for alelivery in Leavenworth were
filled by setting aside the cases, kegs or casks in the warehouse, tagging them with the names of the purchasers,
and then sending them daily-sometimes oftener-over
the bridge in his Wagons to the residences of purchasers.
For such deliveries no charges were made. If the goods
were intended for other points in Kansas they were hauled
to the railroad station at Leavenworth and there turned
over to the carrier. The business for the most part was
"family trade" for private use only and amounted to
some $500 per month. A license tax was paid to the
Federal Government; also merchant's and ad valorem taxes
to Missouri; he had no Kansas license. The empty cases
were gathered up by the drivers throughout Leavenworth, loaded in cars there and shipped to some other
State. Advertisements in two Leavenworth papers announced his business and location at Stillings, and likewise gave the telephone number at the horse barn. When
parties desiring beer called over this telephone they were
advised to call the Stillings office. Collections were usually
made by the plaintiff in error or by collectors; sometimes
by mail. Drivers received no orders from purchasers.
The instant cause arose before passage of the Act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Congress, approved March 1, 1913, c. 90, 37 Stat. 699,
known as the Webb-Kenyon Bill; consequently neither
its construction nor application is now involved; and
what is said herein of course has reference to conditions
existing prior to that enactment.
Former opinions of this court preclude further discussion of these propositions: Beer is a recognized article of
commerce. The right to send it from one State to another
and the act of doing so are interstate commerce the regulation whereof has been committed to Congress; and a
state law which denies such right or substantially interferes with or hampers the same is in conflict with the Constitution of the United States. Transportation is not complete until delivery to the consignee or the expiration of
a reasonable time therefor and prior thereto the provisions
of the Act of Congress, approved August 8, 1890, c. 728,
26 Stat. 313-the Wilson Act,-have no application.
License Cases, 5 How. 504, 577; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100, 110; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, 426; Vance v.
Vandercook Co. (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438, 444; American
Express Co. v. Iowd, 196 U. S. 133, 142, 143; Heyman v.
Southern Ry., 203 U. S. 270, 276; Adams Express Co. v.
Kentucky, 206 U. S. 129, 135; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S. 218, 222.
The foregoing cases and those cited therein we also regard as controlling authority in support of the claim that
the business carried on by plaintiff in error within the
State of Kansas was interstate commerce. That the traffic
moved by horse-drawn wagons froln a point near the state
line, instead of by railroad from a greater distance, does
not change the applicable rule. Nor did the mere adoption
of cumbersome and expensive methods render the business intrastate--that must be tested by the actual transactions.
The Suprelne Court of the State gave much weight to
the dealer's past conduct and animating purpose and re-

KIRMEYER v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lied upon language quoted from Austin v. Tennessee, 179
U. S. 343, and Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261.
Considered in the light of our former decisions, if the
business carried on by plaintiff in error after removal of
his office to Stillings had been conducted by a dealer
who had always operated from that place we think there
could be no serious doubt of its interstate character. And
we cannot conclude that a legal domicile in Kansas coupled
with a reprehensible past and a purpose to avoid the
consequences of the statutes of the State suffice to change
the nature of. the transactions. Otherwise one of two persons located side by side in the same State and doing the
same business in identical ways might be engaged in interstate commerce while the other was not.
Improper application was given to what was said in
Austin v. Tennessee and Cook v. Marshall County, supra.
The point for decision in them was whether the packages
containing cigarettes shipped into the State were "original" ones within the constitutional import of the term
as theretofore defined. Looking at all the circumstances
this court concluded they were not. The general use of
like packages was unknown and impracticable in transactions between manufacturers and wholesale dealers residing in different States and the plan pursued was plainly
a mere device designed to defeat the policy of the State
where the goods were received-not a bonafide commercial
arrangement. Here, no such question is presented.
A long line of opinions have discussed the legal principles involved--reiteration would be fruitless. The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent herewith.
Reversed.

