GRANT TIMBER CO. v. GRAY.
236 U. S:

Opinion of the Court.

GRANT TIMBER AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. GRAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.
No. 136.

Argued January 19, 20, 1915.-Decided February 1, 1915.

A State may, without violating the Fourteenth Amendment, protect
established possession of property against disturbance by anything
other than process of law.
Article 55, Code of Practice of Louisiana, providing that one sued in
a possessory action cannot bring a petitory action until after judgment shall have been rendered in the pbssessory action, and, in case
he shall have been condemned, until he shall have satisfied the judg*ment given against him, is not unconstitutional under the due process
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
131 Louisiana, 865, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, of
Article 55, Louisiana Code of Procedure, relating to possessory and petitory actions, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Horace H. White, with whom Mr. Henry Moore, Jr.,
and Mr. J. R. -Thorntonwere on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Patrick H. Loughran and Mr. John H. Mathews for
defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JusTcICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a possessory action for land coupled with a
demand for damages for timber taken by the defendant,
the plaintiff in error, from the premises. After it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

begun the defendant brought a petitory suit to establish
its title to the land and sought for a stay of proceedings in
the present case until its title could be adjudicated, setting
up that to allow the plaintiff to recover the value of the
timber withoift proving ownership would be contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment and a taking of the defendant's property without due process of law. The plaintiff
recovered a judgment for possession and money damages,
subject to a stay of execution, but the Supreme Court
struck the stay of execution out. It seems also to have
ordered the defendant's petitory suit to be dismissed.
The ground for both orders was Art. 55, Code of Practice. "He who is sued in a possessory action cannot
bring a petitory action until after judgment shall have
been rendered in the possessory action, and until, if he has
been condemned, he shall have satisfied the judgment
given against him." The only question is whether this
act is valid. Some argument was attempted as to the
scope and proper interpretation of the law but we have
nothing to do with that.
It would be a surprising extension of the Fourteenth
Amendment if it were held to prohibit the continuance of
one of the most universal and best known distinctions of
the mediaval law. From the exceptio spolii of the PseudoIsidore the Canon Law and' Bracton to the assize of novel
disseisin the principle was of very wide application that a
wrongful disturbance of possession must be ;ighted before
a claim of title would be listened to-or at least that in a
proceeding to right such disturbance a claim of title could
not be set up; and from Kant to Ihering therc has been
much philosophising as to the grounds. But it is unnecessary to follow the speculations or to consider whether the
principle is eternal or a no longer useful survival. The
constitutionality of the law is independent of our views
upon such points.
No doubt circumstances have changed. The proof of

GALLARDO v. NOBL9.
V.S.
.36

Syllabus.

title does not depend upon difficult evidence, technical
procedure, or the duel. Usually a few sheets of paper
copied from the registry and costing but a trifle will
establish the right, often with less trouble than it takes to
prove possession. But these are not the only considerations. The State is within its constitutional power when
it limits the sphere of self-help. It may protect an established possession against disturbance by anything except
process of law. It may attach such consequences to the
disturbance as it sees fit, short of cruel and unusual
punishment. If it ordains a restitutio in integrum or its
equivalent in money it not only is adopting a familiar
remedy, but, with the conditions attached in Louisiana,
does not go so far as it might. The law of Louisiana requires uninterrupted possession for a year for the possessory action. Civil Code, Arts. 3454, 3455. If it had made
a year the limitation for a petitory suit and had provided
that the 'title should be lost in that time it would be hard
to maintain that it had exceeded its constitutional power.
Blinn v. Nelson, 222 U. S. 1, 7. Kentucky Union Co. v.
Kentucky, 219 U. S. 140, 156. Turner v. New York, 168
U. S. 90.
Judgment affirmed.

GALLARDO Y SEARY v. NOBLE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR 'THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 141.

Argued January 20, 1915.-Decided February 1, 1915.

A statement of the condition of the record title made by an owner of
property in Porto Rico does not necessarily enlarge the scope of an
incumbrance mentioned in the statement from what it actually is

