MICH. CENT. R. R. v. 'MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

615

Syllabus.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMMISSION.
ERROR TO I'HE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 91.

Submitted December 1, 1914.-Decided March' 8, 1915.

A State, in virtue of its authority to regulate railroads as public highways, may, in a proper case, require two railroad companies to make
a connection between their tracks so as to facilitate interchange of
traffic, without violating rights of the company secured 6y the Federal Constitution. Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.287.
A State, acting within its jurisdiction and not in hostility to any Federal
regulation of interstate commerce, may compel a carrier to accept
loaded cars from another line and transpoit them over its own.
Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 344.
A State may on reasonable conditions require a carrier to permit its
empty or loaded cars to be hauled from its line upon a connecting
line for purposes of loading or delivery of intrastate freight and to
permit cars of other carriers loaded with such freight consigned to
points on the connecting line to be hauled from its line upon the
connecting line for purposes of delivery.
The common law is subject to change by legislation, and so held that a
State may require a carrier, within reasonable bounds of regulation in
the public interest, to permit its equipment to be hauled off its line by
other carriers, although it was not bound to permit the same at
common law.
It is a matter of common knowledge that interchange of freight cars
between carriers is the usual practice; and a state statute requiring
such interchange as to intrastate commerce is not so unreasonable
as to amount to a taking of property without due process of law.
An order of a state railroad commission requiring carriers to interchange freight cars for intrastate freight is to be read in the light of
the opinion delivered by the Commission and as so read, the order involved in this case is not unreasonable nor does it take the property
of the carriers without due process of law.
An order of a state railroad commission requiring carriers to exchange
freight and passengers in accordance with the provisions of the act
establishing the Commission which has been construed by the state
court as relating only to intrastate commerce, because the jurisdiction of the Commission is limited thereto, held not to disregard the
needs of interstate commerce or to be a burden thereon, and also held

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

this court presumes, until the contrary appears, that the state court
will not so construe or enforce the order as to interfere with or obstruct interstate commerce.
An order of the Michigan State Railroad Commission requiring two
connecting railroads to make physical connection for transfer of
intrastate business including loaded freight cars and empty cars being
returned or forwarded for being loaded, held within the power of the
State and not to a taking of the property of the carriers without due
process of law or an interference with and regulation of interstate
commerce. Central Stock Yards v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 192 U. S.
568, and Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Stock Yards, 212 U. S. 132, distinguished.
168 Michigan, 230, affirmed.

TiE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
State Railway Commission of Michigan requiring a railway with respect to intrastate traffic to interchange cars,
freight and passengers with another railway, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. FrankE. Robson and Mr. Henry Russell for plaintiff
inerror:
Act 300 of the Public Acts of 1909 of Michigan recognizes and preserves the distinctions which obtain in Michigan between street railways and railroads. See Act 312.
Railroad is used as meaning corporations organized
under the general railroad law, and street railways as
meaning those organized under the street railway act or
other similar laws.
Railroads broadly and distinctly differ from street
railways, and it has always been the policy of the legislature of Michigan to maintain this classification.
A street railway is constructed and operated on the
public highways under the consent of the municipalities
(§ 13, Street Railway Act, § 6446, C. L., '1897, App'x A,
p. 44), and is not an additional servitude and may be constructed without compensation to abutting owners. Detroit &c. Ry. v. Mills, 85 Michigan, 634, 652-655; Nichols
v."Railway, 87 Michigan, 361, 368-369, 370-1; People v.
Railway, 92 Michigan, 522, 524; Dean v. Railway, 93

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

617

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Michigan, 330; Detroit &c. Railway v. R. R. Commissioner,
127 Michigan, 219, 230; People v. Eaton, 100 Michigan,
208-211; Austin v. Detroit &c. Ry., 134 Michigan, 149;
Mannel v. Detroit &c. Ry., 139 Michigan, 106; Ecorse v.
Jackson &c. Ry., 153 Michigan, 393.
A railroad before constructing its railway upon a public
street or highway must obtain the consent of the municipality and pay damages and compensation to abutting
owners (subd. 5, § 9, General R. R. Law, § 6234, C. L.,
1897). A railroad is an additional servitude. Cases supra
and G. R. & I. R. R. v. Heisel, 38 Michigan, 62; S. C., 47
Michigan, 393; Cooper v. Alden, Har. Ch. 72; Hoffman v.
Flint &c. Ry., 114 Michigan, 316; Nichols v. Railway, 87
Michigan, 361, 372; Keyser v. Lake Shore R. R., 142
Michigan, 143.
Under §§ 19, 25 and 28, Art. 8, State Constitution, 1909,
the control of the public highways is expressly reserved to
and placed in the cities, villages and townships. Even under the constitution of 1850 the right of control over the
highways by municipalities was absolute. Detroitv. Railway, 95 Michigan, 460; Monroe v. Detroit &c. Ry., 143
Michigan, 315; Attorney General v. Toledo Ry., 151 Michigan, 473.
The decisions of the Michigan Supreme Court have long
recognized the policy of the legislature, and declared the
well-defined distinction between railroads and street
railways. Grand Rapids R. R. v. Heisel, 38 Michigan, 62;
Ecorse v. Jackson Ry., 153 Michigan, 393; Mason v.
Lansing R. R., 157 Michigan, 1, 18.
This distinction has also been recognized in the matter
of taxation of railroads and street. railways, Detroit v.
Mfrs. R. R., 149 Michigan, 530; and as well in the application of the criminal statutes relating to railroads, People v.
Beebehyser, 157 Michigan, 239; and see Monroe v. D&roit
&c. Ry., 143 Michigan, 315.
This act of the legislature must be considered a part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

the charter of the railway company. Van Etten v. Eaton,
19 Michigan, 187; Attorney. General v. Perkins, 73 Michigan, 303; Dewey v. Central Car Co., 42 Michigan, 399;
Charles River Bridge v. Warren'Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 459;
Central Transp. Co. v. Pullman Co., 139 U. S. 24, 48; Orr
v. Lacey, 2 Doug. 230, 255; Day v. Spiral Buggy Co., 57
Michigan, 146; and see Nichols v. Railway, 87 Michigan,
361, 370.
For definitions of "belt line" and "terminal railroads"
and the manner in which they are used in Michigan, see
Bridwell v. Gates City Co., 127 Georgia, 520; State v. Martin, 51 Kansas, 462, 478; Collier v. Railroad, 113 Tennessee, 101; Diebold v. Kentucky Traction Co., 117 Kentucky, 146, 152.
Subdivision b, § 7, Act 300, is invalid Under the due
process of law provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
As construed by the Commission and the state court it
requires the railroad to deliver its cars to the railway company for the use of the latter company, and makes no provision for the paramount needs of the railroad of its own
equipment, nor for its prompt return, nor compensation
therefor. It also requires the railroad company to make
delivery of property transported by it to a place off from
its right of way which is not under its control. Atchison
&c. R. R. v. Denver &c. R. R., 110 U. S.667, 681.
The statute does not require the Michigan Central to
accept such passengers on through tickets issued by the
Detroit United, or to accept freight on a through billing.
The statute in substance expressly states that cannot be
required, and unless there is language in the statute
which legally requires a terminal delivery on the line of the
street railway, the relation between themselves is that of
the common law. The Michigan Central is not bound to
caril beyond its own line, nor to enter into contracts for
through routes. Atchison &c. Ry. v. Denver &c. Ry., 110
U. S. 667, 680, 681--682, 683; Oregon Short Line v. Nor.

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM. 619
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Pac. R. R., 51 Fed. Rep. 465; S. C., 61 Fed. Rep. 158;
Little Rock &c. R. R. v. St. Louis &c. R. R., 41 Fed. Rep.
559; S. C., 59 Fed. Rep. 400; 63 Fed. Rep. 775; Little
Rock &c. R. R. v. East Tenn. &c. R. R., 47 Fed. Rep. 771,
781; Prescott v. Atchison &c. Ry., 73 Fed. Rep. 438;
Chicago City Ry. v. Chicago, 142 Fed. Rep. 844.
As construed by the Commission and the state court the
statute becomes a bald command that the Michigan Central turn its property over to the Detroit United for the
use of the latter without compensation to it and without
reasonable rules under which such use of the property
may be had. This is invalid. Central Stock Yards v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 118 Fed. Rep. 113; S. C., 192 U. S.
568, 571.
See also cases supra, and Chicago N. W. Ry. v. Osborne,
52 Fed. Rep. 912, 915; St. Louis Drayage v. Louis. & Nash.
R. R., 65 Fed. Rep. 39; Gulf &c. Ry. v. Miami S. S. Co.,
86 Fed. Rep. 407, 416; Ilwaco &c. Ry. v. Oregon &c. Ry.,
57 Fed. Rep. 673; Express Company Cases, 117 U. S. 1,
29; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. West Coast Naval Stores, 198
U. S. 483, 497.
A railway cannot be compelled to deliver its cars to
private sidings or spur tracks. Mann v. Pere Marquette
R. R., 135 Michigan, 210, 219; McNeill v. Southern Railway, 202 U. S. 543, 561; Central Stock Yards v. Louis. &
Nash. R. R., 118 Fed. Rep. 113.
The order of the Michigan Railroad Commission of
June 5, 1908, is invalid because founded upon an invalid

law. The action of the Commission was arbitrary and
unreasonable. It does not undertake to provide a reasonable compensation for the use of its cars taken, or for loss,
damage to, or detention thereof, or for the needs of the
railroad with respect to such cars, or for their prompt
return. Oregon &c. R. R. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 523;
United States v. Balt. & Ohio S. W. Ry., 226 U. S. 14, 20.
. The use of property is a taking in a constitutional sense

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in the State of Michigan. Grand Rapids Co. v. Jarvis, 30
Michigan, 308, 320.
The rule is the same, irrespective of any written constitutional provision.
It is not enough that plaintiff in error be turned over to
its action at law for its remedy to obtain compensation,
nor can it be required to accept anything other than a
present adequate fund which is placed under its control
and demand at substantially the time of the taking of the
property. 2 Lewis on Eminent Domain, 3d ed., § 680;
Waterbury v. Platt, 76 Connecticut, 435; Bloodgood v.
Mohawk &c. R. R., 18 Wend. 218; Attorney General v.
Old Colony &c. R. R., 160 Massachusetts, 62,-90.
Section 7, subd. b, of the act of 1909, as construed by
the Railroad Commission and the state court, and the
orders made in pursuance thereof, operate as a burden
upon and interference with interstate commerce, as it requires delivery of such cars under all circumstances and
without excuse and without reference to the demands of
interstate commerce. McNeill v. Southern Ry., 202 U. S.
543, 561; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Hardwick Elevator Co.,'226
U. S. 426, 433; St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S.
136, 149; Houston &c. Ry. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321, 328.
Mr. Grant Fellows, Attorney General of the State of
Michigan, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings under review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Michigan (168 Michigan, 230), awarding
a peremptory writ of mandamus directing plaintiff in
error, with respect to intrastate traffic, to interchange
cars, carload shipments, less than carload shipments,
and passenger traffic with the Detroit United Railway
at the point of physical connection between. the tracks

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

621

Opinion of the Court.

of the two companies in the village of Oxford in that
State.
The Michigan Railway Commission, defendant in error,
is a public administrative body, continued and existing
under Act No. 300 of the Public Acts of 1909 as the successor of a similar commission established by Act No. 312
of the Public Acts of 1907. It has ample regulative powers,
originally conferred by the 1907 act and continued by the
1909 act without modification material to the present
The mandamus proceeding was based
controversy.'
1Michigan Public Acts 1907, No. 312.
"SEC. 7. . . . (b) Where it is practicable and the same may be
accomplished without endangering the equipment, tracks, or appliances
of either party, the commission may, upon application, require steam
railroads and interurban and suburban railroads to interchange cars,
carload shipments, less than carload shipments, and passenger traffic,
and for that purpose may require the construction of physical connections upon such terms as it may determine: Provided, That nothing
in this act shall be construed to require through billing of freight as between steam and electric, suburban or interurban railroads, but such
suburban and interurban railroads may be used for the handling of
freight in carload lots in steam railroad freight cars between shippers
or consignees and the steam railroads, in the same manner and under
the same general conditions, except as to motive power, as belt line
railroads and terminal railroads are now or may hereafter be used for
like purposes.
"(c) Every corporation owning a railroad in use shall, at reasonable
times and for a reasonable compensation, draw over the same the merchandise and cars of any other corporation or individual having connecting tracks: Provided, Such cars are of the proper gauge, are in good
running order und equipped as required by law and otherwise safe for
transportation and properly loaded: Provided further, If the corpora-.
tions cannot agree upon the times -at which the cars shall be drawn, or
the compensation to be paid, the said commission shall, upon petition
of either party and notice to the other, after hearing the parties interested, determine the rate of compensation and fix such other periods,
having reference to the convenience and interests of the corporation or
corporations, and the public to be accommodated thereby, and the
award of the commission shall be binding upon the respective corporations interested therein until the same shall have been revised. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon an order made by the former Commission in the
year 1908, which, it is admitted, was preserved by § 49
of the 1909 act.
(b) The commission may at any time, upon ap"SEc. 24..
plication of any person or any railroad, and upon notice to the parties
interested, including the railroad, and after opportunity to be heard
as provided in section twenty-two, rescind, alter or amend any order
fixing any rate or rates, fares, charges or classifications, or any other
order made by the commission, and certified copies shall be served and
take effect as herein provided for original orders.
"SEC. 25. All rates, fares, charges, classifications and joint rates
fixed by the commission and all regulations, practices and services
prescribed by the commission shall be in force and shall be prima facie,
lawful and reasonable until finally found otherwise in an action brought
for the purpose pursuant to the provisions of section twenty-six of this
act, or until changed or modified by the conimission as provided for in
paragraph (b), section twenty-four of this act.
"SEc. 26. (a) Any railroad or other party in interest, being dissatisfied with any order of the commission fixing any rate or rates, fares,
charges, classifications, joint rate or rates, or any order fixing any regulations, practices or services, may within sixty days commence an action in the circuit court in chancery against the commission as defendant to vacate and set aside any such order on the ground that the rate
or rates, fares, charges, classifications, joint rate or rates fixed is unlawful or unreasonable, or that any such regulation, practice or service
fixed in such order is unreasonable; in which suit the commission shall
be served with a subpoena. The commission shall file its answer, and
on leave of court any interested party may file an answer to said complaint, whereupon said action shall be at issue and stand ready for
hearing upon ten days' notice by either party. All suits brought under
this section shall have precedence over any civil cause of a different
nature pending in such court, and the circuit court shall always be
deemed open for the hearing thereof, and the same shall proceed, be
tried and determined as other chancery suits. Any party to such 'suit
may introduce original evidence in addition to the transcript of evidence offered to said commission, and the circuit courts in chancery
are hereby given jurisdiction of such suits and empowered to affirm,
vacate or set aside the order of the commission in whole or in part,
and to make such other order or decree as the courts shall decide to be
in accordance with the facts and the law.
$

*

*

*

*

*

*.

*

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

623

Opinion of the Court.

The Michigan Central Railroad Company is a corpora-

tion existing under the General Railroad Law of the State
(Comp. Laws 1897, ch. 164, §§ 6223 et seq.), and as lessee
operates a line of railroad extending from Detroit to Bay

City and passing through the village of Oxford, all in
"(c) If, upon the trial of said action, evidence shall be introduced by
the complainant which is found by the court to be different from that
offered upon the hearing before the commission, or additional thereto,
the court, before proceeding to render judgment, unless the parties in
such action stipulate in writing to the contrary, shall transmit a copy
of such evidence to the commission, and shall stay further proceedings
in said action for fifteen days from the date of such transmission.
Upon receipt of such evidence the commission shall consider the same,
and may alter, modify, amend and rescind its order relating to such
rate or rates, fares, charges, classifications, joint rate or rates, regulations, practice or service complained of in said action, and shall report
its action thereon to said court within ten days from the receipt of
such evidence.
"(d) If the commission shall rescind its order complained of, the
action shall be dismissed; if it shall alter, modify or amend the same,
such altered, modified or amended order shall take the place of the
original order complained of, and judgment shall be rendered thereon
as though made by the commission in the first instance. If the original
order shall not be rescinded or changed by the commission, judgment
shall be rendered upon such original order.
"(e) Either party to said action, within sixty days after service of a
copy of the order or judgment of the court, may appeal to the supreme
court, which appeal shall be governed by the statutes governing chancery appeals. When the appeal is taken the case shall, on the return
of the papers to the supreme court, be immediately placed on the
calendar of the then pending term, and shall be brought to a hearing
in the same manner as other cases on the calendar, or, if no term is then
pending, shall take precedence of a different nature (sic), except criminal cases at the next term of the supreme court.
"(f) In all actions under this section the burden of proof shall be
upon the complainant to show by clear and satisfactory evidence that
the order of the commission complained of is unlawful or unreasonable,
as the case may be."
The foregoing provisions were substantially rednacted in Public Acts
1909, No. 300, as §§ 7 b and c, 24, 25, 26 a, c, d, and e respectively.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the State of Michigan; this line being part of a railroad
system extending through that State and into adjoining
States and the Dominion of Canada, and over which the
company transports passengers and property in interstate
and foreign, as well as intrastate commerce. The Detroit United Railway Company is a corporation organized
and existing under the Street Railway Act (Comp. Laws
1897, ch. 168, §§ 6434 et seq.), and operates an interurban
electric railway extending from Detroit to the city of
Flint? and likewise passing through the village of Oxford.
Between Oxford and Flint, which are 28 miles apart, the
line passes through 'the villages of Ortonville, Goodrich,
and Atlas, distant respectively 10, 16, and 18 miles from
Oxford.
In the early part of the year 1908 petitions were filed
before the Commission by certain merchants resident in
Ortonville and Goodrich, asking that a physical connection be established between the tracks of the Michigan
Central and Detroit United at Oxford for the interchange
of cars, carload shipments, less than carload shipments,
and passenger traffic. The Michigan Central answered
denying that it would be practicable to construct and
maintain such a physical connection, and denying the
authority of the Commission to order any such connection
for the purposes mentioned in the complaint. The Detroit United answered denying the practicability of interchanging carload shipments (supposing a physical connection to have been established), without unreasonable
expenditure of money in changing its road and equipment. There was a full hearing, at which both companies
were represented. The questions before the Commission
were three: (a) Is a physical connection between the tracks
at Oxford practicable; (b) Can the interchange of business
be accomplished without endangering the equipment,
tracks, or appliances of either party; and (c) Are the
facts and circumstances such as to reasonably justify

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

625

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission in requiring such connection and interchange. The question of through billing was not involved.
The Commission held that the statute in terms conferred
upon it the authority which it was asked to exercise, and
declined-to pass upon the question of its validity, deeming
that to be a judicial question and not within its province.
It found the construction and maintenance of the connection between the tracks to be feasible and practicable,
and the expense of construction approximately $500.
Upon the evidence introduced and a personal inspection of
the line of the Detroit United, the Commission found that
line to be of standard gauge, with rails of the same pattern
and weight as those used on many steam roads, and without heavy grades offering resistance to freight traffic, and
that the handling of freight in steam railroad cars over
that line was practicable and might be accomplished
without endangering the equipment, tracks, or appliances
of either company, and without involving either in unreasonable expense. Whether steam or electricity should
be used as a motive power was declared to be a question
to be solved by the Detroit United Company in the light
of its own experience. The Commission also found the
proposed interchange to be reasonable from the standpoint'
of the Michigan Central, and that it entailed small sacrifice to that company, which would have to expend its
proportion of the amount necessary to install the connection, but would not be involved in further expenditure;
and that the business to be derived from Ortonville,
Goodrich, and the surrounding country via the Detroit
United Railway and the proposed connection promised
to be considerable in amount, making the Michigan Central a beneficiary by the connection; and held that under
its charter it owed a duty as common carrier to the entire
State, so that while required to give greatest consideration
to those most accessible to its operations, it must further
give as great consideration to those not immediately
VOL. ccxxxvi--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

upon its lines as was consistent with the other operations of
the road. The result was an order, dated June 5, 1908,
made under the provisions of § 7 b of the 1907 act, requiring the Michigan Central and Detroit United Companies
on or before August 15 in the same year to connect their
tracks at such point in the village of Oxford as they should
between themselves agree upon as most desirable, and
thereafter to interchange cars, carload shipments, less
than carload shipments, and passenger traffic at that
point, in accordance with the provisions of § 7; and
declaring that if they should be unable to agree as to the
point of connection the Commission would make a supplemental order determining its location. Such a supplemental order was afterwards made. These orders were
duly served upon both companies, and neither instituted
any proceeding to test their validity in the manner permitted by §§ 25 and 26 of the 1907 act. The physical
connection between the tracks was installed and is still
maintained by the companies, and no question is now
made respecting this. But the Michigan Central complied,
to the extent of installing the physical connection, under
protest, particularly with respect to so much of the order
as required the interchange of cars, carload and less than
carload shipments, and passenger traffic at that point.
The Detroit United is willing and able to accept cars and
carloads of freight from the Michigan Central, to be delivered along the line of the Detroit United under a service
similar to that offered by belt lines and terminal railroads
in the same State, but the Michigan Central has hitherto
refused and still refuses to deliver cars and carloads or less
than carload shipments of freight in cars to the Detroit
United for transportation to points upon its line. There
is no controversy about the other parts of the order.
The issuance of the mandamus was opposed upon the
ground (among others), that the Commission's order and
the statutes purporting to authorize it were repugnant to

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

627

Opinion of the Court.

the Fourteenth Amendment, in that enforcement of the
order would deprive the Michigan Central of its property
without due process of law, and also upon the ground
that the order amounted to an attempt to regulate and
impose a burden upon interstate commerce contrary to
§ 8 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held that the statute
authorized the making of such an order by the Commission,
and that since plaintiff in error had failed to institute
proceedings to review it under §§ 25 and 26 of the Act the
questions of the practicability of the physical connection
and of the interchange of traffic, as well as the reasonableness of the service required, -were not open in the mandamus proceeding. It also held that the jurisdiction of the
Commission was limited to intrastate traffic, and that
its order in the present case must be deemed to be so
limited.
The act establishing the Michigan Railroad Commis-sion, as it stood after amendment by Public Acts 1911,
No. 139, was under consideration in Grand Trunk Ry. v.
Michigan Ry. Comm., 231 U. S. 457, which dealt with
the compulsory interchange of intrastate traffic at Detroit. With respect to judicial review, it will be observed
that by § 25 (set forth in the margin, supra) the regulations
prescribed by the Commission are to be treated as lawful
and reasonable until found otherwise in an action brought
for the purpose pursuant to the provisions of § 26, or until
modified by the Commission as provided in § 24. Section 26 permits the railroad company or other party in interest, being dissatisfied with the Commission's order,
to commence an action in the Circuit Court in chancery
to set it- aside on the ground of unreasonableness, with
opportunity to introduce original evidence in addition
to that which was submitted to the Commission. If new
evidence is offered the court may refer it to the Commission for its consideration, and that body may thereupon

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

rescind or modify the original order. The court passes
upon either the original or the modified order, and may
affirm or set it aside in whole or in part, and make such
other order as may be in accordance with the facts and
the law. From its judgment there is an appeal to the
Supreme Court. The respective functions of the Commission and the courts under this legislation were considered, in a rate case, by the state Supreme Court in
Detroit & Mackinac Ry. v. Michigan RailroadComm'n, 171
Michigan, 335, 346, and by this court in a subsequent
case between the same parties, 235 U. S. 402, affirming
203 Fed. Rep. 864.
The argument submitted here in behalf of plaintiff in
error has taken a wide range, many of the contentions
being matters purely of local law, and these so interwoven
with the discussion of Federal questions that it is somewhat
difficult to distinguish them. It ought to be unnecessary
to say that whether distinctions have heretofore been
recognized, under the laws of Michigan, between "railroads" and "street railways"; whether the acts of 1907
and 1909 preserve or disregard these distinctions; and
whether § 7 was intended to apply to both kinds of roads
or to "railroads" only; are questions with which this
court has no proper concern, they being conclusively disposed of by the decision of the state court of last resort
in the present case. 'So, also, it is, for all purposes of our
jurisdiction, established not only that the Commission
in making the order, acted in the authorized exercise of
the State's power of regulation, but that the two companies are legally competent to perform the duties thereby
imposed upon them respectively.
That a State, in virtue of its authority to regulate
railroads as public highways, may in a proper case require
two companies to make a connection between their tracks
so as to facilitate the interchange of traffic, without thereby
violating rights secured by the Constitution of the United

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM. .629
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, is settled by the decisions of this court in Wisconsin
&c. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 296, 301; and Oregon
R. R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 528.
That a State, acting within its jurisdiction and not in
hostility to any Federal regulation of interstate commerce,
may compel the carrier to accept loaded cars from another
line and transport them over its own, such requirement
being reasonable in itself, is settled by Chi., Mil. & St. P.
Ry. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334, 344. In that case it was held
there was no essential difference, so far as concerned the
power of the State, between such an order and one requiring the carrier to make track connections and receive
cars from connecting roads in order that reasonably adequate facilities for traffic might be provided.
It seems to us that the principle of these decisions sustains
also the State's power to make a reasonable order requiring
a carrier to permit empty or loaded cars owned by it to
be hauled from its line upon the connecting line for purposes of loading or delivery of intrastate freight, and to
permit the cars of other carriers loaded with such freight
consigned to points on the connecting line to be hauled
from. its line upon the connecting line for purposes of
delivery. This question was left undetermined in McNeill
v. Southern Railway, 202 U. S. 543, 563, which had to do
with a state regulation operating directly upon interstate
commerce.
The contentions of plaintiff in error to the contrary will
be briefly considered.
It is said that section 7 b of the 1907 act, as reenacted in
1909, under which the Commission's order was made,
permits the use of suburban and interurban railroads for
the handling of freight in carload lots in steam railroad
freight cars only "in the same manner and under the Same
general conditions, except as to motive power, as belt line
railroads and terminal railroads are now or may hereafter
be used for like purposes." And it is insisted that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

terms" belt line railroads" and" terminal railroads" have
not been judicially construed by the Michigan courts, and,
there being no finding by the Commission or the court
upon the question, the order and judgment are in this
respect indefinite. But the Commission in its petition for
mandamus averred: "That belt line and terminal railroads
within this State vary in length from a fraction of a mile to
fifteen miles or more; that cars and carloads of freight are
transported to and from industries located along the
line of such belt or terminal railroads to the tracks of
railroad companies with which said belt lines and terminal
railroads are connected, under a local switching charge or
tariff, and that through billing of freight as between other
railroads and belt and terminal railroads is not customary
or usual." And in the answer of the Railroad Company
this was admitted as matter of fact, it being at the same
time insisted "that said Detroit United Railway Company is not in fact or in law a belt line or terminal railroad
corporation, nor authorized by law to act as such; nor are
the line or lines of railway operated by it extending from
the village of Oxford to the City of Flint and within the
boundaries of said municipalities, belt or terminal railtoads; nor can they in fact or. in law be used as belt or
terminal railroads may be or are now used; nor has said
relator any power or authority to require this respondent
to give the use of its tracks or terminal facilities for the
purposes mentioned in said orders or otherwise." There
is no question, therefore, as to the mode in which belt line
and terminal railroads are in fact used, and so the statute
and order are relieved from the charge of indefiniteness in
this respect. As already shown, the decision of the state
court of last resort is a conclusive response to the legal
objections taken in the clause quoted from the answer.
It is said the statute as construed and enforced by the
Commission and the Supreme Court is repugnant to the
"due process" clause because it in effect requires a delivery,

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM. 631
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Michigan Central at points off its own lines. By
its terms, however, the order does not require the Michigan
Central to haul the cars to points on the Detroit United,
but only to permit them to be hauled by the latter company. At common law a carrier was not bound to carry
except on its own line, and probably not required to permit its equipment to be hauled off the line by other carriers. A., T.&SF.R. R.v.D.& N.O.R.R., 110 U. S.
667, 680; Kentucky &c. Bridge Co. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R.,
37 Fed. Rep. 567, 620; Oregon Short Line v. Northern
Pacific Ry., 51 Fed. Rep. 465, 472, 475; affirmed, 61 Fed.
Rep. 158. But in this, as in other respects, the common
law is subject to change by legislation; and, so long as the
reasonable bounds of regulation in the public interest are
not thereby transcended, the carrier's property cannot be
deemed to be "taken" in the constitutional sense. Minn.
& St. Louis R..R. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53, 63; Atlantic
Coast Line v. N. Car. Corp. Com'n, 206 U. S. 1, 19; Grand
Trunk Ry. v. Michigan Ry. Com., 231 U. S. 457, 470;
Wisconsin &c. R. R. v. Jacobson, supra; Chi., Mil. & St.
P. Ry. v. Iowa, supra.
The insistence that the property of plaintiff in error in
its cars is taken by the order requiring it to deliver them
to the Detroit United Railway involves, as we think, a
fundamental error, in that it overlooks the fact that the
vehicles of transportation, like the railroad upon which
they run, although acquired through the expenditure of
private capital, are devoted to a public use, and thereby
are subjected to the reasonable exercise of the power of
the State to regulate that use, so far at least as intrastate
commerce is concerned. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113.
That it is not as a rule unreasonable to require such interchange of cars sufficiently appears from the universality
of the practice, which became prevalent before it was made
compulsory, and may be considered as matter of common
knowledge, inasmuch as a freight train made up wholly

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of the cars of a single railroad is, in these days, a rarity.
In Michigan, car interchange has, long been a statutory
duty. Mich. Gen. Acts 1873, No. 79, § 15, p. 99; No. 198,
§ 28, p. 521; Michigan Central R. R. v. Smithson, 45
Michigan, 212, 221. And see Peoria & P. U. Ry. v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 109 Illinois, 135, 139; Burlington
&c. Ry. v. Dey, 82 Iowa, 312, 335; State v. Chicago &c. Ry.,
152 Iowa, 317, 322; affirmed, 233 U. S. 334; Pittsburgh&c.
Ry. v. R. R. Commission, 171 Indiana, 189, 201; Jacobson
v. Wisconsin &c. R. R., 71 Minnesota, 519, 531; affirmed,
179 U. S. 287.
To speak of the order as requiring the cars of plaintiff
in error to be delivered to the Detroit United "for the use
of that company" involves a fallacy. The order is
designed for the benefit of the public having occasion to
employ the connecting lines in through transportation.
The Detroit United, like the Michigan Central, acts in the
matter as a public agency.
The contention that no provision is made for the paramount needs of plaintiff in error for the use of its own
equipment, nor for the prompt return or adjustment for
loss or damage to such equipment, nor for compensation
for the use thereof, is not substantial. The order is to
receive a reasonable interpretation, and according to its
own recitals is to be read in the light of the opinion of the
Commission, which shows that it is not intended to have
an effect inconsistent with the other operations of the
company. It was expressly found that there was no special ground for apprehending loss or damage to the equipment. Certainly the order does not exclude the ordinary
remedies for delay in returning cars or for loss or damage
to them. Nor does it contemplate that plaintiff in error
shall be required to permit the use of its cars (or of the cars
of other carriers for which it is responsible) off its line
without compensation. The state court expressly held
that § 7 c provides for reasonable compensation to the

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

633

Opinion of the Court.

carrier whose cars are used in the interchange. The finding of the Commission, approved by the court, was that
the Michigan Central would merely have to expend its
proportion of the amount necessary to install the connection between'the two roads, and would be called upon for
no further expenditure in the premises, and that the business to be derived by it from Ortonville, Goodrich, and the
surrounding country via the Detroit United Railway,
promised to be considerable in amount, and thereby the
Michigan Central would be a beneficiary from the proposed connection and interchange. It was, we think,
permissible for the court to find, as in effect it did find,
that the benefits thus derived would include compensation
for the use of the cars of the Michigan Central for purposes
of loading and delivery along the line of the Detroit
United. We are unable to see that any question as to the
adequacy of the compensation was raised in the state
court.
Plaintiff in error relies upon Central Stock Yards V.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 192 U. S. 568, and Louis. & Nash.
R. R. v. Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132. The former of these
was an action in the Federal court and came here by appeal
from the Circuit Court of Appeals. This court held as a
matter of construction that the constitution of Kentucky
did not require that the railroad company should deliver
its own cars to another road. The second case was a
review of the judgment of the court of last resort of the
State. That court having held that the state constitution
did require the carrier to deliver its own cars to the connecting road, it was contended that this requirement was
void under the Fourteenth Amendment as an unlawful
taking of property. This court said (212 U. S. 143): "In
view of the well known and necessary practice of connecting roads, we are far from saying that a valid law could not
be passed to prevent the cost and loss of time entailed by
needless transshipment or breaking bulk, in case of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

unreasonable refusal by a carrier to interchange cars with
another for through traffic. We do not pass upon the
question. It is enough to observe that such a law perhaps
ought to be so limited as to respect the paramount needs
of the carrier concerned, and at least could be sustained
,only with full and adequate regulations for his protection
from the loss or undue detention of cars, and for securing
due compensation for their use. The constitution of
Kentucky is simply a universal undiscriminating requirement, with no adequate provisions such as we have
described. . . . We do not mean, however, that the
silence of the constitution might not be remedied by an act
of legislature or a regulation by a duly authorized subordinate body if such legislation should be held consistent
with the state constitution by the state court." The case
now before us is plainly distinguishable, as appears from
what we have said. And, upon the whole, we see no
sufficient ground for denouncing the regulation in question
as either arbitrary or unreasonable.
There remains the contention that the statute and the
order made in pursuance of it operate as a burden upon
and interference with interstate commerce. That the
order intrinsically applies only to intrastate traffic was
held by the state court in this case, upon the ground that
the jurisdiction of the Commission is thus limited; and in
this the court did but follow its previous ruling in Ann
Arbor R. R. v. Railroad Commission, 163 Michigan, 49.
Therefore, the contention under the Commerce Clause is
narrowed to the single point that the order requires the
cars of the Michigan Central to be turned over to the connecting carrier "at all times and under all circumstances
and without reference to the needs and demands of
interstate commerce." But it seems to us that this is an
unreasonable construction of the order. By its terms, as
thus far construed by he state court, it merely requires
the two companies to interchange cars, carload shipments,

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.

236 U. S.

Syllabus.

less than carload shipments and passenger traffic, in
accordance with the provisions of § 7 of the Act, that is to
say, "in the same manner and under the same general
conditions except as to motive power as belt line railroads
and terminal railroads are now or may be used for like
purposes." Manifestly, this involves no disregard of the
needs of interstate commerce, and we must indulge the
presumption, until the contrary is made to appear, that
the State will not so construe or enforce the order as to
interfere with or obstruct such commerce. Ohio Tax
Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 591; St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas,
235 U. S. 350, 369. The recent decisions of this court,
cited in support of the contention that the order interferes
with interstate commerce (Houston & Tex. Cent. R. R. v.
Mayes, 201 U. S. 321, 329; McNeill v. Southern Railway,
202 U. S. 543, 561; St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 217
U. S. 136, 149; Chi., R. I. &c. Ry. v. Hardwick Elevator
Co., 226 U. S. 426, 433); are so plainly distinguishable
that no time need be spent in discussing them.
Judgment affirmed.

WILSON CYPRESS COMPANY v. DEL POZO Y
MARCOS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 135. Argued January 19, 1915.-Decided March 15, 1915.

Although the jurisdiction of the Federal court may have been invoked
solely on account of diverse citizenship, if the object of the suit is to
quiet title to a grant of the former sovereign, depending for its com-

pleteness on a treaty and on laws of the United States and acts of
Federal officers thereunder, this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Although the amount of land patented to the grantee of a former
sovereign may have exceeded the amount confirmed by the act of

