OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

UNITED STATES, BY McREYNOLDS, ATTORNEY
GENERAL, v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT
COURT FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 499.

Argued January 5, 6, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

No authority beyond that already conferred on the Inter8tate Commerce Commission by the Act to Regulate Commerce can be derived
by that Commission from a resolution passed by only Gne branch of
Congress; and so held that the powers of the Commission in making
the investigation required by Senate Resolution No. 153, in regard
to inspection of accounts and other papers, are limited to those conferred by the Act to Regulate Commerce and the amendments
thereto.
Section 12 of the Act to Regulate Commerce does not make provision
for inspection of accounts and correspondence of carriers authorized
by the Commission; that feature was added by the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, amending § 20 of the Commerce Act.

The H(ipburn Act, like other statutes, may be read in the light of the
purpose it was intended to subserve, and the history of its origin
and the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission submitted
to Congress recommending the passage of the Act may be referred to.
As construed in the light of such report, and applying the rule of
noscitur a sociis, § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce does not
provide for the compulsory inspection of the correspondence of carriers, but is limited to accounts, including records, documents and
memoranda.
Congress is not likely to enact a sweeping provision subjecting all
correspondence of carriers to examination, attended with serious
consequences in case of withholding it, without using language adequate to that purpose.
The protection of confidential communications between attorney and
client is well known and recognized as a matter of public policy.
The right of inspection of whatever accounts, records, documents and
memoranda are included within § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the Hepburn Act, is not limited to those kept
and made after the passage of the latter Act, but includes those kept
and made prior thereto.

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

319

Argument for United States and Interstate Com. Comm.

Quaere, whether compulsory inspection of correspondence and other
matters referred to in Senate Resolution No. 153 of Nov. 6, 1913i
can be permitted within the constitutional rights of the carrier.
Where the Interstate Commerce Commission has applied for a writ of
mandamus broader than the law permits, and no amendment was
made narrowing the demand, but the petition was dismissed without prejudice, the proper practice is to affirm the order and not to
reverse so as to grant the relief within the limits which the law allows; a new proceeding may be started for that purpose.
212 Fed. Rep. 486, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the power of the Federal
court to require the production of testimony, books and
papers by a carrier ' under. the provisions of the AntiTrust Act in a proceeding started by the Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to a resolution of the Senate
of the United States, are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Theodor Megaarden was on the brief, for the United States, and Mr.
Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission:
The scope and purpose of the pending investigation
is within the purview of the Commerce Act and within
the power and jurisdiction of the Commission.
Information of the relations existing between carriers
is indispensable and necessary for the performance by the
Commission of its proper duties.
The preservation of competition is one of the purposes
of the Act, and its existence or non-existence bears directly upon the questions of discrimination, reasonableness of rates, and similar matters. Gerke Brewing Co. v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 5 I. C. C. 596, 606; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 145 U. S. 263, 276.
It is also important to ascertain whether charges fixed
by a carrier 'are just and reasonable within § 1 of the Act.
Int. Com. Comm. v. Chi. Gi. West. Ry., 209 U. S. 108, 119.
The matter of competition is also to be considered in
applying the provisions of §§ 3 and 4 with' reference to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for United States and Interstate Com. Comm. 236 U. S.

undue or unreasonable preference to persons, etc., and
the long and short haul clause. Int. Com. Comm. v. Alabama Midland Ry., 168 U. S. 144, 164.
The subject is likewise material in connection with § 5
(pooling section) of the Act. Central Yellow Pine Ass'n
v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 10 I. C. C. 505; East Tenn. &c. Ry. v.
Int. Com. Comm., 99 Fed. Rep. 52, 61.
Whether a carrier is subject to the Act at all frequently
depends upon the relation between it and other carriers.
Cincinnati &c. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 184.
The inquiry of the Commission is proper as a basis for
legislative recommendations, for legal prosecutions, and
for many other purposes. Int. Com. Comm. v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447, 474; Int. Com. Comm. v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194, 208.
The inquisitorial work of the Commission has been the
basis of practically all congressional legislation affecting
interstate carriers during the past 25 years. Where the
persons and subjects under consideration are within the
field of the Commission's lawful activities, the courts will
not inquire as to the ultimate object of the investigation.
As to the plenary power of the Commission see Int.
Com. Comm. v. Brimson, supra.; Int. Com. Comm. v. Goodrich Transit Co., supra.; Tex. & Pac.Ry. v. Abilene Cotton
Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 438.
Even if the investigation should divulge violations of
the Anti-Trust Act rather than of the Act to Regulate
Commerce, that would not end the Commission's power.
Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 93.
In the course of this investigation the Commission
was entitled to inspect the accounts, records, and memoranda, including correspondence, of the carrier and no
peculiar privilege attends the so-called private and confidential correspondence between its officers and agents.
Grant v. United States, 227 U. S. 74; Wheeler v. United
States, 226 U. S. 478; Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.

321

236 U. S. Argument for United States and Interstate Com. Comm.

361. This is shown by the fact (otherwise unnecessary)
that Congress makes it an offense for an examiner to
divulge any information which may come to him during
the course of an examination.
The privilege asserted as to the correspondence between.
the carrier and its attorneys is no warrant for refusing
the writ as to other documents. The proposed examination is not an unreasonable search and seizure, nor does
it violate any constitutional right of the carrier.
A corporation is not entitled to plead the immunity of
the Fifth Amendment, and it is doubtful whether it can
plead the immunity of the Fourth Amendment. Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 74; Int. Com. Comm. v. Baird, 194
U. S. 25. A corporation cannot restrict the production of
its books and papers on the ground of self-crimination.
Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, 382.
While an order calling for the production of such a large
part of the records of a corporation that their absence
will put a stop to the business of the company may constitute an unreasonable search and seizure, Hale v. Henkel,
supra, this has no application to the case at bar, since the
Commission seeks only to inspect the records of the defendant in error.
Having the power to regulate, Congress must also be
held to have the power to determine what means are appropriate for carrying into effect its control. Flint v.
Stone-Tracy Co.,'220 U. S.107, 176.
The right to inspect accounts, records, and memoranda,
including correspondence, is not limited to those only
which hafe come into being since August 28,/ 1906, but
extends to all those in the possession of the carrier whenever created.' This does not make the Act retrospective
in a legal sense. Society v. Wheeler, 2 Gall. 104; Sturges
v. Carter, 114 U. S. 511.
The intent of the Act is to afford access to preexisting
documents. Even if, when so. construed, it can properly
VOL. ccxxxvi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error and Appellee.

236 U. S.

be called retrospective, it is none the less within the power
of Congress.
There axe no constitutional restrictions upon Congress
in the matter of retrospective legislation as there are in
some of the States. Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380;
Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700.
The main purpose of the Hepburn Act was to provide
more adequate means for the enforcement of rights and
duties declared to exist, and the Act impairs no existing
rights or obligations, but, on the contrary, is a means of
their effective enforcement.
Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone,
Mr. William A. Colston and Mr. Edward S. Jouett were
on the brief, for defendant in error and appellee:
The inquiry directed by the Commission was limited
by its terms; and the examiners had no right to go beyond
those limits.
The Commission had no authority to make the examination it sought to make. Traders' Union v. Philadelphia R. R., 1 I. C.' C. 374; New York Produce Exch. v.
Balt. & Ohio R. R., 7 I. C. C. 658; Sprigg v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R., 8 I. C. C. 456; Haints v. Chi. & Rock Isl. R. R.,
13 I. C. C. 214; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
162 U. S. 216, 221; United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co.,
228 U. S. 87; Harriman v. Int Com. Comm., 211 U. S.
418.
There are differences in the purposes of the Act to Regulate Commerce and the AntiATrust Act. Cin., N. 0. & T.
P. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197; No. Sec. Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 331; United States v. Freight
Ass'n, 166 U. S. 315; United States v. Joint Traffic Ass'n,
171 U. S. 565.
The inquiry sought to be made by the Commission
concerned conditions regulated by the Sherman AntiTrust Act, but not by the Interstate Commerce Act.

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

323

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission's inquisitorial powers are'not without limit. Int. Com. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447,
473.
Section 20 as amended by the Hepburn Act does not'
give the Commission access to the correspondence of the
carrier. ConnecticutLife Ins. Co. v. Schaefer, 94 U. S. 459;
Blackburn v. Crawfords, 3 Wall. 175; 4 Wigmore on Evid.,
§ 2290, p. 3193.
The rule of noscitur a sociis applies to the construction
of this statute. Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503.
Penal statutes, should be strictly construed. United
States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 96.
Statutes should be construed, if possible, to avoid
reasonable doubts as to constitutionality. Harriman v.
Int. Corm. Comm., 211 U. S. 422.
The Hepburn Amendment to § 20 of the Commerce
Act does not give the Commission access to records existing prior to the passage of that Act.
The search of defendant's papers sought by the Commission's examiners would, if permitted, be an unreasonable search, contrary to the Federal Constitution; to the
protection of which amendment corporations are entitled.
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 75; In re Pacific Ry. Comm.,
32 Fed. Rep. 241, 263.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from and writ of error to the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of
'Kentucky, refusing a writ of mandamus which the United
States undertook to obtain under authority of § 20 of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 594, p95. In view of the character
of an action in mandamus we are of opinion that the review
is by writ of error. Ins. Co. v. Wheelwright, 7 Wheat. 534;
Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 97;

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

High on Extraordinary Legal Remedies, §§ 6, 557. The
appeal is therefore dismissed.
The petition sets forth the authority conferred upon the
'Commission by § 20-of the Act, and also § 12, and embodies a copy of a resolution passed by the Senate of the
United States which is given in the margin.1 It further
'"RESOLUTION.

"Resolved, That the Interstate Commerce Commission be, and the
same is hereby, directed to investigate, taking proof and employing
counsel if necessary, and report to the Senate as soon as practicable"First. What amount of stock, bonds, and other securities of the
Nashville, Chattanooga and Saint Louis Railway is owned or controlled
by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad;
"Second. What other railroad or railroads in the territory served by
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad and the Nashville, Chattanooga
and Saint Louis Railway have been purchased, leased, controlled, or
arrangements entered into with, for the purpose of controlling by either
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad or the Nashville, Chattanooga
& Saint Louis Railway;
'"Third. Whether the Louisville and Nashville Railroad and the
Nashville, Chattanooga and Saint Louis Railway serve the same territory in whole or in part, and whether, under separate ownership, they
would be competitive to the various points in their territories;
"Fourth. Any other fact or facts showing or tending to show the
further relations between the Louisville and Nashville Railroad and the
Nashville, Chattanooga and Saint Louis Railway, and any fact or facts
showing or tending to show whether these relations restrict competition
and maintain fixed rates;
"Fifth., The terms of the lease of the Nashville and Decatur Railroad
by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, and what amount, if any, of
stock, bonds, and other securities of the' Nashville and Decatur Railroad, and of the Lewisburg and Northern Railroad are owned by the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad, or any of its subsidiaries, or holding
companies;
"Sixth. Whether the Nashville and Decatur Railroad, the Lewisburg
and Northern Railroad, and the 1Louisville and Nashville Railroad
serve the same territory, in whole or in part, and whether, under separate ownership, these railroads would be competitive between various
points in their territories;
"Seventh. Any other fact or facts showing or tending to show, the

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

325

Opinion of the Court.

states that for the purpose of enabling the Commission to
perform its duties, it appointed two special agents and
duly authorized them to inspect and examine the accounts,
records and memoranda of the defendant Railway Company; that on February 4, 1914, one of said agents demanded of the Vice President of the defendant, the officer
further relations between the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, the
Nashville and Decatur Railroad, and the Lewisburg and Northern
Railroad, and any fact or facts showing, or tending to show, whether
these relations restrict competition and maintain and fix rates;
"Eighth. Any fact or facts showing, or tending to show (a) the relations between the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, the Nashville,
Chattanooga and Saint ' Louis Railway, the Tennessee Midland Railroad, the Tennessee, Paducah and Alabama Railroad, and any other
railroads that have been purchased or leased by either or both of said
railroad companies, and whether such relations restrict competition
and maintain and fix rates; and, (b) whether the lease of the Western
and Atlantic Railroad by the Nashville, Chattanooga and Saint Louis
Railway from the State of Georgia, and the arrangement made between
the Louisville and Nashville and the Nashville, Chattanooga, and Saint
Louis Railway by which the former uses the tracks of the said Western
and Atlantic Railway restrict competition, restrain trade, and determine and fix rates;
"Ninth. Any fact or facts showing, or tending to show, whether the
ownership of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad and the Nashville,
Chattanooga and Saint Louis Railway of any railroad terminals or
terminal companies, steamboats and steamboat lines upon the Cvmberland and Tennessee Rivers, and any dock or dock yards at Pensacola,
New Orleans, Mobile, or other seaport establishes a monopoly and restricts competition and determines and fixes rates;
"Tenth. Any fact or facts showing, or tending to show, whether an
agreement or arrangement has been entered into between the Louisville
and Nashville and other railroad companies for the purpose of preventing competition from entering into any of the territory served by the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad, in consideration of the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad agreeing not to enter into certain other territory, or in consideration of any other agreement or arrangement;
"Eleventh. What amount of stock, if any, the Atlantic Coast Line
Company or Atlantic Coast Holding Company owns in the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad, and in the Atlantic Coast Line, and whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in charge and control of the accounts, records and memoranda of the Company, and to and of other officers, access
to and opportunity to examine the accounts, records and
memoranda; kept by the defendant prior to August 28,
1906, [The Hepburn Act took effect August 29, 1906] and
that the same was refused by the officers of the Company;
that on February 4, 1914, a demand was made for an opportunity to examine the accounts, records and memoranda of the defendant on and subsequent to August 28,
1906, which was refused; and a writ of mandamus was
asked against the company, requiring it to give access to
its accounts, records and memoranda, and its correspondence and copies of correspondence, and indexes thereto,
and to afford opportunity to examine the same to the Commission and its agents and examiners, and to give such
access to and opportunity to examine the said accounts,
records and memoranda made and .kept by and for said
the ownership by such holding company of a majority of stock in both
of the aforesaid railroads tends to restrict competition and maintain
and fix rates;
"Twelfth. What amount, if any, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, the Nashville, Chattanooga and Saint Louis Railway, the Nashville and Decatur Railroad, ahd the Lewisburg and Northern Railroad,
all or any of them, have subscribed, expended or contributed for the
purpose of preventing other railroads from entering any of.the territory
served by any of these railroads for maintaining political or legislative
agents, for contributing to political campaigns, for creating sentiment
in favor of any of. the plans of any of said railroads; and,
"Thirteenth. (a) The number of free annual passes; (b) the number
of free-trip passes; (c) the number of every kind of free passes issued by
each of said railroads. each year since January first, nineteen hundred
and eleven, to members of legislative bodies and other public officials,
or at the request of members of legislative bodies and other public
officials; (d) the total niileage traveled upon free passes issued under
each of the above classifications; and (e) the amount in money the free
passes issued under each of the above-mentioned classifications would
equal at the regular rates for such service of each of the above-named
railroads."

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

327

Opinion of the Court.

defendant both before, on, and subsequent to August 28,
1906, including correspondence, copies of correspondence,
and indexes thereto, and other indexes to said accounts,
records, and memoranda.
To this petition the defendant answered, setting out
that it did, prior to the beginning of the suit, give the
examiners access to the correspondence other than privileged communications, and that after this suit it did refuse
and does now refuse to give to said Commission pr to said
agent access to or opportunity to examine correspondence
received by it before, on, or subsequent to August 28, 1906,
or copies of correspondence sent out by defendant before;
on or subsequent to that date, or the indexes kept with
respect to said outgoing and incoming correspondence by
defendant (except correspondence as to passes issued since
January 1,,1911), and the defendant set up that its correspondence contains private communications between its
various officers and agents regarding various matters
which did not in any way pertain to the provisions of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, nor to any act of Congress, the
provisions of which it is made the duty of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to enforce, and avers that said
correspondence contains communications of a private and
confidential nature between the president of the railway
company and the heads of the various departments, relative to its internal affairs, to its proposed constructions
and extensions in the future, to its policies with competing
and rival roads, to its relations with labor organizations
represented in its operating department, and to a variety
of other subjects of a private and confidential nature, and
that do not relate to the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce and acts amendatory thereto, or to any
other act of Congress as to the enforcement of which any
duty has been imposed upon .the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and that said correspondence also contains
confidential, private, and privileged communications be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

236 V. S.

tween defendant and its attorneys. The answer further
sets up that under the provisions of § 20 of the Commerce
Act a uniform system of accounting has been prescribed
by the Commission, and that defendant has fully complied
with all such requirements, and that the Commission's
examiners have full and complete access to the same; that
if the Act to Regulate Commerce can be construed as giving the said Commission or its examiners a right of access
to, and the right to examine or inspect at will, any or all accounts, records, and memoranda, and all correspondence
received, and all copies of correspondence sent out by the
defendant or its officials in the manner and as set out and
claimed in the petition, then the exercise of such alleged
right in this respect will amount to and operate as an
unreasonable search and seizure of the private papers of
the defendant, in violation of the Fourth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States.
The answer further sets out a copy of the Senate Resolution, and the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission ordering the investigation and inquiry concerning the
matters and things set forth in the resolution, and providing that the proceeding be set for hearing at such times and
places, and that such persons be required to appear and
testify, or to produce books, documents and papers, as
the Commission may direct, and that a copy be served
upon certain railways, including the defendant. The answer also sets up that the subject-matter of the first twelve
paragraphs of the Senate Resolution was not within the
authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and
avers that as to the subject-matter of the thirteenth paragraph, which relates to free passes, since January 1, 1911,
defendant permitted the Commission and its examiners
and agents, on their request, to have access to and to
examine and inspect all accounts, records and memoranda,
relating to such passes, whether interstate or intrastate,
and also all correspondence relating to such passes (al-

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

320

Opinion of the Court.

though defendant claims that the Commission had no
legal right to examine any of said correspondence, nor to
examine any intrastate passes, or any accounts, records,
and memoranda pertaining thereto).
Motion was made for the writ of mandamus to issue as
prayed for in the petition, certain testimony was taken,
showing the demand of the agent and the refusal of the
Company. Upon hearing the motion was denied.
The testimony shows that the refusal withheld from the
inspection of the agents making the demand all accounts,
records and memoranda kept prior to August 28, 1906;
all accounts, records and memoranda subsequent to that
date except such as to which the form had been subsequently prescribed by the Commission; all correspondence
and the indexes thereto upon any subject other than the
issue of passes subsequent to January 1, 1911, and all
certificates of destruction, if any, relating to papers antedating August 28, 1906.
The discussion in this case has taken a wide range, and
much has been said of the constitutional rights of the
defendant and the authority of the Commission to carry
out the purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act, and to
make investigat'ions which shall be the basis of the discharge of duties imposed upon it by the law. But, as we
view the case, the real questions may be determined by
a consideration of certain provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce. We may at the beginning put aside any
question of authority derivable from the resolution passed
by the Senate. The resolution was passed by only one
branch of the legislative body and it is not contended by
the Government or the Commission that any authority
is derivable from it.
To authorize the Government to demand the writ of
mandamus in this case two sections of the Interstate Commerce Act are invoked,-twelve and twenty. It is enough
to say of § 12 that the record discloses that the proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

and the demands for inspection in this case were not conducted under its authority. See HarrimanCase, 211 U. S.
407.
Section 12 deals with the production of evidence in certain cases; it does not make provision for inspection by
examiners duly authorized by the Commission. That
feature of the law was added by the amendment to § 20,
of June 29, 1906.
The substantial question in the case is: Was the right of
inspection of the accounts, records and memoranda of the
defendant in the inanner attempted by the agents who
represented the Commission in this respect, authorized
by § 20 of the Act, as the same is amended by the Hepburn
Act of June, 1906?
That section as amended provides in part:
"The Commission may, in its discretion, prescribe the
forms 'of any and all accounts, records, and memoranda
to be kept by carriers.subject to the provisions of this act,
including the accounts, records, ,and memoranda of the
movement of traffic as well as the receipts and expenditures
of moneys. The Commission shall at all times have access
to all accounts, records, and memoranda kept by carriers
subject to this act, and it shall be unlawful for such carriers to keep any other accounts, records, or memoranda
than those prescribed or approved by the Commission,
and it may employ special agents or examiners, who shall
have authority under the order of the Commission to
inspect and examine any and all accounts, records, and
memoranda kept by such carriers. This provision shall
apply to receivers of carriers and operating trustees.
"In case of failure or refusal on the part of any such
carrier, receiver, or trustee to keep such accounts, records,
and memoranda on the books and in the manner prescribed
by the Commission, or to submit such accounts, records,
and memoranda as are kept to the inspection of the Commission or any of its authorized agents or examiners, such

UNITED STATES v. 'LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

331

Opinion of the Court.

carrier, receiver, or trustee shall forfeit to the United
States the sum of five hundred dollars for each such offense
and for each and every day of the continuance of such
offense, such forfeitures to be recoverable in the same
manner as other forfeitures provided for in this act.
"Any person who shall willfully make any false entry
in the accounts of any book of accounts or in any record
or memoranda kept by a carrier, or who shall willfully
destroy, mutilate, alter, or by any other means or device
falsify the record of any such account, record, or memoranda, or who shall willfully neglect or fail to make full,
true, and correct entries in such accounts, records, or
memoranda of all facts, and transactions appertaining to
the carrier's business, or shall keep any other accounts,
records, or memoranda than those prescribed or approved
by the Commission, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject, upon conviction in any court
of the United States of competent jurisdiction, to a fine
of not less than one thousand dollars nor more than five
thousand dollars, or imprisonment for a term not less than
one year nor more than three years, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
"Any examiner who divulges any fact or information
which may come to his knowledge during the course of
such examination, except in so far-as he may be directed
by the Commission or by a court or judge thereof, shall
be subject, upon conviction in any court of the United
States of competent jurisdiction, to a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars or impris.onment for a term not
exceeding two years, or both."
This section, it will be observed, gives authority to the
Commission to employ special agents or examiners, who
shall have authority under the order of the Commission
to inspect and examine any and all accounts, records and
memoranda kept by such carriers. The copy of the authority issued by the Commission to the special agent or

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

examiner who made the demand for inspection in this case
shows that he was clothed with authority to examine any
and all "accounts, records and memoranda" kept by
carriers subject to the Act to Regulate Commerce. The
language here used, taken from § 20, shows that the Commission acted under authority of that section, and the
examiner was thereby authorized to make the demand,
the refusal to comply with which was the basis for the
petition for the writ of mandamus in this case.
This part of the amended section, as the report of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, 1905, page 11 shows,
was framed by the Commission and tbecame a part of the
law upon its recommendation. The appendix to the report
(p. 182) shows the amendment in the form in which it
became a law. In commending the passage of such an
act, the Commission, in its report to Congress, said:
"Examination of Books of Account."
"An efficient means of discovering illegal practices
would be found, as we believe, in authority to prescribe
a form in which books of account shall be kept by railways,
with the right on the part of the Commission to examine
such books at any and all times through expert accountants. This recommendation has been urged upon the
attention of the Congress in previous reports, and we
earnestly renew it at this time. Probably no one thing
would go further than this toward the detection and punishment of rebates and kindred wrongdoing.
"We have also called attention to the fact that certain
carriers now refuse to make the statistical returns required
by the Commission. For example, railways are required,
among other things, to indicate what permanent improvements have been charged to operating expenses. Without
an answer to this question, it is impossible to determine to
what extent gross earnings have been used in improving
the property and the actual cost of operation proper.

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

Admitting the right of a railroad company to use its
money as it sees fit, it is certainly proper that the government should know what use is made of it, for the purpose
of determining whether its rates and charges imposed are
legitimate. Certain important railways decline to furnish
this information at all and others furnish it in a very imperfect and unsatisfactory manner.
"We have also recently required carriers to furnish
statistics showing the rate per ton-mile actually received
for the movement of certain kinds of carload traffic, but
this requirement has not been generally complied with."
Responding to this recommendation, and acting upon
the bill in the form proposed by the Commission, it was
adopted as an amendment and became Amended § 20 of
the Act to Regulate Commerce.
Of course this Act, like other acts, may be read in the
light of the purpose it was intended to subserve and the
history of its origin. We find then that in this section
Congress has authorized the Commission to prescribe the
forms of accounts, records, and memoranda, which shall
include accounts, records and memoranda of the movements of traffic, as well as the receipts and expenditures
of money, to which accounts, records and memoranda the
Commission is given access at all times. The railroads are
not allowed to keep any other than those prescribed by the
Commission. The Commission is empowered to appoint
agents or examiners with authority to inspect and examine'
such accounts, records and memoranda, and provision is
made, penalizing the failure to comply with the orders of
the Commission concerning such accounts, records and
memoranda, or the falsification thereof, or the willful
destruction or mutilation thereof, or the failure to make
full, true and correct entries in such accounts, records and
memoranda of all facts and transactions pertaining to the
carrier's business, or keeping any other accounts, records
and memoranda.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

236 U.S.

Reading these provisions of the Act, there is nothing to
suggest that they were intended to include 'correspondence
relative to the railroad's business. In recommending the
passage of the Act, the Commission did not suggest that
it was essential to its purpose to have an inspection of the
correspondence of the railroad. And, with its expert consideration of the questions involved and having clearly
in mind the authority it was intended to secure, it can
scarcely be supposed that the Commission would have
confined its proposed amendment to the carefully chosen
words "accounts, records or memoranda," and would
have omitted the word "correspondence," if it had intended to include the latter. If we apply the rule of construction,-noscitur a sociis,-we fir J that all the provisions of the Act as to the inspection of accounts have
relation to such as are kept in the system of bookkeeping
to be prescribed by the Commission. It would be a great
stretch of the meaning of the term as here used, to make
"memoranda" include correspondence. The "records"
of a corporation import the transcript of its charter and bylaws, the minutes of its meetings-the books containing
the accounts of its official doings and the written evidence
of its contracts and business transactions. Certainly it
was not intended that the Commission should prescribe
the forms of correspondence, although it was given the
power to prescribe the forms of all accounts, records and
memoranda subject to the provisions Of the Act.
It is urged that the amendment to § 20 of February 25,
1909, adding a proviso to paragraph 7, shows the intention of Congress to provide for accounts, records and
memoranda, including more than those as to which the
form -may be prescribed by the Commission, and in the
word "document" making this section broad enough to
include correspondence. The language of this proviso
is as follows (35 Stat. 648, c. 193):
"Any person who shall willfully make any false entry

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

335

Opinion of the Court.

in the accounts of any book of accounts or in any record
or memoranda kept by a carrier, or who shall willfully
destroy, mutilate, alter, or by any other means or device
falsify the record of any such account, record, or memoranda, or who shall willfully neglect or fail to make full,
true, and correct entries in such accounts, records, or
memoranda of all facts and transactions appertaining
to the carrier's business, or shall keep any other accounts,
records, or memoranda than those prescribed or approved
by the commission, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject, upon conviction in any court
of the United States of competent jurisdiction,,to a fine
of not less than one thousand dollars nor more than five
thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not less than
one year nor more than three years, or both such fine and
imprisonment: Provided, that the commission may in its
discretion issue orders specifying such operating, accounting, or financial papers, records, books, blanks, tickets,
stubs, or documents of carriers which may, after a reasonable time, be destroyed, and prescribing the length of
time such books, papers, or documents shall be preserved."
It may be that the section is broad enough, particularly
when read in the light of this proviso, to authorize an
inspection of accounts, records and memoranda for which
no form has been prescribed by the Commission, but we
do not find in this proviso anything to indidate that
Congress in the original act or the amendment intended
to provide for the compulsory inspection of correspondence.
There is nothing from the beginning to the end of the
section to indicate that Congress had in mind that it was
making any provisions concerning the correspondence
received or sent by the railroad companies. The primary
object to be accomplished was to establish a uniform system of accounting and bookkeeping, and to have an inspection thereof. If it intended to permit the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

to authorize examiners to seize and examine all correspondence of every nature, Congress would have used
language adequate to that purpose. A sweeping provision
of that nature, attended with such consequences, would
not be likely to have been enacted without probable exceptions as to some lines of correspondence required to be
kept open and subject to inspection upon demand of the
agents of the Government.
In the brief filed on behalf of the United States, it is
frankly admitted that there is much force in the objection
that Congress did not intend in this grant of authority
to include the confidential correspondence of the railroad
companies between itself and its counsel, and it is admitted that in this respect the demand of the agent of
the Commission may be too broad. The desirability of
protecting confidential communications between attorney
and client as a matter of public policy is too well known
and has been too often recognized by text-books and courts
to need extended comment now. If such communications
were required to be made the subject of examination and
publication, such enactment would be a practical prohibition upon professional advice and assistance. Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Schaefer, 94 U. S.
457, 458. And see the comments of this court in Blackburn v. Crawfords, 3 Wall. 175, 192.
How far such a demand as embodied in this petition
can be permitted within the constitutional rights set up
by the defendant, we do not need to consider, as we do not
think that the section of the act of Congress under which
the demand was made authorizes the compulsory submission of the correspondence of the company to inspection. It is true that correspondende may contain a record,
and it may be the only record of business transactions,
but that fact does not authorize a judicial interpretation
of this statute which shall include a right to inspection
which Congress did not intend to authorize.

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

337

Opinion of the Court.

The court below held that the right to demand inspection of documents before August 29, 1906, the date when
the Hepburn Act went into effect, was of such a doubtful
character that the writ ought not to issue. We think the
right of inspection and examination given by the Interstate Commerce Act by the amendment to § 20, was not
intended to be limited to such accounts, records, and
memoranda only as were made after the passage of the Act,
but is intended to permit an examination of all such accounts, records, and memoranda, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act. It is not contended that
Congress might not do this within its constitutional authority, and the argument is that it had no such right in
contemplation and did not intend to authorize it; but
we think it is clear from the terms of the act, read in the
light of its purpose, that Congress did not intend to draw
the line of inspection at pre6xisting accounts, records, and
memoranda.
The Government argues that if it be held that the prayer
for the writ of mandamus and the accompanying motion
were too broad in requiring the production of confidential
communications between attorney and client which were
contained in this correspondence, nevertheless the court
should have issued its wrilt of mandamus in so far as the
relator showed it was entitled thereto, and the case of
West Virginia Northern R. R. v. United States, 134 Fed.
Rep. 198, 203, is cited to the effect that such practice
is permissible. The case shows, however, an amendment
was permitted so as to make the writ conform to the
rights which could be properly granted. And that course
might have been pursued in this case.
Whether the Commission would desire an inspection
of the accounts, records and memoranda as we have
construed the terms of the Act, without the right to examine the correspondence we are not advised. As the
petition in this case was dismissed by the court below
VOL. ccxxxvi-22

OCTOBER .TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

without prejudice, and a new proceeding my be staarted,
asking for such inspection as the law allows, we think
the order of the court refusing to grant the writ of mandamus in the broad terms prayed for in the petition and
the motion for the writ should not he reversed to permit
a grant of relief within the limits which the law allows
as we interpret it.
It follows that the judgment of the District Court, refusing the writ and dismissing the petition should be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

-RAIL & RIVER COAL COMPANY v. YAPLE, ET AL.,
CONSTITUTING THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 513.

Argued December 1, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.

A state police statute reguutigi the basis for compensation of miners
on the run of the 'mine mubject to regulations of an industrial commission, but which makes the orders of the Commission only prima
facie reasonable and provides for their prompt judicial review and
which does not prevent employers from screening the coal as they
desire for marketing it, amply protects the rights of the employers.
Only alleged infractions of the constitutional rights of those attacking
the statute can be considered in determining its constitutionality.
That a State may, without violating the due process provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment place reasonable restraints upon liberty of
contract, Chicago &c. R. R. v. Maguire, 219 U. S. 549, applies to
prescribing methods for compensation of miners for producing coal.
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539.
Coal mining is a proper subject for police regulation, and it is for the
legislature of the State to determine, so long as its action is not arbi-

