OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

WASHINGTON, ALEXANDRIA AND MT. VERNON
RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOWNEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 144.

Argued January 21, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The expression "law of the United States," referred to in clause 6 of
§ 250, Judicial Code, regulating appeals from and writs of error to the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, embraces only laws
of the United States not local in their application to the District of
Columbia.
A. statute of the United States, ,general in its application, but which
has been declared unconstitutional except as it relates to the District
of Columbia and to Territorie§ of the United States, is not a law of
the United States within the meaning of clause 6 of § 250, Judicial
Code.
Wheie jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia is sought under clause 6 of § 250, Judicial
Code, the test of jurisdiction is the character of the statute and hot
the character of the act to which the statute applies.
In an action brought under the original Employers' Liability Act of
1906, which was declared unconstitutional as to the States but not
as to the Territories, although the transit of the train involved was
interstate, if the accident occurred within the confines of the District
of Columbia, the statute became, applicable concerning it as a local
statute, in the absence of any general legislation by Congress, and
not as a general law of the United States; and this court cannot
review the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia on writ of error under clause7 6 of § 250, Judicial Code.
The fact that a local statute is applicabld to a given situation solely
because there is no general law to control, does not make the local
statute a general one.
Writ of error to review 40 App. D. C. 147, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of writs of error to review judgments of the Court of

WASHINGTON & MT. VERNON RY. v. DOWNEY.
236 U. S.

191

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals of the District of Columbia, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. John ,3. Barbour, with whom Mr. John C. Gittings,
*Mr. Basil D. Boteler and Mr. Douglass S. Mackall were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edmund Burke, with whom Mr. Leo P. Harlow
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiff in error, a Virginia corporation whom we
shall speak of as the Company, operates a trolley line
from Washington to Mt. Vernon in Virginia. The defendant in error, Downey, was employed by the Company
as a trolley man and on November 29, 1907, was working
on a train of two cars, a motor car and a trailer car, moving
from Mt. Vernon to Washington. Downey was on the
rear platform of the motor car and his duty was to hold
the rope connecting with the overhead trolley wheel
to keep it from getting off the wire and thus breaking the
electrical connection. While in the District of Columbia,
on the bridge crossing the Potomac, Downey was thrown
from the platform and injured and the company prosecutes this writ of error to a judgment of the court below
(40 App. D. C. 147), affirming one of the Supreme Court
of the District, rendered on a verdict against it and in
favor of Downey, upon the finding that his injury was
caused by the actionable negligence of the Company or of
its servants.
Various errors are assigned relating to the operation
and meaning of the act of Congress (Employers' Liability
Act) of June 11, 1906, 34 Stat. 232, c. 3073, by which the
case is governed and the rulings of the trial court admitting

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

or excluding testimony and instructions given or refused.
But before we consider them, whether we have jurisdiction
to do so arises, and therefore we primarily consider that
question. It depends upon the sixth clause of § 250 of
the Judicial Code, and it is not open to controversy that
the "law of the United States" therein referred to "embraced only laws of the United States of general operation"
and does not therefore include "laws of the United States
local in their application to the, District of Columbia."
McGowan v. Parish,228 U. S. 312, 317; American Security
Co. v. Dist. of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491; Districtof Columbia
v. Philadelphia,Balt. & Wash. R. R., 232 U. S. 716.
The law here involved, as we have said, is the Employers'
Liability Act of 1906. Undoubtedly that law as enacted
was in form one of general application, but it was held
to be unconstitutional as such a law in The Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463. Notwithstanding that
ruling,, however, the provisions of the statute, so far as
they apply to the District of Columbia, have been decided to be within the power of Congress to enact because
of its plenary authority as the local legislature of the District, and because the intention to make the provisions
of the law applicable to the District locally was manifest
and separable from the purpose to enact a statute which
would be applicable generally throughout the United
States. El Paso & N. E. Ry. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87,
97-98; Philadelphia, Balt. & Wash. R. R. v. Schubert,
224 U. S. 603, 610; Santa Fe Central Ry. v. Friday, 232
U. S. 694, 698; and see Butts v. Merchants Transportation
Co., 230 U. S. 126, 137. Under this condition there is no
ground to maintain the proposition that the statute as
applicable to the District of Columbia was adopted as one
of a general character, and that therefore we have power
to review the questions involved.
But it is said, the trolley cars were in transit from the
State of Virginia to the District and therefore were en-

WASHINGTON & MT. VERNON RY. v. DOWNEY.
236 U. S.

193

Opinion of the Court.

gaged in a movement from State to Territory not purely
local in its character and hence there is jurisdiction. But
this rests upon the mistaken .assumption that the test of
jurisdiction is the character of the act to which the statute
applies, and not the nature of the statute itself, that is,
whether it is general or local to the District. And this
difficulty is not answered by the argument that because
the statute was made controlling concerning acts not purely
local, therefore as the effect cannot be greater than the
cause, the statute must itself be said to be for the purposes
of jurisdiction not of a local character. But again the
proposition rests upon an erroneous assumption. The test
of whether the statute is general or local depends not upon
the particular question to which it may be exceptionally
applied in a given case, but upon the exertion of legislative
power which the statute manifests and its general operation, that is to say, whether it was enacted as a statute
of general application under the general legislative power
or whether it took being as the result of the exercise of
the purely local power of Congress to govern the District
of Columbia, and was as a general rule intended to be so
applicable.
The error of the argument could not be better illustrated than by saying that if the proposition were
admitted, it would necessitate deciding that a statute
which has been held to be beyond the constitutional
power of Congress to enact so far as it embodied anything but the exertion of local power may yet be enforced
and applied as a general statute. The want of foundation
for the contention is besides made plainer by looking at
the subject from another point of view. While the transit
in which the train was engaged was not purely local, the
accident complained of occurred within the confines of
the District of Columbia and the statute became applicable concerning it because as a local statute it governed
in the absence of legislation by Congress of a general
I

VoL, C4CXXXVI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

character governing the subject. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; PennsylvaniaR. R. v. Hughes,
191 U. S. 477; Martin v. Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R. R.,
203 U. S. 284. To take jurisdiction, therefore, we would
be compelled to decide that a purely local statute which
would be void if it were general in character was yet
operative in such aspect, and that because a local law was
applicable to a given situation solely for the reason that
there was no general law to control, the local law was a
general one.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION OF ST. LOUIS.
TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION
LOUIS v. UNITED STATES.

OF ST.

EVENS & HOWARD FIRE BRICK COMPANY,
PETITIONER.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR

THE

EASTERN

FOR LEAVE

DISTRICT

OF

MISSOURI.

PETITION

TO INTERVENE.

Nos. 452, 572,-Original. Argued October 20, 1914. Petition submitted
October 13, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Even though persons seeking to intervene on the settlement of a decree
were not parties and therefore cannot intervene in the court below,
they may be entitled to be heard in this court concerning the decree
in so far as it may operate prejudicially to their rights.
Where both parties have appealed, one from the decree entered on the
mandate of this court and the other from denial, of a motion to

