OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

CURTIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 472.

Argued December 16, 1914.-Decided January 25, 1915.

Decided on the authority of Burdick v. United States, ante, p. 79.
THE facts, which are similar to those involved in the
preceding case, are stated in the opinion.

I Mr. Henry A. Wise, with whom Mr. Henry W. Sackett
was on the brief,, for plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor Generalfor the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This writ of error was argued and submitted at the same
time as Burdick v. United States, just decided, ante, p. 79.
Its purpose is to review a judgment for contempt against
Curtin upon presentment of the Federal grand jury for
refusing to answer certain questions in the same proceeding
considered in the Burdick Case in regard to a certain
article published in the New York Tribuna. Curtinis a
reporter on that paper. He declined to answer the questions on the ground that the answers would tend to incriminate him. At a subsequent hearing a pardon issued
by- the President was offered him I(it was the same in
substance as that offered Burdick) and he was again
questioned. He declined to receive the pardon or to
answer the questions on the same ground as before. He
was, on presentment of the grand jury, adjudged guilty of

DUFFY v. CHARAK.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

contempt, fined as Burdick was, with the same leave to
purge himself of the contempt, the court deciding that the
pardon was valid and sufficient for immunity. Upon
Curtin again refusing to answer, the judgment was made
absolute and he was committed to the custody of the
United States Marshal.
It will be observed, therefore, the case is almost identical
in its facts with the Burdick Case and exactly the same in
principle. On the authority of that case, therefore, the
judgment is reversed and the case remanded with instruction to dismiss the proceedings in contempt and discharge Curtin from custody.
MR. JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

DUFFY v. CHARAK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
OF JULES & FREDERIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 120.

Argued January 14, 1915.-Decided January 25, 1915.

A taking possession by the mortgagee of the personal property under
the power contained in the mortgage is a delivery that satisfies the
requirements of the Massachusetts statute in regard to the delivery
of goods sold or mortgaged unless recorded.
Goods under attachment may be sold or mortgaged upon notice to the
officer, as effectively as though a true delivery took place.
The holder of a recorded mortgage on personal property in Massachusetts, made within four months of the petition, took possession under
the power contained in his mortgage after the sheriff had levied
under an attachment, and the next day the petition was filed. Held
that the mortgagee was entitled to his security to the extent that

VOL. ccxxxvi-7

