OLYMPIA MINING CO. v. KERNS.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

Mr. Edward C. Crow, with whom The Solicitor General
was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This appeal was taken from the order of the court refusing to allow an intervention on the ground that there
was no jurisdiction to do so because as the result of a
previous final decree and an appeal taken therefrom by
the United States, the authority of the court over the
subject-matter was ended. In effect the relief which was
sought to be accomplished by the intervention below has
been obtained as the result of an original petition for intervention here and our action this day taken thereon.
As those applying to intervene were not parties to the
record, we are of opinion that the court below had no power
to allow them to intervene under the circumstances
which existed and its judgment refusing their application
was therefore right and is
Affirmed.

OLYMPIA MINING & MILLING COMPANY, LIMITED, v. KERNS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 495.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted January 25, 1915.Decided February 23, 1915.

This court has no jurisdiction under § 237, Judicial Code, to review the
judgment of a state court, sustaining a demurrer to the complaint
on the ground of statutory limitations, unless the Federal questions
asserted as a basis for such jurisdiction were presented or suggested
to the court below. Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

Even if the judgment of dismissal of the complaint was the result of
sustaining a demurrer thereto, an express statement in the demurrer
that it was based on the statute of limitation affords an opportunity
for the plaintiff to assert' that a Federal right would be impaired by
applying the statute.
Writ of error to review 24 Idaho, 481, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
on writ of error under § 237, Judicial Code, to review judgment of the state court sustaining demurrer to and denying
complaint, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James H. Forney for defendant in error, in support
of the motion.
Mr. Charles E. Miller for plaintiff in error, in opposition
to the motion:
In denying the plaintiff in error, while under legal disability, the same rights the state law gives to minors, insane persons, criminals and married women, the plaintiff
in error is deprived of its property without due process of
law and is denied the equal protection of the laws. Barbier v. Connelly, 113 U. S. 27.
Under the construction of the Idaho Supreme Court in
tolling the statutes of limitations against the plaintiff in
error, while under legal disability (minority we might say),
these-statutes in their operation deprive it of its property
without due process of law and deny to it the equal protection of the laws. Tregea v. Modesto Irr. Dist., 164
U. S. 179.
If a statute is so construed as to deprive one of his property without due process of law, it violates the constitutional provision and presents a Federal question. Castillo
v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674.
Where there is an abuse of law, amounting to confiscation of property or a deprivation of personal rights, the

OLYMPIA MINING CO. v. KERNS.
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Federal courts will interfere. Norwood v. Baker, 172
U. S. 269.
A refusal to consider a Federal question which is controlling in a case is equivalent to a decision against the
Federal right involved therein, and gives the Supreme
Court jurisdiction to review. Des Moines Nay. Co. v.
Iowa Co., 123 U. S.552.
The objection to a tax that it is taking property without
due process of law and denies to the taxpayers the equal
protection of the laws raises a question under the Constitution of the United States; and where the question was
necessarily involved in the final decision of the case, the
writ of error cannot be dismissed. Bell's Gap R. R. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.232.
The court will not grant the motion if consideration of
the merits is required. Hecker v. Fowler, 1 Black, 95.
To say that there is no error in this judgment, and affirm
it for that reason, would be to decide the whole legal
merits of the case and this cannot be done on a motion to
dismiss. See also Sparrow v. Strong, 3 Wall. 97; Minor v.
Tillotson, 1 How. 288.
When the question of. jurisdiction is so involved with
the other questions decided in the case that the Supreme
Court cannot eliminate it without the examination of a
voluminous record and passing on the.whole merits of the
case, it will reserve the question of jurisdiction until the
case is heard on the final agreement on the merits. Semple
v. Hagar,4 Wall. 431.
Where the record suggests many-points which cannot
be considered upon a motion to dismiss, the court' will
refuse the motion, but will allow it to be again brought
to the notice of the court when the case shall be argued
upon its merits. Day v. Washburn, 23 How. 309; Hecker
v. Fowler, 1 Black, 95; Semple v. Hagar, 4 Wall. 431;
Lynch v. De Bernal, 131 U. S.94.
On motion merely to dismiss, the merits of the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

cannot be considered. Bohanau v. Nebraska, 118 U. S.
231; Hill v. Chicago & Erie R. R., 129 U. S. 170; Chicago
Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Concerned now only with a motion to dismiss, we limit
our statement to that which is essential to decide such
issue. In 1912 the Olympia Mining & Milling Company,
Limited, the plaintiff in error, brought this suit to enforce
a trust agreement between Kerns, the defendant in error,
and one Cunningham by which it was alleged Kerns had
obliged himself in 1901 to transfer to Cunningham certain
property then owned or to be acquired by him for a designated consideration, Cunningham to put the title to the
property when transferred in the name of a corporation
to be by him organized of which Kerns was to have a
stated proportion of the stock. The bill was generally
demurred to and state statutes creating terms of limitation of three, four and five years were expressly set out
in the demurrer as barring all right to the relief sought.
In reviewing the action of the trial court in sustaining the
demurrer the court below held that the statutes of limitations were decisive. (24 Idaho, 481.) From the averments of the bill and facts disclosed in its previous records
concerning the controversy, the time when the term of the
statutes commenced to run was determined by the court
to be August, 1904, because on that date Kerns made
a sale of a portion of the property embraced by the trust
agreement and at the same time had bound himself to
sell it all,-obligations which were held to be a repudiation
by him of the trust agreement and in fact constituted a
disclaimer of all obligation under it. It was held that by a
suit brought in 1905, by which Cunningham was bound,
it was judicially admitted that at that time there was a

OLYMPIA MINING CO. v. KERNS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

default in carrying out the trust agreement on the part
of Cunningham or those holding with or under him and a
knowledge on their part of the disclaimer of all obligation
by Kerns,-conclusions which caused the statutes to be
operative since from the date of the starting point, 1904,
to the date of the bringing of the present suit, in 1912, more
than the statutory periods had elapsed.
Briefly stated, two propositions are relied upon, first,
that causing the term of the statutes to commence to run
from the year 1904 was a violation of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because at that date
the corporation was not in existence and hence was without capacity to take and hold the property embraced by
the trust agreement. Second, as the state statutes of
limitations, generally speaking, did not run against minors
or incapacitated persons, to cause the term to commence to
run against the corporation before it came into existence
and had capacity to take the property was a denial of the
equal protection of the laws under the FourteenthAmendment. But without in the remotest degree admitting that
these propositions afford the slightest ground for converting such a purely state question as the operation of statutes of limitations upon real property situated in a State
into Federal questions giving rise to jurisdiction of this
court to review, there is obviously in any event no jurisdiction because in no manner and at no time were the
alleged Federal questions, be they real or imaginary,
presented or even remotely suggested to the court below.
Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524, 529. In the argument
this is admitted, but it is said the propositions ought now
to be treated as adequate to confer jurisdiction because
there was no opportunity to urge or suggest them in the
courts below. Again, without conceding the merit of the
suggestion if founded in fact, it is here plainly not so
founded since the statutes of limitations which were upheld by the court below were in express terms stated in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

236 U. S.

demurrer filed in the trial court and yet the record is
silent a§ to any suggestion of assumed Federal right until
after the decision below when the assignments of error
were made for the purpose of a review by this court.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BROLAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 645. Submitted January 5, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
In a case from the District Court, if the power to review attaches because of a constitutional question, that authoritygives rise to the
duty of determining all the questions involved, including those that
otherwise are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the District Court,
but if the constitutional question asserted as the basis for jurisdiction of this court is frivolous, this court has no power to review it
or any of the other questions involved. The writ of error must be
dismissed.
The absolute power expressly conferred upon Congress to regulate
foreign commerce involves the existence of power to prohibit importations and to punish the act of knowingly concealing or moving merchandise which has been imported in successful violation of such
prohibition. Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, distinguished.
The contention in this case that § 2 of the Act of February .9, 1909,
c. 100, 35 Stat. 614, regulating the importation of opium, is unconstitutional as beyond the power of Congress, has been so foreclosed
'by prior decisions of this court that it is frivolous and affords no
basis for jurisdiction of this court under § 238, Judicial Code.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

under § 238, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward M. Cleary, Mr. John L. McNab, Mr. Bert
Schlesinger, Mr. S. C. Wright and Mr. P. S. Ehrlich, for
plaintiffs in rror.

