BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN, LABOR COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 362, 363. Argued January 12,1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
The nature of the work of pharmacists and student nurses in hospitals
and the importance to the public that it should not be performed by
those overfatigued, make it a proper subject for legislative control
as to hours of labor of women so employed.
Whether there is necessity for limiting the hours of labor of women
pharmacists and nurses in hospitals is a matter for legislative and not
judicial control, and the legislature is not prevented by the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment from limiting such
labor to eight hours a day or a maximum of forty-eight hours a week.
Such a restriction is not so palpably arbitrary as to be an unconstitutional invasion of the liberty of contract.
Miller v. Wilson, ante, p. 373, followed in regard to the right of the
legislature to limit the hours of labor of women other than pharmacists and student nurses employed in hospitals in California.
An exception of graduate nurses from the operation of a statute limiting
the hours of labor of women is not so arbitrary, either as to female
pharmacists or student nurses in hospitals, as to make the statute
unconstitutional as denying equal Protection of the law. The distinction in their employment is one of which the legislature may
take notice.
Enforcement of a state police statute will not be enjoined on the
ground that it violates the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment where the bill fails to show as to the persons
attacking the statute any such injury, actual or threatened, as warrants resort to a court of equity.
The California Statute of 1911 as amended in 1913 limiting the hours
of labor of women in certain employments including those in hospitals to eight hours in any one day or a maximum of forty-eight hours
a week is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment
either as unduly abridging the liberty of contract, or as denying equal
protection of the law because graduate nurses were excepted therefrom.

VOL. ccxxxvi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

236 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the California Women's Eight
Hour Labor Law, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John F. Bowie, with whom Mr. Charles S. Wheeler
was on the brief, for appellants:
The provision of the statute excepting graduate nurses
from the operation of the law results in denying equal
protection of the laws to all other women working in
hospitals.
The fact that a law may be passed in exercise of the
police power does not obviate the requirement of equal
protection.
Equal protection of the laws requires that no impediment be interposed to the pursuits of one except as applied
to the pursuits of others under like circumstances.
Appellants offered to prove as a fact that the statute
imposed on women following the same pursuits as those
followed by graduate nurses impediments not imposed on
graduate nurses: that no difference existed justifying
this discrimination.'
The pursuits followed by graduate nurses in hospitals
are the same as those followed by other women in hospitals
and there is no difference in theory or past experience
justifying the discrimination.
The statute will if enforced operate to deprive appellants of liberty without due process of law.
The act under consideration is not a health law.
Laws limiting hours of labor of adults operate to deprive
those subject thereto of liberty.
Liberty includes freedom to work at a lawful calling.
Women are not wards of the State.
The statute operates to deprive appellants of liberty
without due process of law.
The statute is invalid even if viewed as an exercise of

BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN.
236 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

police power as the restrictions imposed are arbitrary and
unnecessarily oppressive.
In support of these contentions see Addyston Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S.
578; Attorney Generalv. Sillem, 33 L. J. Ex. 92; Chicago,B.
& Q. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Cotting v. Kansas, 183 U. S. 79; Ex
parte Drayton, 153 Fed. Rep. 986; Dyke v. Elliott, L. R. 4 P.
C. 184; Erie R. R. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685; Eubank v.
Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; German Alliance Ins. Co. v.
Kansas, 233 U. S. 389; Gulf, Col. & Santa Fe R. R. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Ex parte Jentzsch, 112 California,
468; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45; Low v. Rees Printing Co., 41 Nebraska, 127;
Minnesota vi Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Mugler v. Kansas, 123
U. S. 623; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Opinion of Justices, 208 Massachusetts, 622; People v. Elerding, 254 Illinois, 579; People v. Williams, 189 N. Y. 131; Ritchie v.
People, 155 Illinois, 98; In re Sing Tuck, 126 Fed. Rep.
386; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Smith v. Texas,
233 U. S. 630; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; State
ex rel. Galle v. New Orleans, 113 Louisiana, 371; United
States v. Ragsdale, Hempst. 479; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheaton, 76; Statutes of California, 1913,
p. 713.
Mr. William Denman and Mr. Louis D. Brandeis, with
whom Mr. G. S. Arnold were on the brief, for appellees:
Eight-hour laws for women are valid.
Statutes have been passed for women's eight-hour laws
in private businesses.
There are eight-hour laws for men and women in certain private businesses,-in mines, smelters, ore reduction;
and in miscellaneous private businesses.
There are eight-hour laws for men and women telegraphers and telephone operators in railroad service; for

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

men and women in work done in private business for national, state or municipal governments and public employments.
The classifications made in Cal. Stat. 1911, chaps. 238
and 324, are not arbitrary.
There are recognized evils of employing pupil nurses,
while still in training, to perform the duties of graduate
nurses.
There was common knowledge and widespread discussion of the exemption of Graduate Nurses before the
California Act of 1913 was passed.
There was general condemnation of the practice of
many hospitals in employing pupil nurses instead of graduate nurses for the sake of financial gain.
The common practice in the best hospitals is to sharply
differentiate between graduate and pupil nurses as to
capacities, functions and duties.
There is an acknowledged power of associated graduate
nurses to improve standards in their profession.
The reasonableness of the eight-hour day for pupil nurses
is apparent as is also the reasonableness of not exempting
"experienced" nurses from the scope of the act and including pharmacists within the scope of the act.
The act does not apply to women internes acting as
physicians and surgeons.
In support of these contentions see Ex pare Hawley, 98
N. E. Rep. 1126; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718; Muller
v. Oregon, 208 U. S.412; People v. Elerding, 98 N. E. Rep.
982; State v. Somerville, 122 Pac. Rep. 324; Withey v.
Bloem, 128 N. W. Rep. 913.
MR.'JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to restrain the enforcement of the statute
of California prohibiting the employment of women for
more than eight hours in any one day or more than forty-

BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eight hours in any one week. The act is the same as that
which was under consideration in Miller v. Wilson, ante,
p. 373, decided this day, as amended in 1913. By the
amendment, the statute was extended to public lodging
houses, apartment houses, hospitals, and places of amusement. The proviso was also amended so as to make the
statute inapplicable to 'graduate nurses in hospitals.'
Stats. (Cal.).1913, p. 713.
The complainants are the trustees of 'The Samuel
Merritt Hospital' in Alameda, California, and one of
their employ~s, Ethel E. Nelson. Their bill set forth that
there were employed in this hospital approximately eighty
women and eighteen men; that of these women ten were
what are known as 'graduate nurses,' that is to say, those
who had 'pursued and completed, at some training school
for nurses in a hospital, courses of study and training in
the profession or occupation of nursing and attending the
sick and injured,' and had received diplomas or certificates
of graduation. By reason of their qualifications, they
were paid 'a compensation greatly in excess of that paid
to female pupils engaged in nursing in hospitals while
students of the training school.'
It was further averred that, in addition to these, ten
graduate nurses, certain other women were employed
in the hospital, one as bookkeeper, two as office assistants,
one as seamstress, one as matron or housekeeper, five
who were engaged in ordinary household duties, and onethe complainant Ethel E. Nelson-as pharmacist. It
was stated that this 'complainant was a graduate pharmacist, licensed by the state board; that she also acted as
storekeeper, but that her chief duty was to mix and compound drugs for use in the treatment of the hospital
patients. The general allegation was made that these
last-mentioned eleven employ6s performed work that
was in no manner different from that done by 'persons
engaged in similar employments or occupations and not

OCTO3ER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

employed in hospitals.' The apprehended injury to the
complainant Nelson by reason of the interference of the
statute with her freedom to contract was specially alleged.
It was also set forth that the hospital maintained a
school with a three years' course of study wherein women
were trained to nurse the sick and injured; that in this
school there were enrolled twenty-four in the third year
class, eighteen in -the second year class, and twenty-three
in the first year class; that a part of the 'education and
training' of these 'student nurses' consisted in 'aiding,
nursing, and attending to the wants of the sick and injured persons' in the hospital, this work being done while
the student was pursuing the prescribed course of study;
that the student nurses were paid $10 a month during
each of the first two years of their course and $12.50 a
month in the third year, and were also provided throughout the three years 'with free board, .lodging and laundry.'
It was averred that the cost to the hospital of maintaining
the school was $2,500 a month, and that the eost of procuring the work to be performed by graduate nurses that
was being done by student nurses would be not less than
$3,600 a month. It was set forth as a reason why the
work of the student nurses was done at less expense, that
their compensation was paid not only in money, board,
etc., but also partially in their education and training,
their attendance on patients being in itself an indispensable part of their course of preparation. It was said further
that their hours of labor must be determined by the exigencies of the cases they were attending.
The enforcement of the act with respect to these student
nurses, it was stated, would require the hospital either
to cease the operation of the school or largely to increase
the number in attendance in order that an equal return
in service could be obtained; and such increase would
involve a greatly enlarged expense.
'The complainants attacked the act on the grounds

BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it interfered with their liberty of contract and denied
to them the equal protection of the laws, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment. And in support, it was asserted
in substance, that labor in hospitals did not afford, in itself, a basis for classification; that there was no difference
between such labor and the 'same kind of labor' performed
elsewhere; that a hospital is not an unhealthful or unsanitary place; and, generally, that the statute and its distinctions were arbitrary.
Upon the bill, an application was made for an injunction pending the suit. It was heard by three judges and
was denied. The appeal in No. 362 is from the order thereupon entered.
. The defendants, the officers charged with the enforcement of the law, filed an answer. On final hearing, the
complainants made an offer to prove that "all the allegations of fact set forth in the bill were true; that the fact
that a woman was a graduate nurse merely showed that
she had completed a course of study for the treatment
of the sick, but that the course of study which a woman
must take for that purpose was not prescribed by law or
fixed by custom, but was such as any hospital or training
school might, in the discretion of its governing officers
see fit to prescribe; that the difference between a graduate
nurse and an experienced nurse is a difference of technical
education only, and that there is no standard by which
this difference can be measured; that graduate nurses
working in and employed by hospitals do not ordinarily
perform therein the work of nursing the sick, but act as
overseers to assistants to the medical staff." The District
Judge thereupon stated that upon the hearing of the
motion for an interlocutory injunction it had been held
that the complaint did not state a cause of action and
that it was considered unnecessary to take the evidence.
The offer of proof was rejected and the bill of complaint
dismissed. No. 363 is an appeal from the final decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

1. As to liberty of contract. The gravamen of the bill
is with respect to the complainant Nelson, a graduate
pharmacist, and the student nurses. As to the former,it appears that a statute of California limits the hours
of labor of pharmacists to ten hours a day and sixty hours
a week. Stats. (Cal.) 1905, p. 28. In view of the nature
of their work, and the extreme importance to the public
that it should not be performed by those who are suffering
from over-fatigue, there can be no doubt as to the legislative power reasonably to limit the hours of labor in that
occupation. This, the appellants expfessly cpncede.
But this being admitted to be obviously within the authority of the legislature, there is no ground for asserting
that the right to contractual freedom preclude' the legislature from prohibiting women pharmacists from working
for more than eight hours a day in hospitals. The mere
question whether in such case a practical exigency exists,
that is, whether such a requirement is expedient, must
be regarded as a matter for legislative, not judicial, consideration.
The appellants, in argument, suggest a doubt whether
,the statute is applicable to the student nurses, but the
bill clearly raises the question of its validity as thus applied and urges the serious injury which its enforcement
would entail upon the hospital. Assuming that thes3
nurses are included, the case presented would seem to be
decisive in favor of the law. For it appears that these
persons, upon whom rests the burden of immediate attendance upon, and nursing of, the patients in the hospital
are also pupils engaged in a course of study, and the
propriety of legislative protection of women undergoing
such a discipline is not open to question. Considerations
which, it may 'be assumed, moved the legislature to action
have been the subject of general discussion as is shown by
the bulletin issued by the United States Bureau of Education on the 'Educational Status of Nursing' (Bulletin,

BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN.
36 U. S.

-.

Opinion of the Court.

1912, No. 7). With respect to the "'hours of duty' for
student nurses, it is there said (pp. 29-32): "These long
hours have always formed a persistent and at times an
apparently immovable obstacle in efforts to improve the
education of nurses and to establish a rational adjustment
of practice to theory. . . . Ten or more hours a day
in addition to class work and study might be endured
for a period of two years without obvious or immediate
injury to health. The same hours carried on for three
years would prove a serious strain upon the student's
physical resources, inflicting perhaps irreparable injury.
The conclusions reached in this first study of working
hours of students (1896) were that they were universally
excessive, that their requirement reacted injuriously not
only upon the students, but eventually upon the patients
and the hospital, that it was a short-sighted and unjustifiable economy in hospital administration which permitted
it to exist. Fifteen years later, statistics show that though
the course of training has now in the great majority of
schools been lengthened to three years, shorter hours of
work have not generally accompanied this change, and that
progress in that direction has been slow and unsatisfactory." After quoting statistics the bulletin continues:
"In speaking of hours it must be remembered that these
statistics refer only to practical work in ward, clinic,
operating room, or other hospital department, and not
to any portion of theoretical work; that the 10 hours in
question are required of the student irrespective of lectures, class, or study. This practical work, also, is in
many of its aspects unusually exacting and fatiguing;
much of it is done while standing, bending, or lifting;
much of it is done under pressure of time and nervous
tension, and to a considerable degree the physical effort
which the student must make is accompanied by mental
anxiety and definite, often grave, responsibility. Viewed
from any standpoint whatever, real nursing is difficult,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

exacting work, done under abnormal conditions, and all
the extraordinary, subtile, intangible rewards and satisfactions which are bound up in it for the worker cannot
alter that fact.-Ten hours, or even nine hours, of work
daily of this nature cannot satisfactorily be combined
with theoretical instruction to form a workable educational scheme..
How largely the superintendents of training schools feel the need of improvement in
this direction may be gathered from the fact that over
two-thirds of the replies to the questions on this subject
suggested shorter hours as advisable or necessary, that
a large proportion of these stated their firm belief in an
8-hour day, and that almost every reply which came
showed clearly in one way or another the difficulties under
which the schools were laboring in trying to carry on the
hospital work with the existing number of students."
Whatever contest there may be as to any of the points
of view thus suggested, there is plainly no ground for
saying that a restriction of the hours of labor of student
nurses is palpably arbitrary.
As to certain other women (ten in number) employed
in the hospital, such as the matron, seamstress; bookkeeper, two office assistants and five persons engaged in
so-called household work, the bill contains merely this
general description without further specifications; and
from any point of view it is clear, that, with respect to
the question of freedom of contract, no facts are alleged
which are sufficient to take the case out of the rulings in
Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts,
232 U. S. 671; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718; and
Miller v. Wilson, ante, p. 373.
2. As to the equal protection of the laws. The argument
in this aspect of the case is especially addressed to the
exception of 'graduate nurses.' The contention is that
they are placed 'on one side of the line and doctors, surgeons, pharmacists, experienced nurses and student nurses

BOSLEY v. McLAUGHLIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and all other hospital employds on the other side of the
line.' So far as women doctors and surgeons are concerned, the question is merely an abstract one as no such
question is presented by the allegations of the bill with
regard to the complainant hospital. (Southern Railway
v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Standard Stock Food Co. v.
Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550.) With regard to other nurses,
whether so-called 'experienced' nurses or student nurses,
it sufficiently appears that the graduate nurse is in a
separate class. The allegations of the bill itself show this
to be the fact. It is averred that the graduate nurses are
those who 'have pursued and completed, at some training
school for nurses in a hospital, courses of study and training in the profession or occupation of nursing and attending the sick and injured, and have received, in recognition
thereof, diplomas or certificates of graduation from said
courses of study.' And, in the appellants' offer of proof,
it i§ said that 'graduate nurses working in and employed
by hospitals do not ordinarily perform therein the work
of nursing the sick, but act as overseers to assistants to
the medical staff.' It may be, as asserted, that the difference in qualifications between a graduate nurse and
an 'experienced nurse' is a difference of technical education
only, but that difference exists and is not to be brushed
aside. It is one of which the legislature could take cognizance. Not only so, but as such nurses act as overseers of wards or assistants to surgeons and physicians,
it would be manifestly proper for the legislature to recognize an exigency with respect to their employment making
it advisable to take them out of the general prohibition.
Again, with regard to the complainant Nelson, who is a
graduate pharmacist, while she has been graduated from
a course of training for her chosen vocation, it is a different
vocation. The work is not the same. There is no relation
to the supervision of the wards, and, putting mere matters
of expediency aside, there is no basis for concluding that

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the legislature was without power to treat the difference
as a ground for classification.
As to the ten other women employ~s, the validity
of the distinction made in the case of graduate nurses
is obvious. It should further be said, aside from the propriety of classification of women in hospitals with respect
to the general conditions there obtaining (Louisville &
Nashville R. R. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36, 53, 54), that the
bill wholly fails to show as to the employment of any of
these persons any such injury-actual or threatened-as
would warrant resort to a court of equity to enjoin the
enforcement of the law.
And the objection based upon the failure of the legislature to extend the prohibition of the statute to persons
employed in other establishments is not to be distinguished
in principle from that which was considered in Miller v.
Wilson, supra, and cases there cited.
Decrees affirmed.

