OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

here the statute is silent as to the mode of proving the
particular fact. Still it is an essential fact; Congress
made it the duty of the Department to enforce the condition prescribed, and in the absence either of inhibition
or of a requirement of some other "procedure we are unable to find any ground for saying that Congress debarred
the Department from availing itself of the natural and
appropriate course in examining the applicant. It has
been the long established departmental practice to insist
upon a verified statement by him whether or not he has
made an earlier entry, and we are of the opinion that
the practice is authorized. The oath in such cases is
administered by authority of law as provided in § 125
of the Criminal Code.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and
the case is remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

MEEKER, SURVIVING PARTNER OF MEEKER
& COMPANY, v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 434.

Argued October 13, 14, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The limitations in Rev. Stat., § 1047, on suits for penalties accruing
under the laws of the United States, relate to punitive penalties
for infractions of public law and not to liabilities imposed for redressing a private injury even though the wrongful act be a public
offense and punishable as such. It does not relate to a liability ac-

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

413

Syllabus.

cruing under §§ 8, 9, 14 and 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce
which is not punitive but strictly remedial.
While Congress did not intend, in amending § 16 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce by the act of July 29, 1906, to.reserve claims already
barred by local statutes, it did intend to take all other claims out
of the operation of the varying state laws and subject them to limitations of its own creation operating alike in all the States.
The effect of the amendment to § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce
by the act of July 29, 1906, was to extend the time for invoking
action by the Commission upon complaints for damages to two
years from the accrual of the claim, but until one year after the passage of the act as to all claims which had accrued before its passage.
The purpose of the joint resolution of June 30, 1906, postponing the
effective date of the act of June 29, 1906, amending the Act to
Regulate Commerce, was to cause the act to speak and operate at
the end of the postponed period as if that were the time of its passage, and when the extended period expired it gave a full year for
presenting accrued claims.
Objections to portions of the reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission awarding reparation for which the action is brought, on the
ground that they contain statements which are not findings of fact,
and not definitely identified in the record, are waived by failure to
direct the court to the subject when charging the jury.
Under § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the
act of June 29, 1906, the report of the Commission awarding reparation need not necessarily state the evidential facts, but must contain
findings of the ultimate facts, and as so stated they'are to be taken
as prima facie true.

In this case held that the facts stated, although interwoven with other
matter, and not expressed in terms generally employed by courts in
special findings of fact, if taken as primafacie true,sustain an award
against the carrier made by the Commission to shippers, as damages
for unjust discrimination resulting from giving rebates to other
shippers.
Where there are two reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission
in the same proceeding and the later affirmatively shows that it was
supplemental to the original report, they should be read together.
The measure of damages to a shipper is the pecuniary loss inflicted
upon him as the result of giving rebates to other shippers and requiring him to pay the higher rate. Such loss must be proved in
order to be recovered. Where the findings show that the amount
awarded was the actual loss and recite that they are based on evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Respondent.

236 U. S.

dence, it must be presumed, in the absence of the contrary being
shown, that they are justified by the evidence.
A statute making findings and reparation order of a body, such as the
Interstate Commerce Commission, prima facie evidence of facts
therein stated, but only establishing, as in the case of § 16 of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, a rebuttable presumption, cutting off no
defense, and taking no question of fact from the court or the jury,
is merely a rule of evidence and is not unconstitutional as abridging
the right of trial by jury or denying due process of law.
Quere, whether the mere amount of an allowance for counsel fees under
§ 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, made by the court below,
can be reexamined in this court; but held that where the record
shows that it was predicated upon a transcript of proceedings, and
on statements in open court, and no evidence appears to have been
offered or objections made by defendant as to amount, defendant
cannot claim in this court that the allowance is excessive.
Although this court may not review the amount of such an allowance,
it may determine whether as matter of law it is objectionable altogether.
Under §§ 8 and 16, of the Act to Regulate Commerce, the allowance
for attorney's fee to be added as costs to the judgment recovered by
a shipper on an unpaid award for reparation is for services of the
attorney in the action on the award and not for services in the proceeding before the Commission, and such part of an allowance for
attorney's fees as is specially given for services in that proceeding
should be eliminated from the judgment.
211 Fed. Rep. 785, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of §§ 1 and 2
of the Act to Regulate Commerce and questions of discrimination by the carrier against shippers of coal over
its line, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John A. Garver and Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr.,
for petitioner.
Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Edgar H. Boles,
Mr. Frank H. Platt and Mr. George W. Field were on the
brief, for respondent:
Plaintiff has failed to prove by competent evidence that

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

415

Argument for Respondent.

the railroad violated the Commerce Act. Plaintiff relied
for his proof, upon the reports and orders of the Commission. These do not prove that Meeker and Company
were discriminated against; and do not prove that unlaw
ful rates were charged.
Plaintiff has failed to prove by competent evidence that
petitioner sustained damage. The measure of damages,
if any, should be the loss to petitioner as the result of the
alleged discrimination or the alleged unreasonable rate.
It does not follow from the conclusion of the Commission
that an established rate is unreasonable in so far as it
exceeds a stated. amount, that a shipper who paid the
established rate has been damaged, or that his damage, if
any, should be measured by the difference between the
two amounts.
The Commission's opinions contain statements, arguments and conclusions which the act does not pnrport
to make admissible as prima facie evidence in a suit for
damages. In admitting the reports in evidence the trial
court prejudiced the rights of defendant, making it
thereafter imposbible for the defendant to place before
the jury its side of the case unembarrassed by the incompetent and misleading statements in the opinions.
Section 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce is unconstitutional in so far as it deprives the defendant in a
damage suit of a fair trial by jury.
The complaint in the proceeding before the Commission
was filed July 17, 1907, at a time when the right of the
Commission to pass upon the discrimination claims and
the greater part of the excessive charge claims had expired
by limitation.
The Commission had no jurisdiction over any claims
accrued prior to July 17, 1905.
On July 17, 1907, when the complaint was filed before
the Commission all claims accruing prior to July 17, 1902,
had been outlawed by § 1047, Rev. Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Respondent.

236 U. S.

On September 3, 1912, when an action was commenced
the plaintiff was barred by limitation from bringing an
action upon any of his claims.
The allowances for counsel fees are invalid and excessive.
In support of these contentions, see Atchison, T. & S.
F. v. Int. Com. Comm., 188 Fed. Rep. 229; Atchison, T. &
S. F. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Baer Bros. v. Denver &
R. G. R. R., 200 Fed. Rep. 614, 233 U. S. 479; Balt. & Oh.
R. R. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Blake v. National
Banks, 23 Wall. 307; Carter v. N. 0. & N. E. R. R., 143
Fed. Rep. 90; Cattle Raisers' Assn- v. Ft. Worth & D. C.
Ry., 7 I. C. C. 513; Holy Trinity Church v. United States,
143 U. S. 457; Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. v. Feintuch, 191 Fed.
Rep. 482; Cin., & Tex. Pac. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162
U. S. 184; Coggell v. Lawrence, 6 Fed. Cases, 2957; Councill
v. R. R., 1 1. C. C. 339; Darnell Lumber Co. v. Sou. Pac.
Co., 190 Fed. Rep. 659; Dickerson v. Louis. & Nash. R. R.,
15 I. C. C. 170, 191 Fed. Rep. 705; Equitable Life Ass'n
y. Hughes, 125 N. Y. 106; Farmers' Warehouse Co. v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 12 I. C. C. 457; Goff-Kirby Coal
Co. v. Railroad, 13 I. C. C. 383; Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Heck v. Railroad, 11. C. C. 495; Int.
Com. Comm. v. C. P. & V. R. R., 124 Fed. Rep. 624; Int.
Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 73 Fed. Rep. 409,
227 U. S. 88; Int. Com. Comm. v. Un. Pac. R. R., 222 U. S.
541; Jacoby v. Penna. R. R., 200 Fed. Rep. 989; Kile &
Morgan v. Railway Co., 15 I. C. C. 235; Ky. & Ind. Bridge
Co. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 37 Fed. Rep. 567; Lehigh
Valley R. R. v. Clark, 207 Fed. Rep. 717; Macloon v. Railroad, 5 1. C. C. 84; Marylandv. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 3 How.
534; McClaine v. Rankin, 179 U. S. 158; Mitchell Coal Co.
v. Penna. R. R., 230 U. S. 247; Morrisdale Coal Co. v.
Penna.R. R., 183 Fed. Rep. 929; S. C., 230 U. S. 304; Mo.
& Kan. Shippers' Assn. v. R. R., 13 I. C. C. 411; Nicola v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 14 I. C. C. 199; Norris v. Crocker,
13 How. 429; Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Peters, 433; Parsons

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

v. Chic. & N. W. Ry., 167 U. S. 447; Penn. R. R. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Rawson v. R. R., 3
I. C. C. 266; Riddle v. Railroad, 1 I. C. C. 594; Robinson
v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S. 506; Russe v. Int. Com.
Comm., 193 Fed. Rep. 678; Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers,
207 U. S. 73; Southern Ry. v. St. Louis Hay Co., 153 Fed.
Rep. 728; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Abilene Cotton Co., 204 U. S.
426; United States v. Del. & Hud. Co., 213 U. S. 366;
United States v. Standard Oil Co., 148 Fed. Rep. 719;
Walker v. Sou. Pac. Co., 165 U. S. 593; Western N. Y.
& P. Ry. v. Penn. Refining Co., 137 Fed., Rep. 343;
Woodward v. R. R., 17 I. C. C. 9; 1 Bouvier's Law Dict.,
p. 370; Drinker on Interstate Commerce; Judson on Interstate Commerce; 2 Stewart's Purdon's Digest, 13th ed.,
p. 2282; Rev. Stat., § 1047.
By leave of court, Mr. Joseph W. Folk and Mr. Charles
W. Needham filed a brief in behalf of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action under § 16 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce I to recover from the Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company damages alleged to have been sustained by a
shipper and awarded by the Interstate Commerce Commission by reason of the company's violation of the prohibition in §§ 1 and 2 of that act against unreasonable
rates and unjust discrimination. The plaintiff prevailed in
the District Court, but the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, 211 Fed. Rep. 785, and a writ of
1 See act February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, and amendments of
March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855; February 10, 1891, c. 128, 26 Stat.
743; February 8, 1895, c. 61, 28 Stat. 643; June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34
Stat. 584; and June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 838, Joint Resolution No. 47.

VOL. ccxxxvi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

certiorari granted under § 262 of the Judicial Code brings
the case here. 234 U. S. 749.
The plaintiff was the surviving member of Meeker &
Company, a copartnership, and sued in that capacity.
This firm was engaged in the anthracite coal trade in
New York City and was accustomed to purchase its coal
at collieries in Pennsylvania and to ship it over the defendant's railroad to tidewater at Perth Amboy, New
Jersey, and thence by vessel to New York. Two distinct
claims were involved. The first covered shipments from
November 1, 1900, to August 1, 1901, and was grounded
upon a charge that the railroad company had unjustly
and injuriously discriminated against Meeker & Company
by giving (on August 1, 1901) to another and extensive
shipper of anthracite between the same points an indirect
but substantial rebate upon all shipments during the same
period, and that by reason of this rebate the other shipper
had obtained a contemporaneous service in all respects
like that rendered for Meeker & Company at a less rate
than was exacted from the latter. The second covered
shipments from August 1, 1901, to July 17, 1907, and was
based upon the charge that the established rate paid by
Meeker & Company during that period was excessive and
unreasonable.
On July 17, 1907, a complaint embodying both claims
was presented to the Interstate Commerce Commission
under §§ 9 and 13 of the act, and after a full hearing in
which the railroad company was an active participant,
the Commission made a written report (21 I. C. C. 129)
finding that the charge of unjust discriminatioi was
sustained by the evidence, condemning as excessive and
unreasonable the rate which was in effect from August 1,
1901, to the date of the report, naming what was deemed a
maximum reasonable rate, holding that the claimant was
entitled to an award of reparation upon both claims, and
directing that further proceedings be had to determine the

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

419

Opinion of the Court.

amount to be awarded. Under § 15 of the act an order
was then made requiring the railroad company within a
time named to cease giving effect to the prior rate found
unreasonable and to establish a new rate not exceeding
that found reasonable.
Thereafter a further hearing was had at which ajditional
evidence bearing upon the question of reparFtion was
presented, and, on May 7, 1912, the Commissiorn made a
supplemental report, saying (23 I. C. C. 480):
"In our original report we found that the rc tes charged
complainant for the transportation of anthracite coal
from the Wyoming coal region in Pennsylvania to Perth
Amboy, N. J., during the period from November 1, 1900,
to August 1, 1901, were unjustly discriminatory in violation of § 2 of the act to the extent that they exceeded the
rates contemporaneously charged the Lehigh Valley Coal
Company under the contract then in effect between that
company and defendant; and we further found that the
rates in effect from August 1, 1901, to July 17, 1907, were
unreasonable to the extent that they exceeded rates of
$1.40 per gross ton on prepared sizes, $1.30 on pea, and
$1.15 on buckwheat.
"On basis of our conclusions in the former report, and
upon consideration of the evidence adduced at the hearing
upon the question of reparation, we now find that during
the period from November 1, 1900, to August 1, 1901, complainant shipped from the Wyoming coal region of Pennsylvania to Perth Amboy, N. J., 55,257.75 tons of coal of
prepared sizes, 16,689.76 tons of pea coal, 11,448.93 tons
of buckwheat coal, and 4,926.77 tons of rice coal, and paid
charges thereon, amounting to $12q,989.18, at the rates
found to have been unjustly discriminatory; that complainant has been damaged to the extent of the difference
between the amount which he did pay and $118,979.85, the
amount which he would have paid had he been given the
benefit of the rates applied by defendant to similar ship-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court4

236 U. S.

ments of the Lehigh Valley Coal Company; and that he is,
therefore, entitled to an award of reparation in the sum of
$11,009.33, with interest thereon from August 1, 1901.
We find further that from August 1, 1901, to July 17, 1907,
complainant shipped from the Wyoming coal region in
Pennsylvania to Perth Amboy, N. J., 246,870.15 tons of
coal of prepared sizes, 106,051.09 tons of pea coal, and
87,250 tons of buckwheat coal, and paid charges thereon
amounting to $685,375.27, at the rates found to have been
unreasonable; that complainant has been damaged to the
extent of the difference between the amount which he did
pay and $626,945.62, the amount which he would have
paid at the rates found reasonable, less $193.20 deducted
by stipulation of all parties on account of certain claims
already paid; and that he is, therefore, entitled to an additional award of reparation in the sum of $58,236.45, with
interest, amounting to $27,750.64, on the individual
charges comprising said sum from the dates of payment
thereof to September 1, 1911, together with interest o-.
said sum of $58,236.45 from September 1, 1911.

"The exhibits showing details respecting the shipments
upon which reparation is asked are too extensive to be set
forth in this report. But inasmuch as the accuracy of
the figures in said exhibits respecting the shipments made,
freight charges paid, and reparation due, is conceded of
record by defendant, we deem it unnecessary to make
detailed findings respecting the numerous shipments
involved."
Thereupon the Commission made and entered of record
an order for reparation which, with a slight amendment
made June 15, 1912, was as follows:
"This case being at issue upon complaint and answers
on file, and having been duly heard and submitted by
the parties, and full investigation of the -matters and

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

things involved having been had, and the Commission
having, on the date hereof, made and filed a supplemental
report containing its findings of fact and conclusions
thereon, which said report is hereby referred to and made
a part hereof:
"It is Ordered, That defendant Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company be and it is hereby authorized and required
to pay unto complainant, Henry T. Meeker, surviving

partner of Henry E. Meeker and Caroline H.. Meeker,
co-partners, trading as Meeker & Company, on or before
the 1st day of August, 1912, the sum of $11,009.33, with
interest thereon, at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum,
from the 1st day of August, 1901, as reparation for unjustly discriminatory rates charged for the transportation
of anthracite coal from the Wyoming coal region in Pennsylvania to Perth Amboy, N. J., which rates so charged
have been found, by this Commission to have been unjustly discriminatory, as more fully and at large appears
in and by said report of the Commission.
"It is Further Ordered, That defendant Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company be and it is hereby authorized and
required to pay unto complainant, Henry E. Meeker,
surviving partner of Henry E. Meeker and Caroline H.
Meeker, co-partners, trading as Meeker & Company,
on or before the 1st day of August, 1912, the sum of
$58,236.45, with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per
cent. per annum, amounting to $27,750.64, upon the
various individual charges comprising said sum, from
the dates of payment thereof to September 1, 1911, as
itemized in complainant's Exhibit 2, together with interest at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum on said sum of
$58,236.45, from September 1, 1911, as reparation for
unreasonable rates charged for the transportation of
various shipments of anthracite coal from the Wyoming
coal region in Pennsylvania to Perth Amboy, N. J.,
which rates so charged have been found by this Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

sion to have been unreasonable, as more fully and at
large appears in and by said report of the Commission."
Although duly served with a copy of this order, the
railroad company refused to comply with it; and, on
September 3, 1912, after the time allotted for compliance
had expired, the plaintiff, conformably to § 16 of the act,
filed in the District Court his petition setting forth briefly
the causes for which he claimed damages and the reports
and orders of the Commission, and praying judgment
against the railroad company for the amounts claimed
and awarded and for interest and costs, including a reasonable attorney's fee. The defendant answered denying the claims set forth in the petition and asserting that
they were barred by the applicable statute of limitations;
that the Commission was without jurisdiction "to make
the findings and order of reparation" relied upon, and
thaf-"there was before the Commission no substantial
evidence to sustain said findings and said order." A
trial resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff assessing the
damages at $109,280.17, the total amount awarded by
the Commission with interest, and judgment was entered
for this surh withcosts, including an attorney's fee.
At the trial the plaintiff produced no evidence tending
to show unjust discrimit ption, exaction of unreasonable
rates, injury to Meeker. & Company or what damages
were sustained by them, other than the evidence afforded
by the reports and orders of the Commission; and the
defendant produced no evidence whatever, save some
computations intended to be helpful in determining how
much of the claims was barred according to each of several
views advanced respecting the applicable statute of limitations.
Whether the claims were barred in whole or in part
by some applicable statute is one of the questions which
the record presents, and to dispose of it we must notice
three statutes upon which the defendant relies.

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

One of these is Rev. Stat., § 1047, which places a limitation of five years upon any "suit or prosecution for
any penalty or forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise, accruing under the laws of the United States." The words
"penalty or forfeiture" in this section refer to something
imposed in a punitive way for an infraction of a public
law., and do not include a liability imposed for the purpose
of redressing a private injilry, even though the wrongful
act be a public offense and punishable as such. Here the
liability sought to be enforced was not punitive but
strictly remedial, as is shown by §§ 8, 9, 14 and 16 of
the Act to Regulate Commerce. So § 1047 was not applicable. Chattanooga Foundry v. Atlanta, 203 U. S.390,
397; O'Sullivan v. Felix, 233 U. S. 318; Huntington v.
Attrill, 146 U. S.657, 666-669; Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S.
148.
Next in order is a Pennsylvania statute containing a
limitation of six years. 2 Stewart's Purdon's Digest,
13th ed. 2282. It could apply only in the absence of a
controlling Federal statute. Rev. Stat., § 721; Campbell v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610; McClaine v. Rankin, 197
U. S. 154, 158; O'Sullivan v. Felix, supra. Such a statute
was adopted and put in force before any part of either
claim fell within the bar of the local limitation. By the
act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 590, Congress
amended § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce by incorporating therein the following limitations: "All complaints for the recovery of damages shall be filed with
the Commission within two years from the time the cause
of action accrues, and not after, and a petition for the
enforcement of an order for the payment of money shall
be filed in the Circuit CourtI within one year from the
date of the order, and not after: Provided, that claims
accrued prior to the passage of this Act may be presented
1The Judicial Code, § 291, which became effective January 1, 1912,

requires that the words "Circuit Court" be read "District Court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

within one year." The words of the proviso make it
certain that the amendment was to reach claims already
accrued as well as those thereafter accruing. And while
there doubtless was no purpose to revive claims then
barred by local statutes, it is evident that Congress intended to take all other claims out of the operation of
the varying laws of the several States and subject them
to limitations of its own creation which would operate
alike in all the States.
This amendment is the third statute upon which the
defendant relies, the contentions advanced thereunder
being (a) that it prevented the Commission from considering any claim accrued more than two years prior to the
amendment, and (b) that the year granted for filing claims
which accrued before the amendment expired June 28,
1907. Either contention, if sound, would defeat all of
the first claim in suit and the major part of the second,
The first contention is plainly not tenable. The amendment contained a general provision limiting the time for
invoking action by the Commission upon complaints for
damages to two years from the accrual of the claim, and
also a proviso saying that "claims accrued prior to the
passage of this Act may be presented within one year."
The proviso was in the nature of a saving clause, and,
while, as before observed, it probably was not intended
to revive claims which were then barred by applicable
local laws, we think there is no warrant for saying that it
was not intended to include claims accrued more than two
years before the amendment. The plain import of the
words is to the contrary. The Commission has uniformly
construed it as permitting all accrued claims, not already
barred, to be presented within the year named, and we
think they reasonably could not have done otherwise.
The other contention turns upon the sense in which
the words "the passage of this Act" were used in the proviso. The act contained a concluding section saying

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

425

Opinion of the Court.

"this Act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage," but, on the day following its approval, its
effective date was postponed by a joint resolution for
sixty days, that is, from June 29 to August 28, 1906. 34
Stat. 838. If the act be separately considered and the
proviso read in connection with the concluding section,
we think it is apparent that the words named referred to
the time when the act was to speak and operate as a law,
and that the year given for filing accrued clainms was to
be reckoned from that time. In other words, the meaning was the same as if the proviso had said "claims accrued
heretofore may be presented within one year hereafter,"
or "claims accrued before this Act becomes effective
may be presented within one year thereafter." It was
not an instance where words referring to the date of
passage were chosen to distinguish it from the effective
date of the act, for the act was to take effect and be in
force upon its passage, and therefore there was no occasion for such a distinction. And, coming to the joint
resolution, we think it did not affect the sense of the
words in the proviso. That was to be determined in the
light of the situation in which they were used, and not by
what subsequently happened. Not only so, but the purpose of the joint resolution was to cause the act to speak
and operate at the end of the sixty days as if that were
the time of its passage. In the meantime the act laid no
duty upon this or any other claimant and when the sixty
days expired it gave a full year for presenting accrued
claims, and not a year less sixty days. See Matter of
Howe, 112 N. Y. 100; Harding v. People, 10 Colorado,
387, 392; State v. Bemis, 45 Nebraska, 724, 739; Patrick
v. Perryman, 52 Ill. App. 514, 518; Schneider v. Hussey,
2 Idaho, 8; Charless v. Lamberson, 1 Iowa, 435, 443. It
is not a question of notice, as in Diamond Glue Co. v.
United States Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 615-616, but of the
meaning and operation of the statute.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

It follows from these views that the complaint, which
was filed with the Commission July 17, 1907, was seasonably presented and that no part of either claim was barred
at that time. And, as the action in the District Court
was begun within a year after the date of the order for
reparation, the defense predicated upon the statute of
limitations must fail.
With a single exception, the other questions pressed
upon our attention center about the use and effect of the
reports and orders of the Commission as evidence, a
subject concerning which the courts below differed.
The pertinent provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce are these: Section 14 (34 Stat. 589) requires the
Commission, upon investigating a complaint, to make
a written report thereon "which shall state the conclusions of the Commission, together with its decision, order,
or requirement in the premises," -and, if damages be
awarded, "shall include the findings of fact on which the
award is made." Section 16 (34 Stat. 590) requires the
Commission, upon awarding damages to a complaining
party, to make an order directing that "the sum to which
he is entitled " be paid within a fixed time; and then, after
authorizirrg a suit to enforce payment, if the order be
not obeyed, provides: "Such suit shall proceed in all
respects like other civil suits for damages, except that
on the trial of such suit the findings and order of the
Commission shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
therein stated."
At the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence the reports
and orders of the Commission and asked that the facts
stated in the findings and orders be taken as prima facie
true.
An objection was interposed to the admission of the
reports upon the ground that they contained various
statements which it was claimed were not findings of fant
and therefore were not admissible. A colloquy ensued

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

427

Opinion of the Court.

between court and counsel in which counsel for the plaintiff conceded that portions of the reports should be eliminated and suggested that this could be done in the charge
to the jury. As a result of the colloquy the reports were
received in evidence, the court observing that it would
indicate to the jury what portions were to be considered.
The reports were not read at the time, but when the evidence was concluded counsel for the plaintiff, as the record
recites, "read to the jury what he stated to be material
portions" of them. The record does not more definitely
identify what was read; nor does it show that complaint
was then made that anything was read that should have
been omitted, or that the court's attention was drawn to
the subject at the time of charging the jury either by a
request for a particular instruction thereon or by excepting
to the absence of such an instruction. The court's charge
apparently proceeded upon the theory that the portions
of the reports which had been read to the jury were properly before them. In these circumstances the objection
cannot now be considered. If it was not obviated by
excluding the supposedly objectionable portions of the
reports from what was read to the jury, it was waived by
the failure to direct the court's attention to the subject
when the jury was charged.
Another objection which was directed against the orders
as well as the reports is that they contain no findings of
fact or at least not enough to sustain an award of damages.
The arguments advanced to sustain this objection proceed
upon the theory that the statute requires that the reports,
if not the orders, shall state the evidential rather than the
ultimate facts, that is to say, the primary facts from which
through a process of reasoning and inference the ultimate
facts may be determined. We think this is not the right
view of the statute and that what it requires is a finding
of the ultimate facts-a finding which, as applied to the
present case, would disclose (1) the relation of the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

as shipper and carrier in interstate commerce; (2) the
character and amount of the traffic out of which the claims
arose; (3) the rates. paid by the shipper for the service
rendered and whether they were according to the established tariff; (4) whether and in what way unjust discrimination was practiced against the shipper from November 1, 1900, to August 1, 1901; (5) whether, if there was
unjust discrimination, the shipper was injured thereby,
and, if so, the amount of his damages; (6) whether the
rate collected from the shipper from August 1, 1901, to
July 17, 1907, was excessive and unreasonable and, if so,
what would have been a reasonable rate for the service;
and (7) whether, if the rate was excessive and unreasonable, the shipper was injured thereby, and, if so, the
amount of his damages. Upon examining the reports as
set forth in the record, we think they contain findings of
fact which meet the requirements of the statute and that
the facts stated in the findings, if taken as prima facie
true, sustain the award of the Commission. True, the
findings in the original report are interwoven with other
matter and are not expressed in the terms which courts
generally employ in special findings of fact, but there is no
difficulty in separating the findings from the other matter
or in fully understanding them, and particularly is this
true when the two reports are read together, as they should
be. We say "should be" because both were made in the
same proceeding and the later one affirmatively shows
that it was made to supplement and give effect to the
original.
But it is said that the reports disclose that the Commission applied an erroneous and inadmissible measure of damages, and therefore that no effect can be given to the award.
What the reports really disclose is that the Commission,
"upon consideration of the evidence adduced upon the
hearing upon the question of reparation" found (a) that
by reason of the unjust discrimination resulting from

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

429

Opinion of the Court.

giving the rebate to the Lehigh Valley Coal Company
Meeker & Company were "damaged to the extent of the
difference" between what they actually paid from November 1, 1900, to August 1, 1901, and what they would have
paid had they been dealt with on the same basis as was
the Coal Company, and (b) that by reason of being
charged an excessive and unreasonable rate from August 1,
1901, to July 17, 1907, Meeker & Company were "damaged to the extent of the difference" between what they
actually paid and what they would have paid had they
been given the rate which the Commission found would
have been reasonable. In this we perceive nothing pointing to the application .of an erroneous or inadmissible
measure of damages. The Commission was authorized
and required by § 8 of the Act to Regulate Commerce to
award "the full amount of damages sustained," and that,
of course, was to be determined from the evidence. If it
showed that the damages corresponded to the rebate in
one instance and to the overcharge in the other the claimant was entitled to an award upon that basis. The case
of Pennsylvania Railroadv. InternationalCoal Mining Co.,
230 U. S. 184, is cited as holding otherwise, but it does not
do so. There a shipper, without proving that he sustained
any damages, sought to recover from a carrier for giving
a rebate to another shipper, and this court, referring to
§ 8, said (p. 203): "The measure of damages was the
pecuniary loss inflicted on the plaintiff as the result of
the rebate paid. Those damages might be the same as
the rebate, or less than the rebate, or many times greater
than the rebate; but unless they were proved they could
not be recovered. Whatever they were they could be recovered." There is nothing in either report of the Commission which is in conflict with what was said in that
case. On the contrary, the plain import of the findings
is that the amounts awarded represent the claimant's
actual pecuniary loss; and, in view of the recital that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

findings were based upon the evidence adduced, it must
be presumed, there being no showing to the contrary, that
they were justified by it.
It is also urged, as it was in the courts below, that the
provision in § 16 that, in actions like this, "the findings
and order of the Commission shall be primafacie evidence
of the facts therein stated" is repugnant to the Constitution in that it infringes upon the right of trial by jury and
operates as a denial of due process of law.
This provision only establishes a rebuttable presumption. It cuts off no defense, interposes no obstacle to a
full contestation of all the issues, and takes no question of
fact from either court or jury. At most therefore it is
merely a rule of evidence. It does not abridge the right
of trial by jury or take away any of its incidents. Nor
does it in any wise work a denial of due process of law.
In principle it is not unlike the statutes in many of the
States whereby tax deeds are made prima facie evidence
of the regularity of all the proceedings upon which their
validity depends. Such statutes have been generally
sustained, Pillow v. Roberts, 13 How. 472, 476; Marx v.
Hanthorn, 148 U. S. 172, 182; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.
51, 59; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed. 525,
as have many other state and Federal enactments establishing other rebuttable presumptions. Mobile &c. Railroad v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42; Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81; Reitler v. Harris, 223
U. S. 437; Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 25. An
instructive case upon the subject is Holmes v. Hitnt, 122
Massachusetts, 505, where, in an elaborate -opinion by
Chief Justice Gray, a statute making the report of an
auditor prima facie evidence at the trial before a jury was
held to be a legitimate exercise of legislative power over
rules of evidence and in no wise inconsistent with the
constitutional right of trial by jury. And in Chicago &c.
Railroadv. Jones, 149 Illinois, 361, 382, a like ruling was

MEEKER & CO. v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

431

Opinion of the Court.

made in respect of a statutory provision similar to that
now before us.
Complaint is made because the court refused to direct a
verdict for the defendant, but of this it suffices to say that
the ruling was undoubtedly right, because the plaintiff's
evidence, including the findings and orders of the Commission, tended to show every fact essential to a recovery upon
both claims and there was no opposing evidence.
The District Court made an allowance of $20,000 as a
fee for the plaintiff's attorneys and directed that it be
taxed and collected as part of the costs, the allowance
being expressly apportioned in equal amounts between
the services in the proceeding before the Commission and
the services in the action in court. Complaint is made of
this on the grounds (a) that the allowance is in any view
excessive, (b) that the act does not authorize an allowance
for services before the Commission, and (c) that the provision authorizing an allowance for services in the action
is invalid as being purely arbitrary and as imposing a
penalty merely for failing to pay a debt.
Without considering whether the mere amount of an
allowance under the statute can ever be reexamined here
(see Rev. Stat., § 1011; Martinton v. Fairbanks, 112 U. S.
670, 672; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, 48; Railroad
Co. v. Fraloff, 100 U. S. 24, 31; New York &c. Railroad
v. Winter, 143 U. S. 60, 75) we are clear that it cannot be
in this instance. The record discloses that the allowance
was predicated upon an exhibition of a transcript of the
proceedings before the Commission and upon a statement
made in open court, in the presence of counsel for the defendant, of the services rendered before the Commission
and in the action. But the transcript and statement have
not been made part of this record and so we cannot know
what was shown by them and cannot judge of their bearing upon the amount of the allowance. Besides, it does
not appear that the defendant offered any evidence tend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

ing to show what would be a reasonable allowance or
that it in any way objected or excepted to the amount
of the allowance when it was made. The only exception
reserved was addressed to the allowance of any fee for
the services before the Commission or for those in the
action. In this situation the defendant is not now in a
position to claim that as matter of fact the allowance is
excessive. Whether as matter of law it is objectionable
is another question.
Section 8 provides that a carrier violating the act shall
be liable to any person injured for the damages he sustains, "together with a reasonable counsel or attorney's
fee, to be fixed by the court in every case of recovery,
which attorney's fee shall be taxed and collected as part
of the costs in the case." And § 16, relating to actions to
enforce claims for damages after the Commission has
acted thereon, provides "If the petitioner shall finally prevail he shall be allowed a reasonable attorney's fee, to be
taxed and collected as a part of the costs of the suit."
In our opinion the services for which an attorney's
fee is to be taxed and collected are those incident to the
action in which the recovery is had and not those before
the Commission. This is not only implied in the words
of the two provisions just quoted but is suggested by the
absence of any reference to proceedings anterior to the
action. And that nothing more is intended becomes plain
when we consider another provision in § 16 which requires
the Commission, upon awarding damages, to make an
order directing the carrier to pay the sum awarded "on or
before a day named" and then declares that, if the carrier
does not comply with the order "within the time limit,"
the claimant may proceed to collect the damages by suit.
The Commission is not to allow a fee, but only to find
the amount of the damages and fix a time for payment
and, if the carrier pays the award within the time named,
no right to an attorney's fee arises. It is only when the

MEEKER v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

damages are recovered by suit that a fee is to be allowed,
and this is as true of the provision in § 8 as of that in § 16.
The evident purpose is to charge the carrier with the cost
and expenses entailed by a failure to pay without suitif the claimant finally prevails-and to that end to tax
as part of the costs in the suit wherein the recovery is had
a reasonable fee for the services of the claimant's attorney
in instituting and prosecuting that suit. It follows that
the District Court erred in matter of law in allowing a
fee for services before the Commission.
The contention that the provision for an attorney's
fee for services in the suit is invalid as being purely arbitrary and as imposing a penalty for merely failing to pay
a debt is without merit. The provision is leveled against
common carriers engaged in interstate commerce, a quasi
public business, and is confined to cases wherein a recovery
is had for damages resulting from the carrier's violation
of some duty imposed in the public interest by the Act
to Regulate Commerce. Atlantic Coast Line Railroad v.
Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 208. One. of its purposes
is to promote a closer observance by carriers of the duties
so imposed; and that there is,,also a purpose to encourage
the payment, without suit, of just demands does not militate against its validity. Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Railway v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642, 651, and cases cited. It
requires that the fee be reasonable and fixed by the court,
and does not permit it to be taxed against the carrier until
the plaintiff's demand has been adjudged upon full inquiry to be valid. In these circumstances the validity
of the provision is not doubtful but certain.
It results from what has been said that the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed and
that of the District Court must be modified by eliminating
the allowance of $10,000 as an attorney's fee for services
before the Commission and affirmed as so modified.
It is so ordered.
voL. ccxxxvi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

MEEKER

v. LEHIGH

236 U. S.

VALLEY RAILROAD.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 435.

Argued October 13, 14, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R., ante, p. 412, followed as to construction effect of the amendment to § 16 of theAct to Regulate Commerce and the act of June 29, 1906, in regard to presentation of claims
by shippers against carriers for damages by reason of unreasonable
and excessive rates and discrimination, and that the attorney's fee
allowed for recovery of the amount awarded can only be for proceeding in court and not on proceedings before the Commission.
A report of the Interstate Commerce Commission holding a rate excessive and declaring what would be a reasonable rate and a reparation. order based thereon were properly admitted as prima facie
evidence of the facts therein contained, although made in another
and identical proceeding between the same parties, and which the
Commission had power in its discretion to consolidate therewith,
it also appearing that the carrier did not then object to its admission and the order recited that it was made after a full hearing on,
and submission of, the issues in the proceeding in which it was made.
Harmless error constitutes no ground for reversal, and so held as to
the presence of irrelevant matter in a report of the Interstate Commerce Commission which matter, while it should not have gone to
the jury, did not prejudice respondent.
211 Fed. Rep. 785, reversed.

facts, which involve the construction of §§ 1, 2 and
16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce and questions of discrimination, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. John A. Garver and Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr.,
for petitioner.
Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Edgar H. Boles,
Mr. Frank H. Platt and Mr. George W. Field were on the

brief, for respondent.

(See argument, ante, p. 412.)

By leave of court, Mr. Joseph W. Folk and Mr. Charles

W. Needham filed a brief in behalf of the Interstate Cummerce Commission.

MEEKER v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE VAN

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This is a companion case to that just decided and involves a claim for reparation similar to the second claim
in that case, and arising out of the same rate.
In this instance the shipper was Henry E. Meeker,
who had succeeded to the business of Meeker & Company,
the shippers in the other case, and the shipments in respect of which reparation is sought were made between
April 13, 1908, and April 13, 1910. Otherwise the two
claims differ only in amount. A complaint covering this
claim was filed'with the Interstate Commerce Commission
April 13, 1910, before it passed upon the complaint covering the other. In its report of June 8, 1911, upon the
earlier complaint the Commis ion referred to the later one
and said (21. I. C. C. 129, 137) : "As the subject-matter
of the two complaints is the same, in so far as the reasonableness of the rates is concerned, the disposition of
the later case will perhaps be determined by the conclusions reached in this case." In that report it found that
the rate in question was excessive and unreasonable and
what would have been a reasonable rate, and directed a
further hearing upon the matter of reparation. Such a
hearing was had on both complaints and, on May 7, 1912,
the Commission made a supplemental report, entitled
in -both cases, in which it referred to its original report
and the findings therein and, after dealing with the reparation sought in the first complaint (Commission's No.
1180), said of the present claim (23 I. C. C. 480, 482):
"On basis of our decision in No. 1180, and upon consideration of the evidence submitted at the hearing of the
present case regarding the amount of reparation due complainant, we now find that the rates exacted by defendant for the transportation of anthracite coal from the
Wyoming coal region in Penisylvania to Perth Amboy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

N. J., during the period from April 13, 1908, to April 13,
1910, were unreasonable to the extent that they exceeded rates of $1.40 per gross ton on prepared sizes,
$1.30 on pea,. and $1.15 on buckwheat; that compldinant
shipped from said point of origin to said destination during
the period above set forth, 46,772.02 tons of coal of prepared sizes, 26,972.06 tons of pea coal, and 22,004.09 tons
of buckwheat coal; that complainant paid charges thereon,
amounting to $136,663.41, at the rates herein found to
have been unreasonable, and was damaged to the extent
of the difference between the amount which he (id pay
and $125,849.81, the amount which he would have paid
at the rates above found reasonable; and that he is, therefore, entitled to an award of reparation in the sum of
$10,813.60, with interest amounting to $1,526.53 upon
the individual charges comprising said sum from the
dates of payment thereof to September 1, 1911, together
with interest on said sum of $10,813.60 from the 1st day
of September, 1911.
"The exhibits showing details respecting the shipments
upon which reparation is asked are too extensive to be
set forth in this report. But inasmuch as the accuracy
of the figures in said exhibits respecting the shipments
made, freight charges paid, and reparation due, is conceded of record by defendant, we deem it unnecessary
to make detailed findings respecting the numerous shipments involved."
Thereupon the Commission made and entered the
following order:
"This case being at issue upon complaint and aniswers
on file, and having been duly heard and submitted by
the parties, and full investigation of the matters and
things involved having been had, and the Commission
having, on the date hereof, made and filed a report, containing its findings of fact and conclusions thereon, which
said report is hereby referred to and made a part hereof:

MEEKER v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Itis ordered, That defendant Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company be, and it is hereby authorized and required
to pay unto complainant, Henry E. Meeker, on or before
the 15th day of July, 1912, the sum of $10,813.60, with
interest at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, amounting
to $1,526.53 upon the various individual charges comprising said sum, from the dates of payment thereof to
September 1, 1911, as itemized in complainant's Exhibit 1,
together with interest at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum on said sum of $10,813.60 from September 1, 1911,
as reparation for unreasonable rates charged for the transportation of various shipments of anthracite coal from
the Wyoming coal region in Pennsylvania to Perth Amboy,
N. J., which rates so charged have been found by this
Commission to have been unreasonable, as more fully
and at large appears in and by said report of the Commission."
The railroad company was duly served with a copy
of the order, but refused to comply with it, and, on September 3, 1912, after the expiration of the period allowed
for compliance, the claimant brought the present action
in the District Court. The railroad company answered
as in the other case. At the trial the plaintiff relied in
the main upon the findings and order of the Commission
as prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated, and
no opposing evidence was presented. The plaintiff had a
verdict and judgment for $13,161.78, the amount of
damages awarded by the Commission with interest. The
court also allowed an attorney's fee of $5,000, to be taxed
and collected as part of the costs, one-half of the allowance being expressly attributed to services before the
Commission and the other half to the services in the
action. The case was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals where the judgment was reversed with that in the
other case. 211 Fed. Rep. 785. This case was then
brought here in the same way as the other. 234 U. S. 749.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Save that the statute of limitations is not relied upon,
the questions here presented are almost all identical with
those in the other case, and in so far as they are the same
they are sufficiently disposed of by what is there said.
There are but two points of difference and they require
only brief mention.
The Commission's report of June 8, 1911, finding the
rate in question excessive and unreasonable and what
would have been a reasonable rate was admitted in evidence over the defendant's objection that it was made
in another and separate proceeding, that is, upon the
complaint of Meeker & Company, and therefore was
not admissible in this case for any purpose. The objection
was rightly overruled. Without any doubt it was within
the discretion of the Commission to permit Henry E.
Meeker to intervene in respect of his individual claim in
the proceeding begun by Meeker & Company or to consolidate his .complaint with theirs. This, in effect, is
what was done. The supplemental report so shows and
it does not appear that the railroad company objected
to that course or was in any way prejudiced by it. Besides, the reparation order recites that it was made after
a full hearing and submission of the issues presented by
the complaint and answer relating to this claim and
there was no evidence tendingto contradict the recital.
The further objection was made to the admission of
the same report that it contained much that was not
relevant to the case on trial, but the objection was overruled and it is fairly inferable from the record that the
entire report was placed before the jury. It hardly could
be said that the presence of some irrelevant matter rendered the whole report inadmissible, and yet the objection seems to have been made in that view. The
objection would have been better-founded had it been confined to what was deemed irrelevant. Of course, all that
should have gone before the jury was the relevant findings

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. R. R. COMM., INDIANA.
236 U. S.

439

Syllabus.

in the report, and counsel for the plaintiff ought not to
have asked more. But we need not fix the responsibility
for what occurred, for it is certain that the defendant was
not harmed by it. The case made by the evidence rightly
admitted was such as, in the absence of any opposing evidence, and there was none, clearly entitled the plaintiff
to a verdict for the amount claimed. Every fact essential
to a recovery, save the service of the reparation order and
the refusal to comply with it, was prima facie established
by the findings and order of the Commission and these
could not be rejected by the jury in the absence of any
countervailing evidence. Kelly v. Jackson, 6 Pet. 622,
632. The service of the order was expressly admitted
and the refusal to comply with it was fully proved and
practically conceded. Of course, harmless error constitutes no ground for reversal.
We conclude, therefore, that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed and that of the
District Court must be modified by eliminating the allowance of an attorney's fee of $2,500 for services before
the Commission and affirmed as so modified.
It is so ordered.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME* COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 107. Argued December 9, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.
if the car is moving on a railroad engaged in interstate commerce
it is subject to the provisions and penalties of the Safety Appliance
Act, although engaged at the time in intrastate commerce. United
States v. Southern Ry., 222 U. S. 20.
The principle that an act may constitute a criminal offense against

