OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

filed within the time required by the statute it was evi-dent, as matter of law, that the plaintiff had no cause of
action. The carrier not being liable to the plaintiff for
overcharges collected more than four years prior to the
bringing of this suit, it was proper to dismiss the action.
4. There is the further contention that the connecting
carriers operating north of the Ohio River had to collect
the filed tariff rate of 30 cents per hundred, even though
they were not responsible for the advance, and that in no
event could they be held liable for the refund until after
they had been heard by the Commission. There is nothing
in this record indicating that the Commission undertook
to impose a liability upon those who had not been heard.
But the conclusion that the plaintiff's cause of action
had been lost by lapse of time, makes it unnecessary to
determine whether carriers participating in the haul,but who did not put 'in the advance, or who were not
parties to the proceeding in which a portion of the rate was
held to be unreasonable,-could be held jointly and
severally liable for the collections made by them while
the 30 cent rate *as in force. The suit was properly
dismissed on other grounds and the judgment is
Affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR -LINE RAILWAY v. PADGETT,
ADMINISTRATRIX OF PADGETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 710.

Argued February 24, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

Where plaintiff in error seeks to review under § 237, Judicial Code, the
judgment of the state court in a case arising under the Employers'
LiabilityAct, this court may not consider non-Federal questions

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. PADGETT.
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which do not in their essence involve the existence of right to recover under the Federal statute.
Existence of power to review the judgment of the state court under
§ 237, Judicial Code, rests not merely upon form but upon substance
and cannot arise from the mere assertion of a formal right which is
so wanting in foundation and unsubstantial as to be devoid of merit
and therefore frivolous.
While in this case the assignment of error on its face is not frivolous
and gives jurisdiction to review, the proposition that the jury was
misled by the instructions of the court in regard to the doctrine of
assumption of risk is unfounded.
If the proof is sufficient to justify the submission of the case to the
jury on the question of assumption of risk, there is no reversible error
in so doing and in not instructing a verdict for defendant, and, as
in this case, two courts below have concurred in finding that there
was sufficient proof this court finds there was no error.
83 S. E. Rep . 633, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of writs of error to review a judgment of the state court
under § 237, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. B. S. Lyles for plaintiff in error:

The right, privilege or immunity claimed by defendant
below under the Federal Employers' Liability Act was
specially set up or claimed by defendant within § 237 of
the Code.
This court will review the findings of fact in the lower
courts under the circumstances of this case.
The legal conclusions of the state court upon facts found
were erroneous.
There is evidence that the intestate came to his death
while employed in interstate commerce within the act.
There is evidence of negligence proximately resulting in
the death of plaintiff's intestate.
In support of these contentions see Baker v. Telegraph
Co., 84 S. Car. 477; Benson v. Lancashire Ry., 1 King's
Bench, 242; Buist Co. v. Lancaster Co., 68 S. Car. 526;

Crosby v. Railway, 83 S. Car. 575; S. C., 81 S. Car. 31;

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S

Dent v. Bryce, 16 S. Car. 1; Ellsworth v. Metheny, 104
Fed. Rep. 119; GrandTrunk Ry. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
838; Guess v. A. C. L. R. R., 88 S. Car. 87; Illinois Cent.
R. R. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473; Jones v. C. & W. C. Ry.,
98 S. Car. 197; McCord v. Blackwell, 31 S. Car. 138;
Michigan Cent. Ry. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; Miedreichv.
Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236; Mondou v. Railway, 223 U. S.
1; Murphy v. Railroad, 89 S. Car. 15; Nor Car. Ry. v.
Zachary, 232 U. S. 248; Patton v. Tex. & Pac. R. R.,
179 U. S. 658; Pedersen v. Railroad,229 U. S. 150; Russell
v. Shore Line R. R., 155 Fed. Rep. 22; Re Scheffer, 105
U. S. 449; Seaboard Air Line v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477;
SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; St. Louis S.
W. Ry. v. Harvey, 144 Fed. Rep. 806; St. L., I. Mtn. & S.
Ry. v. Hesterly, 228 U. S. 702; St. L., I. Mtn. & S. Ry. v.
McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265; Stone v. Atl. Coast Line, 96
S. Car. 228; Thompson v. Lee, 19 S. Car. 489; Towles v.
Railway, 83 S. Car. 504; Wyatt v. Cely, 86 S. Car. 539,
544.
Mr. W. Boyd Evans, with whom Mr. James H. Fanning,
Mr. W. H. Sharpe and Mr. A. D. Martin were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Is there jurisdiction to review the action of the court
below in affirming the judgment of the trial court which
was entered on the verdict of a jury, and if so, was error
below committed, are the questions for decision (83
S. E. Rep. 633).
The suit was brought to recover damages alleged to
have been suffered by the death of Lewis H. Padgett, a
railroad engineer in the service of the defendant company
the plaintiff in error, caused by his having fallen during the

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. PADGETT.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

early morning hours into a drop pit in a locomotive roundhouse belonging to the company. The negligence charged
was not only the failure to cover the pit but also to properly light the roundhouse. If our jurisdiction attaches, it
can only be because the right to recover was based upon
the Act of Congress commonly known as the Employers'
Liability Act, it having been averred that the deceased was
an employ6 of the company, actually engaged in interstate
commerce. But as pointed out in St. Louis & Iron
Mountain Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265, 275, although
the cause of action relied upon was based upon the Federal
statute, nevertheless, "as it comes here from a state court,
our power to review is controlled by Rev. Stat., § 709
[§ 237, Judicial Code] and we may therefore not consider
merely incidental questions not Federal in character, that
is, which do not in their essence involve the existence of the
right in the plaintiff to recover under the Federal statute
to which his recourse by the pleadings was exclusively
confined, or the converse, that is to say, the right of the
defendant to be shielded from responsibility under that
statute because when properly applied no liability on his
part from the statute would result. SeaboardAir Line Ry.
v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281." The existence of jurisdiction to
review under the principles just stated depends not merely
upon form but upon substance; that is, in this class of
cases as in others the general rule controls that power to
review cannot arise from the mere assertion of a formal
right when such asserted right is so wanting in foundation
and unsubstantial as to be devoid of all merit and frivolous.
There is no doubt that the assignments of error on their
face embrace Federal questions which give jurisdiction to
review. We therefore exercise jurisdiction and come to
consider the questions on their merits, incidentally pointing out in doing so the reasons why the questions are not
of such a frivolous character as not to afford a basis for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

authority to examine and dispose of them. The trial court
gave to the jury every instruction concerning the meaning
and application of the Act of Congress asked by the
company and therefore there is no ground whatever for
saying that the view of the statute relied upon by the
company was not given to the jury. But despite this fact
two of the nine assignments of error insist that the jury
was misled concerning the doctrine of assumption of the
risk applicable under the statute because of two statements as to the law on the subject made by the court to the
jury over the exception of the defendant which are asserted
to have been confusing because possibly conflicting with
each other. But while the proposition has sufficient
strength to exclude the conception that the contention is
frivolous, we are nevertheless of opinion that the court
below was right in holding that even upon the concession
for argument's sake that the two charges referred to if they
had stood alone might have tended to give to the jury a
mistaken conception of the law of assumption of the risk,
nevertheless there was no reason for saying that they
could have produced such a result in view of the express
instruction concerning the doctrine of assumption of the
risk as applied to the case in hand which was given by the
court to the jury in the very words asked by the company,
and which was so explicit as to dispel the possibility of
misconception. Whether the instructions could have
produced misconception in the minds of the jury is not to
be ascertained by merely considering isolated statements
but by taking into view all the instructions given and the
tendencies of the proof in the case to which they could
possibly be applied. And as from both of these points of
view we are of opinion that there is no room whatever for
the conclusion that any confusion or misconception as to
the doctrine of assumption of the risk could have arisen
from the particular statements which are relied upon, the
proposition based upon them is without merit.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. PADGETT.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While this disposes of the two assignments which are
directly and specifically concerned with the interpretation
of the statute, nevertheless the remaining seven also raise
questions of law under the statute, since they all in one
form or another rest upon the contention that error was
committed by the trial court in not taking the case from
the jury and instructing a verdict for the defendant upon
the assumption that there was no evidence sufficient to
justify the submission of the case to the jury for its consideration. Cresswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246,
261 i Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611;
St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S.
276, 277; Miedrich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S.236, 243, 244;
Carlson v. Curtiss, 234 U. S. 103, 106. Considering the
case from this point of view we think the contention cannot be said to be frivolous since its solution is by no means
free from difficulty, a situation which was manifested by
the division of opinion which arose on the subject in the
court below and by the further fact that some members of
this court now consider the proposition as affording dequate ground for reversal. But although the question is
not free from complexity, a majority of the court is of
opinion that the proof was sufficient to justify the submission of the case to the jury and therefore the proposition affords, no basis for holding that reversible error was
committed because that course was pursued. As the
considerations by which this conclusion is sustained depend solely upon an analysis of the evidence, and as a
statement upon the subject therefore would amount only
to giving a summary of- the proof in this case and its
tendencies involving rio matter of doctrinal importance,
for this reason and additionally in view of the fact that
both the courts below have concurred in holding that
there was no sufficient ground to take the case from the
jury, we think it is unnecessary to state the proof and its
tendencies and we therefore content ourselves with saying
voL. ccxxxvi--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

that the contention that error was committed in not taking
the case from the jury is found, after an examination of
the record, to be without merit.
In the argument a contention was urged based upon
some expression made use of by the trial-court in refusing
the request to take the case from-the jury. Although we
have considered the proposition and find it totally devoid
of merit, we do not stop to further state the contention or
the reasons which control us concerning it as ve think it
is manifestly an afterthought, as it was virtually not
raised in the trial court and was not included in the assignments of error made for the purpose of review by the court
below nor in those made in this court on the suing out of
the writ of error.
Affirmed.

WRIGHT,
COMPTROLLER
GENERAL
OF
GEORGIA, v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT .COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 161. Argued January 28, 29, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.
This court will not presume that a state legislature in granting a
charter containing exemptions would either practice deceit or make
a futile grant.
A lessee of railroads which wre built under special charters containing
irrepealable contracts by which the property was not subject to be
taxed higher than a specified per cent on the annual income derived
therefrom is not subject to an ad valorem tax as the owner of such
property.
The statutes of Georgia in regard to the taxation of railroads involved
in this action are construed as making the fee exempt from other taxation than that provided for in favor of the lessee as well as of the
lessor.

