OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

GLOBE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF PADUCAH, KENTUCKY, v. MARTIN, TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY OF ATKINS.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF PADUCAH, KENTUCKY, v. SAME.
OLD STATE NATIONAL BANK OF EVANSVILLE,
INDIANA, v. SAME.
MARTIN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF ATKINS, v. GLOBE BANK & TRUST COMPANY OF
PADUCAH, KENTUCKY.
APPEALS FROM UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI.

Nos. 99, 100, 101, argued December 4, 7, 1914, and No. 292, submitted
December 4,'1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.
A controversy over the distribution of a fund in the hands of the trustee
arising from proceeds of property attached under attachment by a
creditor, within four months of the petition, the lien of which has been
preserved for the estate, is a controversy arising in bankruptcy proceedings and appealable, as in other cases in equity, under the Circuit Court, of Appeals Act, and is not controlled by § 25 of the
Bankruptcy Act.
This case being appealable to this court under the Circuit Court of
Appeals Act, the petition for writ of certiorari is denied.
The title with which the trustee is vested under § 70-a includes all property transferred by the bankrupt in fraud of creditors and which
prior to the bankruptcy might have been levied upon and sold under
judicial process against him.
Under § 70-e, the trustee may avoid any'transfer by the bankrupt of
his property which any creditor of the bankrupt might have avoided,
and the trustee has authority to recover the property in the hands
of anyone not a bona fide holder for value.

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

The provisions of the Bankruptcy Act in regard to attachments and
liens acquired under state laws are superior to all state laws in virtue
of the constitutional authority of Congress to enact a uniform system of bankruptcy.
Even though a fund representing property conveyed in fraud of creditors may be recovered through the state court under an attachment
obtained by creditors who, under state law, would alone share in
the fund and the lien of which has been preserved under § 67-b,
disposition of the fund is determined by the rule of distribution prevailing in the Federal jurisdiction and not by that in the state court
in the absence of bankruptcy, and so held that a fund so obtained
should be distributed hetween all the creditors as a general asset of
the estate and not between those creditors who would alone have
shared in the fund had their attachment been obtained more than
four months prior to the petition.
The liens on property passing to the trustee to which a preference is
given under § 64-b in accordance with state laws are statutory liens
such as those for furnishing labor and materials and that section
does not prevent the application of § 67-f in the circumstances here
shown.
193 Fed. Rep. 841; 201 Fed. Rep. 31, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 67-f of
the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, and the application of proceeds resulting from a lien preserved for the estate thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. D. H. Hughes, with whom Mr. Alexander Gilchrist,
Mr. C. K. Wheeler and Mr. J. G. Wheeler were on the brief,
for appellants:
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in refusing to dismiss appeal and petition for review. In re Mueller, 135
Fed. Rep. 711; In re Loving, 224 U. S. 183; Coder v. Arts,
213 U. S. 213; Bankruptcy Act, 1898, §§ 25-a and 25-b.
The Circuit Court of Appeals also erred in holding that
recovery of property under § 1907, Carroll's Kentucky
Statutes, ed. 1909, is for benefit of creditors whose debts
were created after voluntary conveyance, as well as those
whose debts were created before such conveyance, although
VOL. CCXXXVI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee, and for Petitioner in No. 292. 236 U. S.

no actual fraud shown. Atkins v. Globe Bank, 124 S. W.
Rep. 879; Bankruptcy Act, 1898, §§ 64-b-(5), 67-f, 70 (4);
In re Bennett, 153 Fed. Rep. 673; In re Allen (D. C.), 96
Fed. Rep. 512; Merchants Bank v. Sexton, 228 U. S. 634;
In re Laird, 109 Fed. Rep. 550; First National Bank v.
Staake, 202 U. S. 141; Miller v. New OrleansFertilizer Co.,
211 U. S. 496.
Mr. W. F. Bradshaw, Jr., and Mr. J. D. Mocquot for
appellee, and for petitioner in No. 292:
Kentucky Statutes, §§ 1906, 1907, providing for recovery of property conveyed in fraud of creditors, affords
the creditor no lien upon the property except such as is
acquired by and arises at the time of the institution of the
creditor's action. The statute merely affords a cause of
action. The creditor first attaching in such an action acquires a first lien on the property. Stamper v. Hibbs, 94
Kentucky, 358.
Kentucky Statutes, §§ 2487, 2488, provide for an inChoate lien which exists before the institution of the action.
An action brought Ulnder those statutes is for the purpose
of enforcing a preexisting lien. In re Bennett, 153 Fed.
Rep. 673; Hall v. Guthrie, 103 S. W. Rep. 731; Winters v.
Howell, 109 Kentucky, 163.
An action for the recovery of property fraudulently conveyed by a bankrupt vests exclusively in the trustee under
the provisions of §§ 70-a (4) and 70-e of the Bankruptcy Act
of 1898. Anderson v. Anderson, 80 Kentucky, 638; Annis
v. Butterfield, 58 Atl. Rep. 898; Buffington v. Harvey, 95
U. S. 99; Bush v. Export Storage Company, 136 Fed. Rep.
918; Clark v. Larremore, 188 U. S. 486; In re Downing, 201
Fed. Rep. 93; Glenny v. Langdon, 98 U. S. 20; Gray, 3 Am.
Bankruptcy, 647; 62 N. Y. Supp. 618; Hunt v. Doyal, 57
S. E. Rep. 489; Moyer v. Dewey, 103 U. S. 647; RuhlKoblegardv. Gillespie, 61 W. Va. 584; Trimble v. Woodhead,
102 U. S. 647; Williamson v. Seldon, 53 Minnesota, 73.

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Argument for Appellee, and for Petitioner in No. 292.

Although in the absence of bankruptcy only certain
creditors could, under the state law, recover the property
fraudulently conveyed, when bankruptcy intervenes the
property fraudulently conveyed passes as an asset of the
estate, recoverable by the trustee for the benefit of the
creditors generally. Annis v. Butterfield, 58 Atl. Rep. 898;
Clark.v. Larremore, 188 U. S. 486; In re Downing, 201 Fed.
Rep. 93; First National Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S. 141.
A controversy between the trustee representing general
creditors on one hand and a class of creditors claiming
exclusive right to the fund realized from the recovery of
property fraudulently conveyed on the other hand, the
property being at the time of the bankruptcy in the adverse possession of the fraudulent vendee, constitutes a
controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding appealable
under § 24-a of the Bankruptcy Act. Coder v. Arts, 213
U. S. 223; Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296;
Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545; In re Loving,
224 U. S. 183; In re Mueller, 135 Fed. Rep. 711; Security
Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415; Thomas v. Sugarman, 218 U. S. 129; York Mfg. Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344.
If this controversy is to be regarded as involving only
an order of distribution under the claim of the appellants
to a lien upon the fund, it may then be held a bankruptcy
proceeding reviewable in a revisory proceeding in the
Circuit Court of Appeals under § 24-b, and reviewable by
this court on writ of certiorari. But even in such event,
inasmuch as the appeal involves both questions of law and
of fact, and a writ of certiorari only a question of law, this
court may retain jurisdiction upon either proceeding and
determine the question of law. Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181
U. S. 188; Duryea Power Co. v. Sternbergh, 218 U. S. 299;
First National Bank v. Chicago Trust Co., 198 U. S. 280;
Holden v. Stratton, 191 U. S. 115.
By whatever means the fund representing property
conveyed in fraud of creditors may be recovered and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

brought into the bankruptcy court, the disposition of the
fund in bankruptcy. is determined by the rule of distribution prevailing in the Federal jurisdiction, and is not affected by any rule of distribution prevailing in the state
court in the absence of bankruptcy. Acme Harvester Co. v.
Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S. 307; FirstNational Bank v.
Staake, 202 U. S. 141; Miller v. New Orleans Fertilizer Co.,
211 U. S. 496.
In the Suprgmo Court neither party will be permitted to
abandon the issues made by them and considered by the inferior courts and in this court take the position that their
rights really- rested upon other grounds not at issue.
Tefft v. Ilunsuri, 222 U. S. 114.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals from a decree .of the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit involving
the distribution of a fund in the hands of a Trustee in
Bankruptcy. The cases are reported in the Circuit
Court of Appeals in 193 Fed. Rep. 841 and 201 Fed.
Rep. 31.
One Thomas J. Atkins, upon a petition in involuntary
bankruptcy, was, on December 28, 1908, in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, duly adjudicated a bankrupt. On December 3,
1906, the bankrupt conveyed certain parcels of real estate
to his son, Edward L. Atkins, and to the children of said
Edward L. Atkins. At the time of the conveyance, the
bankrupt was indebted to the Globe Bank and Trust
Company of Paducah, Kentucky, the First National Bank
of Paducah, Kentucky, and the Old State National Bank
of Evansville, Indiana. He also became indebted, subsequently to the delivery of said deed, to certain other
crecitors in considerable sums. On August 25, 1908, the
Globe Bank & Trust Company instituted a suit in the

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

McCracken Circuit Court of Kentucky, F.gainst Atkins
and the vendees of said deed, asking a judgment for the
amount of the debt, and seeking to set aside the deed of
conveyance as fraudulent and void, causing at the same
time a writ of attachment to issue, -which writ of attachment was levied upon the real estate described-in the deed.
Similar actions were begun by the First National Bank of
Paducah, and the Old State National Bank of Evansville,
asking the same relief, and in each of said actiors attachments were issued and levied upon the same property.
These suits were begun and the attachments issued within
four months of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
Arthur Y. Martin was duly elected trustee in bankruptcy.
On January 9, 1909, the Globe Bank & Trust Company
filed its petition contesting the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, and its right to interfere with the proceedings in the state court for the recovery of the property as
aforesaid. On January 20, 1909, the Globe Bank & Trust
Company filed a second petition, praying that the attachment lien be preserved under § 67-f of the Bankruptcy
Act, and that it be permitted to make the trustee, A. Y.
Martin, a defendant in said state court proceeding. On
February 18, 1909, the bankruptcy court entered an order,
directing that the attachment lien be preserved for the
benefit of the bankrupt estate, as provided in § 67-f ahd
the referee, under aithority from the court made an order
authorizing the trustee to institute an action for the recovery of the property and to intervene in the state court.
Thereafter the trustee in bankruptcy instituted an action
in the McCracken Circuit Court, praying that said conveyance be set aside as fraudulent and void, as against.
creditors both before and after the execution and delivery
of the deed, and setting up his right as trustee in bankruptcy to be substituted as the real party in interest
in the suits then pending in the state court, and further
praying that all rights of action and recoveries resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

therefrom should be decreed to pass to the trustee as
assets of the bankrupt estate.
The trustee's action was consolidated with the actions
then pending in the McCracken Circuit Court, brought by
the creditors, and thereafter judgment was rendered,
adjudging that enough of the property be sold to realize
the amount of the creditors' debts existing at the time of
the conveyance, and adjudging that the conveyance was
not actually fraudulent and therefore not voidable as to
creditors whose debts were created after the delivery of
the deed, and that court appointed the trustee in bankruptcy a special commissioner to sell the property and
hold all the proceeds subject to the further order of the
court in the further and final distribution of such proceeds, or subject to orders of the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Kentucky in its
final distribution of the entire assets of the estate of such
bankrupt, and the final adjustment and settlement of its
affairs before such court in such proceedings now pending
in bankruptcy, "and the rights of all creditors in such
bankrupt proceedings in the distribution or disposition
of such proceeds by the bankrupt estate are hereby reserved and not determined, but left open for final adjudication among them in such proceedings in bankruptcy."
The trustee, as well as other parties, appealed to the
Kentucky Court of Appeals, and that court rendered a
judgment which we shall have occasion to consider more
at length hereafter.
Subsequently, after the case had gone back to the McCracken Circuit Court from thie Court of Appeals, the
trustee filed his report of the sale of the property, and asked
the court to direct him in the distribution of the proceeds
of the sale in his hands. The Globe Bank & Trust Company, the First National Bank, and the Old State National
Bank of Evansville, Indiana, claimed the whole of the
fund recovered, 'and. afterwards, upon the hearing, the

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

referee in bankruptcy entered an order, adjudging the
three banks named, whose debts were created antecedent
to the execution and delivery of the deed, entitled to
the entire proceeds of the property, being the sum of
$16,146.58, a sum less than the total amount of their
debts, leaving nothing for distribution among general
creditors.
The District Court affirmed the action of the referee,
and an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit. A petition for review was filed
at the same time.
It further appears that the Globe Bank & Trust Company, the First National Bank, and the Old State National
Bank of Evansville, Indiana, had originally filed proofs
of debts, setting up their claims in bankruptcy. Afterwards the Banks filed amended and supplemental petitions
and proofs of claims setting up their alleged priority to
which pleadings the trustee filed a response and the order
appealed from was entered. The Circuit Court of Appeals,
treating the case as before it upon appeal (201 Fed. Rep.
31), entered a decree from which the present appeal is
taken, reversing the order and decree of the District Court,
and finding that the trustee held the fund for distribution
among all the creditors of the estate, and not fbr the exclusive benefit of the banks named as prior creditors.
It is first contended that this court has no jurisdiction
because the case, if not properly before the Circuit Court
of Appeals by petition for review, should have been taken
to. that court under § 25 of the Banlruptcy Act, which
section limits the time of appeal and requires special
findings of fact in bankruptcy proceedings upon claims.
We are of opinion, however, that the Circuit Court of
Appeals rightly decided (201 Fed. Rep. 31) that the contest over the distribution of this fund in the hands of the
trustee was a controversy arising in the bankruptcy proceedings, and hence appealable as other cases in equity

OCTOBER TERM,
Opinion of the Court.

iM4.
236 U. S.

under the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, and the appeals
to the Circuit Court of Appeals and this court were properly taken. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296;
Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223; Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust
Co., 216 U. S. 545; Matter of Louing, 224 U. S. 183; In re
Mueller, 135 Fed. Rep. 711. This view of the jurisdiction
of the court results in the denial of the petition for writ
of certiorari in No. 292, submitted at the same time with
the other cases now under consideration.
We come then to the cases upon their merits. Section
67-f of the Bankruptcy Act (July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat.
544,565) provides:
"That all levies, judgments, attachments, or other liens,
obtained through legal proceedings against a person who
is insolvent, at any time within four months prior to the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy against him, shall be
deemed null and void in case he is adjudged a bankrupt,
and the property affected by the levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien shall be deemed wholly discharged and
released from the same, and shall pass to the trustee as a
part of the estate of the bankrupt, unless the court shall,
on due notice, order that the right under such levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien shall be preserved for the
benefit of the estate; and thereupon the same may pass
to and shall be preserved\ by the trustee for the benefit of
the estate as aforesaid. And the court may order such
conveyance as shall be necessary to carry the purposes of
this section into effect: Provided, That nothing herein
contained shall have the effect to destroy or impair the
title obtained by such levy, judgment, attachment, or
other lien, of a bona fide purchaser for value who shall
have acquired the same without notice or reasonable
cause for inquiry."
Under § 70-a of the Bankruptcy Act the trustee of the
estate is vested with the title of the bankrupt, including
all property transferred by him in fraud of creditors and

GLOBt BANK v. MARTIN.
36 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property which prior to the filing of the petition he could
by any means have transferred or which might have been
levied upon and sold under judicial process against him.
Under § 70-e of the same Act, the Trustee may avoid
any transfer by the bankrupt of his property which any
creditor of the bankrupt might have avoided, and he is
given authority to recover the property in the hands of
anyone not a bona fide holder for value. The authority
of the trustee to prosecute such actions does not seem to be
questioned, and is ample for the purpose involved -in the
present suit. Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S.
415, 425, 426.
In the cases in the McCracken Circuit Court the property was charged to have been conveyed in fraud of creditors and also involved a consideration of § 1907 of the
Laws of Kentucky (Carroll, 1909), which provides that:
"Every gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge
made by a debtor, of or upon any of his estate, without
valuable consideration therefor, shall be void as to all his
then existing liabilities, but shall not, on that account
alone, be void as to creditors whose debts or demands are
thereafter contracted, nor as to purchasers with notice of
the voluntary alienation or charge; and though it be adjudged to be void as to a prior creditor, it shall not therefore be deemed to be void as to such subsequent creditors
or purchasers."
It is the contention of the appellants that, as the conveyances were held in the Kentucky courts to be void
under that section as to creditors whose debts and demands then existed, and because of the lack of actual fraud
were held not to be void as to subsequent creditors or
purchasers, they are entitled to priority, because of the
Kentucky statute and the judicial determinations of the
state court.
The argument of the appellants does not depend upon
the attachments alone, but is based upon their right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

subject the property, which right they contend existed
long prior to the four months before the institution of the
bankruptcy proceeaings. But this argument must be
considered in the light of the provisions of § 67-f. That
section distinctly provides that all levies, judgments, attachments or other liens, obtained through legal proceedings against a person who is insolvent, within four months
of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, shall be deemed
null and void, and the property affected by the levy,
judgment, attachment, or other lien shall be deemed
wholly discharged and released from the same, and shall
pass to the trustee as a part of the estate of the bankrupt,
unless the court shall, as was done in this case, order that
the right under the levy, judgment, attachment or other
lien be preserved for the benefit of the estate, in which
event the same shall pass to and be preserved by the
trustee for the benefit of the estate. Except for the attachments, the appellant banks had no specific lien upon the
estate.
The attachments were doubtless sued out because under
the Kentucky statute the parties were entitled thereby
to gain a preference over other intervening creditors.
Stamper v. Hibbs, 94 Kentucky, 358. The creditors had
a right, it is true, to bring an action to set aside the conveyance as against existing creditors, but that right was
not supported by any preexisting lien. The suit was instituted to assert the creditors' rights against the property
and thus to subject it to the payment of their claims. The
banks had a right of action for this purpose, but the property was not subjected to attachment, nor was. there any
action seeking to enforce rights in the property until the
suits were begun and that was within four months of the
filing of the bankruptcy petition.
With attachments and liens thus acquired under state
laws, the Bankruptcy Act dealt in provisions which were
superior to all state laws upon the subject in virtue of the

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

constitutional authority of Congress to enact a uniform
system of bankruptcy. In re Watts and Sachs, 190 U. S.
1, 27; First Nat'l Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S. 141, 148.
The difference, having the provisions of the act in view,
between the beginning of a proceeding to assert liens that
existed more than four months before the filing of the
petition in bankruptcy, and the attempt to create them
by attachment and other proceedings within four ponths,
has been recognized in decisions of this court. In Metcalf
v. Barker, 187 U. S. 165, a proceeding to give effect to a
prior lien existing more than four months before the filing
of the bankruptcy petition was held not within the meaning of § 67-f of the Bankruptcy Act. In Clarke v. Larremore, 188 U,. S. 486, Metcalf v. Barker was distinguished,
and it was held that where a judgment in the state court
had gone so far that an execution had been realized by
sale of the debtor's property, and the money was yet in
the hands of. the sheriff, who held it under a restraining
order issued in a suit by another creditor, and the time
for the return of the execution had not yet elapsed, and a
bankruptcy petition was filed, the money did not belong
to the judgment creditor, but passed under § 67-f to the
Trustee in Bankruptcy.
Section 67-f came again under consideration in First
National Bank v. Staake, supra, in which property of the
bankrupt had been seized by attachment within four
months of the filing of the petition, and § 67, particularly
subdivision f, was given full consideration, and it was held
that where the benefit of the attachment was claimed by
the trustee in bankruptcy, and the court had ordeied the
same to be preserved for the benefit of the estate, so much
of the value of the property attached as was represented
by the attachment passed to the Trustee for the benefit
of the entire body of creditors; that the statute recognized
the lien of the attachment, but distributed the lien among
the whole body of creditors. In that case it was contended

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

that § 67-f referred only to liens upon property which, if
such liens were annulled, would pass to the Trustee in
Bankruptcy, but this court answered that argument by
saying:
"This clause evidently contemplates that attaching
creditors may acquire liens upon property which would
not pass to the bankrupt, if the liens were absolutely annulled, and therefore recognizes such liens, but extends
their operation to the general creditors. Had no proceedings in bankruptcy been taken doubtless this property
would have been sold for the benefit of the attaching creditors." And in the Staake Case it was held that it made
no difference that the diligent creditor was thereby deprived of a preference which would have been entirely
legal under the state law. It was also held that the rule
that the trustee stands in the shoes of the bankrupt has
no application to § 67-f where the trustee is permitted
to assert a superior right for the benefit of general creditors.
The section (67-f) was again before this court in Miller
v. New Orleans Fertilizer Co., 211 U. S. 496. In that case,
FirstNational Bank v. Staake, supra, was quoted with approval, and it was held that the right to preserve liens
under subdivisiofi f of § 67 extended to causes of action
arising under state law, and that while the state court had
the right to entertain suits to avoid conveyances under
the law of the State, under § 67-f the right to the lien of
preference arising from the suit might by authority of the
court be preserved for the~benefit of the bankrupt estate.
In that case it was further held that the proceeding and
judgment in the state court did not prejudice the right of
the bankruptcy court to determine among what creditors.
the property should be distributed, and that such questions were exclusively cognizable in the bankruptcy court.
See also Rock Island Plow Co. v. Reardon, 222 U. S. 354.
It is contended, however, by the appellants, that if we

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assume that under § 67-f of the. Bankruptcy Act, the
property or its proceeds must come to the trustee to be
distributed by him under the orders of the bankruptcy
court for the benefit of the estate, that inasmuch as under
the statute of Kentucky creditors existing prior to the
making of the deed in question were entitled to be preferred in the distribution of the proceeds, that right is
protected by sub-section 5 of § 64-b of the Bankruptcy
Act, which provides that the debts to have priority, except as therein provided, and to be paid in full out of bankrupt estates, are, among others, "debts owing to any person who by the laws of the States or the United States is
entitled to priority," and it is contended that this subsection, as considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the Sixth -Circuit in an opinion written by the late
Justice Lurton, In re Bennett, 153 Fed. Rep. 673, maintains that position. But an examination of that case
shows that it dealt with a statutory lien created under
§ 487 of the Kentucky statutes, giving preferences to persons furnishing materials or supplies to manufacturing
companies, and creating a lien upon the property in cases
of such companies in case of an assignment for the benefit
of creditors, or where the property is distributed among
creditors by operation of law or by act of the company.
It was held that such statutory lien gave a substantial
right in or inchoate lien upon the property from the date
of furnishing the material, within the spirit and meaning
of § 64-b sub-section 5, of the Bankruptcy Act. That
case, and such cases as In re Laird, 109 Fed. Rep. 550,
which dealt with labor claims, recognize the purpose of
Congress in passing § 64-b, to maintain statutory liens and
preferences in such cases in the distribution of the bankrupt estate.
We are unable to see that the case has any bearing upon
the construction of § 67-f and the cases now under consideration. Under our system of bankruptcy, and in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

administration of assignments under state laws, there
are certain persons such as those furnishing material or
labor that, in certain specified ways, are given preference
in the distribution of insolvent estates. It is a statutory lien of that kind with which the court dealt in In re
Bennett.
Nor are we able to discover anything excluding the
right of the Bankruptcy Court to itself distribute the
property in the proceedings had in the Kentucky courts
where the trustee intervened on the order of the judge.
In his petition filed in the McCracken Circuit Court,
Martin, the trustee, alleged that the conveyances made
by Atkins were fraudulent and should be set aside and
the property adjudged to belong to the trustee of the
bankrupt for the benefit of his creditors. He also set up
the order which had been made under § 67-f in the Bankruptcy Court. In that case, the McCracken Circuit Court
held that the conveyances were not actually fraudulent,
but were constructively so as to antecedent creditors.
The property was ordered to be sold and the trustee in
bankruptcy appointed special commissioner and directed
to hold the proceeds of the sale subject to the order of
final distribution of the bankruptcy court, as appears in
that part of the judgment which we have already quoted.
From that judgment the trustee and the grantees under
the deed appealed. Upon the truotee's appeal the court
in its opinion (124 S. W. Rep. 879) held that the trustee
had not been prejudiced by the failure of the court below
to allow the action to be prosecuted in his name, n 6 r had
the judgment prejudiced his substantial right as trustee
for the benefit of all the creditors. The court cited § 70
of the Bankruptcy Act, recognizing the right of the tnistee,
vested with the title of the bankrupt, to bring proceedings
in the bankruptcy court or the state court for its recovery,
and his right to be substituted by the court as plaintiff in
any suits brought by creditors for the purpose of recover-

GLOBE BANK v. MARTIN.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing property fraudulently conveyed by the bankrupt,
and in its opinion the court said (p. 881):
"It is true the trustee asked that the conveyance be
declared fraudulent as to all creditors both subsequent
and antecedent, while the court only adjudged that the
conveyance was fraudulent as to antecedent creditors,
but we do not understand that the Trustee in bankruptcy
is complaining of the judgment in so far as it refused to
adjudge the conveyance actually fraudulent. The judgrnent does not undertakce to dispose of the proceeds that
may be realized from the sale of the property, but leaves
this question open for future determination, and we do
not doubt that, when the court comes to make an order
concerning the disposition of the proceeds in the hands of
the trustee as special commissioner, it will direct that the
proceeds be paid over to the trustee in bankruptcy to be
administered as a part of the estate of the bankrupt in
the bankruptcy court. In anticipation of what we assume
the court will do, we may with propriety in this opinion
direct that it make such orders. If the court in the judgment-had undertaken to divest the trustee of the control
of this fund, we would upon this point reverse the judgment with directions to proceed as indicated, but, as the
court did not make such an order, we are of the opinion
that on the appeal of the trustee the judgment of the lower
court should be affirmed."
Therefore it appears that the judgment of the lower
court, directing the proceeds to be disposed of in the bankruptcy proceedings, was distinctly affirmed, and the court
declared that a contrary holding would have been reversed.
After dealing with the questions brought up by the
grantees in the deed, it was held that the court below was
wrong in fixing the date of the delivery and acceptance of
the deed as of April 20, 1907, instead of December 4, 1906,
and the court said (page 882):
"To what extent this will affect the judgment creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

we are not advised; but only those creditors whose debts
were created previous to December 4, 1906, are entitled
to participate in the proceeds realized from the sale of the
property. If the proceeds amount to more than sufficient
to pay such debts, the surplus should be paid to the grantees in the deed."
But we do not think in this part of the opinion the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky intended in anywise to depart
from its affirmation of the judgment of the Circuit Court
upon the trustee's appeal and its explicit recognition of
the authority of the Bankruptcy Court to control the
disposition of the proceeds of the sale. The court did
not consider § 67-f in its opinion, nor did it give, as it
had no authority so to do, any specific direction as to the
distribution of the fund in the Bankruptcy Court. The
McCracken Circuit Court after the mandate came down
repeated its order as to the distribution in the Bankruptcy
Court by reference to its former judgment, and the trustee
applied for an order in that court which was made and
subsequently appealed from in the present case.
Under the Bankruptcy Act, when the conveyance was
set aside, the lien or attachment being within four months
of the bankruptcy proceeding, the bankrupt being then
insolvent, of which fact no question is made, and the
Bankruptcy Court having ordered that the lien be preserved for the benefit of creditors, it became good under
the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act for the benefit of
all the creditors of the estate. Under this order the Bankruptcy Court had acquired jurisdiction,-the state court
had no possession of the property except such as the attachment gave-and after the conveyance was set aside
in the state court, for which purpose the state court
is given concurrent jurisdiction by § 70 of the Bankruptcy
Act, it had the right to determine for itself the disposition
of the fund arising from the property sold. Miller v.
New Orleans Fertilizer Co., 211 U. S. supra.

IOWA CENT. RY. v. BACON.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

We find no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, directing the distribution of the proceeds of
the sale for the benefit of all the creditors of the estate.
The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissenting.
IOWA CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. BACON,
ADMINISTRATOR OF LOCKHART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 130.

Submitted January 19, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

If the suit be one of which the Circuit Court can rightfully take jurisdiction, the state court loses jurisdiction on the filing of the petition

and bond, and subsequent proceedings in that court are void; but if
on the face of the record, including the petition for removal, it does
not appear that the suit is removable, the state court is not bound
to surrender its jurisdiction and may proceed as if no application for
removal had been made. Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239.
Although the petition may allege that plaintiff sustained damages in

excess of two thousand dollars, if the prayer for recovery is for less
than that sum, the jurisdictional amount is not involved, and the
filing of a petition and bond does not effect a removal of the case.
Although the Federal court may have made orders continuing a case
in which a petition and bond had been filed, and even dismissed it
for want of prosecution, if the question of its authority had never
been presented to or decided by it, the state court is not bound to
respect such orders as conclusive of the question of jurisdiction; and
so held in a case which on the face of the record was not removable
as the amount claimed was less than $2,000, although the damages
were stated in the petition as having exceeded that sum. Chesapeake
& Ohio Ry. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207, distinguished.
157 Iowa, 493, affirmed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the state
and Federal courts and the effect of air attempted reVOL. ccxxxvi-20
THE

