OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

236 U. S.

demurrer filed in the trial court and yet the record is
silent a§ to any suggestion of assumed Federal right until
after the decision below when the assignments of error
were made for the purpose of a review by this court.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BROLAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 645. Submitted January 5, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
In a case from the District Court, if the power to review attaches because of a constitutional question, that authoritygives rise to the
duty of determining all the questions involved, including those that
otherwise are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the District Court,
but if the constitutional question asserted as the basis for jurisdiction of this court is frivolous, this court has no power to review it
or any of the other questions involved. The writ of error must be
dismissed.
The absolute power expressly conferred upon Congress to regulate
foreign commerce involves the existence of power to prohibit importations and to punish the act of knowingly concealing or moving merchandise which has been imported in successful violation of such
prohibition. Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, distinguished.
The contention in this case that § 2 of the Act of February .9, 1909,
c. 100, 35 Stat. 614, regulating the importation of opium, is unconstitutional as beyond the power of Congress, has been so foreclosed
'by prior decisions of this court that it is frivolous and affords no
basis for jurisdiction of this court under § 238, Judicial Code.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

under § 238, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward M. Cleary, Mr. John L. McNab, Mr. Bert
Schlesinger, Mr. S. C. Wright and Mr. P. S. Ehrlich, for
plaintiffs in rror.

BROLAN v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for the United
States.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WnrrE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The indictment against the plaintiffs in error contained
two counts: The first charged a conspiracy to wrongfully
import opium into the United States in violation of the
first portion of § 2 of the act of February 9, 1909, c. 100,
35 Stat. 614. The second charged a conspiracy to unlawfully receive, conceal and facilitate the transportation of
opium which had been wrongfully imported'into the
United States with knowledge of such previous, illegal
importation in violation of the latter part of the section
referred to. The first count was quashed on the ground
that the overt acts alleged occurred after the illegal importation or smuggling which was counted on. On the
second count there was a conviction and sentence and this
direct writ of error to the trial court is prosecuted to reverse the same. The right to a reversal rests upon two
propositions: the one, that the clause of the section upon
which the second count was based is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States because beyond the
legislative power of Congress to enact and because moreover its provisions intrinsically constitute a usurpation
of the powers reserved to the States by the Constitution;
and the other, the insistence that various material errors
were committed by the trial court during the progress of
the case aside from the constitutionality of the statute.
Our jurisdiction to directly review depends upon the
constitutional question since the other matters relied upon
are as a general rule within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, although
if power to review attaches to the case because of the
constitutional question, that authority gives rise to the

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

duty to determine all the questions involved. Burton v.
United States, 196 U. S. 283; Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425, 432; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S.
261, 276. Under these circumstances to prevent a disregard of the distribution of appellate power made by the
Judicial Code and to see to it that there is something on
which our jurisdiction to review can rest, it behooves us
in this as in all other cases to see whether the question
upon which our power depends is really presented, and if
not, because although in form arising it is in substance so
wholly wanting in merit as to be frivolous, to decline the
exercise of jurisdiction. Farrellv. O'Brien, 199 U. S. 89,
100; Goodrich v. Ferris, 214 U. S. 71, 79; Hendricks v.
United States, 223 U. S. 178.
Coming to that subject the entire absence of all ground
for the assertion that there was a want of power in Congress for any reason to adopt the provision in question is
-so conclusively foreclosed by previous decisions as to leave
no room for doubt as to the wholly unsubstantial and
frivolous character of the constitutional question based
upon such contention. In Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192
U. S. 470, in stating the previously settled doctrine on the
subject it was said, p. 492:
"The power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
is expressly conferred upon Congress, and being an enumerated power is complete in itself, acknowledging no
limitations other than those prescribed in the Constitution. Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 353-356; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108. Whatever difference of opinion,
if any, may have existed or does exist concerning the
limitations of the power, resulting from other provisions
of the Constitution, so far as interstate commerce is concerned, it is not to be doubted that from the beginning
Congress has exercised a plenary power in respect to the
exclusion of merchandise brought from foreign countries;
not alone directly by the enactment of embargo statutes,

BROLAN v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but indirectly as a necessary result of provisions contained
in tariff legislation. It has also, in other than tariff legislation, exerted a police power over foreign commerce by
provisions which in and of themselves amounted to the
assertion of the right to exclude merchandise at discretion.
This is illustrated by statutory provisions which have
been in force for more than fifty years, regulating the
degree of strength of drugs, medicines, and chemicals entitled to admission into the United States and excluding
such as did not equal the standards adopted. 9 Stat.
237, chap. 70; Rev. Stat., § 2933, U. S. Comp. Stat. 1901,
p. 1936." And see Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan,
214 U. S. 320, 334, 335; The Abby Dodge, 223 U.. S. 166,
176.
Nor is there any ground upon which to rest the contention that although under this settled doctrine it is frivolous
to question the power of Congress to prohibit importations and punish a violation of such prohibition, it is open
to controversy and therefore not frivolous to contend that
there is a want of power to prohibit and punish the act
of knowingly concealing or moving merchandise which
has been successfully imported from a foreign country in
violation of the prohibitions against such importations.
This conclusion is inevitable since it is obvious that to
concede that the wrongful and successful evasion of the
prohibition against bringing in imported merchandise or
of knowingly, in violation of a further prohibition, dealing
with such merchandise was beyond the scope of the complete power to prohibit importation, would be in substance
to deny any power whatever. Indeed, it is evident that
a power to prohibit which is" operative and effective only
as long as its prohibitions are not disobeyed is not an
absolute power but is scarcely worthy of being denominated a relative one. But the authority being absolute,
it follows that the right to assert it must endure and reach
beyond the mere capacity -of persons to evade its com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

mands to the control of those things which are essential
to make the power existing and operative,-a conclusion,
the truth of which cannot be escaped in the light of the
doctrine on that subject, so luminously stated in Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, and which has been the guide by
which the Constitution has been successfully interpreted
and applied from that day to this.
While these considerations demonstrate that the attempted distinction is but a denial of the existence of a
power which it is conceded it would be frivolous to deny,
we briefly refer to the legislative history from the beginning for the purpose of showing that the authority which
it is now insisted was not included in the right to prohibit
importation has at all times been considered to be and
treated as within the scope of such authority. Thus in
1799 the Customs Act of that year (March 2, 1799, § 69,
chap. 22, 1 Stat. 627, 678) contained a provision for a
seizure, and forfeiture of merchandise imported in violation of its terms and imposed penalties upon any person
who should "conceal or buy any goods, wares or merchandise, knowing them to be liable to seizure by this
act." And by the act of March 3, 1823 (chap. 58, 3
Sta't. 781), amending the act of March 2, 1821 (chap. 14,
3 Stat. 616) a like authority was asserted and penalties
and forfeitures were imposed for violations. Again in
1866 in an act to prevent sniuggling (§ 4, act of July 18,
chap. 201, 14 Stat. 178, 179) the identical provisions found
in the section here in question were made applicable
generally to all importations and were sanctioned by
making violations thereof criminal. And these provisions
passed into the Revised Statutes (§ 3082), and are in force
today, the particular provision here involved concerning
opium being part of the act of 1909 prohibiting the importation of that article. In the face of this unbroken
legislative. interpretation of the extent of the power to
prohibit covering a period of more than one hundred and

BROLAN v. UNITED ,TATES.,
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fifteen years, of; the constant exertion of administrative
authority under luch legislation and of the assumption
that such power undoubtedly obtained, manifested by a
multitude of judicial decisions too' numerous to refer to
although many of them are cited in the argument of the
Government, we can discover no possible ground upon
which the contention to the contrary here relied upon can
rest, and therefore the eonclusion that it is wholly unsubstantial and frivolous cannot possibly be escaped.
In the argument it is however suggested that some
support for the view relied upon results from the ruling in
Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, wherein a provision
,of the act known as the White Slave Act (Feb. 20, 1[907,
chap. 1134, 34 Stat. 898) was held to be beyond the power
of Congress to enact. In fact the provisions of that statute
are printed in a parallel column with the statute here assailed and the conclusion is drawn that the identity between them is perfect and therefore, despite the considerations involved in the review which we have made, it has
come to pass not only that the assertion of the want of
power in Congress here relied upon is not frivolous, but
that it is well founded'and must be upheld if the Keller
Case is not to be overruled. But the contention is itself
frivolous since it is based'upon a mere failure to observe
the broad line which separates the ruling in the Keller
Case from the question here involved. Nothing can make
this plainer than the mere statement that while in the
Keller -Case it is true there was a prohibition against the
importation for immoral purposes of the persons whom
the statute enumerated, the act punisLed not the harboring of persons for inmoral purposes who had been brought
into the United States in violation of the prohibition
against importation, but its provisions also embraced the
harboring of persons for immoral purposes if they were
aliens even although they had come into the United States
lawfully. The basis upon which the Keller Case proceeded

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

was so manifest that Congress amended the act by making
the penal clause which was held unconstitutional, applicable only to those immoral aliens who had come into
the United States in violation of the prohibitions of the
act (March 26, 1910, § 2, c. 128, 36 Stat. 263, 264).
In the argument reference is made to decisions of this
court dealing with the subject of the power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce, but the very postulate upon
which the authority of Congress to absolutely prohibit
foreign importations as expounded by the decisions of
this court rests is the broad distinction which exists between the two powers and therefore the cases cited and
many more which might be cited announcing the principles which they uphold have obviously no relation to the
question in hand. In fact it is true to say of the citation
of these cases as well as of the reference to the Keller Case
that a proposition which is so wholly devoid of merit as
to be frivolous is not given a substantial character by an
attempt to support it by contentions which are themselves
wholly devoid of all merit and frivolous.
There being no possible ground upon which to attribute
even semblance of foundation for the constitutional question relied upon, it follows that it affords no basis for our
jurisdiction to directly review and the writ of error is
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

