OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

that there is no conflict between the Connolly Case and
the Continental Wall Paper Case, but it also establishes
that both cases, the first directly, and the other by a
negative pregnant, demonstrate the want of merit in
the contentions here insisted upon.
It only remains to say that we think it requires nothing
but statement to demonstrate that in view of the facts
which we have recited and the legal principles which we
have applied to them, no error was committed by the
court below in refusing to give to the defendant a judgment for its alleged share of the profits for the year 1908
when it was expressly admitted that the conditions upon
which the offer of a right to a participation in the profits
was rested, or the contract (if there was a contract to
that effect) was based, had not been complied with.
Affirmed.

HEYMAN v. HAYS, COUNTY CLERK OF HAMILTON COUNTY, TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 121.

Argued January 14, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The rulings of this court concerning the operation of the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution rest upon the broad principle of

the freedom of commerce between the States, and of the equal right
of a citizen of one State to freely contract either to receive merchandise from, or to send merchandise into, another State. Am. Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133.

The right to engage in interstate commerce is not the gift of a State; it
cannot be regulated or restrained by a State, nor can a State exclude

from its limits a corporation engaged in such commerce. West v.
Kansas NaturalGas Co., 221 U. S. 229.

The selling of liquor under a strictly mail-order business and the delivcry within the State to a carrier for through shipment to another

State to fill such orders in interstate commerce, is beyond the control

of the State.

HEYMAN v. HAYS.
236 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Substance, and not form, controls in determining whether a particular
transaction is one of interstate commerce; and. the mere method of
delivery is a negligible circumstance if, in substantial effect, the
transaction is such under the facts.
The protection against imposition by the State of direct burdens upon
the right to do interstate commerce is practical and substantial, and
embraces those acts which are necessary to the complete enjoyment
of the right protected.
The mere fact that a concern doing a strictly interstate business has
goods on hand within the State capable of being used in intrastate
commerce, and to which attention is given, does not take the business
out of the protection of the commerce clause and allow the State to
impose a privilege tax on such concern.
Delivery to a carrier within the State for the sole purpose of through
shipment to another State in fulfillment of a previous order from
the latter state, is not, in a practical sense, the doing of business
within the State so as to subject the business to a privilege tax; and
so held as to the privilege tax attempted to be imposed by a county
in Tennessee on a concern doing a strictly mail-order business confined to shipments to other States.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a privilege tax imposed by state authority on a wholesale liquor
business confined eyclusively to filling mail orders from
points outside the State, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Carlisle S. Littleton and Mr. James J. Lynch, with
whom Mr. Jesse M. Littleton and Mr. George D. Lancaster
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank M. Thompson, Attorney General of the State
of Tennessee, and Mr. J. B. Sizer for defendant in error:
Chapter 479 is not repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution.
It should- be* construed with other constitutional provisions and statutes which are in pari materiawith it. See
Constitution of Tennessee, Art. 1, ยง 28; Code provisions
rendering the business of liquor dealers a privilege; the
Four-mile Lawi, and Manufacturers' bill as construed by

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

236 U. S.

the Supreme Court of the State and the state court decisions construing Chap. 479. Austin v. Shelton, 122
Tennessee, 637; Kelly v. Dwyer, 75 Tennessee, 180;
Kelly v. State, 123 Tennessee, 550; Logan v. Brown, 125
Tennessee, 209; Motlow v. State, 125 Tennessee, 548;
State v. Butler, 1 Shannon's Cases, 91; State v. Kelly, 123
Tennessee, 563.
According to the allegations of the bills, the contracts
of sale are actually made in Tennessee, as delivery of goods
by the seller to a common carrier consigned to the purchaser is a delivery to the purchaser, whose agent the
carrier is. 35 Cyc. 193; United States v. Andrews, 207
U. S. 229, 240; State v. Kelly, 123 Tennessee, 556, 562.
This court is not bound or precluded by any expression
of opinion by the Supreme Court of Tennessee as to whether
a particular transaction constitutes interstate or intrastate business. This case does not present the question
of the right of the State to tax a mere broker or selling
agent, representing only non-resident principals, and
selling. articles not in the State in which the sales are
made, but which by the terms of the contracts are to be
shipped from one State into another, as in Crenshaw v.
Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U, S. 123;
Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 30; Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Robbins v.
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, and other cases, and see
Ernest v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296.
See also Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141'U. S. 47; Leloup v.
Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; McCall v. California, 136
U. S. 104; Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; Pickard v.
Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 205; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 204, and Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69,
which can all be distinguished, as those cases involved
the right of the State to tax a direct instrumentality of
interstate commerce or the commerce itself.

HEYMAN v.' HAYS.
236 U. S

Argument for Defendant in Error.

A privilege tax on a merchant, levied by the State in
which he is domiciled, where his goods and business are
located, and where he makes his sales and deliveries, is
not a violation of the commerce clause, because the
merchant chooses, for reasons satisfactory to himself, to
confine his trade to filling mail orders from non-residents
of the State. If such a tax affects interstate commerce at all it is not directly, but only remotely and incidentally. N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. v. Pennsylvania,
158 U. S.431, 439; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Kentucky, 183
U. S. 503, 518; Howe Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 296;
and see Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16.
A merchant is not an instrument of interstate commerce. He may engage in interstate commrce, and
while so engaged the States may not tax either the goods
actually in transit or any of the instrumentalities used in
the interstate transportation, or levy any other tax based
on the fact of interstate business. Baltic Mining Co. v.
Massachusetts, 231 U. S.68, 82.
It is only after sales have been made and the goods have
been constructively delivered to the purchasers by delivery to the carriers that the interstate transaction
begins. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Williams v.
Fears, 179 U. S.270; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S.648;
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578.
Complainants having taken out a Federal license which
authorized them to sell both to non-residents and residents
and to carry on generally the business of selling and dealing in liquors in Chattanooga, cannot escape liability for
the tax levied by the State on their occupation on the
ground that they intend to confine themselves to a branch
of the business which they contend involves interstate
commerce. Ficklen v. Taxing District, 145 U. S.1.
If the business carried on by the complainants involves
the transaction of interstate commerce by them at all,
yet the State may lawfully require them to pay a privilege

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

tax for the business done in the State. Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 80; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 368; Pennsylvania Ry. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21; Cargill v. Minnesota,
180 U. S. 482.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

-the court.
As a prelude we give a mere outline of the relevant laws
of Tennessee. In 1909 the manufacture in the State of
"intoxicating liquors for the purpose of sale" was prohibited. All liquors were included except alcohol of a
stated degree of proof "for chemical, pharmaceutical,
medical, and bacteriological purposes." The state court
held this act constitutional. Motlow v. State, 125 Tennessee, 547. In the same year (1909) the sale of liquors as
a beverage was forbidden within four miles of any schoolhouse, public or private, whether school was in session or
not. This law was held constitutional and it is said in
the argument that it was construed as excluding all sales
of liquor throughout the State except sales by a druggist
under a physician's prescription and sales for mechanical,
medicinal, sacramental and other like purposes. Kelly v.
State, 123 Tennessee, 516.
In Tennessee the system of taxation embraces ad
valorem property taxes, merchants' taxes by a percentage
on their capital and privilege taxes for the right to engage
in business of a prescribed character. In 1909 a privilege
tax was imposed upon wholesale and retail liquor dealers.
The prohibitory liquor law (the four-mile law) was held
not to embrace a mail order business, that is, orders by
mail from other States and the shipment from Tennessee
to such other States by carrier, because such business was
interstate commerce not within state control. State v.
Kelly, 123 Tennessee, 556.

HEYMAN v. HAYS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Couru.

In 1912 this suit was commenced to enjoin the collection
of a county privilege tax for carrying on a wholesale liquor
business in 1912 and to recover back the sum of a like tax
for the same year which had been collected by the State
over protest. It was in substance averred that having
on hand in the State a stock of liquors, the complainant
firm had found it unprofitable to seek to carry on the
business of selling within the, State and therefore had
prior to that time abstained from all attempts to carry on
business in the State by selling any liquor directly or
indirectly therein and had confined its activities to a mail
order business, that is, the soliciting of orders from persons
in other States by mail, the receipt of such orders and the
filling of the same by delivering the liquor to a carrier for
through transportation out of the State. Averring that
such business was purely interstate commerce which the
State or county had no right to directly burden, it was
alleged that the attempt of the State and county to impose
the privilege taxes in question was an unlawful interference
with, and a direct burden upon interstate commerce and
therefore void. The bill was demurred to as stating no
case. The demurrer was overruled and the defendants
electing to plead no further, a decree went in favor of the
complainants for the repayment of the one tax and enjoining the enforcement of the other. The Supreme Court
reversed this judgment and because of the asserted repugnancy of the tax whose validity was thus sustained to the
Constitution of the United States, this writ of error was
prosecuted.
In Am. Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S.133, 143, referring
to previous rulings concerning the operation of the Commerce Clause it was said:
"Those cases rested upon the broad principle of the
freedom of commerce between the States and of the right
of a citizen of one State to freely contract to receive merchandise from another State, and of the equal right of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

citizen of a State to contract to send merchandise into
other States."
And again in West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S.
229, where the law of a State prohibiting the piping out
from the State of natural gas was held to be repugnant to
the Commerce Clause, it was observed, page 260:
"At this late day it is not necessary to cite cases to show
that the right to engage in interstate commerce is not the
gift of a State, and that it cannot be regulated or restrained
by a State, or that a State cannot exclude from its limits
a corporation engaged in such commerce."
Indeed, in the opinion of the court below there was not
the slightest intimation of doubt concerning this elementary doctrine nor any suggestion that if the complainant
firm did no business in the State and confined its activities
exclusively to transactions of interstate commerce there
was any power to impose the privilege taxes in controversy. And no doubt was expressed concerning the fact
that abstractly and inherently the selling of liquor under
a strictly mail order business and the delivery in Tennessee of liquor to a carrier for through shipment to other
States to fill such orders was interstate commerce beyond
the control of the State, which the court had previously
pointed out in State v. Kelly, supra. But the decision was
based upon what was deemed to be the legal result of distinctions arising from the mode in which the complainant
carried on its business, which the court pointed out as
follows:
"But it appears, also, from the bill, not in express terms
but by clear inference from other matters stated, that the
complainant has a regularly organized business-a business house and employds, &c.-and that he is conducting
the business within the State of Tennessee, although he
sells all his goods beyond the.State.
"We are of the opinion that the case falls directly
within Logan v. Brown, decided by this Court last year

HEYMAN v. HAYS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and reported in 141 S. W. Rep. 751 and 125 Tennessee,
and the Federal cases therein referred to and relied on,
and that there is no substantial distinction between that
case and the present one."
We must look, then, to Logan v. Brown to ascertain the
implied conditions which were found to constitute a local
business done in Tennessee which made the privilege taxes
valid, although, as admitted, no liquor was sold in Tennessee but all of it was exclusively sold under mail orders
from other States. Without intimating that if here present
it would be material, there existed in Logan v. Brown an
element not found in this case, that is, that the stock of
liquor which was held in Tennessee and which was exclusively sold under the mail order system was constantly
replenished by the receipt of liquor from other States
likewise shipped in as the result of mail orders, and in
Logan v. Brown the receipt of such goods, the breaking of
their bulk and the commigling with the existing stock
was found to be a business done in Tennessee independent
of the shipping of goods to other States under the mail
orders. With such considerations removed from view,
carefully analyzing the opinion in Logan v. Brown we
find that the only grounds held in that case to establish a
business done in the State independent of the sale and
shipment of the goods out of' the State under the mail
order system were the following: (1) The existence of the
goods in the State held in a warehouse as stock susceptible
of being sold in the State if there was a desire to do so and
ready to be shipped in the channels of interstate commerce; (2) The care and attention for the purpose of
packing or otherwise which must be given to the goods
situated in the State to enable the interstate commerce
shipment to be made; (3) The receipt in the State from
other States of the orders; (4) The clerical force or assistance which was required in the State to keep an account
of the shipments as made to other States and the super-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

vision in Tennessee which was required to conduct the
exclusive business of shipping into other States and of
receiving the price resulting from such shipments.
But we are of opinion that although it be conceded that
such facts were clearly to be implied from the allegations
of the complaint that no sales were directly or indirectly
made in the State and that the business was exclusively
confined to soliciting mail orders from other States and
the delivery to a carrier in fulfillment of such orders, such
assumed facts afford no ground for taking the business out
of the protection of the Interstate Commerce Clause and
thus conferring upon the State authority to impose a tax
on the privilege of carrying it on. We reach this conclusion because we are of opinion that giving the fullest effect
to the conditions stated they were but the performance of
acts accessory to and inhering in the right to make the
interstate commerce shipments and therefore to admit
the power because of their existence to burden the right
to ship in interstate commerce would necessarily be to
recognize the authority to directly burden such right.
In the nature of things the protection against the imposition of direct burdens upon the right to do interstate commerce, as often pointed out by this court, is not a mere
abstraction affording no real protection, but is practical
and substantial and embraces those acts which are necessary to the complete enjoyment of the right protected.
In addition to the foregoing considerations upon which,
as we have seen, the conclusion in Logan v. Brown that
local business was done in the State was based, it is now
urged in argument by the State that the correctness of
such conclusion is in addition demonstrated by. the fact
that the goods embraced by the orders received from other
States were delivered to a carrier in Tennessee, and as
such carrier was the agent of the buyer, therefore the
sales were completed in Tennessee. But this merely denies
the interstate commerce character of the mail order busi-

HEYMAN v. HAYS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ness. It directly conflicts with the ruling .of the state
court in State v. Kelly, supra, and therefore comes to this:
That under the law of the State, such business is interstate'
commerce for the purpose of allowing it to be done, but
when done a privilege tax may be exacted for doing it
because it is not such commerce. It is no answer to suggest that the Kelly Case, while treating the mail order
business as not within the prohibition law because it was
interstate commerce, really was but an expression of a
broad rule of interpretation giving effect to the spirit and
intent of the prohibition law, since delivery in the State
of liquor to be transported to another State could not be
said to be a sale or delivery as a beverage. But if this
rule of interpretation were to be here applied, it would
destroy the distinction which it is advanced to sustain,
for it would lead to the conclusion that the act of delivery
for the sole purpose of through shipment to another State
in fulfillment of a previous order was in no practical sense
the doing of business within the State. But this is immaterial since it is not open to controversy that substance
and not form controls in determining whether a particular
transaction is one of interstate commerce and hence that
the mere method of delivery is a negligible circumstance
ifin substantial effect the transaction under the facts of a
given case is interstate commerce. Am. Express Co. v.
Iowa, 196 U. S.133, 144; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501,
520.
Some cases 1 are pressed in argument as upholding the
privilege tax in question under the circumstances here disclosed but they are inapposite. We do not stop to review
them in order to sustain this appreciation of the cases
relied on since in our opinion in the nature of things its
'Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, 80; Woodruff v. Parhan, 8 Wall.
123; Wiggins Ferry v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365, 368; Pennsylvania
Ry.v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21; Cargillv. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

236 U. S.

accuracy is demonstrated by a mere statement of the
proposition to which all the contentions here'urged are in
their essence reducible, which is as follows. Although the
shipment of merchandise from one State to another is
interstate commerce which the States cannot directly
burden, nevertheless the States may directly burden such
shipments in every case where there is any merchandise
kept in the State to be the subject of interstate commerce
shipment or when any of those steps which are essentially
prerequisite to the initiation of an interstate commerce
shipment are taken by the owner of the merchandise.
Reversed.

SOUTHERN OPERATING COMPANY v. HAYS,
COUNTY CLERK OF HAMILTON COUNTY,
TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 122.

Argued January 14, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Decided on the authority of Heyman v. Hays, ante, p. 178.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Carlisle S. Littleton and Mr. James J. Lynch, with
whom Mr. Jesse M. Littleton and Mr. George D. Lancaster
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
MP. Frank M. Thompson, Attorney General of the
State of Tennessee, and Mr. J. B. Sizer, for defendant
in eror.

