MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U. S.

373

Syllabus.

of the facts now taken by the court is the one which was
adopted by the court below and which was stated by the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Strong, however, as
is the admonition resulting from this situation, it is not
strong enough to overcome the force of my conviction as
to what the case really concerns and to overcome the
belief that it is my duty at least to state the fact of my
dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took

no part in the consider-

ation and decision of this case.

MILLER v. WILSON, SHERIFF OF RIVERSIDE
COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 112.

Argued January 12, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The liberty of contract guaranteed by the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is freedom from arbitrary restraint-not
immunity from reasonable regulation to safeguard the public interest.
In determining the constitutionality of a state police statute the question is whether its restrictions-have reasonable relation to a proper
purpose; and reasonable regulations limiting the hours of labor of
women are within the scope of legislative action. Muller v. Oregon,
208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671; Hawley v.
Walker, 232 U. S. 718.
While the limitation of the hours of labor of women may be pushed to
an indefensible extreme, the limit of reasonable exertion of the protective authority of the State is not overstepped and liberty of contract unduly abridged by a statute prescribing eight hours a day or
a maximum of forty-eight hours a week.
The legislature of aState is not debarred from classifying according to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

general considerations and with regard to prevailing conditions,
otherwise there could be no legislative power to classify.
The legislature is free to recognize degrees of harm and may confine its
restrictions to those classes where it deems the need is greatest, and
if the law hits an evil where it is most felt the prohibition need not be
all embracing. Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 227.
The statute of California of 1911 prohibiting the employment of women
in certain businesses including hotels is not unconstitutional as to
women employed in hotels, either as an unwarranted invasion of
liberty of contract or as denying the equal protection of the law on
the ground of unreasonable discrimination because of the omissions
of certain classes of female laborers from its operation, or because
the classification is based on the employ6's business and not upon
the character of the employd's work.
162 California, 687, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Women's Eight Hour
Labor Law of California, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank P. Flint and Mr. Henry S. Van Dyke for
plaintiff in error, submitted:
The restrictions imposed by the Act upon women and
their employers as to their freedom of contract in certain
designated employments are not reasonably necessary,
and are not such a necessary invasion of freedom of contract as will be justified under the sanction of the police
power or of any other constitutional power.
The legislation is not necessary to safeguard the health
of any considerable class nor is it justified by the needs of
the community as a whole. 'As in Ritchie v. Wyman, 214
Illinois, 509, the police power's exercise must be reasonable and not confiscatory, like a war power, and must be
absolutely necessary to the public health or safety.
Bierly's Police Power, p. 13; People v. Commonwealth, 9
Michigan, 285; Smiley v. McDonald, 42 Nebraska, 5; RailroadCo. v. State, 47 Nebraska, 549; Russell's Police Powers,
p. 34.

MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U: S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

And see Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Brannon's
Fourteenth Amendment, pp. 172, 202.
The limitation to eight hours a day and particularly
the limitation to forty-eight hours a week is unnecessary
and unreasonable as applied to hotels and many of the
other enumerated employments. To hold such legislation
unconstitutional is to promote humanitarian legislation
for women, for it makes possible such humanitarian
legislation as is consistent with their liberty and their
means of livelihood; while, on the contrary, the present
law, as to many employments, by an unnecessary curtail*ment of their usefulness, and therefore of their earning
capacity, does more harm than good. Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, 61; Ex parte Kuback, 85 California, 274.
There is nothing in the 'ordinary labor, by men of full
age for more than eight hours a day, that calls for prohibition in the interest of the public health, the public
safety, the public morals, or the public welfare. Lochner
v. New York, supra.
This doctrine is affirmed by every court in the union
having occasion to pass upon the question, except in certain cases on the women's employment acts which are
bad on principle and on precedent. Seattle v. Smyth, 22
Washington, 327; In re Morgan, 26 Colorado, 415.
Only when an occupation possesses such characteristics
of danger to health of those engaged therein as to justify
the legislature in concluding that the welfare of the community demands a restriction, can the hours of labor for
men be limited by legislative enactment. Re Martin, 157
California, 51, 55.
For the history of legislation and adjudication in this
country on limitation of hours of employment for women,
see Commonwealth v. Hamilton Mfg. Co., 120 Massachusetts, 383; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Commonwealth
v. Beatty, 15 Pa. Sup. Ct. 5; Wenham v. State, 65 Nebraska, 395; State v. Buchanan, 29 Washington, 604;

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Commonwealth v. Riley,
97 N. E. Rep. 367; State v. Somerville, 122 Pac. Rep. 324;
People v. Elerding, 98 N. E. Rep. 982; People v. hicago,
100 N. E. Rep. 194; State v. Newman Lumber Co., 59 So.
Rep. 923; Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; People v. Williams, 189 N. Y. 131; Low v. Rees Printing Co., 41 Nebraska, 127; Burcher v. People, 41 Colorado, 495.
The Act is vitiated by manifold and fatal discriminations, and is therefore unconstitutional.
The first and most obvious discrimination is the express exception of all women employed in harvesting fruit
or vegetables. Several considerable classes of women employ~s, whose employments are in no wise distinguishable
in any particulars from many of those included,--e. g.,
stenographers, clerks and assistants employed by the professional classes and all domestic servants, are totally
omitted. Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
The freedom to contract is protected from unreasonable
restriction, similarly with every other proper freedom,
by the Fourteenth Amendment. Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578-589; State v. Peel Splint Coal Co., 36 W. Va.
856; State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27; Gulf &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Bell's
Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 237; Low v. Rees Printing Co. (Neb.), 59 N. W. Rep. 362; Dougherty v. Au.tin, 94
California, 620; Darcy v. San Jose, 104 California, 642;
Lodi v. State, 51 N. J. L. 402; Hellman v. Shoulters, 114
California, 147; Budd v. Hancock, 66 N. J. L. 135; Ex
parte Sohncke, 148 California, 262, 267.
Statutes have been held unconstitutional as violating
the constitutional inhibitions against special laws, the
classification being held arbitrary and without reasonable
basis in Slocum v. Bear Valley Co., 122'California, 555;
Johnson v. Goodyear Mining Co., 127 California, 417;
Krause v. Durbrow, 127 California, 681, 685; Beveridge v.

MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Lewis, 137 California, 619, 623; Ex parte Sohncke, 148
California, 262; Ex parte Westerfield, 55 California, 550,
552, 553.
As to the discrimination between hotels and boarding
houses and as to what constitutes an inn or hotel see Pinkerton v. Woodward, 33 California, 557; Fay v. Pacific Improvement Co., 93 California, 253, 259; Schouler on Bailments, 253; Cromwell v. Stephens (N. Y.), 2 Daly, 15, 17,
23; Kelly v. Excise Comr's, 54 How. Prac. 327; Martin V.
State Ins. Co., 44 N. J. Law, 495; 22 Cyc. 1070; 16 Am. and
tng. Ency. of Law, 510; Beale on Innkeepers and Hotels,
pp. 24-25, etc.; Ex parte Jentzsch, 112 California, 468, 474.
Mr. William Denman and Mr. Louis D. Brandeis, with
whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of
California, and Mr. G. S. Arnold were on the brief, for
defendant in error:
California has the power to prevent the gainful employment of women for over eight hours a day in hotels and
hospitals, and such a restriction is not an unconstitutional
denial of freedom of contract.
The limitation of the number of hours women must
work in these two employments has a direct relationship
to women's health, and hence to the health of the race as
a whole, as well as the safety and health of those she serves.
Women are admittedly weaker than men in the struggle
of economic competition and may be protected by legislative enactment against the oppressive bargaining or'
control of their employer, whether arising from cupidity
or such a mistaken philanthropy as that of the hospital
here, which admittedly works its undergraduate girl
nurses the equivalent of twelve hours a day for a six day
week to make a better showing of the number of poor
people cared for.
The limitation of the number of hours of woman's labor
in gainful occupations to not over a half of her waking time

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

236 U. S.

may check the rapid decline in reproduction of the older
American stocks and in any event leaves her free for the
development of mind and body for wifehood and motherhood, and hence insures the increased intelligence and
strengthening of the race through the mother, to whom
primarily (in California at least) the shaping of the child
mind, the directing of his habits and the development of
his character is primarily entrusted.
The California statutes in question do not deny equal
protection of the law.
The continuous work of women in hotels and hospitals
differs essentially from the intermittent seasonal work of
women in harvesting, curing, canning or drying of any
variety of perishable fruit or vegetables.
There is an essential difference between the work of
women in hotels and in lodging houses.
The graduate nurse belongs to a class composed of
women mentally better educated, physically better trained,
professionally more experienced, and economically better
organized to resist oppressive regulation imposed by their
employers, and hence may be left free from legislative
restriction in the performance of her distinctive functions
in the hospital. She is the best fitted to cope with those
emergencies arising in the operating room and ward,
which often require attendance for more than the eight
hour period and hence excepting her from the law provides
for such emergencies.
In support of these contentions see Adams v. Milwaukee,
228 U. S. 572; Barrett v. Indiana, 229 U. S. 26; Bureau
of Education Bulletin, 1912, No. 7.
Boarding houses are excluded from statutes regulating
hotels in Delaware, Illinois, Michigan, Maryland, New
Jersey, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Utah, Virginia, Washington.
See Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Cotting v. Kansas, 183 U. S1. 79; Doyle v. ContinentalIns. Co.,
94 U.- S. 535; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718; Holden v.

MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Lindsley v. Nat. Gas Co., 220 U. S.
76; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Ex parte Miller,
162 California, 687; Muller v.. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Patsonde v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; People v. Elerding,
254 Illinois, 579; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S.59;
Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S.671; Smith v. Texas, 233
U. S.630; Wenham v. State, 65 Nebraska, 395.
MR.

JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the. opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, the proprietor of the Glenwood
Hotel in the City of Riverside, -California, was arrested
upon the charge of employing and requiring a woman to
work in the hotel for the period of nine hours in a day, contrary to the statute of California which forbade such
employment for more than eight hours a day or fortyeight hours a week, Act of March 22, 1911; Stats. 1911,
p. 437. It was stated in the argument at this bar that the
woman was employed as a chambermaid. Urging that
the act was in violation of the state constitutionj and also
that it was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment as
an arbitrary invasion of liberty of contract and as unreasonably discriminatory, the plaintiff in error obtained
a writ of habeas corpus from the Supreme Court of the
State. That court, characterizing the statute as one
'intended for a police regulation to preserve, protect, or
promote the general health and welfare,' upheld its
validity and remanded the plaintiff in error to custody.
162 California, 687. This writ of error was then sued out.
The material portion of' the statute, as it then stood,
was as follows:
"No female shall be employed in any manufacturing,
mechanical or mercantile establishment, laundry, hotel,
or restaurant, or telegraph or telephone establishment or
office, or by any express or transportation company in
this-state more than eight hours during any one day or

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

more than forty-eight hours in one week. The hours of
work may be so arranged as to permit the employment of
females at any time so that they shall not work more than
eight hours during the twenty-four hours of one day, or
forty-eight hours during any one week; provided, however,
that the provisions of this section in relation to the hours
of employment shall not apply to nor affect the harvesting,
curing, canning or drying of any variety of perishable
fruit or vegetable."
As the liberty of contract guaranteed by the Constitution is freedom from arbitrary restraint-not immunity
from reasonable regulation to safeguard the public interest-the question is whether the restrictions of the statute
have reasonable relation to a proper purpose. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 567;
Erie R. R. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 699; Coppage v.
Kansas, ante, pp. 1, 18. Upon this point, the recent
decisions of this Court upholding other statutes limiting
the hours of labor of women must be regarded as decisive.
In Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, the statute of that
State, providing thit 'no female shall be employed in any
mechanical establishment, or factory, or laundry' for
'more than ten hours during any one day,' was sustained
as applied to the work of an adult woman in a laundry.
The decision was based upon considerations relating to
woman's physical structure, her maternal functions, and
the vital importance of her protection in order to preserve
the strength and vigor of the race. 'She is properly placed
in a class by herself,' said the court, p. 422, 'and legislation
designed for her protection may be sustained, even when
like legislation is not necessary for men and could not
be sustained.

.

.

.

Even though all restrictions on

political, personal and contractual rights were taken away,
and she stood, so far as statutes are concerned, upon an
absolutely equal plane with him, it would still be true that
she is so constituted that she will rest upon and look to

MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

him for protection; that her physical structure and a
proper discharge of her maternal functions-having in
view not merely her own health, but the well-being of the
race-justify legislation to protect her from the greed as
well as the passion of man. The limitations which this
statute places upon her contractual powers, upon her right
to agree with her employer as to the time she shall labor,
are not imposed solely for her benefit, but also largely
for the benefit of all. Many words cannot make this
plainer. The two sexes differ in structure of body, in the
functions to be performed by each, in the amount of
physical strength, in the -capacity for long continued
labor, particularly when done standing, the influence of
vigorous health upon the future well-being of the race,
the self-reliance which enables one to assert full rights, and
in the capacity to maintain the struggle for subsistence.'
In Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671, the plaintiff in
error had been convicted upon the charge of employing
a woman in a factory at a different hour from that specified
in a notice posted in accordance with the statute relating
to the hours of labor. The general provision of the statute
being found to be valid, the particular requirements
which were the subject of special objecti6n were also
upheld as administrative rules designed to prevent the
circumvention of the purpose of the law. The case of
Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718, arose under the Ohio act
prohibiting the employment of 'females over eighteen
years of age' to work in 'any factory, workshop, telephone
or telegraph office, millinery, or dressmaking establishment, restaurant or in the distributing or transmission of
messages more than ten hours in any one day, or more than
fifty-four hours in any one week.' The plaintiff in error
was charged with employing a -woman in a millinery
establishment for fifty-five hours in a week. The constitutionality of the law as thus applied was sustained by
this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

It is manifestly impossible to say that the mere fact
that the statute of California provides for an eight hour
day, or a maximum of forty-eight hours a week, instead of
ten hours a day or fifty-four hours a week, takes the case
out of the domain of legislative discretion. This is not
to imply that a limitation of the hours of labor of women
might not be pushed to a wholly indefensible extreme,
but there is no ground for the conclusion here that the
limit of the reasonable exertion of protective authority
has been overstepped. Nor, with 'respect to liberty of
contract, are we able to perceive any reason upon which
the State's power thus to limit hours may be upheld with
respect to women in a millinery establishment and denied
as to a chambermaid in a hotel.
We are thus brought to the objections to the act which
are urged upon the ground of unreasonable discrimination.
These are (1) the exception of women employed in 'harvesting, curing, canning or drying of any variety of perishable fruit or vegetable;' (2) the omission of those employed
in boarding houses, lodging houses, etc.; (3) the omission
of several classes 6f women employ~s, as for example
stenographers, clerks- and assistants employed by the professional classes, and domestic servants; and (4) that the
classification is based on the nature of the employer's business and not upon the character of the employd's work.
With respect to the last of these objections, it is sufficient to say that the character of the work may largely
depend upon the nature and incidents of the business in
connection with which the work i done. The legislature
is not debarred from classifying according to general
considerations and with regard to prevailing conditions;
otherwise, there could be no legislative power to classify.
For it is always possible by analysis to discover inequalities
as to some persons or things embraced within any specified
class. A classification based simply on a general description of work would almost certainly bring within the class

MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a host of individual instances exhibiting very wide differences; it is impossible to deny to the legislature the
authority to take account of these differences and to do
this according to practical groupings in which, while
certain individual distinctions may still exist, the group
selected will as a whole fairly present a class in itself.
Frequently such groupings may be made with respect
to the general nature of thebusiness in which the work is
performed; and, where a distinction based on the nature of
the business is not an unreasonable one considered in its
general application, the classification is not to be condemned. See Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36, 53, 54. Hotels, as a class, are distinct establishments not only in their relative size but in the fact that
they maintain a special organization to supply a distinct
and exacting service. They are adapted to the needs of
strangers and travelers who are served indiscriminately.
As the state court pointed out, the women employ~s in
hotels are for the most part chambermaids and waitresses;
and it cannot be said that the conditions of work are
identical with those which obtain in establishments of a
different character, or that it was beyond the legislative
power to recognize the differences that exist.
If the conclusion be reached, as we think it must be,
that the legislature could properly include hotels in its
classification, the question whether the act must be deemed
to be invalid because of its omission of women employed
in certain other lines of business is substantially the same
as that presented in Hawley v. Walker, supra. There, the
statute excepted 'canneries or establishments engaged
in preparing for use perishable goods'; and' it was asked
in that case on behalf of the owner of a millinery establishment why the act should omit mercantile establishments
and hotels. The contention as to the various omissions
which are noted in the objections here urged ignores the
well-established principle that the legislature is not bound,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in order to support the constitutional validity of its regulation, to extend it to all cases which it might possibly reach.
Dealing with practical exigencies, the legislature may be
guided by experience. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
138, 144. It is free to recognize degrees of harm, and it
may confine its restrictions to those classes of cases where
the need is deemed to be clearest. As has been said, it
may 'proceed cautiously, step by step,' and 'if an evil is
specially experienced in a particular branch of business'
it is not necessary that the prohibition 'should be couched
in all-embracing terms.' Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance
Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411. If the law presumably hits the
evil where it is most felt, it is not to be overthrown because
there are other instances to which it might have been
applied. Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, 227.
Upon this principle, which has had abundant illustration
in the decisions cited below, it cannot be concluded that
the failure to extend the act to other and distinct lines of
business, having their own circumstances and conditions,
or to domestic service, created an arbitrary discrimination
as against the proptietors of hotels. Ozan Lumber Co. v.
Union County Bank, 207 U. S. 251, 256; Heath & Milligan
v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338, 354; Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S.
128, 138; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.
61, 78; Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225, 235;
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 160;
Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 270; Barrett v.
Indiana, 229 U. S. 26, 29; Sturges & Burn v. Beauchamp,
231 U. S. 320, 326; German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, 418; International Harvester Co.
v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 213; Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
v' Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, 289.
For these reasons the judgment must be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

