SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

contention of the Government, but this must be read in
the light of the question presented for decision and be
taken as restrained accordingly. Besides, the opinion
approvingly refers (p. 219) to Vanderbilt v. Eidman, supra,
as having "conclusively decided" that the tax "does not
attach to legacies or distributive shares until the right of
succession becomes an absolute right of immediate possession or enjoyment." Here, as we have said, there was no
right of immediate possession or enjoyment at the time
designated in the refunding statute.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 2, 3, 1914.-Decided January 25, 1915.

United States courts by virtue of their general equity powers have
jurisdiction to enjoin the enforcement of a judgment obtained by
fraud or without service.
In the absence of service of process, a person named as defendant can
no more be regarded as a party than any other member of the community.
A judgment against a person on whom no process has been served is
not erroneous and voidable, but, upon principles of natural justice,
and also under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
is absolutely void.
Jurisdiction of the United States courts cannot be lessened or increased
by state statutes regulating venue or establishing rules of procedure.
While § 720, Rev. Stat., prohibits United States courts from staying
proceedings in a state court, it does not prevent them from depriving
a party of the fruits of a fraudulent judgment, nor from enjoining a
party from using that which he calls a judgment but which is, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

fact and in law, a mere nullity and absolutely void for lack of service
of process. Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589.
This rule obtains whether the case was one removed from the state
court to, or originally commenced in, the Federal court.
The broader the ground of a decision, the more likelihood there is of
affecting interests of persons not before the court, and, therefore,
this court refrains from passing upon propositions not necessary to
the decision of the case although passed upon by the courts below.
Qucere, whether the acts of the foreign corporation against whom judgment was entered amounted to doing business within the State.
Qua,re, whether, under the statute of Louisiana providing for service
of process on foreign corporations doing business within the State,
but who have not appointed an agent therein, by service upon the
Secretary of State, service upon the Assistant Secretary is sufficient
in the absence of the Secretary.
Qucwre, whether the state court has jurisdiction of a suit on a transitory
cause of action against a foreign corporation arising in another State,
based on service of process on an agent voluntarily appointed by such
corporation.
A State may by statute require a foreign corporation doing business
therein to designate agents upon whom service may be made, or in default of its so doing, to provide upon whom such service may be made
in suits relating to business transacted therein, but such statutory requirements cannot extend to causes of action arising in other States.
Service of process, in a suit against a foreign corporation who has not
appointed a residbnt agent, upon the Secretary of State under the
Louisiana statute providing for such service is not sufficient to give
the court jurisdiction of a suit based on a cause of action arising in
another State, and judgment entered thereon by default is absolutely
void, and enforcement thereof, other jurisdictional facts existing,
can be enjoined by the Federal court.
195 Fed. Rep. 56, affirmed.

THIs appeal raises a question of the power of a United
States court to enjoin the appellant, Ephraim Simon, from
enforcing a judgment alleged to have been fraudulently
obtained by him in a state court, in a suit against the
Southern Railway. The Company had no notice that the
suit had been brought,-other than that arising from the
service which purported to have been made in pursuance of
the Louisiana Act No. 54, which provides (§ 1) that it shall

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

be the duty of every foreign corporation doing any business in this State to file a written declaration setting forth
the places in the State where it is doing business, and the
name of its "agents in this State upon whom process
may be served."
"Section 2.-Whenever any such corporation shall do
any business of any nature whatever in this State without
having complied with the requirements of Sec. 1 of this
act, it may be sued for any legal cause of action in any
Parish of the State where it may do business, and such
service of process in such suit may be made upon the
Secretary of State the same and with the same validity
as if such corporation had been personally served."
Availing himself of the provisions of this statute,
Ephraim Simon, on December 1, 1904, brought suit, in
the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans, against
the Southern Railway Company averring that the defendant was a Virginia corporation "doing business in the city
of New Orleans." The petition alleged that Simon, a
New Orleans merchant and manufacturer, purchased, on
February 8, 1904, a ticket from Selma, Alabama, to
Meridian, Mississippi, and while riding over its lines
through the negligence of defendant a collision occurred in
which were inflicted upon him great personal injuries and
financial loss. The petitioner claimed as damages $5,000
for personal injury; $340 for medical expenses; $4,000 for
loss of profit that he would have earned; $3,000 for
deterioration in the stock while he was confined to his bed
and unable to sell, and $1,000 for increased cost of manufacture due to his absence from bnsiness.
There was a prayer that the Company be cited to appear
and answer, and "it having failed to comply with the
provisions of Section One of Act No. 54 of the Session of
1904, the service of process in this suit be made upon
Hon. John T. Michel, Secretary of State, said service, so
made, to be a serviee upon the said Southern Railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

Company, as provided for in the act aforesaid." The
plaintiff asked for judgment for $13,348.
The summons was directed to "the Southern Railway
Company, through Hon. John T. Michel, Secretary of
State of Louisiana, New Orleans," and required the
defendant to answer within ten days after service. The
Deputy Sheriff on December 3, 1904, made return that
he had served the citation and petition "on the within
named Southern Railway Co. in the Parish of East Baton
Rouge, State of Louisiana, by personal service on E. J.
McGivney, Ass't Sec'y of State, Jno. T. Michel, Sec'y of
State being absent at the time of service." The Assistant
Secretary of State, acting under the instructions of the Attorney General, filed the citation and petition in his office.
No notice, however, was given to the Southern Railway
of the service of the citation or of the fact that suit had
been brought. It therefore made no appearance in the
suit brought against it by Simon, and, on January 10,
1905, the court, on motion of the plaintiff, ordered that
judgment by default be entered against the Railway
Company. Under the Louisiana practice, the case was
thereafter submitted to a "trial by jury on confirmation of
default." The plaintiff himself testified and other witnesses were examined and on January 16 the jury returned
a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $13,348-being the
exact amount claimed in the petition. On January 20 the
court considering "the verdict of the jury in this matter,
and that the demand of the plaintiff was proved, and the
law and the evidence being in favor of said plaintiff"
entered judgment on the verdict.
Thereafter the Company learned of the existence of the
judgment and averring itself to be a citizen of Virginia,
filed (February 6, 1905) in the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Louisiana a bill against Simon, a citizen
of Louisiana, asking that he be perpetually enjoined from
enforcing the same.

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The Bill attached, as an Exhibit, a copy of the record in
the state court and alleged that, in the collision referred
to, Simon had received injuries which a surgeon had
reported were slight; that the Company had offered him
$350 in settlement. Simon refused to accept this sum
but considered and discussed the acceptance of $750,
which, however, was not agreed to by the defendant; the
matter was temporarily left in abeyance, it being understood that negotiations were still pending and would
probably result in an agreement of settlement. It was
alleged that thereafter the plaintiff surreptitiously and
without the knowledge of the Railway Company entered
suit for $13,348, "falsely and fraudulently pretending that
he had been injured in that sum"; that Simon's personal
injuries were slight as shown by the report of the surgeon;
that the claim for loss of profit on stock and the extra cost
of manufacturing stock were claims that he well knew were
fraudulent, fictitious and utterly untrue; but by false
testimony he secured a verdict therefor.
The bill further alleged that the Southern Railway was
not doing business in the State of Louisiana; that the
service upon the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of State
was not a citation upon the Railway Company and was
null and void for the purpose of bringing it under the
jurisdiction of the Civil District Court; that any judgment
rendered upon such attempted "citation would be, if
rendered without appearance of the defendant, a judgment without due process of law, and consequently, in
violation of the Constitution;" that the Railway Company had never received the citation issued in the suit, nor
was it advised, nor had it any knowledge of the pendency
of said proceedings until after the rendition of the judgment; that the verdict of the jury having been rendered
upon false testimony and without notice, it would be
against good conscience to allow the judgment thereon
to be enforced against the Railway Company, which has

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the 6ase.

236 U. S.

no remedy at law in the premises and has a complete
meritorious defense to the claim on which the judgment is
based; that by fraud and accident, unmixed with its own
negligence, the Railway Company has been prevented
from making such defense.
As stated -in Ex pare Simon, 208 U. S. 144, on another
branch of this case, 'The bill further alleges that Simon
will attempt to collect the fraudulent judgment by fieri
facias, and prays as specific relief an injunction against his
further proceeding under the same. A preliminary injunction was issued, after a hearing on affidavits, on
June 30, 1905, and Simon appears to have obeyed the
order for over two years. A demurrer to the bill was
overruled in December, 1906, and a plea to the jurisdiction, filed in February, 1907, was overruled in the following May. Simon answered in August and issue was joined
in the same month. Notwithstanding the injunction
Simon, in contempt therefor, obtained a writ of fierifacias
and directed a levy and the service of garnishment process
to collect the judgment.

.

.

.

The punishment was a

small fine, and the imprisonment was ordered until the
fine was paid.'
In habeas corpus proceedings instituted in this court he
sought to be discharged from the sentence of imprisonment
imposed in the contempt case, claiming that, under Revised Statutes 720, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to grant the injunction and therefore the order
in the contempt proceedings was absolutely void. The
writ was denied.
After this court refused to grant the writ of habeas corpus
the case, on the main bill, was referred to a Master to hear
evidence and to report his conclusions of law and facts.
He found that the Railway was not doing business in
Louisiana in the sense of the statute; that the judgment was not fraudulent, but held it to be void because
service upon the Assistant Secretary of State was not

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the "service upon the Secretary of State" required by the
statute.
The Circuit Court did not consider the question of
fraud, but held (184 Fed. Rep. 959) that the state judgment was void because the Louisiana statute providing for
service on foreign corporations was unconstitutional. It
thereupon entered a permanent injunction against Simon
as prayed for in the bill. From that decree Simon appealed
making many assignments of error, attacking the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the bill and especially
denying its power to grant the relief prayed for in view of
the provisions of § 720 of the Revised Statutes. The Circuit Court of Appeals held (195 Fed. Rep. 56) that it had
been authoritatively decided in Ex parte Simon, 208 U. S.
144, that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction. It found
that the Railway Company was doing business in New
Orleans; but ruled that Act 54 did not provide for service
on the Assistant Secretary of State and hence that the
judgment by default in the state court was void for want
of jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. The decree
of the Circuit Court was affirmed and thereupon Simon
prosecuted the present appeal.
Mr. Henry L. Lazarus, with whom Mr. Herman Michel,
Mr. Eldon S. Lazarus, Mr. David Sessler and Mr. Girault
Farrarwere on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. Monte M. Lemann
and Mr. Alfred P. Thorn were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The primary question whether the United States court
had jurisdiction of the case must of course be determined
by considering the allegations of the Bill. It shows

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

diversity of citizenship and charges that Simon was seeking
to enforce by levy a judgment obtained by fraud and without notice to the Railway Company. If that be so the
United States courts, by virtue of their general equity
powers, had jurisdiction to enjoin the plaintiff from enforcing a judgment thus doubly void. For even where
there has been process and service, if the court "finds that
the parties have been guilty of fraud in obtaining a judgment

.

.

.

it will deprive them of the benefit of it."

McDaniel v. Traylor, 196 U. S. 415, 423. Much more so
will equity enjoin parties from enforcing those obtained
without service. For in such a case the person named as
defendant "can no more be regarded as a party than any
other member of the community." Such judgments are
not erroneous and not voidable but upon principles of
natural justice, and under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, are absolutely void. They constitute no justification to a plaintiff who if concerned in
executing such judgments is considered in law as a mere
trespasser. Harris v. Hardeman, 14 How. 339 (default
judgment entered on improper service). Williamson v.
Berry, 8 How. 541; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 46; Western
Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 273.
On principle and authority, therefore, a judgment,
obtained in a suit of which the defendant had no notice,
was a nullity and the party against whom it was obtained
was entitled to relief. It serves to illustrate the existence
of appellee's right and the method of its enforcement to
note that under the law of Louisiana the Railway Company was not obliged to attack a void judgment in the
court that rendered it-but, in a court having jurisdiction
of the plaintiff's person, could have instituted a new and
independent proceeding to enjoin Simon from enforcing it.
See Sheriff v. Judge, 46 La. Ann. 29, where a suit was
brought in the 21st District Court to enjoin the enforcement of a void judgment obtained in the 17th District

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court. See also HiberniaBank v. Standard Guana Co., 51
La. Ann. 1321. Of course, the jurisdiction of the United
States courts could not be lessened or increased by state
statutes regulating venue or establishing rules of procedure. But, manifestly, if a new and independent suit
could have been brought in a state court to enjoin Simon
from enforcing this judgment, a like new and independent
suit could have been brought for a like purpose in a Federal court, which was then bound to act within its jurisdiction and afford redress (Hyde v. Stone, 20 How. 175;
Reagan v. Farmers' Trust Co., 154 U. S. 391; Payne v.
Hook, 7 Wall. 429). The United States courts could not
stay original or supplementary proceedings in a state court
(Mutual Reserve v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 159); or revise its
judgment. But by virtue of their general equity jurisdiction they could enjoin a party from enforcing a void
judgment.
2. The Appellant, Simon, however, contends that even
if there was equity in the bill; and even if the Railway
Company could have brought a new and independent suit
in the state court to enjoin him from using the judgment,yet in the present case the Federal court was without
power to afford the same relief because § 720 of the Revised Statutes provides that, except in bankruptcy cases,
a United States court shall not "stay proceedings in any
court of a State."
In 1793, when that statute was adopted (1 Stat. 334),
courts of equity had a well-recognized power to issue writs
of injunction to stay proceedings pending in court,-in order to avoid a multiplicity of suits, to enable the
defendant to avail himself of equitable defenses and the
like. It was -also true that the courts of equity of one
State or country could enjoin its own citizens frofn prosecuting suits in another State or country. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107. This, of course, often gave 'rise to
irritating controversies between the courts themselves

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

which could, and sometimes did, issue contradictory injunctions.
On principles of comity and to avoid such inevitable
conflicts the act of 1793 was passed. Diggs v. Wolcott,
4 Cranch, 179, 180 (1807) and Hull v. Burr, 234. U. S.
712 (1914), (the first and last cases in this court dealing
with that question) furnish typical instances in which
the statute has been applied. Those decisions, and the
authorities therein cited, show that although the facts
might have been such as to warrant an injunction against
a suit then pending in a state court, yet § 720 prevented
the Federal court from staying the proceedings in the
state court.
3. But when the litigation has ended and a final judgment has been obtained-and when the plaintiff endeavors
to use such judgment-a new state of facts, not within
the language of the statute may arise. In the nature of
the case, however, there are few decisions dealing with
such a question. For where the state court had jurisdiction of the person and subject-matter the judgment
rendered in the suit would be binding on the parties until
reversed and there would therefore usually be no equity
in a bill in a Federal court seeking an injunction against
the enforcement of a state judgment thus binding between
the parties. See Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 600, where
Nougu6 v. Clapp, 101 U. S. 551, relied on by Appellant,
is discussed.
There have, however, been a few cases in which there
was equity in the bill brought to enjoin the plaintiff from
enforcing the state judgment, and where that equity was
found to exist appropriate relief has been granted. For
example, in Julian v. Central Trust Company, 193 U. S.
112, a judgment was obtained in a state court, execution
thereon was levied on property which, while not in possession of the Federal court, was in possession of a purchaser
who held under the conditions of a Federal decree. It

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was held that the existence of that equity authorized an
injunction to prevent the plaintiff from improperly enforcing his judgment, even though it may have been
perfectly valid in itself.
Other cases might be cited involving the same principle. But this is sufficient to show that if, in a proper
case, the plaintiff holding a valid state judgment can be
enjoined by the United States court from its inequitable
use,-by so much the more can the Federal courts enjoin
him from using that which purports to be a judgment but
is, in fact, an absolute nullity. Marshall v. Holmes, 141
U. S. 597; Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10; Barrow v. Hunton,
99 U. S. 85.
That the United States Circuit Court here could enjoin
Simon from enforcing a void judgment against the Southern Railway Company, has already been ruled in another
branch of this very case. In habeas corpus proceedings
(Ex parte Simon, 208 U. S. 144) he sought relief from the
punishment imposed because of his violation of the temporary injunction granted in this cause. He there claimed
that the attachment for contempt was void because the
court was without power to issue the injunction which he
had violated. On that subject this court said:
"This is not a ,,uit coram non judice and wholly void
by reason of Rev. Stat., § 720, forbidding United States
courts to stay by injunction proceedings in any "state
court. The Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the cause.
That must be assumed at this stage, and finally unless we
overrule the strong intimations in Marshall v. HQlmes, 141
U. S. 589, and the earlier cases cited in that case."
The appellant insists, however, that Marshall v. Holmes,
referred to as conclusive unless overruled, does not support the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court because there
no injunction was granted by the United States court.
In that case Mrs. Marshall brought a suit, in a Louisiana
court, and obtained a temporary injunction restrainifng

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Holmes, Sheriff, from levying Mayer's judgments alleged
to be fraudulent. Her petition for removal to the. United
States court was denied and the case proceeded to final
hearing in the state court.where the temporary injunction
was dissolved. That decree was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana. The case was then brought here to
review the order refusing to allow the case to be removed
to the Federal court. In discussing that issue the Appellee
contended, that 'it was not competent for the Circuit
Court of the United States, by any form of decree, to
deprive Mayer of the benefit of his judgment at law, and
that Mrs. Marshall could obtain the relief asked only in
the court in which the judgment had been rendered.'
In considering that contention (which is substantially the
same as that urged by the Appellant Simon here), the
court asked "whether, where the requisite diversity of.
citizenship existed, the Circuit Court of the United States
could not depriv-e a party of the benefit of a judgment
fraudulently obtained by him in a state court?' In
answering this question the court pointed out the difference between enjoihing a court and enjoining a party;
and the difference between setting aside a judgment for
irregularity and setting it aside for fraud. It was held
that the case was removable, since, there being diversity
of citizenship, the Circuit Court of the United States had
jurisdiction to award Mrs. Marshall protection by preventing the plaintiff, from enforcing his judgments if they
were found'to be fraudulent in fact, saying that the
"Authorities would seem to place beyofid question the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to take cognizance of the
present suit, which is none the less an original, independent
suit,, because it relates to judgments obtained in the
court of another jurisdiction. While it cannot require the
state court itself to set aside or vacate the judgments
in question, it may, as between the parties before it,
if the facts justify such relief, adjudge that Mayer shall

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not enjoy the inequitable advantage obtained by his
judgments. A decree to that effect would operate directly
upon him, and would not contravene that provision of the
statute prohibiting a court of the United States from
granting a writ of injunction to stay proceedings in a
state court. 'It would simply take from him the benefit
of judgments obtained by fraud."' And if a United States
court can enjoin a plaintiff from using a judgment, proved
to be fraudulent, it can likewise enjoin him from using a
judgment absolutely void for want of service.
4. The Appellant Simon further contends that Marshall
v. Holmes, is not applicable here because that was a removal case; and it is urged that even if a Federal court
can grant an injunction in a case removed, it cannot
award the same relief in a bill originally brought in the
Federal court. But that is a clear case of distinction
without a difference and was not the basis of the decision.
Indeed (excludipig ancillary bills Traction Company v.
Mining Company, 196 U. S.245), it seems always to have
been assumed that the prohibition of § 720 applied to
cases removed to the United States courts, as well as to
those originally instituted therein. Such was true in
Diggs v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179, the first reported case
arising under the law. There a bill in Chancery was filed
in a Connecticut court to enjoin a suit then pending in a
Connecticut court. The case was removed to the United
States Circuit Court and after removal the injunction was
granted. On appeal the decree was reversed on the ground
that a United States court could not [even on removal]
"stay proceedings in a state court." In later decisions it
has been pointed out that if there was a difference between
cases brought and those removed, it would have been easy,
as the law then stood, for the nonresident to bring a suit
for injunction in a state court, remove it to the Federal
court, secure therein the injunction sought, and thus evade

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the statute. Bondurant v. Watson, 103 U. S. 288; Lawrence v. Morgan's Railroad, 121 U. S. 636.
The ground of the decision in the Marshall Case, in
Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10; Barrow v. Hunton, 99 U. S.
85; McDaniel v. Traylor, 196 U. S. 415; Arrowsmith v.
Gleason, 129 U. S. 86; Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S.640;
Sharon v. Terry, 36 Fed. Rep. 337 cited in Julian v. Central
Trust Co., 193 U. S. 112; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.
224; Howard v. De Cordova, 177 U. S. 609, is that while § 720
prohibits United. States courts from "staying proceedings
in a state court," it does not prevent them from depriving
a party of the fruits of a fraudulent judgment, nor prevent
the Federal courts from enjoining a party from using that
which he calls a judgment but which is,. in fact and in law;
a mere nullity. That conclusion is inevitable, or else the
Federal court must hold that a judgment-void for want
of service-is "a proceeding in a state court" even after
the pretended litigation has ended and the void judgment
has been obtained. Such a ruling would involve a coiltradiction in terms, and treat as valid for some purposes
that which the courts have universally held to be a nullity
for all purposes.
5. If, then, there was eqiity in the bill, and if the
United States couft had jurisdiction of a suit brought
to enjoin the plaintiff from using a judgment alleged to be
void because of fraud in its procurement and for want of
service on the defendant, it- becomes necessary to determine whether the Railway Company established the
allegations of its bill.
The Master found as a fact that the Southern Railway
was not doing business within the State of Louisiana; that
there had been no fraud in the procurement of the judgment; and that the service on the Assistant was not the
service on the Secretary of State required by the statute.
He therefore recommended that a decree be entered enjoining the plaintiff from using the judgment obtained in

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the District Court of the. Parish of Orleans. The Circuit
Court made no finding on the question of fraud, but ruled
(184 Fed. Rep. 959) that the service was void because
Act 54 was unconstitutional in that it contained no provision requiring the Secretary of State to give the foreign
corporation notice that suit had been brought and citation
served. In support of that construction it quoted at
length a statement of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
in Gouner v. Missouri Valley Bridge Co., 123 Louisiana,
964. In that case service was made on the Secretary of
State after the foreign corporation sued had left the State.
As the court held that the statute did not apply to such
absent corporation it did not finally pass on the validity
of Act 54 under the state constitution, though it did say:
"This law makes no provision whatever for the service
on the defendant. The officer may decline to communicate
with the person sued and give no notice whatever; not
even by mail. A judgment might be obtained without
the least knowledge of the person sued. Under the phrasing of the statute, the duty of the officer begins and ends
in his office. If such a judgment were rendered, it could
receive no recognition whatever at the place of the domicile. When a petition cannot legally be served on a defendant, the court can exercise no jurisdiction over him.
The service defines the court's jurisdiction."
On the other hand, the Circuit Court of Appeals (195
Fed. Rep. 56), while referring', to this case, held, citing
Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S.317, that though the Southern Railway was doing business in Louisiana, yet ,the
default judgment was void because entered in a suit served
on the Assistant when the statute designated the Secretary
of State as the officer upon whom the citation should be
served.
The broader the ground of the decision here, the more
likelihood there will be of affecting judgments held by
persons not before the court. We therefore purposely
VOL. CCXXXVI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

refrain from passing upon either of the propositions decided
in the courts below, and Without discussing the right to sue
on a transitory cause of action and serve the same on an
agent voluntarily appointed by the foreign corporation, we
put the decision here on the special fact, relied on in the
court below, that in this case the cause of action arose
within the State of Alabama, and the suit therefor, in the
Louisiana court, was served on an agent designated by a
Louisiana statute.
Subject to exceptions, not material here, every State
has the undoubted right to provide for service of process
upon any foreign corporations doing business therein; to
require such companies to name agents upon whom service
may be made; and also to provide that in case of the company's failure to appoint such agent, service, in proper
cases, may be made upon an officer designated by law.
Mutual Reserve Ass'n v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147; Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 603. But this power to
designate by statute the officer upon whom service in
suits against foreign corporations may be made relates to
business and transactions within the jurisdiction of the
State enacting the law. Otherwise, claims on contracts
wherever made and suits for torts wherever committed
might by virtue of such compulsory statute be drawn to
the jurisdiction of any State in which the foreign corporation might at any time be carrying on business. The
manifest inconvenience and hardship arising from such
extra-territorial extension of jurisdiction, by virtue of the
power to make such compulsory appointments, could not
defeat the power if in law it could be rightfully exerted.
But these possible inconveniences serve to emphasize
the importance of the principle laid down in Old Wayne
Life Association v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 22, that the
statutory consent of a foreign corporation to be sued does
not extend to causes of action arising in other States.
In that case the Pennsylvania statute, as a condition of

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.

236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

their doing business in the State, required foreign corporations to file a written stipulation agreeing "that any
legal process affecting the Company served on the Insurance Commissioner .
. shall have the same effect
as if served personally on the Company within this State"
(18). The Old Wayne Life Association having executed
and delivered, in Indiana, a policy of insurance on the life
of a citizen of Pennsylvania (20) was sued thereon in Pennsylvania. The declaration averred that the Company
"has been doing business in the State of Pennsylvania,
issuing policies of life insurance to numerous and divers
residents of said County and State," and service was made
on the Commissioner of Insurance. The Association made
no appearance and a judgment by default was entered
against it. Thereafter suit on the judgment was brought
in Indiana. The plaintiff there introduced the record of
the Pennsylvania proceedings and claimed that, under the
full faith and credit clause of the Constitution, he was
entitled to recover thereon in the Indiana court. There
was no proof as to the Company having done any business
in the State of Pennsylvania, except the legal presumption
arising from the statements in the declaration as to soliciting insurance in that State. This court said:
"But even if it be assumed that the Company was
engaged in some business in Pennsylvania at the time the
contract in question was made, it cannot be held that the
Company agreed that service of process upon the lnsurance Commissioner of that Commonwealth would alone
be sufficient to bring it into court in respect of all business
transacted by it, no matter where, with or for the benefit of citizens of Pennsylvania (21). . . . Conceding,
then, that by going into Pennsylvania, without first
complying with its statute, the defendant Association
may be held to have consented to the service upon the
Insurance Commissioner of process in a suit brought
against it there in respect of business transacted by it
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in that Commonwealth, such assent cannot properly be.
implied where it affirmatively appears, as it does here, that
the business was not transacted in Pennsylvania.
As the suit in the Pennsylvania court was upon a contract
executed in Indiana; as the personal judgment in that
court against the Indiana corporation was only upon
notice to the Insurance Commissioner, without any legal
notice to the defendant Association and without its having
appeared in person, or by Attorney, or by agent in the
suit; and as the act of the Pennsylvania court in rendering
the judgment must be deemed that of the State within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, we hold that
the judgment in Pennsylvania was not entitled to the
faith and credit which, by the Constitution, is required
to be given to the
. .
judicial proceedings of the
several States, and was void as wanting in due process
of law. "
From the principle announced in that case it follows
that service under the Louisiana statute, would not be
effective to give the District Court of Orleans jurisdiction
over a defendant as to a cause of action arising in the State
of Alabama. The service on the Southern Railway, even
if in compliance with the requirements of Act 54, was not
that kind of process which could give the court jurisdiction
over the person of the defendant for a cause of action
arising in Alabama. As the Company made no appearance
the default judgment was void. Being void the plaintiff
acquired no rights thereby and could be enjoined by a
Federal court from attempting to enforce what is a judgment in name but a nullity in fact. This conclusion makes
it unnecessary to consider whether the Southern Railway
was doing business in Louisiana. It also makes it unnecessary to consider the question of fact as to whether the
judgment was void because of fraud in its procurement.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed..

