IOWA CENT. RY. v. BACON.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

We find no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, directing the distribution of the proceeds of
the sale for the benefit of all the creditors of the estate.
The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissenting.
IOWA CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. BACON,
ADMINISTRATOR OF LOCKHART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 130.

Submitted January 19, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

If the suit be one of which the Circuit Court can rightfully take jurisdiction, the state court loses jurisdiction on the filing of the petition

and bond, and subsequent proceedings in that court are void; but if
on the face of the record, including the petition for removal, it does
not appear that the suit is removable, the state court is not bound
to surrender its jurisdiction and may proceed as if no application for
removal had been made. Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239.
Although the petition may allege that plaintiff sustained damages in

excess of two thousand dollars, if the prayer for recovery is for less
than that sum, the jurisdictional amount is not involved, and the
filing of a petition and bond does not effect a removal of the case.
Although the Federal court may have made orders continuing a case
in which a petition and bond had been filed, and even dismissed it
for want of prosecution, if the question of its authority had never
been presented to or decided by it, the state court is not bound to
respect such orders as conclusive of the question of jurisdiction; and
so held in a case which on the face of the record was not removable
as the amount claimed was less than $2,000, although the damages
were stated in the petition as having exceeded that sum. Chesapeake
& Ohio Ry. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207, distinguished.
157 Iowa, 493, affirmed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the state
and Federal courts and the effect of air attempted reVOL. ccxxxvi-20
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

moval of the case to the Federal court where the amount
in controversy was less than $2,000, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. William H. Bremnero'and Mr. F. M, Miner for
plaintiff in error:
After the removal to the United States court the amount
in controversy would be for determination by the Federal
court under the rules of practice prevailing in that court.
The original notice fixed the amount which would be
claimed by the plaintiff at ten thousand dollars.
Under statutes similar to the statutes of Iowa after an
answer, has been filed the prayer for relief becomes immaterial and the court may give judgment for such an
amount as is consistent with the issues made and the
proof. Marquat v. Marquat, 2 Kern. (12 N. Y. 336); 1
Bates' Pleading 315; Erck v. Omaha National Bank
(Nebr.), 62 N. W. Rep. 67,
The praye for relief forms no part of the petition and
the sufficiency and character thereof, as well as the amount
involved, must be determined from the facts stated and
not from the prayer for relief. Henry v. McKittrick, 42
Kansas, 485 Tiffin Glass Co. v. Stoehr, 54 Oh. St. 157.
The Supreme Court of Iowa had, prior to the decision
in this case, in various opinions held that the plaintiff was
not limited to the relief asked by his petition. Wilson v.
Miller, 16 Iowa, 111; Marder v. Wright, 70 Iowa, 42;
Johnson v. Rider, 84 Iowa, 50.
The state court was without jurisdiction, the case having been actually removed to the United States Circuit
Court and that court-having determined it had jurisdiction thereof.
After the filing, of the transcript in the United States
court the case was continued from term to term.,
The fact that no order directing the removal of the case
was entered by the state court is immaterial, as such an

IOWA CENT. RY. v. BACON.
236'U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

307
,

order or the failure to, make such an order does not affect
the question of removal. Brigham v. Thompson,.55 Fed.
Rep. 881; State v. Coosaw Mining Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 804809; LaPage v. Day, 74 Fed. Rep. 977; Kern v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 485; Eisemann v. Delmar Mining Co., 87
Fed. Rep. 248; Loop v. Winter, 115 Fed. Rep. 362; Van
Home v. Litchfield, 70 Iowa, 11; Byson v. McPherson,
71 Iowa, 437; Ohle. v. C. & N. W. Ry., 64 Iowa, 599;
Chambers v. Ill. Cent. Ry., 104 Iowa, 238; Myers v. C.
& N. W. Ry., 118 Iowa, 312, 325; Turner v. Farmers'
L. & T. Co.; 106 U. S. 552; Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S.
589, 595.
The case was actually removed, whether rightfully or
-not, and the state court lost jurisdiction by such removal
and could only recover jurisdiction by remand from the
Federal court or the, commencement of a new action'
State v. Coosaw Mining Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 804, 809; C. &
0. Ry. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207.
If the Federal court was, without jurisdiction because
the case was not removable, the remdy of the plaintiff
was by moving to remand in the Federal court. Turner
v., Farmers' L. & T. Co., 106 U. S. 552, 555; C. & 0. Ry.
v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207; 218; Des Moines Nav.-Co. v.
Iowa-Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552, 559; Judge v. Arlen, 71
Iowa, 186.
The cases cited show that _as a petition for removal sufficient in all respects and in proper form, with a good and
sufficient bond has been-'filed, the case was removed, and
thereafter only the Federal court could determine whether
or not it. had jurisdiction.The judipnent for costs entered by the Uhited States
court in favor of the plaintiff in error is still in full force
and ,effect, -never having been set aside or reversed and
cannot be treated as a nullity.
The effect of the decision by the Supreme Court of Iowa
is to hold that the judgment of the United States court is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

a nullity and the action of the state courts amounts to a
refusal to give effect to a valid existing judgment of a
United States court.
Mr. E. Elmer Mitchell, Mr. L. T. Shangle, Mr. D. C.
Waggoner and Mr. J. N. McCoy for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, as Administrator of Martin W.
Lockhart, deceased, brought an action on September 22,
1905, in the District Court of Iowa in and for the County
of Mahaska, to recover damages for the alleged wrongful
killing of his intestate. In the petition it was alleged that
the estate had been damaged in the sum of $10,000, but
judgment was asked only for the sum of $1,990. On
September 30, 1905, the Railway Company filed its answer, and on October 2, 1905, within the time required
by law, filed a petition for removal of the cause to the
United States Circuit Court in and for the Southern District of Iowa, on the ground of diversity of citizenship,
alleging that the amount in controversy exceeded, with
interest and costs, the sum of $2,000. The petition was
accompanied by a bond.
The District Court of Mahaska County did not enter
any order directing the removal of the case, but on
March 29, 1906, there was filed in the office of the Clerk of
the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Iowa a transcript of the proceedings in the case. After
the filing of the transcript in the Federal court, the case
was continued from term to term, until, on December 5,
1908, an order to notice said case for trial at the next term
or show cause why it should not be dismissed was entered,
and the Clerk was directed to mail and serve a copy of said
order on the parties. On May 11, 1909, the Circuit Court
of the United States entered an order dismissing the cause

IOWA CENT. RY. v. BACON.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for want of prosecution at the plaintiff's costs, and the defendant was given judgment for its costs.
Afterwards, on September 19, 1910, the plaintiff filed
in the office of the District Court of Mahaska County an
amended and substituted petition. On October 6, 1910,
the District Court entered an order, denying the application of the defendant for a removal of the cause to the
United States court on the ground that the amount in
controversy, .exclusive of interest and costs, was less than
$2,000. The application for removal was the one filed on
October 2, 1905. On February 28, 1911, the Railway
Company filed a motion to dismiss the case and to strike
from the files all pleadings filed subsequent to September 1, 1905, on the ground that the case had been removed to the United States Circuit Court. Attached
to the motion was a certified copy of the record in the
United States court. This motion was denied and afterwards the case went to trial in the state court, and upon
verdict of the jury a judgment was rendered against the
Railway Company. The case was taken to the Supreme
Court of Iowa and that court affirmed the judgment of
the lower court. (157 Iowa, 493.) The case was brought
here, and the Federal question presented is whether the
state court had lost its jurisdiction by the attempted
removal to the United States Circuit Court.
It was of course essential to the removal of the case that
the amount in controversy should have been sufficient to
give the Federal court jurisdiction; that is to say, $2,000,
exclusive of interest and costs. The state court had authority to determine the effect of the prayer to the petition
and it decided that, under the petition, no more than the
amount prayed for could be recovered in the action, notwithstanding the statement that the estate had suffered
damage in the sum of $10,000. It is contended that, nevertheless, the proceedings in this case show that the case
was removed to the United States Circuit Court, and in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

asmuch as the state court lost jurisdiction, its subsequent
proceedings are null and void.
In Traction Company v. Mining Company, 196 U. S. 239,
this court said, citing many previous cases, that certain
principles relating to the removal of causes had been
settled by the former adjudications of the court. One is
that if the suit be one in which the Circuit Court could
rightfully take jurisdiction, then upon the filing of the
petition for removal in due time, with sufficient bond,
the case is in law removed, and the state court loses jurisdiction to proceed further and all subsequent proceedings
therein are void. Furthermore, that if, upon the face of
the record, including the petition for removal, the suit
does not appear to be removable, then the state court is
not bound to surrender its jurisdiction, and may proceed
as if no application for removal had been made. See also
the previous cases in this court cited in the Traction Company Case, at pages 244 and 245.
Applying these principles, it is apparent that the case
now under consideration was not upon the face of the
record a removable one. The prayer for recovery was for
$1,990, and consequently the amount required to give
jurisdiction to the Federal court was not involved. The
filing of the petition and bond did not therefore effect a
removal of the case.
But it is contended that this case is governed by Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. McCabe, 213 U. S.207, because the
United States court had determined, as it had authority
to, that the case was a removable one, and that so long
as that judgment stood, the state court had lost its jurisdiction, and had no power to proceed further in the case.
In the McCabe Case, where the state court refused to order
the removal of the case upon a transcript being filed, the
Federal court held that it had jurisdiction in the case and
proceeded to render a judgment therein; and when this
adjudication was brought to the attention of the state

AMERICAN CAR CO. v. KETTELHAKE.
236.U. 'S.

311

Syllabus.

court, it refused to give it force, and proceeded to adjudge
the case upon its own view of jurisdiction. This court held
that the state court was bound to give weight to the judgment of the Federal court deciding that it had jurisdiction,
and that the judgment, until reversed, was conclusive
upon the state court as to the jurisdiction of the Federal
court.
But no such case is presented here. The Federal court,
it is true, more than once made an order continuing the
case, and finally dismissed it for want of prosecution.
The question of its authority to take jurisdiction was never
presented or decided in the Federal court, and there is
nothing in the orders made conclusive of that question in
such sense that the state court was bound to respect it.
As the record upon its face made no case for removal
the state court was right in retaining its jurisdiction, and
proceeding to determine and adjudge the case. The judgment is
Affirmed.

AMERICAN CAR & FOUNDRY COMPANY v.
KETTELHAKE.
ERROR TO ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS, STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 138.

Argued January 20, 1915.-Decided Febuary 23, 1915.

Where there is a joint cause of action against defendants resident of
plaintiff's State and a non-resident defendant, in order to make the
case removable as to the latter because of the dismissal as to the
former, the discontinuance as to the resident defendants must have
been the voluntary act of the plaintiff and have so taken the resident
defendants out of the case as to leave the controversy one wholly
between the plaintiff and the non-resident defendant.
Under the practice in Missouri, when the court has sustained demurrers
by some of the defendants and allowed plaintiff to take an involun-

