NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

loughby v. Chicago, 235 U. S. 45. But as we have said,
nothing short of a specific decision of the Court of Appeals
would make us believe that the act of 1895 gave to the
plaintiff, without notice to landowners or other preliminary, a vested right, seemingly unlimited in time, to
exclude the rest of the world from whatever watersheds
it chose, simply by filing a map.
Decree affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA ON RELATION OF
McCUE, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.

Nos. 420, 421.

Argued October 19, 20, 1914.-Decided March 8, 1915.

This court takes the facts as found by the state court as established
unless
(1) A Federal right has been denied as the result of a finding shown
by the record to be unsupported by evidence or
(2) A conclusion of law as to a Federal right and a finding of fact
are so commingled as to make it necessary to analyze the latter.
Neither of those conditions exist in this case.
Railroad property is private property devoted to public use and the
State has a broad field for the exercise of its discretion in prescribing
reasonable rates for common carriers within its jurisdiction.
It is not necessary there should be uniform rates or the same percentage of profits on every sort of business; there is room for reasonable classification.
Despite this range of permissible action the State has no arbitrary
power over rates; the devotion of the carrier's property to public use
is qualified by the carrier's right to a reasonable reward; the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

236 U. S.

may not select a commodity on a class of traffic even if of a low grade
and instead of fixing a reasonable rate require the carrier to transport
it at less than cost or for merely nominal compensation.
Public interest cannot be invoked as a justification for demands passing
the limits of constitutional protection.
This court does not sit as a revisory board to substitute its judgment
for that of the legislature or its administrative agent.
This court is not required to concern itself with mere details of a
schedule; or to review a particular tariff which yields substantial
compensation, when the profitableness of the intrastate business as
a whole is not involved. But a different question arises when the
State has segregated a commodity, or a class of traffic, and has attempted to compel the carrier to transport it at a loss or without
substantial compensation.
There is a presumption that rates fixed by the State for intrastate
traffic are reasonable and just but it is one that may be rebutted by
the carrier showing, as in this case, that it is non-compensatory.
As the maximum intrastate rates on coal in carload lots fixed by ch. 51
of the laws of North Dakota are unreasonable-either requiring the
carrier to transport the commodity at a loss or for a merely nominal
compensation after taking into account the entire traffic to which
the rates apply-the State exceeded its authority in enacting the
statute which-amounts to an attempt to take the property of the
carrier without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
26 N. Dak. 438, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the due
process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of a
statute of North Dakota fixing maximum' intrastate rates
for transportation of coal by railroad companies, are stated

in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. Charles Donnelly
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 420.
Mr. John I. Dille, with whom Mr. A. H. Bright and Mr.

John L. Erdall were on the brief, for plaintiff in error in
No. 421.
Mr. Andrew Miller, Attorney General of the State of
North Dakota, and Mr. C. L. Young, with whom Mr. John

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Carmody and Mr. Alfred Tager were on the brief, for defendants in error:
A non-compensatory rate is not necessarily confiscatory.
There may be such a special commodity rate fixed by the
state authorities and if the entire intrastate business
yields a fair profit upon the investment devoted thereto,
the special rate by itself is not a taking of property. The
rule is elastic. This court has never held that a rate for
service lower than is returned for the entire business or
because it returns no profits is unreasonable.
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, does not hold that fair
returns, upon property invested is an unqualified rule.
The rate allowed is what the services rendered are reasonably worth. The right to dividends must give way to the
paramount right of the public. Minn. & St. L. Ry. v.
Minnesota, 186 U. S. 268; Covington Turnpike v. Sanford,
164 U. S. 576; Reagan v. Farmers L. & T. Co., 154 U. S.
362; San Diego Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 757;
St. Louis & S. F. Ry. v. Gill, 54 Arkansas, 101; S. C.,
aff'd 156 U. S. 649.
A carrier is not entitled to a uniform rate of return on,
each commodity. Interstate Ry. v. Massachusetts, 207
U. S. 79. So as to other public utilities corporations.
Willcox v. Consol. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Atlantic Coast
Line v. North Carolina, 206 U. S. 1.
In passing upon reasonableness of rates the interests of
the public as well as the carrier are to be considered.
Matthews v. CorporationComm., 106 Fed. Rep. 7; Southern Ry. v. McNeill, 155 Fed. Rep. 756; Arkansas Rate
Cases, 168 Fed. Rep. 730; S. C., 187 Fed. Rep. 307.
State court cases are to like effect. Southern Ry. v.
Stoveworks, 128 Georgia, 223; Jacobson v. Wisconsin Ry.,
71 Minnesota, 519; Taylor v. Mo. Pac. Ry., 76 Kansas,
,467; Cantrell v. St. Louis &c. Co., 176 Illinois, 512; McCue
v. Nor. Pac. Ry., 19 N. Dak. 45. See also Louis. & Nash.
R. R. Coal Rates, 26 I. C. C. 220; Wyman on Pub. Serv.

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Corp., § 1201; Freund, Police Power, § 551; 3 Encyc. Sup.
Ct. Rep. 632. Int. Comm. Comm. v. Un. Pac. Ry., 222
U. S. 541, is not opposed to these cases.
The intrastate business of the carriers as a whole produced a fair return.
Classification of rates is proper and within the power of
the State. 2 Wyman, § 1232; Beale & Wyman, § 554;
Tiff v. Southern Ry., 138 Fed. Rep. 264.
Allowance should be made for the fact that coal is one
of the lowest classes of freight and cheapest to transport.
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Wilson, 132 Indiana, 517; Trade
Leagues v. Phila., Wil. & Balt. Ry., 8 I. C. C. 386;
Am. Ins. Co. v. Chi. & Alt. Ry., 74 Mo. App. 89; Hayes v.
Railway Co., 12 Fed. Rep. 309.
Shipments in carload lots should be at low rates.
In this case of coal in carload lots the revenues exceed
actual outlay and there is a contribution towards expenses
which would have existed even if there 'had been no coal
hauled.
The rate was fixed as a declaration of public policy in
favor of a domestic industry and the general welfare of
the State. Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427.
The burden of showing that the rates are confiscatory
is on the carrier.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
By Chapter 51 of the Laws of 1907, the legislature of
North Dakota fixed maximum intrastate rates, graduated
according to distance, for the transportation of coal in
carload lots. It was further provided that in case the
transportation was over two or more lines of railroad it
should be considered as one haul, the compensation for.
which should be divided among the carriers according to
their agreement or, if they could not agree, as the railroad

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commissioners should decide subject to appeal to the
courts. While the statutory rates governed all coal shipments, their practical application was almost solely to
lignite coal.
The carriers refused to put the rates into effect, and in
August, 1907, the Attorney General of the State began
proceedings in its Supreme Court to obtain a mandatory
injunction against the Northern Pacific Railway Company, the Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Railway Company-and the Great Northern Railway Company.
The companies answered that the statute violated the
Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution, and also
that it infringed the Fourteenth Amendment by fixing
rates that were 'unremunerative,' 'unreasonable,' and
'confiscatory.' The Supreme Court of the State, overruling these contentions, granted the injunction. 19 N.
Dak. 45. It was held that the evidence was not sufficient
to overcome the presumption in favor of the rates. On
writ of error from this court, the decree was affirmed without prejudice to the right of the railroad companies to
reopen the case after an adequate trial of the rates. 216
U. S. 579.
This decision was rendered in the early part of the year
1910 and thereupon the rates were put into effect After
a trial for over a year, the case was reopened, voluminous
testimony was taken and the Supreme Court of the State,
making its separate findings of fact as to the effect of the
rates in the intrastate business of each carrier, and stating
its conclusions of law, entered judgment commanding the
carriers to keep the rates in force. 26 N.' Dak. 438. The
Northern Pacific Railway Company and the Minneapolis,
St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Railway Company have sued
out these writs of error.
The period to which the testimony relates is the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1911. The facts may be thus summarized:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Northern Pacific Railway Company.
The total revenue received by this company for the
intrastate carriage of lignite coal for the fiscal year was
358,953.07.. It was also deemed to be practicable to ascertain the amount of expense properly chargeable to this
traffic. Upon this point, the court said: "As a result of
the painstaking work of the accounting department of
this railway company, and its endeavors to render all the
assistance possible in determining the matter of the apportionment of expense to this -commodity, as is evidenced
by the care and detail in the accounting, the information
furnished by the exhibits, and that the books of the company have been thrown open to the experts of the State,
we are enabled to arrive, with a reasonable degree of
certainty, at the proper proportion of expense the t should
be chargeable against the revenue received from the carriage of this commodity." 26 N. Dak., p. 446.
With respect to the division of some of the items of
expense (maintenance of way and structures, and taxes),
there was no dispute, and, as to the others, the range of
controversy was narrow. The 'company contended that
the traffic in question produced at the statutory rates a
loss of $2,253.65; the State insisted that it yielded a profit
of $2,391.63. After a detailed analysis, the state court
found the charges against the revenue received from the
lignite traffic to be: (1) For train operation expense,
$30,850.12; (2) switching, $4,971; (3) station service,
$4,182.58; (4) freight car repairs, renewals, and depreciation, $7,121.54; (5) traffic and general expenses (no loss
and damage allowed), $1,456.14; (6) maintenance of way
and 'structures, $7,119.93; (7) taxes, $2,424.15; making the
total expenses, $58,125.46, and the surplus income,
$827.61. Id., pp. 460, 461. The summary of the findings
I
of fact, is as follows:
"That, as to the Northern Pacific Railway Company
out of total freight receipts for lignite coal, amounting to

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion 'of the Court.

$58,953, the total cost of transportation, or out-of-pocket
costs, together with all fixed or overhead expenses apportionable to said lignite traffic, consumed all of said
receipts excepting $847, its net profit in the handling of
the lignite business for the twelve months in question.
That such rate is slightly remunerative, but in fact noncompensatory, considering the volume of freight carried
and the property of the railroad devoted thereto." Id.,
p. 439.
Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Railway Company.
The state court regarded the statistics furnished by this
company as being in the main estimates Without satisfactory bases. Still, on making an elaborate examination
.of the facts disclosed by the record-all the testimony
adduced in the three cases being available in each one so
far as pertinent-and on taking judicial notice of certain
local conditions, the court was able to find sufficient proof
to justify it in determining that under the statutory rates
the intrastate transportation of lignite coal was conducted
by this company at a loss. Id., pp. 461-472. A large
part of the traffic, after a short haul, was delivered to connecting carriers-the Northern Pacific and Great Northern
lines-and the pro-rating of the statutory compensation
for the entire haul operated injuriously. As to this part,
said to be 'nearly half the lignite business,' this road was
'virtually a branch line of the other two railroads in accumulating for them their lignite traffic.' It was found,
further, that the value of the railway property within the
State had not been established, nor had the portion of
value attributable to the intrastate business been determined; and, also, that the carriage of lignite coal increased
'the railroad expenses but sixty per cent. of the usual
statutory rate for the lignite haul,' that is, that this percentage of the rate covered the 'out-of-pocket cost' of the
traffic, the remaining expenses in this view being such as

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

would have been incurred had no lignite coal been transported.
The gross receipts from the intrastate traffic in question
during the fiscal year were $83,670. The final results of
the court's analysis in the case of this company are thus
epitomized:
"Its total receipts amount to more than its actual outof-pocket costs, or actual costs of transportation, but are
from $9,000 to $12,000 less than the total costs including
fixed and overhead expenses properly chargeable to the
carriage of this commodity and against the earnings therefrom. That the carriage of lignite coal by the Soo line
within this State during said fiscal year was not only nonprofitable, but occasioned a loss to it when its fixed expenses apportionable to all traffic are in proper proportion
and amount assigned to and charged against the earnings
from this commodity." Id., p. 439.
In answer to the contention of the State that the company could not be heard to complain with respect to the
disadvantage of the prorating with connecting carriers,
inasmuch as the basis was agreed upon without an appeal
to the board of railroad commissioners, the court said that
it was difficult to see what other basis could have been
taken, and, further, that the result, in substance, would
have been the same. The amount which could thus have
been gained, it was said, would have been taken 'from the
net revenues of the Northern Pacific carrier principally,'
and Would have been insufficient to have given to the
Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie company a net
profit, so that 'all the difference in fact would have been
that both Soo and Northern Pacific would be then hauling
this freight at less than the gross cost, including, of course,
out-of-pocket and all fixed charges.' id., p. 483.
We understand that all the 'fixed charges,' to which the
findings refer, are actual expenses which, while including
taxes, do not include any return whatever upon the in-

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vestment in the property whether by way of interest or
otherwise.
The facts thus found must be taken to be established.
This court will review the finding of facts by a state court
(1) where a Federal right has been denied as the result of a
finding shown by the record to be without evidence to
support it, and (2) where a conclusion of law as to a
Federal right and findings of fact are so intermingled as
to make it necessary, in order to pass upon the Federal
question, to analyze the facts. Kansas City Southern Ry.
v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591; Creswill v.
Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 261; Wood v. Chesborough, 228 U. S. 672,. 678. But the present case is not
within either branch of the rule. PortlandRy. v. Oregon
Railroad Commission, 229 U. S. 397, 412; Miedreich v.
Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236, 243, 244. It cannot be said
that the findings of fact made by the state court are unsupported by evidence, and it is apparent that the substantial
question raised by the assignments of error and submitted
in argument arises upon the facts found. True, the
Northern Pacific Company insists that on a critical examination of the evidence it would be ascertained that,
instead of a net profit of about $800, it received no profit
at all from the traffic in question under the statutory rate,
but the remuneration as found is so slight as not to be
more than nominal in view of the extent of the traffic,
and in this aspect the finding is that the rate as to this
company is non-compensatory. So, while the contention
of the Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Company
that it proved the value of the property used by it in the
intrastate business is clearly inadmissible under the decisions of this court (Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352),
still in the present case the determination of that value is
not necessary inasmuch as no complaint is made with respect to the company's return upon its entire intrastate
business, and, so far as the attempted showing of the value
voL. ccxxxvi-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of the property devoted to the traffic in question is concerned, that also is unimportant, as whatever that value
might be, it is found that no net return upon it was secured.
As to the law, the state court held:
"(a) The statutory freight rate is presumed to be reasonable, which presumption continues until the contrary
appears, and the rate is shown beyond a reasonable doubt
to be confiscatory.
"(b) Proof that a rate is non-compensatory-that is,
while producing more revenue than sufficient to pay the
actual expenses occasioned by the transportation of the
commodity, but insufficient to also reimburse for that
proportion of the railroad's fixed or overhead costs properly apportionable to such commodity carried-is not
sufficient to establish that the rate is confiscatory in law.
"(c) In order to establish such a non-compensatory rate
to be confiscatory, it must further appear that any deficit
under the rate affects the net intrastate freight earnings
materially, and reduces them to a point where they are
insufficient to amount to a reasonable rate of profit on
the amount of the value of the railroad property within
the state contributing to produce such net earnings."
Accordingly, it was further held that, after establishing
the value of the property employed in the production of
the net intrastate freight earnings, it must appear, in order
to show confiscation, either (1) that such earnings are
insufficient to yield a fair return upon that value and that
the commodity in question is carried for less than what is
sufficient to meet all expenses, including 'out-of-pocket
costs' and fixed charges, or (2) that the loss on the commodity under the rate attacked 'reduces the balance of
the net intrastate freight earnings' to a Doint where, including the loss on the commodity rate, fhey fail to yield
such return. 26 Nor. Dak., p. 440.
And it was because their case failed to meet these tests

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiffs in error were commanded to observe the
rate.
The general principles to be applied are not open to
controversy. The railroad .property is private property
devoted to a public use. As a corporation, the owner is
subject to the obligations of its charter. As the holder of
special franchises, it is subject to the conditions upon
which they were granted. Aside from specific requirements of this sort, the common carrier must discharge the
obligations which inhere in the nature of its business. It
must supply facilities that are reasonably adequate; it
must carry upon reasonable terms; and it must serve
without-unjust discrimination. These duties are properly
called public duties, and the State within the limits of its
jurisdiction may enforce them. The State may prescribe
rules to insure fair remuneration and to prevent extortion, to secure substantial equality of treatment in like
cases, and to promote safety, good order and convenience.
But, broad as is the power of regulation, the State does
not enjoy the freedom of an owner. The fact that the
property is devoted to a public use on certain terms does
not justify the requirement that it shall be devoted to
other public purposes, or to the same use on other terms,
or the imposition of restrictions that are not reasonably
concerned with the proper conduct of the business ac.cording to the undertaking which the carrier has expressly or
impliedly assumed. If it has held itself out as a carrier of
passengers only, it cannot be compelled to carry freight.
As a carrier for hire, it cannot be required to carry persons
or goods gratuitously. The case would not be altered by.
the assertion that the public interest demanded such carriage. The public interest cannot be invoked as a justification for demands which pass the limits of reasonable
protection and seek to impose upon the carrier and its
property burdens that are not incident to its engagement.
In such a case, it would be no answer to say that the car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

rier obtains from its entire intrastate business a return
as to the sufficiency of which in the aggregate it is not entitled to complain. Thus, in Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern Ry. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684, the regulation as to
the sale of mileage books was condemned as arbitrary
without regard to the total income of the carrier. Similarly, in Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196,
it was held that the carrier could not be required to build
mere private connections, and the adequacy of the receipts
from its entire business did not enter into the question.
And this was so because the obligation was not involved in
the carrier's public duty and the requirement went beyond
the reasonable exercise of the State's protective power.
We have, then, to apply these familiar principles to a
case where the State has attempted to fix a rate for the
transportation of a commodity under which, taking the
results of the business to which the rate is applied, the
carrier is compelled to transport the commodity for less
than cost or without substantial compensation in addition
to cost. We say this, for we entertain no doubt that, in
determining the cost of the transportation of a particular
commodity, all the outlays which pertain to it must be
considered. We find no basis for distinguishing in this
respect between so-called 'out-of-pocket costs,' or 'actual'
expenses, and other outlays which are none the less actually made because they are applicable to all traffic, instead of being exclusively incurred in the traffic in question. Illustrations are found in outlays for maintenance
of way and structures, general expenses and taxes. It is
not a sufficient reason for excluding such, or other, expenses to say that they would still have been incurred
had the particular commodity not been transported.
That commodity has been transported; the common carrier is under a duty to carry, and the expenses of its business at a particular time are attributable to what it does
carry. The State cannot estimate the cost of carrying

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

597

Opinion of the Court.

coal by throwing the expense incident to the maintenance
of the roadbed, and the general expenses, upon the carriage of wheat; or the cost of carrying wheat by throwing
the burden of the upkeep of the property upon coal and
other commodities. This, of course, does not mean that
all commodities are to be treated as carried at the same
rate of expense. The outlays that exclusively pertain to
a given class of traffic must be assigned to that class, and
the other expenses must be fairly apportioned. It may
be difficult to make such an apportionment, but when
conclusions are based on cost the entire cost must be taken
into account.
It should be said, further, that we find nothing in the
record before us, and nothing in the facts which have been
set forth with the most careful elaboration by the state
court, that can be taken to indicate the existence of any
standard whatever by reference to which the rate in question may be considered to be reasonable. It does not appear that there has been any practice of the carriers in
North Dakota which affords any semblance of support to a
rate so low. Whatever inference may be deduced from
coal rates in other States, as disclosed by the record, is
decidedly against the reasonableness of the rate. And it
may be added that, while the rate was found to be compensatory in the case of the Great Northern Railway Company, this was distinctly shown to be due to the peculiar
conditions of the traffic over that road, the differences
with respect to which were fully detailed by the state court.
26 N. Dak., pp. 439, 472-480. Nearly ninety per cent. of
the total intrastate traffic in lignite coal upon the three
roads was over the lines of the plaintiffs in error. It is
urged by the State that the commodity in question is one
of the lowest classes of freight. This may be assumed, and
it may be a good reason for a lower rate than that charged
for carrying articles of a different sort, but the mere grade
of the commodity cannot be regarded as furnishing a suffi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

cient ground for compelling the carrier to transport it for
less than cost or without substantial reward.
The State insists that the enactment of the statute may
be justified as 'a declaration of public policy.' In substance, the argument is that the rate was imposed to aid
in the development of a local industry and thus to confer
a benefit upon the people of the State. The importance
to the community of its deposits of lignite coal, the infancy
of the industry, and the advantages to be gained by increasing the consumption of this coal and making the community less dependent upon fuel supplies imported into
the State, are emphasized. But, while local interests serve
as a motive for enforcing reasonable rates, it would be a
very different matter to say that the State may compel the
carrier to maintain a rate upon a particular commodity
that is less than reasonable, or-as might equally well be
asserted-to carry gratuitously, in order to build up a
local enterprise. That would be to go outside the carrier's
undertaking, and outside the field of reasonable supervision of the conduct of its business, and would be equivalent to an appropriation of the property to public uses
upon terms to which the carrier had in no way agreed.
It does not aid the argument to urge that the State may
permit the carrier to make good its loss by charges for
other transportation. If other rates are(exQrbitant, they
may be reduced. Certainly, it could not be said that the
carrier may be required to charge excessive rates to some
in order that others might be served at a rate unreasonably
low. That would be but arbitrary action. We cannot
reach the conclusion that the rate in question is to be
supported upon the ground of public policy if, upon the
facts found, it should be deemed to be less than reasonable.
The legislature, undoubtedly, has a wide range of discretion in the exercise of the power to prescribe reasonable
charges, and it is not bound 'to fix uniform rates for all

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commodities or to secure the same percentage of profit on
every sort of business. There are many factors to be considered,-differences in the articles transported, the care
required, the risk assumed, the value of the service, and
it is obviously important that there should be reasonable
adjustments and classifications. Nor is its authority
hampered by the necessity of establishing such minute
distinctions that the effective exercise of the rate-making
power becomes impossible. It is not bound to prescribe
separate rates for every individual service performed, but
it may group services by fixing rates for classes of traffic.
Asrepeatedly observed, we do not sit as a revisory board
to substitute our judgment for that of the legislature, or
its administrative agent, as to matters within its province. San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S.
439; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298,
313. The court, therefore, is not called upon to concern
itself with mere details of a schedule; or to review a par:ticular tariff or schedule which yields substantial compensation for the services it embraces, when the profitableness
of the intrastate business as a whole is not involved.
But a different question arises when the State has
segregated a commodity, or a class of traffic, and has attempted to compel the carrier to transport it at a loss or
without substantial compensation even though the entire
traffic to which the rate is applied is taken into account.
On that fact being satisfactorily established, the presumption of reasonableness is rebutted. If in such a case there
exists any practice, or what may be taken to be (broadly
speaking) a standard of rates with respect to that traffic,
in the light of which it is insisted that the rate should still
be regarded as reasonable, that should be made to appear.
As has been said, it does not appear here..' Frequently,
attacks upon state rates have raised the question as to the
profitableness of the entire intrastate business under the
State's requirements. But the decisions in this class of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

cases (which we have cited in the margin 1) furnish no
ground for saying that the State may set apart a commodity or a special class of traffic and impose upon it any
rate it pleases, provided only that the return from the
entire intrastate business is adequate. In St. Louis &
San FranciscoRy. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649, a statute fixing
a maximum rate for passengers in the State of Arkansas
was challenged, but the allegation and offer of proof that
the rate would compel the carriage of passengers at a loss
related only to a portion, or division, of the railroad and
not to the result of all the traffic to which the rate in question applied. The holding that this was insufficient was in
entire accord with the above stated principle,-that the
rate-making power may be exercised in a practical way
and that the legislature is not bound to assure a net profit
from 'every mile, section, or other part into which the
road might be divided.' Id., p. 665. A passenger rate
may apply generally throughout the State, and the effect
of the rate must be considered with respect to the whole
business governed by the rate.

In Smyth v. Ames, 169

U. S. 466, a schedule of freight rates was involved, and,
while the entire schedule was under consideration, it was
recognized that in order to determine its adequacy the
I Stone v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307; Dow v. Beidleman, 125 U. S. 680, 690; Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry. v. Wellman, 143
U. S. 339, 341; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U" S. 362;
Covington & Lexington Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578; Smyth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; S. C., 171 U. S. 361; San Diego Land & Town
Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper,
supra; Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin Canal Co., 192 U. S. 201;
Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S.
655; Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., 225 U. S.
430; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 433; Missouri Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 474, 497; Southern Pacific Co. v. Campbell, 230 U. S. 537;
Allen v. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry., 230 U. S. 553, 556.

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

intrastate freight business might be segregated. Id.,
pp. 535, 550. The case of Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R.
v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, involved a rate fixed by the
Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State of
Minnesota for the intrastate transportation of hard coal
in carload lots. There was no proof that the carrier was
compelled to transport the coal at a loss or without substantial compensation. The principal testimony, as the
court observed, was intended to show that 'if the rate
fixed by the Commission for coal in carload lots were applied to all freight, the road would not pay its operating
expenses, although in making this showing the interest
upon the bonded debt and the dividends were included as
part of the operating expenses.' It was said that it was
'quite evident' that this testimony had 'but a slight, if
any, tendency to show that even at the rates fixed by
the Commission there would not still be a reasonable
profit upon coal so carried' (id., p. 266); and this conclu:sion effectually distinguishes the case from the one at bar.
In Interstate Street Ry. v. Commonwealth, 207 U. S. 79, 84,
the decision rested upon the ground that the charter of the
company was accepted subject to the obligations imposed
by the statute there in question. In Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, in addition to the rate for gas
supplied for general consumption in the City of New York,
there was a lower rate fixed for that furnished to the City
itself. It was said by the court that the criticism of the
'wholesale' rate to the City was met by the fact that the
total returns from the sale of gas were adequate. It was
not established in that case that this 'wholesale' rate required a service without substantial compensation in addition to cost.
It has repeatedly been assumed in the decisions of this
court, that the State has no arbitrary power over the
carrier's rates and may not select a particular commodity
or class of traffic for carriage without reasonable reward.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

In Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v. Florida,203 U. S. 256, 260,
and in Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Florida, 203 U. S.
261, 270, there was an attack upon a rate on a single article, to wit, on phosphates, but the proof as to the effect
of the rate and the cost of the transportation was found
to be insufficient. The case of Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v.
North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, involved the validity of an order of the State Commission
requiring the railroad company so to arrange its schedule
of transportation between two points as to make connections with through trains. It was held that the order
merely compelled the carrier to perform a duty which fell
within the scope of the obligations it had assumed. So
far from the case being an authority for the conclusion
that the validity of a particular rate cannot in any case
be challenged if the return from the entire intrastate operations are deemed to be adequate, the court in the course
of its opinion expressly conceded the contrary. The court
said (id., pp. 25, 26):
"Let it be conceded that if a scheme of maximum rates
was imposed by state authority, as a whole adequately
remunerative, and yet that some of such rates were so unequal as to exceed the flexible limit of judgment which
belongs to the power to fix rates, that is, transcended the
limits of just classification and amounted to the creation
of favored class or classes whom the carrier was compelled
to serve at a loss, to the detriment of other class or classes
upon whom the burden of such loss would fall, that such
legislation would be so inherently unreasonable as to constitute a violation of the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Let it also be
conceded that a like repugnancy to the Constitution of the
United States would arise from an order made in the
exercise of the power to fix a rate when the result of the
enforcement of such order would be to compel a carrier
to serve for a wholly inadequate compensation a class or

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

classes selected for legislative favor even if, considering
rates as a whole a reasonable return from the operation of
its road might be received by the carrier. Neither of these
concessions, however, can 'control the case in hand, since
it does not directly involve any question whatever of the
power to fix rates and the constitutional limitations controlling the exercise of that power, but is concerned solely
with an order directing a carrier to furnish a facility which
it is a part of its general duty to furnish for the public
convenience."
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific
R. R., 222 U. S. 541, 549, in speaking of the carriers' concession that they were unable to determine the cost of the
particular traffic in question and that a former rate had
not been 'less than cost,' the court said: "This concession . . . establishes an- important fact in dealing
with the difficult question of determining what is a reasonable rate on a particular article. Where the rates as a
whole are under consideration, there is a possibility of
deciding, with more or less certainty, whether the total
earnings afford a reasonable return. But whether the
carrier earned dividends or not sheds little light on the
question as to whether the. rate on a particular article is
reasonable. For, if the carrier's total income enables it
to declare a dividend, that would not justify an order requiring it to haul one class of goods for nothing, or for
less than a reasonable rate. On the other hand, if the
carrier earned no dividend, it would not have warranted
an order fixing an unreasonably high rate on such article."
(See also Southern Railway v. St. Loui3 Hay & Grain Co.,
214 U. S. 297, 301.) In Wood v. Vandalia R. R., 231 U. S.
1, the rate order of the state commission related to a particular sort of traffic and it appeared that the proof was
insufficient to show the cost of transportation. This was
also the case in Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Garrett,231
U. S.298, which related to rates on particular commodities

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

and the order of the state commission was sustained, not
because the State was at liberty to fix 'such rates as it
might see fit upon the ground of local policy regardless of
reasonable compensation and thus to require the carrier
to transport the commodities in question for less than
cost, but because the evidence not only failed to show that
the rates were not reasonably adequate but rather tended
to establish that they were (Id., p. 314). The same conclusion, with respect to the same rates, was reached on
further hearing in Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Finn, 235
U. S. 601, 607.
To repeat and conclude: It is presumed,-but the presumption is a rebuttable one-that the rates which the
State fixes for intrastate traffic are reasonable and just.
When the question is as to the profitableness of the intrastate business as a whole under a general scheme of rates,
the carrier must satisfactorily prove the fair value of the
property employed in its intrastate business and show
that it has been denied a fair return upon that value.
With respect to particular rates, it is recognized that
there is a wide field of legislative discretion, permitting
variety and classification, and hence the mere details of
what appears to be a reasonable scheme of rates, or a
tariff or schedule affording substantial compensation, are
not subject to judicial review. But this legislative power
cannot be regarded as being without limit. The constitutional guaranty protects the carrier from arbitrary action
and from the appropriation- of its property to public purposes outside the undertaking assumed; and where it is
established that a commodity, or a class of traffic, has been
segregated and a rate imposed which would compel the carrier to transport it for less than the proper cost of transportation, or virtually at cost, and thus the carrier would be
denied a reasonable reward for its service after taking into
account the entire traffic to which the rate applies, it must
be concluded .that the State has exceeded its authority.

NORF. & WEST. RY. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
23b U. S.

605

Statement of the Case.

The judgments, respectively, are reversed and the cases
are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
v. CONLEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KANAWHA COUNTY, STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 197. Argued October 13, 1914.-Decided March 8, 1915.
Northern Pacific Ry. v. North Dakota, ante, p. 585, followed to effect
that while the State has a broad field for the exercise of its power in
fixing intrastate rates for -common carriers it may not require them
to transport a segregated commodity or class of traffic either at less
than cost or for a mere nominal consideration.
This court must on writ of error'under § 237, Jud. Code, analyze the
facts. as found by the state court if it is necessary to do so in order
to determine whether that which purports to be a finding of fact is
so interwoven with the question of law involving the Federal right
asserted as to be in substance a decision of the latter.
An analysis of the evidence in this case shows that the two cent a mile
passenger rate established by ch. 41 of the acts of 1907-of West
Virginia affords such a narrow, if any, margin over the cost of the
traffic that the plaintiff in error is forced to carry passengers, if not
at or below cost, with merely a nominal reward, and it follows that
the State exceeded its power in enacting the same and that it is void
as an attempt to deprive the carriers of their property without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of
a statute of West Virginia fixing the maximum fare for

