OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

did not justify the President in withdrawing this large
body of land from the operation of the law and virtually
suspending, as he necessarily did, the operation of that
law, at least until a different view expressed by him could
be considered by the Congress. This conclusion is reinforced in this particular instance by the refusal of Congress

to ratify the action of the President, and the enactment of
a new statute authorizing the disposition of the public
lands by a method essentially different from that proposed

by the Executive.
For the reasons expressed, we are constrained to dissent
from the opinion and judgment in this case.

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY
& GUARANTY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 125.

Argued January 15, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Under the terms of the contract involved in this case for a completed
building on which partial payments were to be made as work progressed, but which was destroyed by fire during construction and
never rebuilt by the contractor who had received several payments
on account and who accepted notice of default and abandoned the
contract, held that:
Where the Government relets a contract with substantial differences,
the liability of the surety is not released from all obligation nor is his
liability measured by the difference between the two contracts, but
his liability is measured by the actual loss sustained by the Government, in this case represented by the partial payments made as
work progressed and for which it received nothing in return.

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

513

Statement of the Case.

The liability of the surety became fixed on occurrence of default and
was not released by failure of the Government to have the same kind
of a building erected in place of the one not delivered by the contractor.
The contractor's right under the contract to retain partial payments
was conditioned on his subsequent fulfilment of the contract and
when he wholly* defaulted and gave nothing in return, he was
obligated to repay the amounts received.
Under the contract in this case, the Government, while authorized to
complete the work at the expense of the contractor, was not confined
to that remedy, but could recover from the contractor or the surety
the actual damages sustained.
The rule that a party suffering loss from breach of contract must do
what a reasonable man would do to mitigate the loss does not apply
where, as in this case, a fixed loss has been sustained that cannot be
mitigated.
Under Rev. Stat., §§ 649, 700, and 1011 as amended by act of February 18, 1875, findings of fact have the same effect as the verdict
of a jury, and this court does not revise them but merely determines
whether they support the judgment.
Delay on the part of the Government in pressing its claim against a
contractor who has accepted partial payments, knowing that he was
not entitled thereto, does not amount to a waiver of interest.
An exception furnishes no basis for reversal upon any ground other
than the one specifically called to the attention of the trial court.
The weight of authority in England is adverse to the recovery of interest from the surety in addition to the penalty of the bond, but that
rule has not invariably been followed in this country.
A surety, if answerable at all for interest beyond the amount of the
penalty of the bond, can only be held for such interest as accrues
from unjustly withholding payment after notice of default of the
principal. United States v. Hills, 4 Cliff. 618, approved.
194 Fed. Rep. 611, reversed.

THIS action was brought by the United States in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of California
against Augustus W. Boggs and the United States Fidelity
& Guaranty Company of Baltimore, Maryland (which
may be called, for convenience, the "Guaranty Company"), to recover damages for the failure of Boggs to
perform his contract to construct for plaintiff a stone
VOL. ccxxxvi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

mess-hall and kitchen at the Rice Station Indian School
in Arizona, for the performance of which the Guaranty
Company was his surety upon a bond in the penal sum of
$6,500. Upon plaintiff's complaint and the answer of the
Guaranty Company (Boggs having failed to appear and
his default having been entered), the case came on for
trial before the Circuit Court, trial by jury being formally
waived under § 649, Rev. Stat. Elaborate findings of
fact were made, the substance of which is as follows:
By the contract, which was in writing and dated February 23, 1905, Boggs agreed to furnish all materials and
perform all work required for the construction and completion of the building in strict and full accordance with
the requirements of the plans and specifications which
were annexed; covenanting that the entire work should be
completed and turned over to the United States on or
before September 1; and that (Article 4) if he failed to
complete the work in accordance with the agreement
within that time "the said party of the first part [the
United States] may withhold all payments for work in
place until final coihpletion and acceptance of same, and
is authorized and empowered, after eight days' notice
thereof, in writing, to the party of the second part, and
the said party of the second part having failed to take
such action within the said eight days as will, in the
judgment of the party of the first part, remedy the default
for which said notice was given, to take possession of
the said work in whole or in part and of all machinery
and tools employed thereon and .all materials belonging
to the said party of the second part delivered on the site,
and, at the expense of said party of the second part, to
complete or have completed the said work, and to supply
or have supplied the labor, materials, and tools of whatever character necessary to be purchased or supplied
by reason of the default of the said party of the second
part; in which event the said party of the second part and

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

515

Statement of the Case.

his sureties of the bond to be given for the faithful performance of this agreement shall be further liable for any
damages incurred through such default and any and all
other breaches of this contract." By Article 9 the United
States agreed to pay to the contractor on the presentation
of proper receipts or vouchers the sum of $12,709, "in
consideration of the herein recited covenants and agreements made by the party of the second part, as follows:
Eighty (80) per centum of the value of the work executed
and actually in place to the satisfaction of the party of
the first part at the expiration of each thirty (30) days
during the progress of the work, the amount of each payment to be computed upon the actual amount of labor
and materials expended during the said period of thirty
(30) days for which partial payment is to be made, (the
said value to be ascertained by the party of the first part);
and the balance thereof will be retained until the completion of the entire work, and the approval and acceptance
of the same by the party of the first part, which amount
shall be forfeited by the said party of the second part in
the event of the non-fulfillment of this contract; it being
expressly covenanted and agreed that said forfeiture shall
not relieve the party of the second part from liability to
the party of the first part for any and all damages sustained by reason of any breach of this contract." Attached to the contract as a part of the specifications were
certain "general conditions" which (inter alia) required
the contractor to be responsible for all damages to the
building, whether from fire or other causes, during the
prosecution of the work and until its acceptance, and
declared that partial payments were not to be considered
as an acceptance of any work or material. On or about
April 12, Boggs commenced operations and furnished
certain materials and did certain work, but he did not
at any time complete the biqilding in accordance with the
contract, and on the contrary wilfully, intentionally, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

fraudulently disregarded the terms of the contract from
the beginning of his operations under it. 04 June 10
plaintiff paid him $4,356.24 on account, and on July 21
the further sum of $3,539.16, both payments being "pursuant to the terms of said contract," and aggregating
$7,895.40, no part of which has been repaid to plaintiff.
He not only failed 'to complete the work on or before the
first of Septemjer, but failed after that date to take such
action as would remedy his default. On or about October 27 plaintiff rejected the work and materials and the
building as offered for acceptance by Boggs. On November 4, while the structure was still in his possession, it was
completely destroyed by fire. Thereafter he did not in
accordance with the provisions of the contract commence
the construction or reconstruction of the building, and
anything he did thereafter was outside of the contract
and without plaintiff's consent. On or about December 28, by reason of his failure and refusal to perform the
terms of the contract, or to complete and turn over the
building as therein required, or to remedy his default,
plaintiff took possession of the site, and notified Boggs
and his representatives to vacate the premises and leave
the Indian Reservation, which they immediately did.
At the same time plaintiff seized and confiscated certain
building materials, tools, and implements, of the value
of $2,418.58, then upon the premises and belonging to
Boggs. It is further found that Boggs wilfully, intentionally, and fraudulently failed, neglected, and refused
to erect a structure in accordance with the plans and
specifications that were a part of his contract, although
plaintiff performed all conditions and obligations on its
part; and there are specific findings that plaintiff did not
change or abrogate the terms of the contract in any particular, nor extend the time of performance, nor consent
to the failure and delay on the part of Boggs. In December, 1906, the United States advertised for the construc-

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

517

Statement of the Case.

tion of a new mess-hall and kitchen upon the same site,
and in January, 1907, entered into a written contract
with one Owen for the construction of such building for
the sum of $16,600, in lieu of the building that had been
agreed to be built by Boggs; but the contract with Owen
was different in substantial respects from that made
between the plaintiff and Boggs, and the building actually
erected by Owen was likewise different; $1,200 of the contract price agreed to be paid and actually paid to him
had reference to work wholly outside of the work provided
for in the Boggs contract, and $500 of the contract price
agreed to be paid and actually paid to Owen was for work
and materials in excess of what was included in the Boggs
contract. Moreover, the cost of labor and building supplies had materially increased between the time of Boggs'
default and the time of making the new agreement.
Hence, the trial court found that a comparison between
the two contracts furnished no basis for estimating plaintiff's damages.
Upon these findings judgment was rendered in favor
of the United States for the amount of the two sums
advanced to Boggs during the progress of the work
($7,895.40), from which, however, $2,418.58 was deducted
as a set-off. and counter-claim in favor of defendants for
the value of the materials confiscated. Interest was allowed to plaintiff at 7% upon the amount of the "progress
payments" from September 1, 1905, until the date of
judgment, and interest at the same rate was allowed to
defendants upon the amount of the offset from December 28, 1905, the difference, which plaintiff was held entitled to recover, being $7,403.09; but the recovery against
the Guaranty Company was limited to $6,500, besides costs.
Upon cross-writs of error this judgment was reviewed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, with the result that it
was reversed for error assigned by the Guaranty Company, and the cause remanded with directions to enter

-OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

236 U. S.

judgment in its favor on the findings. 194 Fed. Rep. 611.
The present writ of error was then sued out.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. W. C. Herron
was on the brief, for the United States:
The surety was not released by the changes in the relet
contract, but was liable to the extent, at least, of the
progress payments. United States v. Axman, 234 U. S.
36; S. C., American Bonding Co. v. United States, 167
Fed. Rep. 910, distinguished. As under the contract in
that case the Government was limited in its recovery to
such sum as was expended by it in completing the contract, and the decision went against it because of its failure to observe an express stipulation relating to the determination of damages.
In this case the contract expressly provided that both
the contractor and the surety should be liable for any
damages incurred through the default and any other
breaches of the contract.
The doctrine that a surety is released by material
changes made without his consent has no application to
changes made in a relet contract after a default on the
original.
Because of insolvency of contractor, the Government
waives assignment of error relating to refusal of lower
court to allow damages on amounts of excess cost in relet
contract.
The Government was damaged to full amount of the
progress payments, which it is entitled to recover.
The other defenses urged by the surety in the court
below are without merit. They were not specially pleaded,
and defense of release must be specially pleaded by the
surety, and the burden of proof is upon him to establish
such defense. Randle v. Barnard, 99 Fed. Rep. 348, 350;
Howard County v. Baker, 119 Missouri, 397, 407; Sachs v.
Am. Surety Co., 72 N. Y. App. Div. 60, 66.

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The same rule obtains in California, where the case at
bar was tried. Code Civ. Proc., 1907, §437; Piercy v.
Sabin, 10 California, 22, 27; Bull v. Coe, 77 California, 54,
62.
It is not anywhere pleaded or proved that the surety
was
damaged in any way.
While
this was immaterial under the old law relating
to the voluntary surety, the rule of strictissimijuris has
been relaxed as to professional bonding companies. Atlantic. Trust Co. v. Laurinburg, 163 Fed. Rep. 690, 695;
Hill v. Am. Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, 202; U. S. Fidelity
Co. v. United States, 178 Fed. Rep. 692.
None of these defenses of the surety has any merit.
The progress payments are governed by Article 9 of
the contract, and the evidence shows a substantial compliance With the contract.
The claim of the surety that it was released because of
the Government's failure properly to inspect the work
during its progress is also without merit. United States v.
Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, 736; Dox v. PostmasterGeneral,
1 Pet. 318, 325.
The United States is entitled to interest on the penalty
of the bond from September , 1905, the date of default,
or at least from January 16, 1906, when the surety was
notified of such default. Probate Judge v. Heydock, 8
N. H. 491, 494; Perit v. Wallis, 2 Dall. 252; United States
v. Quinn, 122 Fed. Rep. 65.
Mr. J. Kemp Bartlett for defendants in error:
The improper payment by the United States to the
contractor released the surety. Fidelity Co. v. Agnew, 152
Fed. Rep. 955; Shelton v. Am. Surety Co., 131 Fed. Rep.
210; Shelton v. Am. Surety Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 736; National Surety Co. v. Long, 125 Fed. Rep. 887; Commissioners v. Branham, 57 Fed. Rep. 179; Glenn County v.
Jones, 146 California, 518; Kiessig v. Allspaugh, 91

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

236 U. S.

California, 231; Bragg v. Shain, 49 California, 131; Queal
v. Stradley, 90 N. W. Rep. 588; Electric Appliance Co. v.
U. S. Fidelity Co., 85 N. W. Rep. 648; Backus v. Archer,
67 N. W. Rep. 912; St. Mary's College v. Meagher, 11
S. W. Rep. 618; FirstNat. Bk. v. Fidelity Co., 40 So. Rep.
415; Gato v. Warrington, 19 So. Rep. 883.
Plaintiff in error is concluded by its payment to the
contractor by the certificates authorizing the same, and
by its permitting the completion of the building. 16
Cyc. 721-805; United States v. Hurley, 182 Fed. Rep. 776;
Quinn v. New York, 45 N. Y. Supp. 7; Katz v. Bedford,
77 California, 319; Toppan v. Railroad Co., 24 Fed. Cas.
56, 59, Case No. 14099.
Disregard of- the provisions relating to the time of
payment releases the surety. Commissioners v. Branham,
57 Fed. Rep. 181; Bank v. Fidelity Co., 40 So. Rep. 418;
Shelton v. Am. Surety Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 210; Coughran
v. Bigelow, 164 U. S. 301.
Requiring and permitting the contractor to retain possession and reconstruct the building after rejection constituted a departure from the contract, abrogated the
same, waived the contractor's previous breaches, extended his time for performance, contributed to loss by
fire; surrendered a valuable security, enlarged the surety's
risk and discharged. the bond. United States v. De Visser,
10 Fed. Rep 642, 657; Earnshaw v. Boyer, 60 Fed. Rep.
528; United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 588; Mundy v.
Stevens, 61 Fed. Rpp. 77, 83; Roberts v. Donovan, 70
California, 108; Aetna Ins. Co. v. Fowler, 66 N. W. Rep.
470.
The Government -prevented the contractor, without
notice and without cause, from completing the work; and
the bond was thereby discharged. Mundy v. Stevens, 61
Fed. Rep. 77, 82; Fidelity Co. v. United States, 137 Fed.
Rep. 886; Clark v. Dalziel, 3 Cal. App. 121; Clark v. United
States, 6 Wall. 543; United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214.

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U.S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The making of a new and materially different contract
after the lapse of more than a year from the date of the
ejection of Boggs, the original contractor, from the reservation, with changed conditions in the building market and
for a substantially different building, to be constructed
according to plans and specifications differing in more
than two hundred respects from the plans and specifications under the Boggs contract, furnishes no basis of
estimating the damages of the plaintiff in error., United
States v. Axman, 234 U. S. 36; 3 Page on Contracts, § 1580;
Lonergan v. Waldo, 179 Massachusetts, 135; United States
v. Freel, 92 Fed. Rep. 299; S. C., 99 Fed. Rep. 237; S. C.,
186 U. S. 309; Alcatraz Ass'n v. Fidelity Co., 3 Cal. App.
338.
As no measure of damage is shown, and none can be
shown, no recovery is possible. United States v. Axman,
234 U. S. 36; Am. Surety Co. v. Woods, 105 Fed. Rep. 741;
Am. Bonding Co. v. Gibson Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 671; United
States v. Freel, 186 U. S. 309; Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheat.
680; Reese v. United States, 9 Wall. 13; United States v.
Stone, Gravel Co., 177 Fed. Rep. 321; Chesapeake Transit
Co. v. Walker, 158 Fed. Rep. 850; United States v. Grosjean,
184 Fed. Rep. 593.
The retention by the Government of the contractor's
materials for more than a year, and surrender of them to
the new contractor at less than half price, released the
surety. Montgomery v. Sayre, 100 California, 182, 185.
The Government's failure to notify surety discharged
the bond. United States v. Freel, 186 U. S. 309; United
States v. McIntyre, 111 Fed. Rep. 590, 597; Mundy v.
Stevens, 61 Fed. Rep. 77, 85; Tuohy v. Woods, 122 California, 665, 667; Alcatraz Ass'n v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 3 Cal.
App. 338, 342; Moses v. United States, 116 Fed. Rep. 526,
529; United States v. Smith, 94 U- S. 214; Clark v. United
States, 6 Wall. 543; zEtna Ins. Co. v. Fowler, 66 N. W.
Rep. 470; Roberts v. Donovan, 70 California, 108.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

The contractor's offer to perform released the surety
under the California Civil Code. Daneri v. Grazzola, 139
California, 416; Cal. Civil Code, § 2839.
The Government's claim for interest is without merit.
Stephens v. Bridge Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 248; Krasilnikoff v.
Dundon, 8 Cal. App. 406, 411, 412; Cal. Civil Code, § 1504;:
Wadleigh v. Phelps, 149 California, 627, 642; Ferrea v.
Tubbs, 125 California, 587, 690; United States v. Quinn,
122 Fed. Rep. 65; United States v. Sanborn, 135 U. S. 271;
Redfield v. Iron Co., 110 U. S. 174; Redfield v. Bartels, 139
U. S. 694.
The sureties' defenses were well pleaded.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Cour of Appeals held, in substance, that
because after the default of Boggs in the performance of
his contract the Government waited more than a year
before entering into a new contract, during which time
there was a material change in the cost of labor and
building supplies, and because the new contract then
made between the Government and Owen was different in
substantial particulars from that upon which the Guaranty Company became surety, the second contract furnished no proper basis for estimating the damages sustained by plaintiff by reason of the breach of the first, and
therefore the Guaranty Company was wholly released
from liability.
For present purposes we assume the entire correctness
of the court's view that because of the substantial differences between the work that was the subject of the Boggs
contract and the work that was afterwards let to Owen,
the latter contract furnished no proper basis for ascertaining the damages accruing to the Government by reason of the default of Boggs. The court rested its decision

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to this effect upon the language of Article 4 of the Boggs
agreement and its own previous decision in American
Bonding Co. v. United States, 167 Fed. Rep. 910, since
affirmed by this court in United States v. Axman, 234
U. S. 36,
But the question whether, by the letting of, the Owen
contract, or by whatever else was done or omitted by the
Government about rebuilding after the default of Boggs,
the responsibility of his surety was wholly discharged, is a
very different question, not concluded by the decision in
the case cited. There the Government, upon Axman's
default, "annulled" his contract pursuant to its fourth
paragraph; that is, undertook to complete it in his stead
and charge him with the excess cost. As appears from the
reports of the case (167 Fed. Rep. 915; 234 U. S. 42, 43), it
was "not a suit to recover generally whatever damages the
United States would have sustained had Axman abandoned his contract, but a suit for damages under the express stipulations of the contract;"' that is to say, under its
fourth paragraph. No other question was considered or
decided.
In the present case, Boggs wholly failed to construct the
building called for by his contract, either within the time
prescribed or at any time. His work and materials, and
the building as he offered- it for acceptance, were rejected
by the Government, and thereafter, while remaining in his
possession, the structure was completely destroyed by
fire. He then took no steps to construct or reconstruct the
building in accordance with the contract, but continued to
wilfully disregard its obligations, so that after waiting for
an additional month and more the Government took
possession of the site and required him and his representatives to vacate the premises, which they immediately did.
His default was complete, and upon the findings it cannot
be deemed to have resulted from anything done or omitted
by the Government. Nor did the Government receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

anything of value from him or as a result of his work,
except the building materials, tools, and implements that
were confiscated and for which allowance was made in the
judgment. Upon this state of facts, the Guaranty Company's liability clearly became fixed upon the occurrence
of the default; and it was not released by the failure of the
Government to have the same work completed in accordance with Article 4, unless by the fair meaning of the
agreement the Government was obliged to rebuild or at
least was excluded from recovering damages upon any
other basis than a completion of the building, as permitted
by that Article. For it is plain, we think, that the making
of the new contract cannot be regarded as an alteration of
the Boggs contract to the exoneration of his surety. The
very fact that the differences were so material as to exclude the Owen contract from consideration as a thing
done by the Government under the Boggs contract, leaves
it without any relation to the rights of the present parties.
Their rights and liabilities between themselves, being
already fixed by the complete breach of the Boggs agreement, were not to be affected by any subsequent and
independent transaction between the Government and
third parties.
Is the Government, then, remediless against the Guaranty Company for the default of its principal? The contract was entire and indivisible; a completed building was
the thing bargained for; the partial payments were not
to be considered as an acceptance of any work or material;
they were to be "eighty per centum of the value of the
work executed, . . . the amount of each payment
to be computed upon the actual amount of labor and materials expended"; the balance was to be "retained until
the completion of the entire work," and forfeited in the
event of non-fulfillment of the contract, but such forfeiture
was not to relieve the contractor from liability for any and
all damages by reason of any breach of the contract. Aside

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

525

Opinion of the Court.

from the particular effect of Article 4, which will be considered presently, the true intent and meaning are plain:
the "progress payments" were not to be treated as payments for parts of a building, but as partial payments advanced on account of a building to be completed thereafter as agreed. The contractor's right to retain them
was conditioned upon his subsequent fulfillment of the
contract. And when he wholly defaulted, and in effect
abandoned the contract, the most direct and immediate
loss sustained by the Government was the moneys it had
paid him on account, and for which he had given nothing
in return. Conceding that there was not, technically, a
failure of consideration, because his promise and not its
performance was in strictness the consideration (United
& Globe Rubber Mfg. Co. v. Conard, 80 N. J. L. 286,
293), still the substance of the matter is the same, so far
as concerns the measure of the detriment to the
promisee.
The general rule, that a contract for the complete construction of a building for an entire price, payable in instalments as the work progresses, is an entire contract, and
that a wilful refusal by the contractor to complete the
building entitles the owner to a return of the instalments
paid, has been declared by the state courts in a number
of cases. School Trustees v. Bennett, 27 N. J. L. 513, 517;
72 Am. Dec. 373, 374; Tompkins v. Dudley, 25 N. Y. 272;
82 Am. Dec. 349; Bartlett v. Bisbey, 27 Tex. Civ. App. 405,
408; 66 S. W. Rep. 70; and cases cited. This court, in
a case that has been often cited and followed, where a
government contractor, without fault of his own, was
prevented from performing his contract owing to the
abandonment of the project' held that he was entitled to
recover from the United States what he had expended
towards performance (less the value of his materials on
hand), although he failed to establish th at there would
have been any profits. United States v. Behan, 110 U. S.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

338, 344. And see Holt v. United Security Life Ins. Co.,
76 N. J. L. 585, 597.
We do not think Article 4 can properly be so construed
as to restrict the Government to the remedy there indicated in the event of default by the contractor, or to
exclude recovery of the actual damages directly attributable to such default if, in the reasonable exercise of its
rights, the Government determines not to complete the
building. In the language of the Article, the Government
is "authorized and empowered "-not "obliged"-to
complete the work at the expense of the contractor; "in
which event" the contractor and his sureties shall' be
"further liable for any damages incurred through such
default and any and all other breaches of this contract."
The phraseology indicates a purpose to give to the Government a right additional to those it would otherwise have;
the stipulation is made for its benefit, and, being optional
in form, cannot be construed into a covenant in favor of
the defaulting contractor or his surety. Even in case the
option is exercised, the language quoted leaves contractor
and surety liable for other damages; a fortiori, the intent
is to preserve their liability in case the option is not exercised.
We have not overlooked the familiar rule that a party
suffering loss from breach of contract ought to do what a
reasonable man would to mitigate his loss. Wicker v.
Hoppock, 6 Wall. 94, 99; Warren v. Stoddart, 105 U. S.
224, 229. But there is nothing in the facts as found to call
for the application of this rule; for there is nothing to
show that the Government acted unreasonably in not
exercising its option to rebuild under Article 4. Nor does
it appear that the loss would probably have been lessened
by rebuilding; the "progress payments" would of course
have remained as a part of the loss, in addition to the cost
of new construction.
In our opinion, therefore, the Court of Appeals erred

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in holding that, because of the failure of the Government
to complete Boggs' agreement in accordance with Article 4,
the surety was released.
The Guaranty Company insists, however, that there
are other grounds upon which the decision in its favor
may be sustained: that the representatives of the Government were grossly negligent in making advance payments
to Boggs, in view of the supposed fact that the building
contract was then being openly and flagrantly violated,
and the defects in the work were conspicuously evident;
that the Government is concluded by the fact of making
these payments, or, if not, then by its alleged disregard
of the provisions of the contract relating to the time of
making them; and that in these and other respects the
Government departed from the contract, waived breaches
by the contractor, extended his time for performance,
surrendered valuable security, and enlarged the surety's
risk, thereby releasing it from liability. Assuming these
defences were properly pleaded, we still need spend no
time upon them, since the argument made here to support
them is based, not upon the findings, but upon a general
review of the evidence and a series of inferences drawn
from it that are inconsistent with the facts as found by
the trial court. The findings have the same effect as the
verdict of a jury, and this court does not revise them, but
merely determines whether they support the judgment.
Rev. Stat., §§ 649, 700, 1011 (amended by Act of February 18, 1875, c. 80, § 1, 18 Stat. 318); Norris v. Jackson,
9 Wall. 125,-128; St. Louis v. Ferry.Co., 11 Wall. 423, 428;
Dickinson v. Planters' Bank, 16 Wall. 250, 257; Insurance
Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237, 248; British Queen Mining Co.
v. Baker Silver Mining Co., 139 U. S. 222.

It results, from what has been said, that the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals discharging the Guaranty
Company from liability must be reversed. And we next
consider what judgment ought to have been rendered by

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

that court upon the record and bill of exceptions brought
up from the trial court, in view of the assignments and
cross-assignments of error. Baker v. Warner, 231 U. S.
588, 593; Baer Bros. v. Denver & R. G. R. R., 233 U. S.
479, 490; Fort Scott v. Hickman, 112 U. S. 150, 164, 165;
Allen v. St. Louis Bank, 120 U. S. 20, 30, 40; Cleveland
Rolling Mill v. Rhodes, 121 U. S. 255, 264.
In addition to the questions already disposed of, it is
contended in behalf of the Guaranty Company that the
Government's claim for interest is without merit and
ought to have been overruled. Interest was allowed
upon the advance payments, not from the respective
dates upon which they were made but from the date when
by the terms of the contract the building ought to have
been completely finished. In view of the facts, we think
there was her6 no error. The findings make it clear that
Boggs not only wilfully and persistently but fraudulently
departed from the requirements of his contract, and refused to perform its obligations. He therefore accepted
the money well knowing that he had no just right to it;
and certainly when the time fixed for complete performance expired; without any attempt on his part to perform
it, then, if not sooner, his obligation to return the money
to the Government was clear, and he was not under the
circumstances entitled to await a demand from the Government before repaying it. The suggestion that the
Government has waived interest by delay in pressing its
claim is untenable. The cases cited under this head (Redfield v. Ystalyfera Iron Co., 110 U. S. 174; United States v.
Sanborn, 135 U. S. 271, 281; Redfield v. Bartels, 139 U. S.
694, 702), are plainly distinguishable.
On the other hand, the Government insists that it is
entitled to recover as against the Guaranty Company, in
addition to the penal sum named in the bond, interest
thereon from September 1, 1905, the date of Boggs' default, or at least from January 16, 1906, when it is said

UNITED STATES v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

529"

Opinion of the Court.

the surety was notified of the defatilt. We are referred to
nothing, and have observed nothing, in the findings to the
effect that such notice was given to the surety at or about
the date mentioned. The action was commenced more
than two years thereafter. But, aside from this, the only
exception taken in the trial court to furnish support for
the present contention was: "To the failure of said court
to . . . decide that plaintiff is entitled to interest on
the sum of $6,500 from the first day of September, 1905,
and to the failure of the court to enter judgment against
defendant for such interest." We do not think this is
sufficient to attribute error to the trial court as for overruling a claim for interest on the penalty of the bond from
the time of demand made upon the surety, or notice to
it of the principal's default. No such point was raised.
The claim that was made and overruled was for interest
from the time of the default, irrespective of notice to the.
surety; and that presents a very different question of law.
The primary and essential function of an exception is to
direct the mind of the trial judge to a single and precise
point in which it is supposed that he has erred in law, so
that he may reconsider it and change his ruling if convinced of error, and that injustice and mistrials due to
inadvertent errors may thus be obviated. An exception,
therefore, furnishes no basis for reversal upon any ground
other than the one specifically called to the attention of
the trial court. Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46, 55; Robinson
& Co. v. Belt, 187 U. S. 41, 50; Addis v. Rushmore, 74
N. J. L. 649, 651; Holt v. United Security Life Ins. Co.,
76 N. J. L. 585, 593. And the practice respecting exceptions in the Federal courts is unaffected by the Conformity
Act, § 914, Rev. Stat. Chateaugay Iron Co., Petitioner,
128 U. S. 544, 553; St. Clair v. United States, 154 U. S.
134, 153.
We merely consider, therefore, whether (where the
actual damages exceed the amount of the penalty), the
VOL, ccxxxvi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

United States is entitled, as against the surety, to interest
upon the penal sum from the time of the principal's
default, in the absence of notice of the default given to the
surety, or any demand made upon it. There -has been
much contrariety of opinion upon the question whether,
in any case, the obligee in a penal bond can recover
interest in addition to the penalty. The weight of authority in England is adverse to the recovery. 1 Wms.
Saunders, 58; note; White v. Sealy, 1 Doug. 49; Wilde v.
Clarkson, 6 Term. Rep. 303 (disapproving Ld. Lonsdale
v. Church, 2 Term Rep. 388); Tew v. Winterton, 3 Bro. C.
C. 489; 29 Eng. Reprint, 660, 663, note. In this country
the tendency of the decisions in the state courts seems to be
in favor of the allowance of such interest. Petit v. Wallis
(Pa. Sup. Ct.), 2 Dall. 252, 255; Williams v. Willson, 1 Vermont, 266, 273; Judge of Probate v. Heydock, 8 N. H. 491,
494; Wyman v. Robinson, 73 Maine, 384, 387; Carter v.
Thorn, 18 B. Mon. (Ky.) 613, 619. The bond in suit appears to have been made in California, but the contract was
to be performed upon a Government reservation within
what was then the Territory of Arizona. (See Scotland
County v. Hill, 132 U. S. 107, 117.) We are referred to
nothing in the law of that State or Territory indicating a
local rule. In this court, although the question seems not
to have frequently arisen, the English rule has usually but
not invariably been followed. McGill v. Bank of United
States, 12 Wheat. 511,'515; Farrar v. United States, 5
Pet. 373, 385; Ives v. Merchants' Bank, 12 How. 159, 164,
165; United States v. Broadhead, 127 U. S.212.
In the state of the 'decisions, we may safely apply the
rule followed by Mr. Justice Clifford in 'a case at the circuit, and we need go no further in order to overrule the
contention raised by the Government at the trial of the
present case: "Sureties, if answerable at all for interest
beyond the amount of the penalty of the bond given by
their principal, can only be held for such an amount as

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

531

Syllabus.

accrued from their own default in unjustly withholding
payment after being notified of the default of the principal." United States v. Hills, 4 Cliff. 618; Fed. Cas.
No. 15,369. This is, in effect, the same rule followed by
this court in Ives v. Merchants' Bank, supra. See also
United States v. Quinn, 122 Fed. Rep. 65.

We find nothing else in the record requiring discussion.
The result is that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed, and that of the Circuit Court
affirmed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

JOPLIN MERCANTILE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 648. Argued January 11, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
A mere conspiracy without overt acts done to effect its object is not
indictable under § 37, Judicial Code, and where the averment respecting the formation of the conspiracy refers to no other clause of
the indictment for certainty, it must be interpreted as it stands, and
in the absence of a distinct averment that the conspiracy was formed
to introduce liquors into Indian country within Oklahoma from
without the State, the indictment must be construed as relating only
to intrastate transactions; it cannot be construed as including interstate transactions because of other averments as to the overt acts of
some of the conspirators.
Where concurrent State and Federal control, although not necessarily
exclusive of each other, would be productive of serious inconvenience

