FOX v. WASHINGTON.
236 U. S

Statement of the Case.

FOX v. STATE OF WASHINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 134.

Submitted January 19, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Where the highest court of the State, in overruling a demurrer, affirmed
that the Constitution of the United States guaranteed freedom of
speech, but held the statute on which the indictment was based valid
in that respect and also that it was not bad for uncertainty, citing
cases decided by this court as authority, this court may gather that
rights under the Federal Constitution were relied on apart from the
certificate of the state court to that effect, and there is jurisdiction
under ยง 237, Judicial Code, to review the judgm6nt.
The statute of the State of Washington, Rem. & Bal. Code, ยง 2564,
denouncing the wilful printing, circulation, etc., of matter advocating or encouraging the commission of any crime or breach of
the peace or which shall tend to encourage or advocate disrespect
for law or any court or courts of justice, held not to be unconstitutional as the same has been construed by the highest court of that
State and applied in the case of one indicted for publishing an article
encouraging and inciting that which the jury found was a breach of
state laws against indecent exposure.
Statutes should be construed, so far as they fairly may be, in such a
way as to avoid doubtful constitutional questions; and this court
presumes that state laws will be so construed by state courts.
If the statute attacked should be construed as going no further than
it is necessary to go in order to decide the particular case involved
within it, it cannot be condemned for want of definiteness.
Laws of the description of the statute of Washington involved in this
action and prohibiting encouragement of crime, are not unfamiliar.
This court has noihing to do with the wisdom of the defendant, the
prosecution, or the act. It is concerned only with the 'question
whether the statute and its application infringes the Federal Constitution.
71 Washington, 185, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under

the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of

voL. ccxxxvi-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

a statute of the State of Washington preventing the
wilful printing and circulation of written matter having
tendency to encourage or advocate disrespect for the
law, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Gilbert E. Roe for plaintiff in error:
The constitutional question here presented was sufficiently raised in the state court.
Rev. Stat., ยง 709; Columbia Power Co. v. Columbia
Light Co., 172 U. S. 475; Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S. 405,'
411; Chi., B. &c. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Missouri
Valley Co. v. Wiese, 208 U. S. 234, 244; Loeb v. Columbia
Township, 179 U. S. 472, 483; Montana v. Rice, 204 U. S.
291.
Section 2564 violates the Fourteenth Amendment because it deprives the accused of liberty and property without due process of law. Black's Law Dictionary, p. 1181;
Hodgson v. Vermont, 168 U. S. 262, 272.
For Federal. and state decisions where statutes much
more certain than the one here involved have been held
void, as not. constituting law at all within the meaning
of the Fourfeenth Amendment, see Louis., & Nash. R.
R. v. Tennessee R. R. Comm., 19 Fed. Rep. 679, 691;
Chi. & N. W. Ry. v. Railway Comrs., 35 Fed. Rep. 866,
876; Tozer v. United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S. 86, 108.
In the last cited case while the statute was upheld,
the correctness of the rule of the above cases was admitted.
See also, among cases from the state courts, Ex parte
Jackson, 45 Arkansas, 158; Czarra v. Board, 25 App.
D. C. 443; United States v. Capital Traction Co., .34 App.
D. C. 592; Hewitt v. Medical Examiners, 148 California, 590; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Kentucky, 99 Kentucky, 663; Commission v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 20 Ky.
Law, 491; Mathews v. Murphy, 23 Ky. Law Rep. 750;
Hagerstown v. Balt. & Ohio Ry., 107 Maryland, 178; Mayor

FOX v. WASHINGTON.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 217, 230; Cook v. State, 26 Ind.
App. 278.
It does not matter whether the deprivation of liberty
or other fundamental rights result from the arbitrary
action of a jury, a judge or any other agency of state government. This court under the mandate of the Fourteenth Amendment, when its authority is properly invoked, must interfere to prevent the wrong. And what
can be more arbitrary than the verdict of, the jury in this
case, finding the defendant guilty of the shadowy and
uncertain offense of editing the innocent article in question and thereby tending to create a mental attitude on
the part of someone which the jurors would describe as
"disrespect" for some law, relating to nude bathing.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Dobbins v. Los Angeles,
195 U. S. 233, 240.

. See also Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Patterson
v. Colorado, 205 U. S. 454, 461.
Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, and Mr. Fred G. Remann, for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an information for editing printed matter tending
to encourage and advocate disrespect for law contrary to
a statute of Washington. The statute is as follows:
"Every person who shall wilfully print, publish, edit, issue,
or knowingly circulate, sell, distribute or display any
book, paper, document, or written or printed matter, in
any form, advocating, encouraging or inciting, or having
a tendency to encourage or incite the commission of any
crime, breach of the peace or act of violence, or which
shall tend to encourage or advocate disrespect for law or
for any court or courts of justice, shall be guilt'of a gross

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

misdemeanor"; Rem. & Bal. Code, ยง 2564. The defendant
demurred on the ground that the act was unconstitutional.
The demurrer was overruled and the defendant was tried
and convicted. 71 Washington, 185. With regard to the
jurisdiction of this court it should be observed that the
Supreme Court of the State while affirming that the Constitution of the United States guarantees freedom of
speech, held not only that the act was valid in that respect
but also that it was not bad for uncertainty, citing WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, so that we gather
that the Constitution of the United States and especially
the Fourteenth Amendment was relied upon, apart from
the certificate of the Chief Justice to that effect.
The printed matter in question is an article entitled
"The Nude and the Prudes" reciting in its earlier part
that "Home is a community of free spirits, who came out
into the woods to escape the polluted atmosphere of
priest-ridden, conventional society"; that "one of the
liberties enjoyed by Homeites was the privilege to bathe
in evening dress, or with merely the clothes nature gave
them, just as they chose"; but that "eventually a few
prudes got into the community and proceeded in the
brutal, unneighborly way of the outside world to suppress
the people's freedom," and that they had four persons
arrested on the charge of indecent exposure, followed in
two cases, it seems, by sentences to imprisonment. "And
the perpetrators of this vile action wonder why they are
being boycotted."-It goes on "The well merited indignation of the people has been aroused. Their liberty has
been attacked. The first step in the way of subjecting
the community to all the persecution of the outside has
been taken. If this was let go without resistance the
progress of the prudes would be easy." It then predicts
and encourages the boycott of those who thus interfere
with the heedom of Home, concluding: "The boycott
wvijmepsked until these invaders will come to see the

FOX v. WASHINGTON.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

brutal mistake of their action and so inform the people."
Thus by indirection but unmistakably the article encourages and incites a persistence in what we must assume
would be a breach of the state laws against indecent
exposure; and the jury so found.
So far as statutes fairly may be construed in such a
way as to avoid doubtful constitutional questions they
should be so construed; United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407, 408; and it is to be presumed
that state laws will be construed in that way by the state
courts. We understand the state court by implication
at least to have read the statute as confined to encouraging an actual breach of law. Therefore the argument
that this act is both an unjustifiable restriction of liberty
and too vague for a criminal law must fail. It does not
appear and is not likely that the statute will be construed
to prevent publications merely because they tend to produce unfavorable opinions of a particular statute or of
law in general. In this present case the disrespect for
law that was encouraged was disregard of it-an overt
breach and technically criminal act. It would be in accord
with the usages of English to interpret disrespect as manifested disrespect, as active disregard going beyond the
line drawn by the law. That is all that has happened as
yet, and we see no reason to believe that the statute will
be stretched beyond that point.
If the statute should be construed as going no farther
than it is necessary to go in order to bring the defendant
within it, there is no trouble with it for want of definiteness. See Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373. International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.216. It lays
hold of encouragements that, apart from statute, if directed to a particular persons conduct, generally would
make him who uttered them guilty of a misdemeanor
if not an accomplice or a principal in the crime encouraged,
and deals with the publication of them to a wider and less

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

selected audience. Laws of this description are not unfamiliar. Of course we have nothing to do with the wisdom of the defendant, the prosecution, or the act. All
that concerns us is that it cannot be said to infringe the
Constitution of the United States.
Judgment affirmed.

GEORGE N. PIERCE COMPANY, PETITIONER, v.
WELLS, FARGO & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 14. Argued December 8, 1913. Restored to docket October 26, 1914.
Reargued January 7, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
One who deliberately without fraud or imposition accepts a contract of
shipment limiting the recovery to a valuation specified in the filed
tariff, but who is given the privilege of paying increased rates for
increased valuation and liability up to full amount as also specified
in the filed tariff, is limited in case of loss to recover the specified
amount.
Contracts for limited liability when fairly made do not contravene the
settled principles of the common law preventing the carrier from
contracting against liability for its own negligence. Hart v. Pennsylvania R. R., 112 U. S. 331.
Under the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce in regard to
filing tariffs and the Carmack Amendment of 1906 to that Act, the
.amount to which the liability of the carrier is limited and the additional rate for additional liability must be stated in the filed tariff
and must be equally applicable to all shippers under like circumstances.
The legality of a contract limiting the carrier's liability to a specified or
agreed valuation does not depend upon that valuation having a
relation to the value of the shipment, but depends upon acceptance
of the parties to the contract and upon the filed tariff and the re-

