DALTON MACHINE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
236 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

in practice they were, and although the bargain was not
complete until the Company's offer was accepted in Virginia, the furnishing of the opportunity was a part of the
interstate transaction. From the point of view of commerce the business was one affair. Dozier v. Alabama, 218
U. S. 124. Crenshawv. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389. Browning
v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16, 21.
Judg nent reversed.

DALTON ADDING MACHINE COMPANY v. THE
STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 190.

Submitted March 8, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

The rule that courts should not stop state officers charged with enforcing laws from performing their statutory duty for fear they should
perform it wrongly applies especially in cases of taxes and license
fees.
One carrying on business which he claims is interstate, and on which
the State imposes a license tax, has an adequate remedy at law by
paying the tax under protest and raising the constitutional question
in a suit to recover it; and where, as in this case, no special hardship
is shown, the general rule that equity will not enjoin the collection
of taxes where there is an adequate remedy at law applies.
213 Fed. Rep. 889, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas A. Banning and Mr. Samuel Walker Banning for appellant.
Mr. John Garland Pollard, Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, and Mr. Christopher B. Garnett for
appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order of three Judges denying
a preliminary injunction as prayed in the appellant's
bill. The bill alleges that the appellant is a Missouri
corporation, having its factory in Missouri, that it obtains orders for its machines in Virginia through drummers, considers and accepts or rejects them'in Missouri,
and, if it accepts, forwards the machine from its factory.
In some cases the possible customer is allowed to try a
machine previously forwarded and in the hands of the
Virginia agent, and if he is accepted as a purchaser and
desires to keep it, is permitted to do so. The appellant
contends that its business in Virginia is wholly interstate.
A statute of Virginia requires foreign corporations doing
business there to obtain a license from the State Corporation Commission, to pay a fee, &c., and it is alleged that
the Co mmission threatens to take proceedings to enforce
the statute and the penalties provided for disobeying it
against the appellant, contrary to Article I, ยง 8, of the
Constitution. The' appellant further alleges that it has
reason to fear and fears a multiplicity of proceedings and
the imposition of many fines and that it will suffer irreparable loss from even a temporary interference with
its affairs, through loss of sales and prestige, help to its
competitors and encouragement of similar proceedings
in other States. 213 Fed. Rep. 889.
The court below remarked that it was not contended
that the statute was unconstitutional but was alleged
only that it was feared that it might be enforced in such
a way as to contravene the Commerce Clause and suggested that if proceedings should be instituted by the
Commission there would be a hearing before it, with a
right to appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals, and,
upon a proper showing, to take the case to this court,
and that there was nothing to indicate that the Commis-

DALTON MACHINE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sion would not give the appellant a fair hearing or would
attempt to enforce the law against it in an oppressive
way. On this ground, without expressing an. opinion as
to the liability of the appellant under the statute, it held
that no case for an injunction was made out.
We agree with the District Court in its conclusion and
in its grounds. Like it we leave on one side the merits
of the appellant's claim of immunity and confine ourselves to deciding that no reason is shown for anticipating
the ordinary course of the law. We also leave aside the
question whether the action of the Commission -is or is
not the action of a court protected from interference on
the part of the courts of the United States. Rev. Stat.,
ยง 720. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210,
226, 230. The general principle is that it is not for the
courts to stop officers of this kind from performing their
statutory duty for fear that they should perform it
wrongly. First Nat. Bank of Albuquerque v. Albright,
208 U. S. 548, 553. Especially is this true in the matter
of collecting taxes and license fees. Boise Artesian Hot &
Cold Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276. The appellant
has an adequate remedy at law in its right to raise the
constitutional question if proceedings are taken against
it, or, it seems, .to recover the money if it pays under
protest. No special circumstances are shown, that we
can notice, to take this case out of the ordinary rule.
IndianaMfg. Co. v. Koehne, 188 U. S. 681, 690.
Decree affirmed.

