OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

SHELLENBARGER v. FEWELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 103.

Argued- December 7, 8, 1914.-Decided January 18, 1915.

Reynolds v. Fewell, ante, p. 58, followed to the effect that under § 7 of
the Original Creek Agreement of 1901 a non-citizen husband is entitled under the tribal laws to take an heir's part of the lands which
had been allotted to his deceased citizen wife, pursuant to the rule
of property established by the highest court of Oklahoma in De
Graffenreid v. Iowa Land & Trust Co., 20 Oklahoma, 687.
Quaere, whether persons entitled to take lands allotted under § 28 of the
Original Creek Agreement on behalf of a deceased member of the
tribe should be ascertained by reference to the time of the death of
the decedent or by reference to the date of the allotment.
34 Oklahoma, 79, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Original Creek Agreement and the laws of descent applicable
to allotments made thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William R. Lawrence and Mr. F. W. Clements for

plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph C. Stone, with whom Mr. Henry B. Martin
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
By leave of court Mr. Grant Foreman and Mr. James D.

Simms filed a brief as amici curice, in support of plaintiff
in error.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
Minnie Solander, a Creek, died intestate on October 8,
1899, leaving her husband, George Solander (who resided

SHELLENBARGER v. FEWELL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the Creek Nation but was not a citizen thereof), her
child, Hettie L. Solander, and her sister, Phoebe Trusler,
surviving. Hettie L. Solander died intestate on December 19, 1899,1 without husband or issue; her father and
aunt (above mentioned) survived her. Minnie Solander
was duly enrolled as a member of the Creek tribe and,
after the death of herself and her daughter, an allotment
was made to her 'heirs' of certain land, the title to which
is here in controversy. Her husband, George Solqnder, on
April 27, 1906, executed a conveyance of this land to
William M. Fewell, who brought the present action in
ejectment against the plaintiff in error, John H. Shellenbarger; the latter claimed the property under a deed from
Phoebe Trusler, the nearest relative of Indian blood.
The Supreme Court of the State of Oklahoma held that
the husband, although a non-citizen, had title to the lands
allotted on behalf of his wife and that they passed under
his conveyance. 34 Oklahoma, 79; 124 Pac. Rep. f617.
And this writ of error has been sued out.
The record in this case does not show the date of the
allotment made on behalf of Minnie Solander I but the
state court concluded 'from the admissions in the agreed
statement of facts and the briefs of both parties' that the
allotment had been selected, and the certificate issued,
under the Original Creek Agreement of March 1, 1901,

c. 676, 31 Stat. 861. This has also been assumed in the
argument here. The case is, therefore, controlled by § 28
of the act of 1901, supra, which provides that the lands
to which the deceased member of the tribe would have
been entitled, if living, should 'descend to his heirs according to the laws of descent and distribution of the Creek
Nation, and be allotted

.

.

.

accordingly.'

Under

IThe date of her death is given in the agreed statement in No. 102,
Reynolds v. Fewell, ante, p. 58, as November 17, 1899.
2The date of this allotment is stated in the record in No. 102, Reynolds v. Fewell, ante, p. 58, as December 3, 1901.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

these laws, according to the -settled rule of construction,
George Solander was entitled to the property and had the
right to convey. Reynolds v. Fewell, ante, p. 58.
. The question whether the persons entitled to take lands
allotted under § 28 on behalf of a deceased member of the
tribe, should be ascertained by reference to the time of the
death of the decedent, or by reference to the date of the
allotment, has been discussed in the briefs but is not material here, inasmuch as in either event George Solander
took all the lands in question; it is not necessary to inquire
whether an undivided interest should be treated as one
passing in the first instance to his daughter and on her
death to him.
Judgment affirmed.

LESSER v. GRAY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.

No. 110.

Submitted December 9,1914.-Decided January 18, 1915.

Where plaintiff in error seasonably sets up and claims that, because
the bankruptcy court adjudicated his debt to be not provable the
proceedings in bankruptcy and defendant's discharge are not a bar,
a Federal issue is raised, and as in this case that question is not
frivolous, this court has jurisdiction under § 237, Judicial Code.
A disallowed debt and a non-provable debt are not identical; and a
claim that has been presented and disallowed as not having foundation is not a non-provable debt and the discharge is a bar.
In this case, held that the contract on which the claim sued for was
based was either terminated by defendant's bankruptcy or noncompliance therewith constituted a breach, and in either case defendant was released by his discharge.
As plaintiff, suing on a claim disallowed in the bankruptcy proceeding,
made no effort to review the action of the bankruptcy court in the

