•PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

351

Syllabus.

PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 591.

Argued December 14, 15, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Section 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce forbids any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage in favor of any person, company,
firm, corporation or locality, and what is such undue or .unreasonable
preference or advantage is not a question of law but of fact.
The courts cannot set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission in regard to interchange of freight by carriers which does
not contravene any constitutional limitation and is within the constitutional and statutory authority of that body and is not unsupported by testimony; such an order is only the exercise of the authority vested by the law in the Commission.
Although § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce remains in its original
form, it must now be read in connection with amendments to, and
subsequent provisions of, that Act by which the term transportation
covers the entire carriage and services in connection with the receipt
and delivery of property transported, including facilities of a terminal character for delivery. As so read, § 3 must be construed with
4 view to carrying out all the provisions of the Act as it now is and
to make every part of it effective in accordance with the intention of
Congress.
The Interstate Commission has jurisdiction to require an interstate
carrier to receive" and transport over its terminals carload interstate
freight from one carrier having a physical connection with its lines
on the same terms on which it performs such service for other connecting carriers similarly situated.
Such an order is not an appropriation of the terminal property of the
carrier in violation of the due process provision of the Fifth Amendment but a regulation of its terminal facilities within the power
properly delegated by Congress. Grand Trunk Ry. v. Michigan
Railway Commission, 231 U. S. 457, followed; Louis. & Nash. R. R.
v. Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132, distinguished.
Congress may so control the terminal facilities of a carrier, and the
Interstate Commerce Commission may make such orders, as will

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

236 U. S.

prevent creation of monopolies within the prohibitions and limitations of the Anti-trust Act. United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224
U. S. 383.
214 Fed. Rep. 445, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission regarding the establishment of joint and through rates to and from, and regulations as to switching cars at, New Castle, Pennsylvania,
by the Pennsylvania Company, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. A. P. Burgwin and Mr. Gordon Fisherwere on the brief, for appellant:
In the absence of statute there is no principle of established law which requires one carrier to share the use and
advantages of its terminals with another carrier, a competitor engaged in like business. As private property,
still in the absence of statute, the use of terminals are the
subject of contract at the will of their owner who may elect
to share their advantages with some carriers while denying them to others. The only statute which concerns the
present issue is the Act to Regulate Commerce, which,
while forbidding (§ 3), undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage "to any particular person, company, firm,
corporation, or locality, or any particular description of
traffic," and though requiring common carriers subject to
its provisions "according to their respective powers" to
"afford all reasonable, proper, and equal facilities for the
interchange of traffic between their respective lines, and
for the receiving, forwarding, and delivering of
.
property to and from their respective lines and those connecting therewith," expressly declares that "this shall
not be construed as requiring any such common carrier to
give the use of its tracks or terminal facilities to another
carrier engaged in like business," such exception very accurately defining the very object and purpose which the
Rochester Company in and by its proceeding before the

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

353

Argument for the United States.

Commission sought, and by virtue of the order of the Commission, if same shall be upheld, will have obtained. Kentucky Bridge Co. v. L. & N. Ry., 37 Fed. Rep. 567, 573;
Oregon Short-Line v. Northern Pac. Co:, 61 Fed. Rep. 158;.
Little Rock Co. v. St. Louis Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775.
The fact that' the Congress when making the extensive
amendments of 1906 and 1910, did not see fit to alter
§ 3 relating to the affording of equal facilities for
the interchange of. traffic between carriers (on which
the order here made was based) is highly persuasive that
it intended to leave the law and its practical working exactly as it had been. Spokane v. Nor. Pac. R. R., 15 I.
C. C. 376, 398.
The Commission itself in several proceedings before it
has held that industrial tracks of this character form a
part of the terminal facilities of a carrier, and that it lacks
power to compel their use in favor of another carrier engaged in like business. Morris Co. v, B. & 0. R. R., 26
I. C. C. 240, 244. See also Waverly Oil Works Co. v.
Penna. R. R., 28 1. C. C. 621, 627.
Based upon the decisions cited, the finding of the Commission that the reciprocal switch agreements complained
of are or were unduly discriminatory is wholly immaterial,
the statute itself having declared carriers' terminals as
such to be beyond the reach of the Commission's regulatory power, thus leaving the carriers themselves as free
to deal with terminals and their use as they had been
before the enactment of the statute. Bridge Co. v. L. &
N. R. R., 37 Fed. Rep. 567, 573; Little Rock Co. v. St.
Louis Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775, 779.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Blackburn Esterline was on the brief, 'for the United States:
The practice of the Pennsylvania Company constituted
an undue and unreasonable discrimination as against the
complainant carrier and the shippers on its lines.
VOL. ccxxxvi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

236 U. S.

Undue discrimination is a question of fact, as to which
the finding of the Commission is conclusive. Int. Com.
Comm. v. Alabama Midland Ry., 168 U. S. 144, 170; Tex.
& Pac. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197, 219.
And this finding of fact is not now open to review. Balt.
& Ohio R. R. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; United
States v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 235 U. S. 314.
The order of the Commission finding the discrimination
unreasonable cannot be said to be without substantial
evidence to support it or contrary to the indisputable
character of the evidence.
The order did not exceed the power of the Commission
or require the appellant to give to the Buffalo, Rochester
& Pittsburg Railway the use of its terminals.
The service sought by the complaining company is a
service of transportation, the performance of which is
expressly commanded.
. All that is sought to be forbidden by the order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission is the furnishing of
transportation for one and the arbitrary declination to do
so for another.
The order of the Commission and the opinion of the
court below are fully supported by the decision of this
court in Grand Trunk Ry. v. Michigan R. R. Commission,
231 U. S. 457.
Congress has deliberately rejected as contrary to the
public welfare the policy for which appellant contends,
namely, that of absolute and unrestricted monopoly in
the control and use of its terminals.
A carrier's terminal tracks may be put to the legitimate
uses of transportation for the benefit of the public just
as may its main lines. St. L., S. & P. R. R. v. Peoria &
Pekin Un. Ry., 26 I: C. C. 226, 237.
The proviso of § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
though not repealed, must be read in the light of later
amendments.

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

355

Opinion of the Court.

The order is not obnoxious to the Fifth Amendment.
-What is sought here is a mere regulation of a discriminatory practice. There is no taking of property, and the
question of compensation is not involved. Chi., Mil. & St.
P. Ry. v. State of Iowa, 233 U. S.334, and cases there cited.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. Joseph W.
Folk was on the brief, for the Interstate Commexce Com:
mission.
Mr.. William A. Glasgow, Jr., for the Buffalo, Rochester
& Pittsburgh Railway:
The service required of the Pennsylvania Company was
a transportation service and that Company was required
by § 1 of the Act to "furnish such transportation upon
reasonable request therefor."
It was the duty of the Pennsylvania Company, upon request, to establish through routes and joint rates with the
Buffalo, Rochester e Pittsburgh Railway Company covering the transportation to and from points on the lines of
road of the Pennsylvania Company within the District
of New Castle.
The Commission's order is justified by the second paragraph of § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
In support of these contentions, see Grand Trunk Ry.
v. Mich. Ry. Commission, 231 U. S. 457; Int. Com. Comm.
v. D., L. & W. R. R., 220 U. S. 235; Kentucky & Indiana
Bridge v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 37 Fed. Rep. 567; Louis.
& Nash. R. R. v. Stockyards Co., 212 U. S. 132; Louis. &
Nash. R. R. v. United States, 216 Fed. Rep. 672; Penna.
R. R. v. InternationalCoal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Tex. & Pac.
Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here by appeal from an order of the
District Court of the United States for the Western Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

trict of Pennsylvania, denying a motion for interlocutory
injunction against the Interstate Commerce Commission.
214 Fed. Rep. 445.
The Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburgh Railway Company, hereinafter called the Rochester Company, filed
its petition before the Interstate Commerce Commission
against the Pennsylvania Company, averring that in the
City of New Castle, Pennsylvania, there was a physical
connection between the railroads jointly operated by the
Rochester Company and the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company, and the terminal facilities of the Pennsylvania
Company, at which joint traffic could be properly exchanged, and is exchanged between the railroad operated
by the Rochester Company and the Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad, so that traffic on the lines owned and operated
by the Rochester Company, and from manufactories and
industries reached by the terminal lines of said company
in the City of New Castle can be delivered to the Pennsylvania Company and thus transported to its destination; that there are no joint routes or through rates in
effect between the Rochester Company and the Pennsylvania Company by which traffic to and from industries upon the terminal line of the Pennsylvania Company
in or near the City of New Castle may be carried and although complainant had frequently requested the Pennsylvania Company to join in establishing the same, the
Pennsylvania Company failed and neglected 'so to do;
that the Rochester Company, upon interstate traffic
carried by it to the point of physical connection with the
road of the Pennsylvania Company, which traffic is destined to manufactories or industries upon the lines of the
Pennsylvania Company in or near the city of New Castle,
is ready and willing, and has offered to pay the Pennsylvania Company its lawful and proper charges for receiving,
carrying and delivering such traffic; which charges it
makes to other persons or companies for like services;

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

357

Opinion of the Court.

that the action of the Pennsylvania Company in declining
to receive, carry and deliver to the point of physical, connection aforesaid, interstate traffic offered by the Rochester
Company subjects said company and shippers of interstate traffic over its lines destined to the manufactories
and industries upon the line of the said Pennsylvania
Company to an undue and unreasonable prejudice and
disadvantage, and is in violation of § 3 of the Act to
Regulate Commerce (Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Slat. 379),
in that it constitutes a failure to afford reasonable, proper
and equal facilities to complainant with those afforded
to other persons for the interchange of traffic between
their respective lines, and for the receiving, forwarding
and delivering of property to and from their several lines;
that there are no other through routes and joint rates
in effect to which the Rochester Company and Pennsylvania Company are parties for the through transportation of interstate traffic carried by the Rochester Company,
destined to the manufactories and industries on the lines
of the Pennsylvania Company, in or near said city, nor are
there any through routes or joint rates in effect between
the companies for interstate traffic originating at the
manufactories and industries on the lines of the Pennsylvania Company in or near New Castle, destined to
points upon the line of the Rochester Company or points
which are reached by its connections; and that the failure
and refusal of the Pennsylvania Company is forbidden by
§ 15 of the Act to Regulate Commerce. The Rochester
Company prayed for an order commanding the Pennsylvania Company to cease and desist from such violations
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, and for such orders
as might be deemed necessary, and that the Commission
should establish through"routes and joint rates on articles
of merchandise tendered to the Pennsylvania Company
at the point of physical connection above set forth for
delivery on the lines of defendant's railroad, in or near

358

OCTOBER TEAM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the said city of New Castle, and from the industries and
manufactories on the lines of the above named railroad in
or near the city of New Castle to points on the line of the
Rochester Company or its connections; said joint rates
so established to be the maximum to be charged, and
that the Commission prescribe a division of the same and
the terms upon which such through route can be operated.
The Commission made no order establishing through
routes and joint rates, but held that inasmuch as the
Pennsylvania Company's refusal to accept from and move
to the Rochester Company carload lots of freight within
the switching limits of New Castle, while performing
the service in connection with the said other three carriers
within said switching limits was a discrimination, the
same was undue, unreasonable, and in violation of the
Act to Regulate Commerce. The Commission ordered
that the Pennsylvania Company be-required on or before
March 15, 1914, to cease and desist from such undue and
unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage as against the
Rochester Company, and required the Pennsylvania
Company to establish and maintain rates, regulations
and practices which would prevent and avoid the aforesaid undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage
for a period of two years. Subsequently orders were made,
making the order effective from a later date, to-wit,
April 15, 1914.
From the facts found by the Commission it appears
that New Castle is a manufacturing city of much importance, having a population of about forty thousand people,
situated near the center of the iron, steel and ore industries
of the Mahoning and Shenango Valleys. The switching
limits of New Castle in their greatest length axe about
four miles in extent, and included therein are about 100
industries. The Pennsylvania Railroad, the Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad, the Pittsburgh & Lake Erie Railroad, the
Erie Railroad, and the Rochester Railroad all reach and

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

serve New Castle by their several lines of railroad. Each
of the four roads has switching connections with the
Pennsylvania Company with interchange tracks and
terminals within the switching limits. The Rochester
road operates a line of railroad from Rochester and Buffalo,
in the State of New York, to New Castle and Pittsburgh,
in .the State of Pennsylvania. It reaches New Castle
from the town of Butler, Pennsylvania, over the rails of
the Allegheny & Western Railroad, which are now jointly
used by the Rochester Company and the Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad, under a contract between them. The
terminal facilities of the Pennsylvania Company at New
Castle consist of depots, freight stations, yards, team
tracks and side tracks, together with spur tracks reaching
26 industries within the switching limits. Within the
switching limits there are two points of connection with
the lines of the Pennsylvania Company, and those jointly
used by the Baltimore & Ohio and the Rochester road.
One of these points is at Moravia Street, near the center
of the city, where the Pennsylvania Company has interchange yards with a capacity for 250 cars. This point
is about 1000 feet from the freight station of the Rochester
road, where the latter road has two unloading tracks of
ten cars capacity each and a team track of twelve cars
capacity. The second point of connection is near the
outer yards of the Pennsylvania Company, where there
are ample facilities for interchange of traffic.
The Pennsylvania Company refuses all interchange of
carload freight, whether incoming or outgoing, with the
Rochester road within the switching limits of New Castle,
but it does conduct such interchange with the Erie, the
Pittsburgh & Lake Erie, and the Baltimore & Ohio roads.
As to these roads the Pennsylvania Company has published its tariffs, and offers to receive, transport and deliver to and from the lines of these three carriers carload
shipments to and from about 128 industries within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

switching limits and immediate vicinity of New Castle,
at a charge of $2.00 per car within the limits and a varying
charge with a maximum of $5.00 per car without the
limits. The industries on the tracks of the Pennsylvania
'Company within the switching limits, which receive carload freight from the Rochester road, or which may desire
to ship such freight over the Rochester road, to points
beyond New Castle, must dray their traffic to and from
the depot or team track of the Rochester Company.
Representatives of such industries testified as to the disadvantage to them resulting from the refusal of the Pennsylvania Company to perform switching service on traffic
moving over the line of the Rochester Company.
The Commission found this practice to be an undue and
unreasonable discrimination against the Rochester Company, and made an order requiring the Pennsylvania Company to desist therefrom. Commissioner Harlan dissenting was disposed to agree to an order fixing reasonable
joint through rates for the use of the terminals of the
Pennsylvania Company and over the rails of the Rochester
Company, but disagreed with the order on the grounds
made. The Pennsylvania Company then filed the bill
in this case in the District Court of the United States for
the Western District of Pennsylvania, and moved for a
preliminary injunction, restraining the enforcement of the
order. Answer was filed on behalf of the United States,
and the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Rochester Company intervened, and, after hearing, the
motion was denied, two judges concurring and one judge
dissenting. Pennsylvania Company v. United States, 214
Fed. Rep. 445. From this action the Pennsylvania Company appeals, and the case is now before this court.
Section 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, 24 Stat.
379, 380, provides:
"That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act to make or give any undue

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

361

Opinion of the Court.

or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular
person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any
particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever,
or to subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of
traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever.
"Every common carrier subject to the provisions of this
act shall, according to their respective powers, afford all
reasonable, proper, and equal facilities for the interchange
of traffic between their respective lines, and for the receiving, forwarding, and delivering of passengers and property to and from their several lines.and those connecting
therewith, and shall not discriminate in their rates and
charges between such connecting lines; but this shall not
be construed as requiring any such common carrier to give
the use of its tracks or terminal facilities to another carrier
engaged in like business."
This section forbids any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage in favor of any person, company, firm,
corporation or locality; what is such undue or unreasonable preference or advantage is a question not of law, but
of fact. Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 219; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Railway, 168 U. S. 144, 170. If
the order made by the Commission does not contravene
any constitutional limitation and is within the constitutional and statutory authority of that body, and not unsupported by testimony, it cannot be set aside by the
courts, as it is only the exercise of an authority which the
law vests in the Commission. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R., 220
U. S. 235, 251; Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294,
311; Houston & Texas Ry. v. United States, 234 U. S.
342, 359.
It is to be remembered that in the aspect which the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

now presents, there is no question as to the terms which
the Commission might prescribe, or the compensation
which" the Pennsylvania Company should receive for the
service to be rendered. The sole question is whether the
Commission exceeded its authority in requiring the Pennsylvania Company to cease and desist from what the
Commission found to be a discriminatory practice.
In determining whether the Commission exceeded its
authority under § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
it is essential to consider the character of the service required in the present case. Section 3 was a part of the
original Act, and remains unchanged, but there are certain amendments to the Act which are to be read in connection with § 3 as if they were originally incorporated
within the Act. Blairv. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 475. The
Act as amended June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, defines what is meant by common -carriers-engaged in
transportation by railroad-which are brought within the
control of the Act, and a railroad is defined to include all
switches, spurs, tracks and terminal facilities of every
kind, used or necessary in the transportation of persons
or property designated in the Act, and also all freight
depots, yards and grounds used or necessary in the transportation or delivery of any of said property. Not only
does the Act define railroads, .but it specifically defines
what is meant by transportation, which is made to include
"cars and other vehicles and all instrumentalities and
facilities of shipment or carriage, irrespective of ownership
or of any contract, express or implied, for the use thereof
and all services in connection with the receipt, delivery,
elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing, storage, and handling of property transported." It is made the duty of every carrier "subject
to the provisions of this Act to provide and furnish such
transportation upon reasonable request therefor, and to
establish through routes and just and reasonable rates ap-

PENNSYLVANIA CO, v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

363

Opinion of the Court.

plicable thereto"; and on June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat.
539, 545, it was additionally provided that the carrier
should "provide reasonable facilities for operating such
through routes and make reasonable rules and regulations
with respect to the exchange, interchange, and return of
cars used therein, and for the operation of such through
routes, and providing for reasonable compensation to
those entitled thereto." See United States v. Union Stock
Yard & Transit Co., 226 U. S. 286, and as to the character of such commerce, Illinois Central R. R. v. Railroad
Commission of Louisiana, decided February 1, 1915, ante,
p. 157.
It follows that the provisions of § 3 of the Act must be
read in connection with the amendments and subsequent
provisions, which show that transportation as used in the
Act covers the entire carriage and services in connection
with the receipt and delivery of property transported.
There can be no question that when the Pennsylvania
Railroad used these terminal facilities in connection with
the receipt' and delivery of carload freight transported
in interstate traffic, it was subject to the provisions of the
Act, and it was obliged as a common carrier in that capacity to afford all r~asonable, proper and equal facilities for
the interchange of traffic with connecting lines and for
the receiving, forwarding and delivering of property to
and from its own lines and such connecting lines, and
was obliged not to discriminate in rates and charges between such connecting lines. By the amendments to the
Act, the facilities for delivering freight of a terminal character are brought within the terms of the transportation
to be regulated.
The cars transported over the Rochester road are
brought to a physical connection with the Pennsylvania
road at a point where it receives carloads of freight from
other roads and transports them over its connecting terminals to points of destination, and at that point in like

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

manner forwards over other railroads carloads of freight
transported in interstate commerce and destined for points
on such other connecting railroads.
If the cars of the Rochester Company reaching the
point of connection are drawn by a Baltimore & Ohio
locomotive they are received and delivered by the Pennsylvania Company over its terminals.
The Pennsylvania Company insists that these statutory
provisions do not apply to it under the circumstances of
this case, and that the Commission exceeded its authority
in requiring it to desist from what the Commission found
to be a discriminatory practice, for certain reasons which,
as we understand them, may be reduced to three: (a) That
upon the facts shown there is no discrimination in a real
sense, and certainly none which warrants the making of
the order in question; (b) That the order requires the
railroad company to give up the use of its terminals to
another company in violation of the last clause of § 3; and
(c) that the order is a taking of the railroad company's
property in violation of the protection afforded to it under
the Constitution of the United States, preventing the
taking of property without due process of law, for the
contention is that the effect of the order is to subject the
Pennsylvania Railroad's property to the use of the Rochester Company without compensation.
That there is no discrimination in fact is rested upon
the argument that with the other three roads the Pennsylvania Railroad has certain reciprocal arrangements in
the Mahoning and Shenango Valleys, by which these three
roads interchange cars with the Pennsylvania Railroad.
It is contended that this, more than the $2.00 per car, is
the real inducement for the treatment of those railroads.
But, as the Commission found, the amount of traffic exchanged between these three railroads is of a varying and
differing quantity, and to ascertain the value of such service to the Pennsylvania Railroad would be a futile under-

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

365

Opinion of the Court.

taking, involving uncertain and speculative considerations as to the value of this and that service and the varying cost of performing such service at remote and different
places. The statements in the record, presented to the
Commission by the Pennsylvania Company, show the
great difference in service of this character rendered by
the three railroads and by the Pennsylvania Company for
the different roads. For instance, it is shown that during
1911 the Baltimore & Ohio switched for the Pennsylvania
69 cars at New Castle, and in the Valleys generally 4,185
cars, while the Pennsylvania Company switched for the
Baltimore & Ohio 8,286 cars in New Castle, and in the
Valleys generally 8,900. cars. The Rochester Company
switched for the Pennsylvania in the same year 406 cars
in New Castle and 3,661 cars to points adjacent thereto.
The Rochester Company moved for the Pennsylvania
Company in New Castle 337 cars more than did the Baltimore & Ohio, and in gross totals, through and into adjacent regions, 187 cars less. The Pennsylvania Company
moved nearly twice as many cars for the Baltimore & Ohio
road as the Baltimore & Ohio did for it. The Government
therefore contends with much force that such reciprocal
switching arrangements ought not to justify giving cars.
shipped over the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad a preference
denied the cars shipped over the lines of the Rochester
road, which cars enter New Castle on the same track and
reach the same junction points. And as we have said the
question of compensation is not here involved, and what
compensation the Pennsylvania Company might require
from the Rochester Company is not now to be determined.
We agree with the Commission and the court below that
the alleged reciprocal shipping arrangements do not remove the discriminatory character of the treatment of
the Rochester road.
The objection that the railroad is required to give up
the use of its terminals to another company, is perhaps

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the principal contention of the Pennsylvania Company,
and is based upon the. last clause of the second paragraph
of § 3, which provides that the section shall not be construed as requiring any common carrier to give the use of
its tracks or terminal facilities to another carrier engaged
in like business.
As we have heretofore shown, the Act, as it now is,
provides that transportation which must be furnished to
all upon equal terms includes the delivery of freight as part
of its transportation. While § 3 remains part of the Act
in its original form, it must be given a reasonable construction with a view to carrying out all the provisions of the
Act and to make every part of it effective, in accordance
with the intention of Congress.
The majority of the District Court thought the present
case was controlled by the case of Grand Trunk Ry. v.
Michigan Railroad Commission, 231 U. S. 457 and certainly that case is closely analogous to the present one.
In that case the Michigan statute, which was enforced
by the State Commission, as to intrastate commerce, required railroads in that State to afford reasonable and
proper facilities, by the establishment of switching connections between the roads and the establishment of depots and freight yards for the interchange of traffic, for the
receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers and
property to and from other lines and those connecting
therewith, and to transport and deliver without undue
delay and discrimination freight and cars destined to any
point on its own lines or connecting lines, and not to discriminate in rates and charges between connecting lines.
That act, like the Federal apt, contained a provision that
nqthing therein should be construed as requiring any railroad to give the use of its tracks and terminal facilities to
another railroad engaged in like business. This court
sustained an order of the Commission requiring the Grand
Trunk Railway to accept freight for other roads at con-

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

nected points for shipment in the city of Detroit. In that
connection this court stated the question to be (p. 464):
"Whether, under the statutes of the State of Michigan,
appellants can be compelled to use the tracks it owns and
operates in the city of Detroit for the interchange of intrastate traffic; or, stating the question more specifically,
whether the companies shall receive cars from another
carrier at a junction point or physical connection with
such carrier within the corporate limits of Detroit for
transportation to the team tracks of the companies; and
whether the companies shall allow the use of their team
tracks for cars to be hauled from their team tracks to a
junction point or physical connection with another carrier
within such limits and be required to haul such cars in
either of the above-named movements or between industrial sidings."
In answering the contention that the service required
was not transportation, but amounted to an appropriation
of the terminal facilities of the Grand Trunk Railway,
this court said (p. 467):
"The proposition of appellants is, as said by the District
Court, that such service and team track service 'are not
in a proper sense transportation, but are essentially distinguishable therefrom'; or, to put it another way-and
one which expresses more specially the contention of appellants-they are mere conveniences at the destination or
initial point of the transportation and hence are terminal
facilities merely and their use is not required to be given
to other railroads. The District Court did not regard
them in the latter character. After stating the conditions
which exist in Detroit and its extent, the court. said of
them: 'Such tracks are necessary to prevent the congestion
which would result from requiring all carload freight, both
in and out, to'be delivered at the freight depots of ,he
respective roads, and in a very proper sense are shipping
stations.' The court concluded that the services were

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

transportation and that the statute of the State validly
empowered the Commission 'to require local transportation by a railroad between its own shipping stations within
a city, whether such plurality of shipping stations has been
voluntarily established by the railroad, as here, or has
been required by the Commission under its lawful powers,
and provided such transportation is for such substantial
distance and of such a character as reasonably torequire a
railroad haul, as distinguished from other means of carriage.' The court further said: 'It is clear that a statute
validly may, and the statutes we are considering do, authorize the employment of such depots, sidetracks, and
team tracks of a railroad for transporting carload freight
to and from the junction of such road with another road
as a substantial part of a continuous transportation routing, where such junction is outside the city limits.' And
it was remarked that the fact that the freight movement
begins and ends within the limits of a city does not take
from it its character 'of an actual transportation between
two termini,' the other conditions obtaining. We concur
in the conclusion of the court."
After describing the extent of the city of Detroit to be
about 22 miles, and its population about 500,000, the court
held that it was competent for the state commission to
require transportation between points in that city, as the
beginning and destination of traffic, and that to call the
service necessary to such movement a taking of terminals
was misleading, and that the statute involved was a proper
regulation of the business of appellants, and not an appropriation of their terminal facilities for the use and benefit of another road.
In the present case we think there is no requirement in
the order of the Commission amounting to a compulsory
taking of the use of the terminals of the Pennsylvania
Company by another road, within the inhibition of this
clause of § 3. The order gives the Rochester road no right

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

369

Opinion of the Court.

to run its cars over the terminals of the Pennsylvania
Company or to use or occupy its stations or depots for
purposes of its own. There is no requirement that the
Rochester Company be permitted to store its cars in
the yards of the Pennsylvania Company or to make use
of its freight houses or other facilities; but simply that the
Pennsylvania Company receive and transport the cars of
the Rochester Company over its terminals at New Castle
in the same manner and with the same facilities that it
affords to other railroads connecting with the Pennsylvania
railroad at the same point.
The third and last objection is that the effect of the
order of the Commission is to appropriate the property
of the Pennsylvania Company without compensation to
the use of the Rochester Company, in violation of the
Constitution of the United States. Certainly the railroad
cannot maintain, in view of the provisions of the statute
to which we have referred, that these terminal facilities.
are exempt from public regulation and under all dircumstances subject to its own control, to be dealt with in such
manner as it may see fit. This court recognized, in the
case of United States v. Terminal R. R. Ass'n, 224. U. S.
383, that terminal facilities might be so used as to create
monopolies, which it was within the power of Congress to
control, a power which it might exercise within the prohibitions and limitations of the Sherman Act. So in the
present case, all that the order requires the Pennsylvania
Company to do is to receive and transport over its terminals by its own motive power, for the Rochester Company, as it does for other companies, similarly situated,
carload freight in the course of interstate transportation.
To support the constitutional argument in this connection, reliance is had upon the decision of this court in
Louisville &c. R. R. v. Stock Yards, 212 U. S. 132. That
case was also relied upon to support a like argument in
the Grand Trunk Case, supra, and in the opinion of the
VOL. ccxxxvi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

court was analyzed and its application to the situation
then presented denied. An examination of the Louisville Case shows that it was unlike the one now presented.
The Louisville & Nashville Company and the Southern
Railway Company were competing companies for the
live stock business at Louisville. Each maintained its
own stock yards, the yard of the Louisville & Nashville
Company being known as the Bourbon. Stock Yard, and
that of the Southern Railway Company as the Central
Stock Yard. (See 118 Fed. Rep. 113, and the same case
in this court in 192 U. S. 568.) The Railway Company
was ordered in the state court to receive at its stations
in Kentucky, and to bill, transport, transfer, switch and
deliver in the customary way, at some point of physical
connection' with the tracks of the Southern Railway, and
particularly atone described, all live stock or other freight
consigned to the Central Stock Yards or to persons doing
business there; to transfer, switch and deliver to the
Southern Railway at the said point of connection any
and all live stock or other freight coming over its lines in
Kentucky, consigned to the Central Stock Yards or persons doing business there; to receive at the same point
and to transport, switch, transfer and deliver all live
stock consigned to any one at the Bourbon Stock Yards,
the shipment of which originates at the Central Stock
Yards; and was required, whenever requested by the
consignor,, consignee, or owner of the stock, at any of
the stations, and particularly at its break-up yards in
South Louisville, Kentucky, to recognize their right to
change the destination, and upon payment of the whole
freight rate and proper presentation of the bill of lading
duly indorsed, to change the destination and deliver at
a point of connection with the Southern Railway tracks
for delivery by the latter to the Central Stock Yards.
This judgment of the state court was reversed in this court,
among other things the court saying (212 U. S., p. J.45):

PENNSYLVANIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

371

Opinion of the Court.

"If the principle is sound, every road into Louisville,
by making a physical connection with the Louisville &
Nashville, can get the use of its costly terminals and make
it do the switching necessary to that end, upon simply
paying for the service of carriage. The duty of a carrier
to accept goods tendered at its station does not extend
to the acceptance of cars offered to it at an arbitrary point
near its terminus by a competing road, for the purpose
of reaching and using its terminal station. 'o require such
an acceptance from a railroad is to take its property in a
very effective sense, and cannot be justified, unless. the
railroad holds that property subject to greater liabilities
than those incident to its calling alone."
As this court said in the Grand Trunk Case, 'he case
turned upon the point that the roads were competitive
and the point of delivery an arbitrary one and that thereby
the terminal station of one company was required to be
shared with the other. In that connection it used language
applicable to the present situation (231 U. S., p. 472):
"In the case at bar a shipper is contesting for the right,
as a part of transportation. The order of the Commission
was a recognition of the right and legally so. Considering
the theater of the movements, the facilities for them are
no .more terminal or switching facilities than the depots,
side tracks and main lines are terminal facilities in a less
densely populated district. A precise distinction between
facilities can neither be expressed nor enforced. Transportation is the business of railroads, and when that
business may be regulated and to what extent regulated
may depend upon circumstances."
So here there is no attempt to appropriate the terminals
of the Pennsylvania Company to the use of the Rochester
Company. What is here accomplished is only that the
same transportation facilities which are afforded to the
shipments brought to the point of connection over tracks
used in common by the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
WHITE,

J., dissenting.

236 U. S.

the Rochester Company, shall be rendered to the Rochester Company as are given to the Baltimore & Ohio Company under. precisely' the same circumstances of connection for the transportation of interstate traffic. All'that
the Commission ordered was that the Company desist
from the discriminatory practice here involved, and in so
doing we think it exceeded neither its statutory authority
nor any -constitutional limitation, and that the District
Court was right in so determining.
It follows that the order denying the application for
temporary injunction was properly made, and the judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.
The court now holds that this controversy inVolves
merely a switching privilege and the duty of one railroad
not to refuse such privilege to another, or at all events
if it permits it to one, to allow it to other roads on terms
of equality. By a necessary inference, therefore, the
decision now made is concerned alone With that subject
and does not in any degree whatever as a matter of law
involve the right of one railroad company to compel
another to permit it to share in its terminal facilities.
If I could bring'my mind to understand the facts of the
controversy as they are now appreciated by the. court,
there would be no difficulty whatever on my part in accepting the legal principle which is applied to them. But
the difficulty which I have is in the premise of fact upon
which the case is decided. In other words, I have found
it impossible to escape the conclusion that instead of being
one concerning a mere switching privilege, the case is
really one involving the using of terminal facilities. Differing only therefore as to an appreciation of the facts I
am very reluctant to express a dissent, a reluctance which
is greatly increased by the consideration that the view

MILLER v. WILSON.
236 U. S.

373

Syllabus.

of the facts now taken by the court is the one which was
adopted by the court below and which was stated by the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Strong, however, as
is the admonition resulting from this situation, it is not
strong enough to overcome the force of my conviction as
to what the case really concerns and to overcome the
belief that it is my duty at least to state the fact of my
dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took

no part in the consider-

ation and decision of this case.

MILLER v. WILSON, SHERIFF OF RIVERSIDE
COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 112.

Argued January 12, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The liberty of contract guaranteed by the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is freedom from arbitrary restraint-not
immunity from reasonable regulation to safeguard the public interest.
In determining the constitutionality of a state police statute the question is whether its restrictions-have reasonable relation to a proper
purpose; and reasonable regulations limiting the hours of labor of
women are within the scope of legislative action. Muller v. Oregon,
208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671; Hawley v.
Walker, 232 U. S. 718.
While the limitation of the hours of labor of women may be pushed to
an indefensible extreme, the limit of reasonable exertion of the protective authority of the State is not overstepped and liberty of contract unduly abridged by a statute prescribing eight hours a day or
a maximum of forty-eight hours a week.
The legislature of aState is not debarred from classifying according to

