TRUSKETT v. CLOSSER.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

TRUSKETT v' CLOSSER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EICHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 160.

Argued January 28, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The qualification "except as otherwise specifically provided by law,"
as used in § 6 of the act of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312, removing restrictions upon alienation of allotments to members of the Five
Civilized Tribes, means Federal, not state, law.
The act of May 27., 1908, expressly provides that the Probate Courts
of the State of Oklahoma shall have jurisdiction in regard to the
disposition of property of minors of the. Five Civilized Tribes and
that such jurisdiction shall be subject to the rules and regulations
to be promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior.
The fact that the laws of the Territory of Oklahoma gave power to
the courts to confer upon minors the rights of majority, and that the
Enabling Act continued such laws, did not preclude Congress from
enacting the provisions of the act of May 27, 1908, in regard to the
disposition of allotments of members of the Five Civilized Tribes
who were minors. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286.
Courts in Oklahoma, both state and Federal, having found that the
provisions of the act of May 27, 1908, in regard to disposition of
allotments of minors of the Five Civilized Tribes dominated the
provisions of state law in that respect, that construction has become
a rule of property in the State, and this court would be disposed to
adopt it as such even if it doubted the construction placed by those
courts upon that act; and held that Ahe title under a lease made by a
minor's guardian pursuant thereto was superior to that under a lease
made by the minor during minority but.after removal of disabilities
by the state court.
198 Fed. Rep. 835, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the act
of May 27, 1908, defining restrictions on alienation of
allotments by members of the Five Civilized Tribes,
and the validity of gas and mining leases made by a
member of the Cherokee Tribe, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Mr. James A. Veasey, with whom Mr. Lloyd A. Rowland
was on the brief, for appellants:
The act of May 27, 1908, removed all restrictions
against the alienation of allotments of mixed-blood Indians
having less than half Indian blood, including minors;
Goodman was a minor Cherokee Indian of less than half
Indian blood, and, accordingly, all restrictions against
the alienation of his land were removed by said act. See
Oklihoma Enabling Act; § 2, Schedule Constitution
Okh homa; §§ 73, 74, 75, 733, Wilson's Digest;, Brown v.
Whet lock (Tex.), 12 S. W. Rep. 111; Tiger v. West. Invest.
Co., "21 U. S. 286; § 14, Cherokee Treaty, Act of July 1,
1902, '2 Stat. 716; Bowling v. United States, 233 U. S. 528;
United States v. Nichols Lumber Co., 234 U' S. 245; § 4,
Original Creek Agreement, 31 Stat. 861; Act of April 21,
1904, 33 Stat. 189; § 22, Act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat.
137. Jefferson v. Winkler, 26 Oklahoma, 653, distingulshed.
Mr. G. T. Stanford and Mr. Eugene Mackey, with whom
Mr. T. H. Stanford and Mr. John H. Brennan were on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Conflict of oil and gas mining leases derived from the
same lessor, one Robert F. Goodman, a member of the
Cherokee Tribe of Indians.
Appellee brought suit in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Oklahoma to quiet title to his lease
against that of appellants covering the same premises.
The bill set up the full title of appellee 4nd the full title
of appellants, to which appellants demurred. The demurrer was overruled and, appellants declining to plead
further a decree was entered quieting the title of appellee

TRUSKETT v. CLOSSER.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and decreeing the cancellation of the lease of appellants.
The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
198 Fed. Rep. 835.
The lands in controversy were part of the common
domain of the Cherokee Tribe of Indians, and on March 31,
1909, were conveyed to Goodman, a member of the Tribe,
by patent of the Cherokee Nation, duly approved by the
Secretary of the Interior as his, Goodman's, allotment,
fifty acres being his so-called "surplus." allotment and
the remaining thirty acres being his homestead allotment.
Goodman was one-eighth Indian blood and seveneighths white blood and did not attain the full age of
twenty-one years until September 25, 1910. Before that
date, to wit, on October 12, 1909, in a proceeding brought
by his next friend, the District Court of Washingtohi
County, Oklahoma, by a decree duly entered, removed
from Goodman the disability of minority and conferred
upon him the rights of majority concerning contracts and
"authorized and empowered him to transact business in
general with the same effect as if such business were transacted by a person over the age of twenty-one years."
In pursuance of this decree Goodman granted to- one
Overfield a lease for oil and gas mining purposes covering
his entire allotment for the term of fifteen years from its
date and as loing thereafter as oil or gas should be found
in paying quantities. The lease passed to appellants by
assignment and constitutes the basis of their title.
On September 14, 1.910, that is, subsequent to the
decree conferring majority rights upon Goodman and
subsequent to the lease under which appellants hold, the
legal guardian of Goodman granted a lease in behalf of
Goodman to appellee covering the same lands. This lease
was both authorized and confirmed by the order of the
County Court for Nowata County, Oklahoma, that court
then having probate jurisdiction of the person and estate
v oL. ccxxxVI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of Goodman, and Goodman at that time being a minor.
This lease is the ground of title of appellee.
The question in the case then is, Of the two leases which
constitutes the better title? And a decision of this question, appellants contend, depends upon the construction
of the act of Congress of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312,
special stress being put upon §§ 1 and 4. These sections
are as follows: "Section 1. That from and after sixty
days from the date of this Act the status of the lands
allotted heretofore or hereafter to allottees of the Five
Civilized Tribes shall, as regards restrictions on alienation or incumbrance, be as follows: All lands, including
homesteads, of said allottees enrolled as intermarried
whites, as freedmen, and as mixed-blood Indians having
less than half Indian blood including minors shall be free
from all restriction. All lands, except homesteads, of
said allottees enrolled as mixed-blood Indians having
half or.more than half and less than three-quarters Indian
blood shall be free from all restrictions. All homesteads
of said allottees enrolled as mixed-blood Indians having
half or more than 'half Indian blood, including minors
of such degrees of blood, and all allotted lands of enrolled
full-bloods, and enrolled mixed-bloods of three-quarters
or more Indian blood, including minors of such degree of
blood, shall not be subject to alienation, contract to sell,
power of attorney, or any other incumbrance prior to
April 26, 1931, except that the Secretary of the Interior
may remove such restrictions, wholly or in, part, under
such rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and
disposal of the proceeds for the benefit of the respective
Indians as he may prescribe."
"Section 4. That all lands from which restrictions
have been or shall be removed shall be subject to taxation
and all other civil burdens as though it were the property
of other persons than allottees of the Five Civilized Tribes:
Provided, That allotted lands shall not be subjected or

TRUSKETT v. CLOSSER.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

held liable, to any form of personal claim, or demand,
against the allottees arising or existing prior to the removal of restrictions, other than contracts heretofore
expressly permitted by law."
At the time this act was passed Goodman was a minor
of one-eighth Indian blood, and it is hence contended
that Goodman having less than one-half Indian blood,
his entire allotment was free from all restrictions and was
therefore subject to the laws of Oklahoma. And this
notwithstanding §§ 2 and 6 of the act, which read respectively as follows: "Section 2. That all lands other
than homesteads allotted to members of the Five Civilized
Tribes from which restrictions have not been removed
may be leased by the allottee if an adult, or by guardian
or curator under order of the proper Probate Court if a
minor or incompetent, for a period not to exceed five
years, without the- privilege of renewal: Provided, That
leases of restricted lands for oil, gas or other mining purposes, leases of restricted homesteads for more than one
year, and leases of restricted lands for periods of more
than five years, may be made, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior, under rules and regulations
provided by the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise: And Provided Further, that the jurisdiction of the
Probate Courts of the State of Oklahoma over lands of
minors and incompetents shall be subject to the foregoing
provisions, and the term minor or minors, as used in this
Act, shall include all males under the age of twenty-one
years and all females under the age of eighteen years.
"Section 6. That the persons and property of minor
allottees of the Five Civilized Tribes shall, except as
otherwise specifically provided by law, be subject to the
jurisdiction of the probate courts of the State of Oklahoma. . .
These sections are circumstantial and contain the elements of decision. Section 2 defines minors, male and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

female, and provides for the •disposition of their property
under, as stated, rules and regulations provided by the
Secretary of the Interior and declares that the jurisdiction of the Probate Courts of the State shall be subject
to its provisions.. And § 6 declares to what courts the
property of minors so defined shall be subject. Explicitly such property is made "subject to the jurisdiction
of the probate courts of the State of Oklahoma." The
qualification "except as otherwise specifically provided
by law" means, as said by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
"Federal law, not state law."
Counsel, however, resist that conclusion and contend
that the jurisdiction which was made subject to the provisions of the-section is yet to be regarded independently
of them and subject to the provisions of the local statutes.
The reasoning by which this is attempted to be supported
is somewhat involved and is difficult to represent succinctly. It is that the enabling act of the State, except as
modified, and the constitution of the State continued the
laws in force in the Territory at the time of its admission
into the Union until they expired or were altered or repealed, and that by those laws minors were defined (§ 733,
Wilson's Digest) and other laws gave power to confer
upon them the rights of majority. (Sections 73, 74 and
75 Wilson's Digest.) But this did not preclude the exercise of the power of Congress as exhibited in the act of
May 27, 1908. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S.
286. And the courts, both state and Federal, have found
no difficulty in determining its meaning or its dominance
over the provisions of the state law. Priddyv. Thompson,
204. Fed. Rep. 955; Jefferson v. Winkler, 26 Oklahoma,
653. And we think it is clear that sections 1 and 4 are
not to be construed independently of the other sections
of the act.
In Jefferson v. Winkler an Indian girl married when she
was under eighteen, and while under that age conveyed

TRUSKETT v. CLOSSER.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

her allotment. It was held that under the general law
of -Oklahoma the marriage emancipated her but that,
notwithstanding, her conveyance was void, the act of
May 27, 1908, prevailing over the state law. The reasoning of the court is directly antagonistic to that of appellants in the case at bar, the same contentions being urged
in that case as in this. In other words, it was contended
that § 1 of that act was absolute and was not modified by
§ 2, and the court, considering all of the provisions of the
act, was of opinion that the legislative intention was to
provide that the allotted lands of freedmen and mixedblood Indians of less than half Indian blood, under the
age of eighteen if a female, and under the age of twentyone if a male, might be sold under the super-ision and
jurisdiction of the, probate courts of the State and not
otherwise. The court, therefore, decided, upon a consideration of the act-of May 27, 1908, and of the laws of the
State, that the latter removing the disability of minority
do not extend to Indian minors as defined by the act of
Congress.
The decision has been followed in Tirey v. Darneal, 37
Oklahoma, 606. Also Tirey v. Darneal,37 Oklahoma, 611.
The construction has become a rule of property in the
State and we should be disposed to accept it as such, even
if we had doubts of the construction of the act of May 27,
1908. Reynolds v. Fewell, ante, p. 58.
The other contentions of appellants which have been
argued are but phases of those we have reviewed or are
determined by the same considerations.
Decree affirmed.

