CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

COPPAGE v. STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 48. Submitted October 30, 1914.-Decided January 25, 1915.
The Kansas statute declaring it a misdemeanor punishable by fine or
imprisonment for an employer to require an employ6 to agree not
to become or remain a member of any labor organization during the
time of the employment, so far as it applies to such a case as the
present, where an employ6 at will, a man of full age and understanding, was merely required to freely choose whether he would give up
his position of employment or would agree -to refrain from association with the union while so employed, the case being free from any
element of coercion or undue influence; held, repugnant to the "due
process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, followed to the effect that it is
the constitutional right of an employer to dispense with the services
of an employ6 because of his membership in a labor union, just as
it is the constitutional right of an employ6 to quit the service of an
employer, who employs non-union men.
Under constitutional freedom of contract, whatever either party has
the right to treat as sufficient ground for terminating the employment where there is no stipulation on the subject he has the right
to provide against by insisting that a stipulation respecting it shall
be a sine qua non of the inception of the employment, or of its continuance if terminable at will.

VOL. CCXXXVI-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

Included in the right of personal liberty and the right of private property-partaking of the nature of each-is the right to make contracts for the acquisition of property, chief among which is that of
personal employment by which labor and other services are exchanged for money or other forms of property.
A State cannot, by designating as "coercion" conduct which is not
such in truth, render criminal any normal and essentially- innocent
exercise of personal liberty; for to permit this would deprive the Fourteenth Amendment of its effective force in this respect.
When a party appeals to this court for the protection of rights secured
to him by the Federal Constitution, the decisjon is not to depend
upon the form of the state law, nor even upon its declared purpose,
but rather upon its operationand effect as applied and enforced by
the State; and upon these matters this court cannot in the proper
performance of its duty yield its judgment to that of the state court.
A statutory provision which is not a legitimate p9lice regulation cannot be made such by being placed in the same act with a police regulation, or by being enacted under a title that declares a purpose
which would be a proper object for the exercise of that power.
It being self-evident that, unless all things are held in common, some
persons must have more property than others, it is from the nature
of thihgs impossible to uphold freedom, of contract and the right of
private property without at the same time recognizing as legitimate
those inequalities of fortune that are the necessary result of the
exercise of those rights.
The Fourteenth Amendment recognizes "liberty" and "property" as
co-existent human rights and debars the States from any unwarranted interference with either.
Since a State may not strike down the rights of liberty or property
directly, it may not do so indirectly, as by declaring in effect that
the public good requires the removal of those inequalities that are
but the normal and inevitable result of the exercise of those rights,
and then invoking the police power in order to remove the inequalities, without other object in view.
The Fourteenth Amendment debars the States from striking down personal liberty or property rights or materially restricting their normal
exercise, excepting so far as may be incidentally necessary for the
accomplishment of some other and paramount object and one that
concerns the public welfare. The mere restriction of liberty or of
property rights cannot of itself be denominated "public welfare"
and treated as a legitimate object of the police power; for such restriction is the very thing that is inhibited by the Amendment.

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Without intimating anything inconsistent with the right of individuals
to join labor unions, or questioning the legitimacy of such organizations so long as they conform to the laws of the land as others are
required to do, held, that the individual has no inherent right to
join a labor union and still remain in the employ of one who is unwilling to employ a union man any more than the same individual
has a right to join the union without the consent of that organization.
There may not be one rule of liberty for the labor organization or its
members and a different and more restrictive rule for employers.
The employ6's liberty of making contracts does not include a liberty
to procure employment from an unwilling employer or without a
fair understanding. Nor may the employer be foreclosed by legislation from exercising the same freedom of choice that is accorded to
the employ6.
To ask a man to agree in advance to refrain from affiliation with the
union while retaining a certain position of employment is not to ask
him to give up any part of his constitutional freedom. He is free
to decline the employment on those terms, just as the employer may
decline to offer employment on any other; and, having accepted
employment on those terms, the employ6 is still free to join the
union when the period of employment expires, or, if employed at
will, then at any time upon simply quitting the employment; and if
bound by his own agreement to refrain from joining during a stated
period of employment he is in no different situation from that which
is necessarily incident to term contracts in general.
Constitutional freedom of contract does not mean that a party is to
he as free after making a contract as before; he is not free to break
it without accountability.
Freedom of contract, from the very nature of the thing, can be enjoyed
only by being exercised; and each particular exercise of it involves
making an engagement which if fulfilled prevents for the time any
inconsistent course of conduct.
87 Kansas, 752, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the statute of Kansas of 1909, making it unlawful for
employers to coerce, require or influence employds not to
join or remain members of labor organizations, are stated
in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

236 U. S.

Mr. R. R. Vermilion and Mr. W. F. Evans for plaintiff
inerror:
The statute amounts to deprivation of liberty and property without due process of law, and also to a denial of
due process of law.
The statute is not a proper exercise of the police power.
In support of these contentions see, Adair v, United
States, 208 U. S. 161; A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Brown, 80
Kansas, 312; Coffeytille Brick Co. v. Perry, 69"Kansas, 297;
Gillespie v. People, 188 Illinois, 176; Goldfield Miftes Co. v.
Goldfield Miners' Union, 159 Fed. Rep. 514; Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45; People v. Marcus, 185 N. Y. 257;
State v. Coppage, 87 Kansas, 752; State v. Daniels, 136
N. W. Rep. 584; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; State
v. Kreutzberg, 114 Wisconsin, 530; Cottilng v. Kansas City
Stock Yards, 183 U. S.112; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe
Co., 184 U. S.558; G., C. & S F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
151; State v. Haun, 61 Kansas, 154.
Mr. John S. Dawson, Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, and Mr. J. I. Sheppard for defendant in error:
The Kansas statute does not violate the Fourteenth
Amendment but seeks further to guarantee and protect
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States. In harmony with the Fourteenth Amendment, the
State of Kansas has said, in 'effect, that employers must
not attempt to abridge the privilege of their employ~s to
affiliate themselves with labor unions or meddle with or
deprive them of their liberty to affiliate with such unions.
They must not attempt by coercion to deprive them of
their property-their financial interest in the insurance
provided for their wives and children by such labor union.
The State of Kansas will not fold' its hands and sit idly
by while employers seek to oppress and coerce their employ6s and reduce them to a state of peonage. Nor will
the State withhold from a poor switchmen equal protection

COPPAGE -v.KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of its laws. See §§ 5508-10, Rev. Stat., prohibiting conspiracies to oppress any citizen of the United States.
If all men are to be equal within the law, as provided
for in the Fourteenth Amendment; if the laboring man
is to be the equal of the corporate officer; if the wage earner
is to be the equal of his employer; if the poor man is to be
the equal of the rich man; if that amendment is not to be
distorted into a rod of oppression, then the law under
which this prosecution was based is in furtherance of that
amendment and not in derogation thereof.
In Arthur v. Oakes, 11 C. C. A. 209, 24L. R. A. 414,
Judge Harlan in his opinion held that as a general rule
it is the right of every man to work for whom and when
he pleases, and when he is ready to quit the service of his
company he may do so. But this right of contract to quit
work is not unlimited, but has its recognized exceptions.
One of the exceptions to this rule, that the employ6 may
quit the "service of his employer when he likes, is, that employ6s cannot combine and conspire to quit the service
of an employer, when the object and manifest intention is
to injure the business of the employer.
The law of Arthur v. Oakes is the law of every State today, so it will be seen that this right to dispose of one's
labor and capital as one pleases, relied upon.by the plaintiff in error, is not without its recognized exceptions.
If the law in Arthur v. Oakes, there applied in favor of
the corporation, is to be here applied in favor of the labor
organization and its members, then the Kansas statute
is constitutional. The only way to declare the law in the
present case invalid is to say that in the eyes of the law
the corporation is superior to the labor union, the poor
man's organization. This is not the equality spoken of
in the Fourteenth Amendment. Coffeyville Brick Co. v.
Perry, 69 Kansas, 297, is no longer recognized as Kansas
law and it can be distinguished.
There axe differences between chapter 120 of the Laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of Kansas of 1897, held unconstitutional in the Perry Case,
and chapter 222 of the Laws of Kansas of 1903, which is
herein questioned, to justify this court in upholding it;
while the law of 1897 was rightly held unconstitutional in
the Perry Case, the law here under review may be upheld
as valid because the two laws are substantially different.
Similar casessuch as Doremus v. Hennessey, 176 Illinois,
608; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; Gillespie v. People,
188 Illinois, 176; Zillmer v. Kreutzberg, 114 Wisconsin, 530;
People v. Marcus, 185 N. Y. 257; Adair v. Uaited States,
208 U. S. 175; Mines Company v. Miners' Union, 159
Fed. Rep. 514, can be distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In a local court in one of the counties of Kansas, plaintiff in error was found guilty and adjudged to pay a fine,
with imprisonment as the alternative, upon an information
charging him with a violation of an act of the legislature
of that State, approved March 13, 1903, being Chap. 222
of the session laws of that year, found also as §§ 4674 and
4675, Gen. Stat. Kansas 1909. The act reads as follows:
"AN ACT to provide a penalty for coercing or influencing
or making demands upon or requirements of employ6s,
servants, laborers, and persons seeking employment.
"Be it Enacted, etc.:
"SECTION 1. That it shall be unlawful for any individual
or member of any firm, or any agent, officer or employ6
of any company or corporation, to coerce, require, demand
or influence any person or persons to enter into any agreement, either written or verbal, not to join or become or
remain a member of any labor organization or association,
as a condition of such person or persons securing employment, or continuing in the employment of such individual,
firm, or corporation.
•"SEC. 2. Any individual or member of any firm or any

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

agent, officer or employd of any company or corporation
violating the provisions of this act shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof slhall be
fined in a sum not less than fifty dollars or imprisoned in
the county jail not less than thirty days."
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State, two justices dissenting (87 Kansas, 752), and
the case is brought here upon the ground that the statute,
as construed and applied in this case, is in conflict with
that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States which declares that no State
shall deprive any person of liberty or property without
due process of law.
The facts, as recited in the 'opinion of the Supreme
Court, are as follows: About July 1, 1911, one Hedges was
employed as a switchman by the St. Louis & San Francisco Railway Company, and was a member of a labor
organization called the Switchmen's Union of North
America. Plaintiff in error was employed by the railway
company as superintendent, and as such he requested
Hedges to sign an agreement, which he presented to him
in writing, at the same time informing him that if he did
not sign it bp could not remain in the employ of the company. The following is a copy of the paper thus presented:
,1911.
Fort Scott, Kansas,
Mr. T. B. Coppage, Superintendent Frisco Lines, Fort
Scott:
We, the undersigned, have agreed to abide by your request, that is, to withdraw from the Switchmen's Union,
while in the service of the Frisco Company.
(Signed)

Hedges refused to sign this, and refused to withdraw
from the labor organization. Thereupon plaintiff in error,
as such superintendent, discharged him from the service
of the company..

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

At the outset, a few words should be said respecting the
construction of the act. It uses the term "coerce," and
some stress is laid upon this in the opinion of the Kansas
Supreme Court. But, on this record, we have nothing
to do with any question of actual or implied coercion or
duress, such as might overcome the will of the employ6
by means unlawful without the act. In the case before us,
the state court treated the term "coerce" as applying to
the mere insistence by the employer, or its agent, upon its
right to prescribe terms upon Which alone it would consent
to a continuance of the relationship of employer and employ6. In this sense we must understand the statute to
have been construed by the court, for in this sense it was
enforced in the present case; there being no finding, nor
any evidence to support a finding, that plaintiff in error
was guilty in any other sense. The entire evidence is included in the bill of exceptions returned with the writ of
error, and we have examined it to the extent necessary in
order to determine the Federal right that is asserted
(Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611, and
cases cited). There is neither finding nor evidence that
the contract of employment was other than a general or
indefinite hiring, such as is presumed to be terminable
at the will of either party. The evidence shows that it
would have been to the advantage of Hedges, from a
pecuniary point of view and otherwise, to have been permitted to retain his membership in the union, and at the
same time to remain in the employ of the railway company. In particular, it shows (although no reference is
made to this in the opinion of the court) that as a member
of the union he was entitled to benefits in the nature of
insurance to the amount of fifteen hundred dollars, which
-he would have been obliged to forego if he had ceased to
be a member. But, aside from this matter of pecuniary
interest, there is nothing to show that Hedges was subjected to the least pressure or influence, or that he was not

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a free agent, in all respects competent, and at liberty to
choose what was best from the standpoint of his own interests. Of course, if plaintiff in error, acting as the representative of the railway company, was otherwise within
his legal rights in insisting that Hedges should elect
whether to remain in the employ of. the company or to
retain his membership in the union, that insistence is not
rendered unlawful by the fact that the choice involved a
pecuniary sacrifice to Hedges. Silliman v. United States,
101 U. S. 465, 470, 471; Hackley v. Headley, 45 Michigan,
569, 576; Emery -v. Lowell, 127 Massachusetts, 138, 141;
Custin v. City of Viroqua, 67 Wisconsiji, 314,, 320. And if
the right that plaintiff in error exercised is founded upon
a constitutional basis it cannot be impaired by merely
applying to its exercise the term "coercion." We have
to deal, therefore, with a statute that, as construed and
applied, makes it a criminal offense punishable with fine
or imprisonment for an employer or his agent to merely
prescribe, as a condition upon which one may secure certain employment or remain in such employment (the em-ployment being terminable at will), that the employ6 shall
enter into an agreement not to become or remain a member
of any labor organization while so employed; the employ6
being subject to no incapacity or disability, but on the
contrary free to exercise a voluntary choice.
In Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, this court had
to deal with a question not distinguishable in principle
from the one now presented. Congress, in § 10 of an act
of June 1, 1898, entitled "An Act concerning carriers
engaged in interstate commerce and their employds"
(c. 370, 30 Stat. 424, 428), had enacted "That any employer subject to the provisions of this Act and any officer,
agent, or receiver of such employer who shall require any
employ6, or any person seeking employment, as a condition of such employment, to enter into an agreement,
either written or verbal, not to become or remain a member

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of any labor corporation, association, or organization; or
shall threaten any employ6 with loss of employment, or
shall unjustly discriminate against any employ6 because
of his membership in such a labor corporation, association,
or organization
. .
is hereby declared to be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished for each offense by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars and not more than one thousand dollars." Adair was convicted upon an indictment charging
that he, as agent of a common carrier subject to the provisions of the Act, unjustly discriminated against a certain
employ6 by discharging him from the employ of the carrier because of his membership in a labor organization.
The cbtrt held that portion of the Act upon which the
conviction rested to be an invasion of the personal liberty
as well as of the right of property guaranteed by the Fifth
Amendment, which declares that no person shall be deprived of liberty or property without due process of law.
Speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, the court said (208 U. S.,
p. 174): "While, as already suggested, the right of liberty
and property guaranteed by the Constitution against
deprivation without due process of law, is subject to such
reasonable restraints as the common good or the general
welfare may require, it is not within the functions of government-at least in the absence of contract between the
parties-to compel any person in the -ourse of his business
and against his will to accept or retain the personal services of another, or to compel any person, against his will,
to perform personal services for another. The right of a
person to sell his labor upon such terms as he deems proper
is, in its essence, the same as the right of the purchaser of
labor to prescribe the conditions upon which he will accept
such labor from the person offering to sell it. So the right
of the employ6 to quit the service of the employer, for
whatever reason, is the same as the right of the employer,
for whatever reason, to dispense with the services of such

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

employ6. It was the legal right of the defendant Adairhowever unwise such a course might have been-to discharge Coppage [the employ6 in that case] because of his
being a member of a labor organization, as it was the legal
right of Coppage, if he saw fit to do so-however unwise
such a course on his part might have been-to quit the
service in which he was engaged, because the defendant
employed some persons who were not members of a labor
organization. In all such particulars the employer and
the employ6 have equality of right, and any legislation
that disturbs that equality is an arbitrary interference with
the liberty of contract which no government can legally
justify in a free land."
Unless it is to be overruled, this decision is controlling
upon the present controversy; for if Congress is prevented
from arbitra, r interference with the liberty of contract
because of the "due process" provision of the Fifth
Amendment, it is too clear for argument that the States
are prevented from the like interference by virtue of the
corresponding clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; and
hence if it be unconstitutional for Congress to deprive an
employer of liberty or property for threatening an employ6 with loss of employment or discriminating against
him because of his membership in a labor organization,
it is unconstitutional for a State to similarly punish an
employer for requiring his employ6, as a condition of
securing or retaining employment, to agree not to become
or remain a member of such an organization while so employed.
It is true that, while the statute that was dealt with in
the Adair Case contained a clause substantially identical
with the Kansas act now under consideration-a clause
making it a misdemeanor for an employer to require an
employ6 or applicant for employment, as a condition of
such employment, to agree not to become or remain a
member, of a labor organization,-the conviction was

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

based upon another clause, which related to discharging
an employ6 because of his membership in such an organization; and the decision, naturally, was confined to the case
actually presented for decision. In the present case, the
Kansas Supreme Court sought to distinguish the Adair
decision upon this ground. The distinction, if any there
be, has not previously been recognized as substantial, so
far as we have been able to find. The opinion in the Adair
Case, while carefully restricting the decision to the precise
matter involved, cited (208 U. S. on page 175), as the first
in order of a number of decisions supporting the conclusion
of the court, a case (People v. Marcus, 185 N. Y. 257), in
which the statute denounced as unconstitutional was in
substance the counterpart of the one with which we are
now dealing.
But, irrespective of whether it has received judicial
recognition, is there any real distinction? The constitutional right of the employer to discharge an employ6 because of his membership in a labor union being granted,
can the employer be compelled to resort to this extreme
measure? May he not offer to the employ6 an option,
such as was offered in the instant case, to remain in the
employment if he will retire from the union; to sever the
former relationship only if he prefers the latter? Granted
the equal freedom of both parties to the contract of employment, has not each party the right to stipulate upon
what terms only he will consent to the inception, or to the
continuance, of that relationship? And may he not insist. upon an express agreement, instead of leaving the
terms of the employment to be implied? Can the legislature in effect require either party at the beginning to act
covertly; concealing essential terms of the employmentterms to which, perhaps, the other would not willingly
consent-and revealing them only when it is proposed to
insist upon them as a ground for terminating the relationship? Supposing an employer is unwilling to have in his

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

employ one holding membership in a labor union, and has
reason to suppose that the man may prefer membership
in the union to the given employment without it-we ask,
can the legislature oblige the employer in such case to refrain from dealing frankly at the outset? And is not the
employer entitled to insist upon equal frankness in return?
Approaching the matter from a somewhat different standpoint, is the employ6's right to be free to join a labor union
any more sacred, or more securely founded upon the Constitution, than his right to work for whom he will, or to be
idle if he will? And does not the ordinary contract of
employment include an insistence by the employer that
the employA shall agree, as a condition of the employment,
that he will not be idle and will not work for whom he
pleases but will serve his present employer, and him only,
so long as the relation between them shall continue? Can
the right of making contracts be enjoyed at all, except by
parties coming together in an agreement that requires
each party to forego, during the time and for the purpose
covered by the agreement, any inconsistent exercise of
his constitutional rights?
These queries answer themselves. The answers, as we
think, lead to a single conclusion: Under constitutional
freedom of contract, whatever either party has the right
to treat as sufficient ground for terminating the employment, where there is no stipulation on the subject, he
has the right to provide against by insisting that a stipulation respecting it shall be a sine qua non of the inception
of the employment, or of its continuance if it be terminable at will. It follows that this case cannot be distinguished from Adair v. United States.
The decision in that case was reached as the result of
elaborate argument and full consideration. The opinion
states (208 U. S. 171): "This question is admittedly one
of importance, and has been examined with care and
deliberation. And the court has reached a conclusion

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

which, in its judgment, is consistent With both the words
and spirit of the Constitution and is sustained as Well
by sound reason." We are now asked, in effect, to overrule it; and in view of the importance of the issue we have
re-examined the question from the standpoint of both
reason and authority. As a result, we are constrained to
re-affirm the doctrine there applied. Neither the doctrine
nor this application of it is novel; we will endeavor to
re-state some of the grounds upon which it rests. Tbp.
,principle is fundamental and vital. Included in the right
of personal liberty and the right of private propertypartaking of the nature of each-is the right to make contracts for the acquisition of property. Chief among such
contracts is that of personal employment, by which labor
and other services are exchanged for money or other
forms of property. If this right be struck down or arbitrarily interfered with, there is a substantial impairment of liberty in the long-established constitutional
sense. The right is as essential to the laborer as to thecapitalist, to the poor as to the rich; for the vast majority
of persons have no other honest way to begin to acquire
property, save by working for money.
An interference with this liberty so serious as that now
under consideration, and so disturbing of equality of
right, must be deemed to be arbitrary, unless it be supportable as a reasonable exercise of the police power of
the State. But, notwithstanding the strong general
presumption in favor of the validity of state laws, we
do not think the statute in question, as construed and
applied in this case, can be sustained as a legitimate
exercise of that power. To avoid possible misunderstanding, we should here emphasize, what has been said before,
that so far as itstitle or enacting clause expresses a purpose to deal with coercion, compulsion, duress, or other
undue influence, we have no present concern with it, because nothing of that sort is involved in this case. As has

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been many times stated, this court deals not with moot
cases or abstract questions, but with the concrete case
before it. (Californiav. San Pablo &c. Railroad, 149 U. S.
308, 314; Richardson v. McChesney, 218 U. S. 487, 492;
Missouri, Kan. & Texas Ry. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642, 648.)
We do not mean to say, therefore, that a State may not
properly exert its police power to prevent, coercion on
the part of employers towards employds, or vice versa.
But, in this case, the Kansas court of last resort has held
that Coppage, the plaintiff in error, is a criminal punishable with fine or imprisonment under this statute simply
and merely because, while acting as the representative
of the Railroad Company and dealing with Hedges, an
employ6 at will and a man of full age and understanding,
subject to no restraint or disability, Coppage insisted that
Hedges should freely choose whether he would leave the
employ of the Company or would agree to refrain from
association with the union while so employed. This construction is, for all purposes of our jurisdiction, conclusive
evidence that the State of Kansas intends by this legislation to punish conduct such as that of Coppage, although
entirely devoid of any element of coercion, compulsion,
duress, or undue influence, just as certainly as it intends
to punish coercion and the like. But, when a party appeals
to this court for the protection of rights secured to him
by the Federal Constitution, the decision is not to depend
upon the fotm of the state law, nor even upon its declared
purpose, but rather upon its operation and effect as
applied and enforced by the State; and upon these matters
this court cannot, in the proper performance of its duty,
yield its judgment to that of the state court. St. Louis
S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362, and cases cited.
Now, it seems to us clear that a statutory provision which
is not a legitimate police regulation cannot be made
such by being placed in the same act with a police regulation, or by being enacted under a title that declares a

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

purpose which would be a proper object for the exercise
of that power. "Its true character cannot be changed by
its collocation," as Mr. Justice Grier said in the.Passenger
Cases, 7 How. 283, 458. It is equally clear, we think,
that to punish an employer or his agent for simply proposing certain terms of employment, under circumstances
devoid of coercion, duress, or undue influence, has no
reasonable rdation to a declared purpose of repressing
coercion, duress, and undue influence. Nor can a State,
by designating as "coercion" conduct which is not such in
truth, render criminal any normal and essentially innocent
exercise of personal liberty or of property rights; for to
permit this would deprive the Fourteenth Amendment
of its effective force in this regard. We of course do
not intend to attribute to the legislature or the courts
of Kansas any improper purpose or any want of candor;
but only to emphasize the distinction between the form
of the statute and its effect as applied to the present
case.
Laying aside, therefore, as immaterial for present purposes, so much of the statute as indicates a purpose to
repress coercive practices, what possible relation has the
residue of the Act to the public health, safety, morals or
general welfare?' None is suggested, and we are unable to
ponceive of any. The Act, as the construction given to
it by the state court shows, is intended to deprive employers of a part of their liberty of contract, to the corresponding advantage of the employed and the upbuilding of the
labor organizations. But no attempt is made, or could
reasonably be made, to sustain the purpose to strengthen
these voluntary organizations, any more than other voluntary associations of persons, as a legitimate object for
the exercise of the police power. They are not public
institutions, charged by law with public or governmental
duties, such- as would render the maintenance of their
membership a matter of direct concern to the general

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

welfare. If they were, a different question would be
presented.
As to the interest of the employed, it is said by the
Kansas Supreme Court (87 Kansas, p. 759) to be a matter
of common knowledge that "employ~s, as a rule, are not
financially able to be as independent in making contracts
for the sale of their labor as are employers in making coniracts of purchase thereof." No doubt, wherever the
right of private property exists, there must and will be
inequalities of fortune; and thus it naturally happens that
parties negotiating about a contract are not equally unhampered by circumstances. This applies to all contracts,
and not merely to that between employer and employ6.
Indeed a little reflection will show that wherever the right
of private property and the right of free contract co-exist,
each party when contracting is inevitably more or less
influenced by the question whether he has much property,
or little, or none; for the contract is made to the very end
that each may gain something that he needs or desires
more urgently than that which he proposes to give in
exchange. And, since it is self-evident that, unless all
things are held in common, some persons must have more
property than others, it is from the nature of things
impossible to uphold freedom of contract and the right of
private property without at the same time recognizing as
legitimate those inequalities of fortune that are the necessary result of the exercise of those rights. But the Fourteenth Amendment, in declaring that a State shall not
"deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law," gives to each of these an equal sanction; it recognizes "liberty" and "property" as co-existent
human rights, and debars the States from any unwarranted
interference with either.
And since a State may not strike them down directly it
is clear that it may not do so indirectly, as by declaring in
effect that the public good requires the removal of those
VOL. ccxxxvi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

inequalities that are but the normal and inevitable result
of their exercise, and then invoking the police power in
order to remove the inequalities, without other object in
view. The police power is broad, and not easily defined,
but it cannot be given the wide scope that is here asserted
for it, without in effect nullifying the constitutional
guaranty.
We need not refer to the numerous and familiar cases
in which this court has held that the power may properly
be exercised for preserving the public health, safety,
morals, or general welfare, and that such police regulations
may reasonably limit the enjoyment of personal liberty,
including the right of making contracts. They are reviewed in Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391; Chicago,
B. & Quincy R. R. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 566; Erie
R. R. v. :Williams, 233 U. S. 685; and other recent decisions. An evident and controlling distinction is this:
that in those cases it has been held permissible for the
States to adopt regulations fairly deemed necessary to
secure some object directly affecting the public welfare,
even though the enjoyment of private rights of liberty and
property be thereby incidentally hampered; while in that
portion of the Kansas statute which is now under consideration-that is to say, aside from coercion, etc.-there
is no object or purpose, expressed or implied, that is
claimed to have reference to health, safety, morals, or
public welfare, beyond the supposed desirability of
leveling inequalities of fortune by depriving one who has
property of some part of what is characterized as his
"financial independence." In short, an interference with
the normal exercise of personal liberty and property rights
is the primary object of the statute, and not an incident to
the advancement of the general welfare. But, in our
opinion, the Fourteenth Amendment debars the States
from striking down personal liberty or property rights,
or materially restricting their normal exercise, excepting

COPPAGE. v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so far as may be incidentally necessary for the accomplishment of some other and paramount object, and one that
concerns the public welfare. The mere restriction of
liberty or of property rights cannot of itself be denominated" public welfare," and treated as a legitimate object
of the police power; for such restriction is the very thing
that is inhibited by the Amendment.
It is said in the opinion of the state court that membership in a labor organization does not necessarily affect a
man's duty to his employer; that the employer has no
right, by virtue of the relation, "to dominate the life nor
to interfere with the liberty of the employ6 in matters
that do not lessen or deteriorate the service"; and that
"the statute implies that labor unions are lawful and not
inimical to the rights of employers." The same view is
presented in the brief of counsel for the State, where it
is said that membership in a labor organization is the
"personal and private affair" of the employ6. To this
line of argument it is sufficient to say that it cannot be
judicially declared that membership in such an organization has no relation to a member's duty to his employer;
and therefore, if freedom of contract is to be preserved, the
employer must be left at liberty to decide for himself
whether such membership by his employ6 is consistent
with the satisfactory performance of the duties of the
employment.
Of course we do not intend to say, nor to intimate, anything inconsistent with the right of individuals to join
labor unions, nor do we question the legitimacy of such
organizations so long as they conform to the laws of the
land as others are required to do. Conceding the full right
of the individual to join the union, he has no inherent
right to do this and still remain in the employ of one who
is unwilling to employ a union man, any more than the
same individual has a right to join the union without the
consent of that organization. Can it be doubted that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

labor organization-a voluntary association of working
men-has the inherent and constitutional right to deny
membership to any man who will not agree that during
such membership he will not accept or retain employment
in company with non-union men? Or that a union man
has the. constitutional right to decline proffered employment unless the employer will agree not to employ any
non-union man? (In all cases we refer, of course, to agreements made voluntarily, and without coercion or duress
as between the parties. And we have no reference to questions of monopoly, or interference with the rights of third
parties' or the general public. These involve other considerations, respecting which we intend to intimate no
opinion. See Curranv. Galen, 152 N. Y. 33; 46 N. E. Rep.
297; Jacobs v. Cohen, 183 N. Y. 207, 213, 214; 76 N. E.
Rep. 5; Plant v. Woods, 176 Massachusetts, 492; 57 N. E.
Rep. 1011; Berry v. Donovan, 188 Massachusetts, 353; 74
N. E. Rep. 603; 3 A. & E. Ann. Cas. 738; Brennan v.
United Hatters, 73 N. J. Law, 729, 738; 65 Atl. Rep. 165,
169; 9 A. & E. Ann. Cas. 698, 702.) And can there be one
rule of liberty for the labor organization and its members,
and a different and more restrictive rule for employers?
We think not; and since the relation of employer and employ6 is a voluntary relation, as clearly as is that between
the members of a labor organization, the employer has
the same inherent right to prescribe the terms upon which
he will consent to the relationship, and to have them fairly
understood and expressed in advance.
When a man is called upon to agree not to become or
remain a member of the union while working for a particular employer, he is in effect only asked to deal openly and
frankly with his employer, so as not to retain the employment upon terms to which the latter is not willing to agree.
And the liberty of making contracts does not include a
liberty to procure employment from an unwilling employer, or without a fair understanding. Nor may the

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.'

employer be foreclosed by legislation from exercising the
same freedom of choice that is the right of the employ6.
To ask a man to agree, in advance, to refrain from affiliation with the union while retaining a certain position of
employment, is not to ask him to give up any part of his
constitutional freedom. He is free to decline the employment on those terms, just as the employer may decline
to offer employment on any other; for " It takes two to
make a bargain." Having accepted employment on those
terms, the man is still free to join the union when the period of employment expires; or, if employed at will, then
at any time upon simply quitting the employment. And,
if bound by his own agreement to refrain from joining
during a stated period of employment, he is in no different
situation from that which is necessarily incident to term
contracts in general. For constitutional freedom of contract does not mean that a party is to be as free after making a contract as before; he is not free to break it without
accountability. Freedom of contract, from the very nature of the thing, can be enjoyed only by being exercised;
and each particular exercise of it involves making an engagement Which, if fulfilled, prevents for the time any
inconsistent course of conduct.
So much for the reason of the matter; let us turn again
to the adjudicated cases.
The decision in the Adair Case is in accord with the almost unbroken current of authorities in the state courts.
In many States enactments not distinguishable in principle
from the one now in question have been passed, but, except
in two instances (one, the decision of an inferior court in
Qhio, since repudiated; the other, the decision now under
review), we are unable to find that they have been judicially enforced. It is not too much to say that such-laws
have by common consent been treated as unconstitutional,
for while many state courts of last resort have adjudged
them void, we have found no decision by such a court

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

sustaining legislation of this character, excepting that
which is now under review. The single previous instance
in which any court has upheld such a statute is Davis v.
State of Ohio (1893), 30 Cinc. Law Bull. 342; 11 Ohio Dec.
Reprint, 894; where the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County sustained an, act of April 14, 1892 (89 Ohio
Laws, 269), which declared that any person who coerced or
attempted to coerce employds by discharging or threatening to discharge them because of their connection with any
lawful labor organization should be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction fined or imprisoned. We
are unable to find that this decision was ever directly reviewed; but in State of Ohio v. Bateman (1900), 10 Ohio
Dec. 68; 7 Ohio N. P. 487, its authority was repudiated
upon the ground that it had been in effect overruled by
subsequent decisions of the state Supreme Court, and the
same statute was held dnconstitutional.
The right that plaintiff in error is now seeking to maintain was held by the Supreme Court of Kansas, in an
earlier case, to be within the protection of the Fourteenth
Amendment and therefore beyond legislative interference.
In Coffeyville Brick Co. v. Perry, 69 Kansas, 297; 76 Pac.
Rep. 848; 66 L. R. A. 185; 1 A. & E. Ann. Cas. 936; the
court had under consideration Ch. 120 of the Laws of 1897
(Gen. Stat. 1901, §§ 2425, 2426), which declared it unlawful for any person, company, or corporation, or agent,
officer, etc., to prevent employds from joining and belonging to any labor organization, and enacted that any such
person, company, or corporation, etc., that coerced or
attempted to coerce employ6s by discharging or threaten-ing to discharge them because of their connectibn with
such labor organization should be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction subjected to a fine,
and should also be liable to the person injured in punitive
damages. It was attacked as violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and also of the Bill of Rights of the stat%

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

constitution.1 The court held it unconstitutional, saying
(p. 299): "The right to follow any lawful vocation and to
make contracts is as completely within the protection of
the constitution as the right to hold property free from
unwarranted seizure, or the liberty to go when and where
one will. One of the ways of obtaining property is by contract. The right, therefore, to contract cannot be infringed by the legislature without violating the letter and
spirit of the constitution. Every citizen is protected in
his right to work where and for whom he will. He may
select not only his employer but also his associates. He is
at liberty to refuse to continue to serve one who has in his
employ a person, or an association of persons, objectionable to him. In this respect the rights of the employer
and employ6 are equal. Any act of the legislature that
would undertake to impose on an employer the obligation
of keeping in his service one whom, for any reason, he
should not desire would be a denial of his constitutional
right to make and terminate contracts and to acquire and
hold property. Equally so would be an act the provisions of which should be intended to require one to remain in the service of one whom he should not desire to
serve. ....
.The business conducted by the defendant
was its property, and in the exercise of this ownership
it is protected by the constitution. It could abandon or
discontinue its operation at pleasure. It had the right,
beyond the possibility of legislative interference, to make
any contract with reference thereto not in violation of law.
Constitution of the State of Kansas. . . . Bill of Rights.
Section 1. All men are possessed of equal and inalienable natural
rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Section 18. All persons, for injuries suffered in person, reputation or
property, shall have remedy by due course of law, and justice administered without delay.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

In the operation of its property it may employ such persons
as are desirable, and discharge, without reason, those who
are undesirable. It is at liberty to contract for the services
of persons in any manner that is satisfactory to both. No
legislative restrictions can be imposed upon the lawful
exercise of these rights."
In Railway Co. v. Brown, 80 Kansas, 312; 102 Pac. Rep.
459, the same court passed upon Chapter 144 of the
Laws of 1897 (Gen. Stat. 1901, §§ 2421-2424), which
required the employer upon the request of a discharged
employ6 to furnish in writing the true cause or reason for
such discharge.' The railway company did not meet
this requirement, its "service letter," as it was called,
stating only that Brown- was discharged "for cause,"
which the court naturally held was not a statement of the
cause. The law was held unconstitutional, upon the
ground (80 Kansas, 315) that an employer may discharge
his employ6 for any reason, or for no reason, j ust as an
employ6 may quit the employment for any reason, or for
no reason; that such action on the part of employer or
employ6, where no obligation is violated, is an essential
element of liberty in action; and that one cannot be compelled to give a reason or cause for an. action for which he
may have no specific reason or cause, except, perhaps; a
mere whim or prej udice.
In the present case the court did not repudiate or overrule these previous decisions, but on the contrary cited
them as establishing the right of the employer to discharge his employ6 at any time, for any reason, or for no
reason, being responsible in damages for violating a contract as to the time of employment, and as establishing,
conversely, the right of the employ6 to quit the employment at any time, for any reason, or without any reason,
being likewise responsible in damages for a violation of his
contract with the employer. The court held the act of
1903 that is now in question to be distinguishable from the

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

act of 1897, upon grounds sufficiently indicated and
answered by what we have already said.
In five other States the courts of last resort have had
similar acts under consideration, and in each instance have
held them unconstitutional. In State v. Julow (1895), 129
Missouri, 163; 31 S. W. Rep. 781; 29 L. R. A. 257; 50 Am.
St. Rep. 443; the Supreme Court of Missouri dealt with
an act (Missouri Laws 1893, p. 187), that forbade employers, on pain of fine or imprisonment, to enter into any
agreement with an employ6 requiring him to withdraw
from a labor union or other lawful organization, or to refrain from joining such an organization, or to "by any
means attempt to compel or coerce any employ6 into withdrawal from any lawful organization or society." In
Gillespie v. The People (1900), 188 Illinois, 176; 58 N. E.
Rep. 1007; 52 L. R. A. 283; 80 Am. St. Rep. 176; the Supreme Court of Illinois held" unconstitutional an act
(Hurd's Stat. 1899, p. 844) declaring it criminal for any
individual or member of any firm, etc., to prevent or attempt to prevent employ6s from forming, joining, and
belonging to any lawful labor organization, and that any
such person "that coerces or attempts to coerce employds
by discharging or threatening to discharge them because
of their connection with such lawful labor organization"
should be guilty of a misdemeanor. In State, ex rel. Zillmer v. Kreutzberg (1902), 114 Wisconsin, 530; 96 N. W.
Rep. 1098; 58 L. R. A. 748; 91 Am. St. Rep. 934; the court
had under consideration a statute (Wisconsin Laws 1899,
ch. 332), which, like the Kansas act now in question, prohibited the employer or his agent from coercing the employ6 to enter into an agreement not to become a member
of a labor organization, as a condition of securing employment or continuing in the employment, and also rendered it unlawful to discharge an employ6 because of his
being a member of any labor organization. The decision
related to the latter prohibition, but this was denounced

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

236 U. S.

upon able and learned reasoning that has a much wider
reach. In People v. Marcus (1906), 185 N. Y. 257; 77
N. E. Rep. 1073; 7 L. R. A., N. S. 282; 113 Am. St. Rep.
902; 7 A. & E. Ann. Cas. 118; the statute dealt with (N. Y.
Laws, 1887, ch. 688), as we have already said, was in substance identical with the Kansas act. These decisions
antedated Adair v. United States. They proceed upon
broad and fundamental reasoning, the same in substance
that was adopted by this court in the Adair Case, and they
are cited with approval in the opinion (208 U. S. 175). A
like result was reached in State, ex rel. Smith v. Daniels
(1912), 118 Minnesota, 155; 136 N. W. Rep. 584; with
respect to an act that, like the Kansas statute, forbade
an employer to require an employ6 or person seeking employment, as a condition of such employment, to make an
agreement that the employ4 would not become or remain
a member of a labor organization. This was held invalid
upon the authority of the Adair Case. And see Goldfield
Mines Co. v. Goldfield Miners' Union, 159 Fed. Rep. 500,
513.
Upon both principle and authority, therefore, we areconstrained to hold that the Kansas act of March 13, 1903,
as construed and applied so as to punish with fine or imprisonment an employer or his agent for merely prescribing, as a condition upon which one may secure employment
under or remain in the service of such employer, that the
employ6 shall enter into an agreement not to become or
remain a member of any labor organization while so employed, is repugnant to the "due process" clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and therefore void.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting.

I think the judgment should be affirmed. In present
conditions a workman not unnaturally may believe that

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.

236 U. S.

DAY

and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

only by belonging to a union can he secure a contract that
shall be fair to him. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 397.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v. McGuire, 219 U. S.
549, 570. If that belief, whether right or wrong, may be
held by a reasonable man, it seems to me that it may be
enforced by law in order to establish the equality of position between the parties in which liberty of contract begins.
Whether in the long run it is wise for the workingmen to
enact legislation of this sort is not my concern, but I am
strongly of opinion that there is nothing in the Constitution of the United States to prevent it, and that Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161, and Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45, should be overruled. I have stated my
grounds in those cases and think it unnecessary to add
others that I think exist. See further Vegelahn v. Guntner,
167 Massachusetts, 92, 104, 108. Plant v. Woods, 176
Massachusetts, 492, 505. I still entertain the opinions
expressed by me in Massachusetts.
MR. JUSTICE DAY with whom MR. JUSTICE HUGHES
concurs, dissenting:
The character of the question here involved sufficiently
justifies, in my opinion, a statement of the grounds which
impel me to dissent from the opinion and judgment in
this case. The importance of the decision is further emphasized by the fact that it results not only in invalidating
the legislation of Kansas, now before the court, but
necessarily decrees the same fate to like legislation of
other States of the Union.' This far-reaching result is
attained because the statute is declared to be an infraction
I Statutes like the Kansas statute have been passed in California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Indiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Porto Rico, and Wisconsin. Bulletin of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
No. 148, Volumes 1 and 2; Labor Laws of the United States.

OCTO3ER TERM,, 1914.
DAY

and HuGHEs, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

of the constitutional protection afforded under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, which
declares that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty
or property without due process of law. The right of
contract, it is said, is part of the liberty of the citizen,
and to abridge it, as is done in this case, is declared to
be beyond the legislative authority of the State.
That the right of contract is a part of individual freedom within the protection of this amendment, and may
not be arbitrarily interfered with, is conceded. While
this is true, nothing is better settled by the repeated decisions of this court than that the right of contract is
not absolute and unyielding, but is subject to limitation
and restraint in the interest of the public health, safety
and welfare, and such limitations may be declared in
legislation of the State. It would unduly extend what
I purpose to say in this case to refer to all the cases in
which this doctrine has been declared. One of them is:
Frisbiev. United States, 157 U. S. 160, 165. In that case,
it was declared, and in varying form has been repeated
many times since:
"While it may be conceded that, generally speakiig,
among the inalienable rights of the citizen is that of the
liberty of contract, yet such liberty is not absolute and
universal. It is within the undoubted power of government to restrain some individuals from all contracts,
as well as all individuals from some contracts. It may
deny to all the right to contract for the purchase or sale
of lottery tiqkets; to the minor the right to assume any
obligations, except for the necessaries of existence; to
the common carrier the power to make any contract
releasing himself from negligence, and, indeed, may restrain all engaged in any employment from any contract
in the course of that employment which is against public
policy. The possession of this power by government
in no manner conflicts with the proposition that, generally

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U.S.

DAY and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

speaking, every citizen has a right freely to contract for
the price of his labor, services, or property."
See also Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391; Atkin v.
Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S.412,
'421; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Atlantic
Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 202; Erie
Railroad v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 699. The Erie Railroad Case is a very recent deliverance of this court upon
the subject, wherein it was declared:
"But liberty of making contracts is subject to conditions
in the interest of the public welfare, and which shall prevail-principle or condition-cannot be defined by any
precise and universal formula. Each instance of asserted
conflict must be determined by itself, and it has been
said many times that each act of legislation has the support of the presumption that it is an exercise in the interest
of the public. The burden is on him who attacks the
legislation, and it is not sustained by declaring a liberty of
contract. It can only be sustained by demonstrating
that it conflicts with some constitutional restraint or that
the public welfare is not subserved by the legislation.
The legislature is, in the first instance, the judge of what
is necessary for the public welfare, and a judicial review
of its judgment is limited. The earnest conflict of serious
opinion does not suffice to bring it within the range of
judicial cognizance. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. McGuire,
219 U. S. 549, 565; German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Kansas, 233 U. S.389."
It is therefore the thoroughly established doctrine of
this court that liberty of contract may be circumscribed
in the interest of the State and the welfare of its people.
Whether a given exercise of such authority transcends
the limits of legislative authority must be determined
in each case as it arises. The preservation of the police
power of the States, under the authority of which that

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

great mass of legislation has been enacted which has for
its purpose the promotion of the health, safety and welfare of the public, is of the utmost importance. This
power was not surrendered by the States when the Federal
Constitution was adopted, nor taken from them when
the Fourteenth Amendment was ratified and became a
part of the fundamental law of the Union. Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27.
Of the necessity of such legislation, the local legislature
is itself the judge, and its enactments are only to be set
aside when they involve such palpable abuse of power
and lack of reasonableness to accomplish a lawful end that
they may be said to be merely arbitrary and capricious,
and hence out of place in a government of laws and not of
men, and irreconcilable with the conception of due process
of law. MeGehee on "Due Process of Law," page 306,
and cases from this court therein cited.
By this it is not meant that the legislative power is beyond judicial review. Such enactments as are arbitrary
or unreasonable and thus exceed the exercise of legislative
authority in good faith, may be declared invalid when
brought in review by proper judicial proceedings. This
is necessary to the assertion and maintenance of the supremacy of the Constitution.
Conceding then that .the right of contract is a subject
of judicial protection, within the authority given by the
Constitution of the United States, the question here is,
was the power of the State so arbitrarily exercised as to
render its action unconstitutional and therefore void?
It is said that this question is authoritatively determined
in this court, in the case of Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 161. In that case, a statute passed by the Congress
of the United States, under supposed sanction of the power
to regulate interstate commerce, was before this court,
and it was there decided that the right of contract protected by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution,

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

DAY and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

providing that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty
or property without due process of law, avoided a statute
which undertook to make it a crime to discharge an employd simply because of his membership in a labor organization. The feature of the statute which is here involved,
making it an offense to require any employ6, or any person
seeking employment, as a condition of such employment,
to enter into an agreement, either written or verbal, not
to become a member of any labor corporation, association
or organization,-a provision exactly similar to that of
the Kansas statute now under consideration,-was not
before the court upon the charge made or the facts
shown, and this provision was neither considered nor decided upon in reaching the conclusion that an employer
could not be made a criminal because he discharged an
employ6 simply because of his membership in a labor
organization. In the course of the opinion this fact was
more than once stated, and the question before the court
declared to be (208 U. S., p. 171):
"May Congress make it a criminal offense against the
United States-as by the tenth section of the act of 1898
it does--for an agent or officer of an interstate carrier,
having full authority in the premises from the carrier, to
discharge an employ6 from service simply because of'his
membership in a labor organization?"
Such was the question before the court, and that there
might be no mistake about it, at the close of the opinion,
the part of the act upon which the defendant in that case
was convicted was declared to be separable from the other
parts of the act, and that feature of the statute the only
subject of decision. Mr. Justice Harlan, concluding the
opinion of the court said (p. 180):
"We add that since the part of the act of 1898 upon
which the first count of the indictment is based, and upon
which alone the defendant was convicted, is severable from
its other parts, and as what has been said is sufficient to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY

and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

dispose of the present case, we are not called upon to consider other and independent provisions of the act, such, for
instance, as the provisions relating to arbitration. This
decision is therefore restricted to the question of the validity
of the particularprovision in the act of Congress making it
a crime against the United States for an agent or officer of
an interstate carrierto discharge an employ6 from its service
because of his being a member of a labor organization."
(Italics mine.)
In view of the feature of the statute involved, the charge
made, and this express reservation in the opinion
of the
court as to other features of the statute, I am unable to
agree that that case involved or decided the one now at
bar.
There is nothing in the statute now under consideration
which prevents an employer from discharging one in his
service at his will. The question now presented is, May
an employer, as a condition of present or future employment, require an employ6 to agree that he will not exercise
the privilege of becoming a member of a labor union,
should he see fit to'do so? In my opinion, the cases are
entirely different, and the decision of the questions controlled by different principles. The right to join labor
unions is undisputed, and has been the subject of frequent
affirmation in judicial opinions. Acting within their legal
rights, such associations are as legitimate as any organization of citizens formed to promote their common interest.
They are organized under the laws of many States, by
virtue of express statutes passed, for that purpose, and,
being legal, and acting within their constitutional rights,
the right to join them, as against coercive action to the
contrary may be the legitimate subject of protection in
the exercise of the police authority of the States. This
statute, passed in the exercise of that particular authority
called the police power, the limitations of which no court
has yet undertaken precisely to define, has for its avowed

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

DAY and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

purpose the protection of the exercise of a legal right, by
preventing an employer from depriving the employ6 of
it as a condition of obtaining employment. I see no reason
why a State may not, if it chooses, protect this right, as
well as other legal rights.
But it is said that the contrary must necessarily result,
if not from the precise matter decided in the Adair Case,
then from the principles therein laid down, and that it is
the logical result of that decision that the employer may,
as a condition of employment, require an obligation to
forego the exercise of any privileges because of the exercise
of which an employ6 might be discharged from service.
I do not concede that this result follows from anything
decided in the Adair Case. That case dealt solely with
the right of an employer to terminate relations of employment with an employ6, and involved the constitutional
protection of his right so to do, but did not deal with the
conditions which he might exact or impose upon another
as a condition of employment.
The act under consideration is said to have the effect to
deprive employers of a part of their liberty of contract,
for the benefit of labor organizations. It is urged that the
statute has no object or purpose, express or implied, that
has reference "tohealth, safety, morals, or public welfare,
beyond the supposed desirability of leveling inequalities
of fortune by depriving him who has property of some
part of his "financial independence."
But this argument admits that financial independence
is not independence of law or of the authority of the legislature to declare the policy of the State as to matters which
have a reasonable relation to the welfare, peace and
security of the community.
This court has many times decided that the motives of
legislators in the enactment of laws are not the subject of
judicial inquiry. Legislators, state and Federal, are
entitled to the presumption that their action has been in
voL. ccxxxvi-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY

and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

good faith and because of conditions which they deem
proper and sufficient to warrant the action taken. Speaking for this court in Ex parte McCardle, 7 Wall. 506, 514,
Chief Justice Chase summed up the doctrine in a sentence
when he said: "We are not at liberty to inquire into the
motives of the legislature. We can only examine into its
power under the Constitution." In Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th Ed., 257, that eminent author says:
"They [the courts] must assume that legislative discretion
has been properly exercised. If evidence was required, it
must be supposed that it was before the legislature when
the act was passed; and if any special finding was required to warrant the passage of the particular act, it
would seem that the passage of the act itself might be held
equivalent to such finding." "The rule is general with
reference to the enactments of all legislative bodies that
the courts cannot inquire into the motives of the legislators inpassing them, except as they may be disclosed on
the face of the acts, or inferable from their operation, considered with reference to the condition of the country and
existing legislation.' The motives of the legislators, considered as the purposes they had in view, will always be
presumed to be to accomplish that which follows as the
natural and reasonable effect of their enactments. Their
motives, considered as the moral inducements for their
votes, will vary with the different members of the legislative body. The diverse character of such motives, and the
impossibility of penetrating into the hearts of men and
ascertaining the truth, precludes all such inquiries as impracticable and futile." Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
703, 710. "We must assume that the legislature acts
according to its judgment for the best interests of the
State. A wrong intent cannot be imputed to it." Florida
Central &c. R. R. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S.471, 480.
The act must be taken as an attempt of the legislature
to enact a statute which it deemed necessary to the good

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

DAY

and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

order and security of society. It imposes a penalty for
"coercing or influencing or making demands upon or
requirements of employ~s, servants, laborers, and persons
seeking employment." It was in the light of this avowed
purpose that the act was interpreted by the Supreme
Court of Kansas, the ultimate authority upon the meaning
of the terms of the law. Of course, if the act is necessarily
arbitrary and therefore unconstitutional, mere declarations of good intent cannot save it, but it must be presumed to have been passed by the legislative branch of
the state government in good faith, and for the purpose
of reaching the desired end. The legislature may have
believed, acting upon conditions known to it, that the
public welfare would be promoted by the enactment of a
statute which should prevent the compulsory exaction of
written agreements to forego the acknowledged legal right
here involved, as a condition of employment in one's trade
or occupation.
It would be impossible to maintain that because
one is
free to accept or refuse a given employment, or because
one may at will employ or refuse to employ another, it
follows that the parties have a constitutional right to
insert in an agreement of employment any stipulation
they choose. They cannot put in terms that are against
public policy either as it is deemed by the courts to exist
at common law or as it may be declared by the legislature
as the arbiter within the limits of reason of the public
policy of the State. It is no answer to say that the greater
includes the less and that because the employer is free to
employ, or the employ6S to refuse employment, they may
agree as they please. This matter is easily tested by assuming a contract of employment for a year and the insertion of a condition upon which the right of employment
should continue. The choice of such conditions is not to be
regarded as wholly unrestricted because the parties may
agree or not as they choose. And if the State may pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY

and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

hibit a particular stipulation in an agreement because it
is deemed to be opposed in its operation to the security
and well being of the community, it may prohibit it in any
agreement whether the employment is for a term or at
will. It may prohibit the attempt in any way to bind one
to the objectionable undertaking.
Would anyone contend that the State might not prohibit the imposition of conditions which should require an
agreement to forego the right on the part of the employ4
to resort to the courts of the country for redress in the
case of disagreement with his employer? While the employ6 might be discharged in case he brought suit against
an employer if the latter so willed, it by no means follows
that he could be required, as a condition of employment,
to forego a right so obviously fundamental as the one supposed. It is therefore misleading to say that the right of
discharge necessarily embraces the Fight to impose conditions of employment which shall include the surrender of
rights which it is the policy of the State to maintain.
Take another illustration: The right to exclude a foreign
corporation from carrying on a purely domestic business
in the State has been distinctly recognized by decisions of
this court; yet it has been held, and is now settled law,
that it is beyond the authority of the State to require a
corporation doing business of this character. to file in the
office of the Secretary of State a written agreement that
it will not remove a suit, otherwise removable, to a Federal
court of the United States. Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20
Wall. 445. In that case, the right to exclude was held not
to include the right to impose any condition under which
the corporation might do business in the State. In that
connection this court said:
* "A man may not barter away his life or his freedom, or
his substantial rights. In a criminal case, he cannot, as
was held in Cancemi's Case, be tried in any other manner
than by a jury of twelve men, although he consent in open

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

DAY

and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

court to be tried by a jury of eleven men. In a civil case
he may submit his particular suit by his own consent to an
arbitration, or to the decision of a single judge. So he
may omit to exercise his right to remove his suit to a Federal tribunal, as often as he thinks fit, in each recurring
case. In these aspects any citizen may no doubt waive
the rights to which he may be entitled. He cannot, however, bind himself in advance by an agreement, which
may be specifically enforced, thus to forfeit his rights at
all times and on all occasions, whenever the case may be
presented." Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, 451.
It may be that an employer may be of the opinion that
membership of his employfs in the National Guard, by
enlistment in the militia of the State, may be detrimental
to his business. Can it be successfully contended that the
State may not, in the public interest, prohibit an agreement to forego such enlistment as against public policy?
Would it be beyond a legitimate exercise of the police
power to provide that an employ6 should not be required
to agree, as a condition of employment, to forego affiliation with a particular political party, or the support of a
particular candidate for office? It seems to me that these
questions answer themselves. There is a real and not a
fanciful distinction between the exercise of the right to
discharge at will and the imposition of a requirement that
the employ6, as a condition of employment, shall make a
particular agreement to forego a legal right. The agreement may be, or may be declared to be, against public
policy, although the right of discharge remains. When
a man is discharged, the employer exercises his right to
declare such action necessary because of the exigencies of
his business, or as 'the result of his judgment for other
reasons sufficient to himself. When he makes a stipulation of the character here involved essential to future
employment, he is not exercising a right to discharge,
and may not wish to discharge the employ6 when, at a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY

and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

subsequent time, the prohibited act is done. What is in
fact accomplished, is that the one engaging to work, who
may wish to preserve an independent right of action, as a
condition of employment, is coerced to the signing of

such an agreement against his will, perhaps impelled by
the necessities of his situation. The State, within constitutional limitations, is the judge of its own policy and
may execute it in the exercise of the legislative authority.
This statute reaches not only the employed but as well
one seeking employment. The latter may never wish
to join a labor union. By signing such agreements as are
here involved he is deprived of the right of free choice as
to his future conduct, and must choose between employment and the right to act in the future as the exigencies
of his situation may demand. It is such contracts, having
such effect, that this statute and similar ones seek to
prohibit and punish as against the policy of the State.
It is constantly emphasized that the case presented is
not one of coercion. But in view of the relative positions
of employer and employed, who is to deny that the stipulation here insisted upon and forbidden by the law is
essentially coercive? No form of words can strip it of
its true character. Whiatever our individual opinions
may be as to the wisdom of such legislation, we cannot put
our judgment in place of that of the legislature and refuse
to acknowledge the existence of the conditions with
which it was dealing. Opinions may differ as to the
remedy, but we cannot understand upon what ground
it can be said that a subject so intimately related to the
welfare of society is removed from the legislative power.
Wherein is the right of the employer to insert this stipulation in the agreement any more sacred than his right to
agree with another employer in the same trade to keep up
prices? He may think it quite as essential to his "financial
independence" and so in truth it may be if he alone is
to be considered. But it is too late to deny that the legis-

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

DAY

and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

lative power reaches such a case. It would be difficult
to select any subject more intimately related to good
order and the security of the community than that under
consideration-whether one takes the view that labor
organizations are advantageous or the reverse. It is
certainly as much a matter for legislative consideration
and action as contracts in restraint of trade.
It is urged that a labor organization-a voluntary
association of working-men-has the constitutional right
to deny membership to any man who will not agree that
during such membership he will not accept or retain employment in company with non-union men. And it is
asserted that there cannot be one rule of liberty for the
labor organization and its members and a different and
more restrictive rule for employers.
It of course is true, for example, that a Church may
deny membership to those who unite with other denominations, but it by no means follows that the State may not
constitutionally prohibit a railroad company from compelling a working-man to agree that he will, or will not,
join a particular church. An analogous case,-viewed
from the employer's standpoint, would be: Can the State,
in the exercise of its legislative power, reach concerted
effort of employds intended to coerce the employer as a
condition of hiring labor that he shall engage in writing
to give up his privilege of association with other employers
in legal organizations, corporate or otherwise, having for
their object a united effort to promote by legal means
that which employers believe to be for the best interest of
their business?
I entirely agree that there should be the same rule for
employers and employed, and the same liberty of action
for each. In my judgment, the law may prohibit coercive
attempts, such as are here involved, to deprive either of
the free right of exercising privileges which are theirs
within the law. So far as I know, no law has undertaken

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY

and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

to abridge the right of employers of labor in the exercise
of free choice as to what organizations they will form for
the promotion of thdir common interests, or denying to
them free right of action in such matters.
But it is said that in this case all that was done in effect
was to discharge an employ6 for a cause deemed sufficient
to the employer-a right inherent in the personal liberty
of the employer protected by the Constitution. This
argument loses sight of the real purpose and effect of this
and kindred statutes. The penalty imposed is not for the
discharge but for the attempt to coerce an unwilling employ6 to agree to forego the exercise of the legal right involved as a condition of employment. It is the requirement of such agreements which the State declares to be
against public policy.
I think that the act now under consideration, and kindred ones, are intended to promote the same liberty of
action for the employ6 as the employer confessedly enjoys.
The law should be as zealous to protect the constitutional
liberty of the employs as it is to guard that of the employer.
A principal object of this statute is to protect the liberty
of the citizen to make such lawful affiliations as he may desire with organizations of his choice. It should not be necessary to the protection of the liberty of one citizen that the
same right in another citizen be abridged or destroyed.
If one prohibitive condition of the sort here involved
may be attached, so may others, until employment can
only be had as the result of written stipulations, which
shall deprive the employ6 of the exercise of legal rights
which are within the authority of the State to protect.
While this court should, within the limitations of the constitutional guaranty, protect the free right of contract,
it is not less important that the State be given the right to
exert its legislative authority, if it deems best to do so, for
the protection of rights which inhere in the privileges of
the citizen of every free country.

COPPAGE v. KANSAS.
236 U. S.

DAY

and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

The Supreme Court of Kansas in sustaining this statute,
said that "employ~s as a rule are not financially able to'
be as independent in making contracts for the sale of their
labor as are employers in making a contract of purchase
thereof," and in reply to this it is suggested that the law
cannot remedy inequalities of fortune, and that so long
as the right of property exists, it may happen that parties
negotiating may not be equally unhampered by circumstances.
This view of the Kansas court, as to the legitimacy of
such considerations, is in entire harmony, as I understand
it, with the former decisions of this court in considering
the right of state legislatures to enact laws which shall
prevent the undue or oppressive exercise of authority in
making contracts with employs. In Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, this court considering legislation limiting
the number of hours during which laborers might be employed in a particular employment, said:
"The legislature has also recognized the fact, which the
experience of legislators in many States has corroborated,
that the proprietors of these establishments and their
operatives do not stand upon an equality, and that their
interests are, to a certain extent, conflicting. The f6rmer
naturally desire to obtain as much labor as possible from
their employ6s, while the latter are often induced by the
fear of discharge to conform to regulations which their
judgment, fairly exercised, would pronounce to be detrimental to their health or strength. In other words, the
proprietors lay down the rules and the laborers are practically constrained to obey them. In such cases selfinterest is often an unsafe guide, and the legislature may
properly interpose its authority.

.

.

.

But the fact

that both parties are of full age and competent to contract
does not necessarily deprive the State of the power to
interfere where the parties do not stand upon an equality,
or where the public health demands that one party to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY

and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

the contract shall be protected against himself. 'The
State still retains an interest in his welfare, however
reckless he may be. The whole is no greater' than the
sum of all the parts, and when the individual health,
safety and welfare are sacrificed or neglected, the State
must suffer."' (Page 397.)
This language was quoted with approval in Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549,
570, in which a statute of Iowa was sustained, prohibiting
contracts limiting liability for injuries made in advance of
the injuries received, and providing that the subsequent
acceptance of benefits under such contracts should not
constitute satisfaction for injuries received after the
contract. Certainly it can be no substantial objection to
the' exercise of the police power that the legislature has
taken into consideration the necessities, the comparative
ability, and the relative situation of the contracting parties. While all stand equal before the law, and are alike
entitled to its protection, it ought not to be a reasonable
objection that one motive which impelled an enactment
was to protect those who might otherwise be unable to
protect themselves.
I therefore think that the statute of Kansas, sustained
by the Supreme Court of the State, did not go beyond a
legitimate exercise of the police power, when it sought, not
to require one man to employ another against his will,
but to put limitations upon the sacrifice of rights which
one man may exact from another as a condition of employment. Entertaining these views, I am constrained to
dissent from the judgment in this case.
I am permitted to say that MR.JUSTICE
curs in this dissent.

HUGHES

con-

