NORF. & WEST. RY. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
23b U. S.

605

Statement of the Case.

The judgments, respectively, are reversed and the cases
are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
v. CONLEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KANAWHA COUNTY, STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 197. Argued October 13, 1914.-Decided March 8, 1915.
Northern Pacific Ry. v. North Dakota, ante, p. 585, followed to effect
that while the State has a broad field for the exercise of its power in
fixing intrastate rates for -common carriers it may not require them
to transport a segregated commodity or class of traffic either at less
than cost or for a mere nominal consideration.
This court must on writ of error'under ยง 237, Jud. Code, analyze the
facts. as found by the state court if it is necessary to do so in order
to determine whether that which purports to be a finding of fact is
so interwoven with the question of law involving the Federal right
asserted as to be in substance a decision of the latter.
An analysis of the evidence in this case shows that the two cent a mile
passenger rate established by ch. 41 of the acts of 1907-of West
Virginia affords such a narrow, if any, margin over the cost of the
traffic that the plaintiff in error is forced to carry passengers, if not
at or below cost, with merely a nominal reward, and it follows that
the State exceeded its power in enacting the same and that it is void
as an attempt to deprive the carriers of their property without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of
a statute of West Virginia fixing the maximum fare for

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

passengers on railways at two cents a mile, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. John H. Holt and Mr. Lucien H. Cocke, with whom
Mr. Joseph I. Doran and Mr. Theodore W. Reath were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The earnings from intrastate passenger business must
be separated from all other earnings to determine whether
the act is confiscatory.
Chapter 41, Act of 1907, regulating passenger rates upon
railroads in the State of West Virginia, and prescribing
penalties for the violation thereof is 'unconstitutional.
Ches. & Ohio Ry. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513; Coal Ry. v.
Conley, 67 W. Va. 129; Consolidated Gas Case, 212 U. S.
19; Five Per Cent Case, 31 I. C. C. 351, 407; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Un. Pac. R. R., 222 U. S. 541; Knoxville v.
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line,
211 U. S. 210; Railroad Co. v. Philadelphia, 220 Pa. St.
100; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Southern Ry. v. St.
Louis Hay Co., 214 U. S. 297.
The railroad prcperly shows the capital invested in
its intrastate passenger service used and useful in that
service.
The railroad company properly shows the earnings and
expenses derived from and chargeable to its intrastate
passenger business.
The railroad company should be allowed to segregate
its intra-passenger earnings from all other earnings in the
State in its attempt to show confiscation. Atl. Coast Line
v. North Carolina, 206 U. S. 1; Coal Ry. v. Conley, 67
W. Va. 174; Lake Cargo Coal Rate Case, 22 I. C. C. 604;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Alabama, 208 Fed. Rep. 35;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Missouri Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 474; M. & St. L. R. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; S. & N. A. R. R. v. Alabama, 210 Fed. Rep. 465.

NORF. & WEST. RY. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
236 U. S.

607

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. A. Lilly, Attorney General of the State of West
Virginia, for defendants in error:
The carrier does not properly show the capital invested
in its intrastate passenger service used and useful therein.
The valuation proved is improper for a rate basis. People
v. New York, 199 U. S. 1; San Francisco v. Dodge, 197
U. S. 70; Missouri Rate Case, 230 U. S. 474; Allen v. St.
Louis &c. Ry., 230 U. S. 552; Chi., M. & St. P. R. R. v.

Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; nor does it properly show intrastate earnings and expenses.
The carrier cannot segregate its intrastate passenger
earnings from all other intrastate earnings in order to
show confiscation. Norfolk & West. Ry. v. Pinacle Coal
Co., 44 W. Va. 574; Railway Co. v. Conley, 67 W. Va. 174;
Railway Co. v. United States, 99 U. S.402.
If the State allows the carrier to earn suitable return
for its whole intrastate business it may require some commodities to be carried at a loss. St. Louis &c. Co. V.
Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Minnesota Rate Case, 230 U. S. 352;
Minn. &c. Ry. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S.257; Willcox v.
Consol. Gas Co., 212 U. S.19; Atl. Coast Line v. Nor.. Car.
Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1; Pens. & Atl. Ry. v. Florida,
3 L. R. A. 661; Penna. R. R. v. Philadelphia,220 Pa. St.
122.
A rate of 6% per annum is reasonable, Covington &c.Co.
v. Sanford; 164 U. S.578, but even if smaller, if any, the
carrier cannot complain.
MR.JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1907, the legislature of West Virginia passed an act
fixing the maximum fare for passengers on railroads, as
described in the statute, at two cents a mile. Acts, 1907,
Ch. 41, p. 226. After the rate had been tesfed by operating
under it for two years, the plaintiff in error brought this
suit to restrain its enforcement as being in violation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

constitution of the State, and also upon the ground that
it was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment by reason
of (1) its provision for penalties, (2) its classification of
railroads, and (3) its alleged confiscatory requirements,
through the reduction of the revenue from the traffic to
less than a reasonable compensation. The validity of the
statute, as construed by the state court, with respect to
penalties and classification was upheld in Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513. In the case of Coal &
Coke Ry. v. Conley, 67 W. Va. 129, while the statute was
sustained against the other objections above mentioned, it
.was adjudged to be confiscatory in its operation with respect to the plaintiff in that case. In the present suit the
Circuit Court of Kanawha County by its decree entered in
March, 1913, held that the rate was not confiscatory in fact
as to the plaintiff in error. No opinion appears in the record and there were nospecial findings. An application was
made to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia
for the allowance of an appeal to that court, and it was
refused. This writ of error was then sued out.
1. The fundamental question presented is whether the
validity of the passenger rate can be determined by its
effect upon the passenger business of the company, separately" considered. What has been said in- the. opinion
in Northern Pacific Railway v. North Dakota, decided
this day (ante, p. 585), makes an extended discussion of
this question unnecessary. ft was recognized that the
State has a broad field for the exercise of its discretion
in prescribing reasonable rates for common carriers within
its jurisdiction; that it is not necessary that there should
be uniform rates or the same percentage of profit on every
sort of businels; and that there is abundant room for reasonable classification and the adaptation of rates to various
groups of services. It was further held that despite this
range of permissible action, the State has no arbitrary
power over rates; that the devotion of the property of

NORF. & WEST. RY. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
230 U. S.

609

Opinion of the Court.

the carrier to public use is qualified by the condition of
the carrier's undertaking that its services are to be performed for reasonable reward; and that the State may not
select a commodity, or class of traffic, and instead of fixing
what may be deemed to be reasonable compensation for its
carriage, compel the carrier to transport it either at less
than cost or for a compensation that is merely nominal.
These considerations are controlling here. The passenger traffic is one of the main departments of the company's
businessi it has its separate equipment, its separate organization and management, and of necessity its own rates.
In making a reasonable adjustment of the carrier's charges,
the State is under no obligation to secure the samie ate of
return from each of the two principal departments of
business, passenger and freight; but the State may not
select either of these departments for arbitrary control.
Thus, it would not be contended that the State might require passengers to be carried for nothing, or that it could
justify such action by placing upon the shippers of goods
the burden of excessive charges in order to supply an adequate return for the carrier's entire service. And, on the
same principle, it would also appear to be outside the field
of reasonable adjustment that the State should demand
the carriage of passengers at a rate so low that it would
not defray the cost of their transportation, when the entire
traffic under the rate was considered, or would provide
only a nominal reward in addition to cost. That fact,
satisfactorily proved, would be sufficient to rebut the
presumption of reasonableness; and if in any case it could
be said that there existed other criteria by reference to
which the rate could still be supported as a reasonable
one for the transportation in question, .it would be necessary to cause this to appear. Northern Pacific Railway
v. North Dakota, supra, and cases there cited.
2. So far as findings are concerned, we have in the
present case simply a general, or ultimate, conclusion of
VOL. ccxxxvI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Coirt.

236 U. S.

fact which is set forth in the decree of the state court; and
it is necessary for us, in passing upon the Federal right
which the plaintiff in error asserted, to analyze the facts
in order to determine whether that which purports to be
a finding of fact is so interwoven with the question of
law as to be in substance a decision of the latter. Kansas
City Southern Ry. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573,
591; Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S.
655, 668, 669; Oregon R. R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild, 224
U. S. 510, 528; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S.
246, 261; Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601,
611; Wood v. Chesborough, 228 U. S. 672, 678.
3. The passenger rate in question went into effect in
May, 1907, and was observed by the company until about
September, 1909, when under the terms of the interlocutory injunction in this suit the charge was increased to two
and one-half cents a mile. There were, therefore, two
fiscal years, June 30, 1907, to June 30, 1909, during which
the company operated its road in West Virginia under
the statutory rate. Evidence was introduced on behalf
of the company sh6wing the results according to its calculations. It was testified that the intrastate passenger
receipts had been carefully ascertained. With respect to
the operating expenses, it was said that for many years
accounts had been kept for the purpose of separating the
expenses incident to the freight and passenger traffic,
respectively; that about 65 per cent. of these expenses
could be directly assigned, and that the remaining 35 per
cent., consisting of items common to both sorts of transportation, were divided between the passenger and freight
traffic on the basis bf engine miles,-this being deemed to
be' more equitable than the train-mile basis originally
used, inasmuch as most of the freight was hauled by two
engines. In practice, this method was assumed-in accordance with an early computation-to mean that 20
per cent. of such items should be assigned to the passenger

NORF. & WEST. RY. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
236 U. S.

611

Opinion of the Court.

traffic; this, it was insisted, was a close approximation.
Where a division of the road was partly in one State and
partly in another the passenger expenses were apportioned according to track mileage. These expenses within
the State having thus been ascertained, they were divided
between the interstate and intrastate traffic upon the
basis of the gross passenger earnings; that is, it was assumed that the cost of the interstate and intrastate passenger traffic was the same in relation to revenue. It was
also testified that betterments were not included in expenses, and that the above-mentioned apportionment
covered all the operating expenses, except taxes, the latter
being apportioned to each class of business according to
its share of the gross receipts.
It was stated that the intrastate passenger receipts
which had been $362,997.74 in the fiscal year 1906-7 1had
fallen, notwithstanding a considerable increase in the number of passengers and passenger mileage, to $289,943.22
in the fiscal year 1907-8. The passenger expenses for the
latter year, estimated according to the method above set
forth, together with taxes, amounted to $275,519.79,
leaving a net surplus of $14,423.43. In the following fiscal
year, 1908-9, the intrastate, passenger receipts were
$281,864.50. This showed a reduction of $81,133.24, as
compared with the fiscal year 1906-7, although there was
a gain over that year of 1,567,374 in the passenger mileage.
The expenses attributed by the company to the intrastate
passenger traffic, including taxes, for the year 1908-9,
amounted to $283,416.62, thus leaving a deficit in the passenger operations of $1,552.12.
In the. receipts, as thus stated, there was omitted the
revenue derived from the mail, express, news privileges
and other items of passenger train earnings. Including
this miscellaneous income, it appeared from the company's
1 Approximately eleven months of the fiscal year 1906-7 were under
the former maximum fare of three cents a mile.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

statement that the net return of the intrastate passenger
business for the year 1907-8 was $18,354.62; in the year
1908-9, the inclusion of these items still left a deficit
amounting to $616.11.
Criticizing the methods of apportionment adopted by
the company, the State presented on its part elaborate
calculations for the purpose of showing the effect of the
rate: These calculations were based upon a painstaking
analysis made by the State's expert accountant of the
receipts and expenses disclosed by the company's records
and accounts. For this critical study there were selected
the months of November, 1909, and May, 1910, which
the State's witness testified were typical with respect to
the passenger business of the fiscal year ending June 30,
1910. The examination was made of the traffic on the
Pocahontas and Kenova divisions of the road, which contained over 90 per cent. of the total track mileage of the
company in West Virginia, and the passenger traffic on
which-according to passenger mileage--was stated to be
over 97 per cent. of the whole. The testimony was that
the results of the analysis of the traffic on these divisions
could be deemed to be fairly representative of the entire
passenger business. The receipts of the intrastate traffic
were adjusted to 'the two cent fare basis; that is, according
to the statutory rate as applied to the actual travel over
the road. The State suggests that neither in its own calculations nor in those of the company was any account
taken of the receipts from interstate passengers in West
Virginia, but these were properly excluded. Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 541. The company had kept on its
books separate accounts of the expenses of the freight and
passenger business on the divisions above-mentioned, but
the State's expert did not accept the company's distribution. For example, on the Pocahontas division, the books
showed passenger expenses in November, 1909, amounting
to $48,895.22; the witness for the State by his computa-

NORF. & WEST. RY. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
236 U. S.

613

Opinion of the Court.

tions made these expenses $37,100.72. On the same divi-

sion in May, 1910, the company's figures for passenger
expenses were $51,885.72; the State's, $40,643.36. There
were also similar reductions of considerable amounts on
the Kenova division. It is not necessary to review in
detail the methods thus used on the part of the State to
apportion the various common items of expense,-that
is, after all items capable of direct assignment had been
charged to the business to which they related. It is sufficient to say that instead of employing a general factor
for the distribution of the outlays common to both kinds
of traffic, freight and passenger, the State's witness
divided each particular common item according to its
character so as to make what was deemed to be a fair apportionment of that item. In this way, a variety of
methods were employed which the witness described at
length. After ascertaining the amount of the total expense considered to be attributable to the passenger
traffic within the State, it was divided between the intrastate and interstate business; and for the most partaside from the expenses of passenger stations-the division was made on the basis of passenger miles and without
charging extra cost to the intrastate traffic.
By combining the results of the selected periods, it was
shown that in the intrastate passenger business, according
to the classification and apportionment adopted, the
operating expenses and taxes consumed 97.4203 per cent.
of the total income.
This, in brief, was the result of the elaborate anaiysis
presented by the State. There is no reason to suppose
that either the periods chosen or the methods used were
unfavorable to the rate. Included in the passenger business were the items of mail, express, excess baggage, etc.;
the State did not present calculations as to the net retirn
upon these items separately considered. When the
State's expert who testified that he had undertaken to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

separate the cost of the express business, was asked on
cross-examination whether with these items omitted the
actual cost of carrying intrastate passengers was not in
excess of two cents a mile, he said that it would be difficult
to answer without a separate analysis of the mail item,
but added that 'in. rough computation' that cost was very
close to two cents.
It is apparent, from every point of view that this record
permits, that the statutory rate at most affords a very
narrow margin over the cost of the traffic. It is manifestly not a case where substantial compensation is permitted and where we are asked to enter the domain of the
legislative discretion; nor is it one in which it is necessary
to determine the value of the property employed in the
intiastate, business. *It is clear that by the reduction in
rates the company is forced to carry passengers, if not at
or below cost, with merely a nominal reward considering
the volume of the traffic affected. We find no basis whatever upon which the rate can be supported and it must
be concluded in the light of the principles governing the
regulation of rates that the State exceeded its power in
imposing it.
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

