STEARNS v. WOOD.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

with. Accordingly the judgment in respect of the claim
presented by plaintiff against the estate was that it be
disallowed because without foundation-not that he had
a non-provable debt.
The petition in the cause now under review was properly dismissed. If, as both the bankruptcy and state
courts concluded, the contract was terminated by the involuntary bankruptcy proceeding no legal injury resulted.
If, on the. other hand, that view of the law was erroneous,
then there was a breach and defendant Gray became liable
for any resulting damage; but he was released therefrom
by his discharge. In this state of the record we will not
enter upon a consideration of the specific reason assigned
by the state court for sustaining the demurrer. No effort
was made by plaintiff in error to secure a review of the
action of the bankruptcy court in the direct way prescribed
by the statute and that result may not be obtained indirectly tihrough the present proceeding. The judgment of
the court below is
Affirmed.

LIEUTENANT COLONEL STEARNS v. BRIGADIER
GENERAL WOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN. DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 647.

Argued December 18, 1914.-Decided January 18, 1915.

The province of courts is to decide real controversies and not to discuss
abstract propositions; and this court cannot be called upon to con-

strue orders, acts of Congress and provisions of the Constitution for
the information of persons whose rights are not directly affected or
threatened, notwithstanding their laudable feeling of deep interest
in the general subject.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

An officer of the National Guard whose personal rights are not directly
violated or interfered with and whose present rank remains unchanged thereby cannot, in this court, question the validity and constitutionality of the General Order contained in Circular No. 8 issued by the Secretary of War pursuant to ยง 3 of the Military Law,
act of January 21, 1903, c. 196, 32 Stat. 775, as amended by act
of May 27, 1908, c. 204, 35 Stat. 399, relative to the organization,
armament and discipline of the organized militia, and orders of the
Adjutant General of Ohio with respect to the mobilization of the
National Guard of that State and commanding that upon any declaration of war all furloughs be revoked and the officers and soldiers
shall assemble and proceed wherever directed by the President of the
United States, whether within or without the United States.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
on a direct appeal from the District Court, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Hubert J. Turney, with whom Mr. Nathan William
MacChesnay and Mr. Don R. Sipe were on the, brief, for
appellee.
Mr. Harvey R. Keeler and Mr. Fred C. Geiger for appellant, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a direct appeal from the District Court which
held that the original bill states no cause of action. It
must be dismissed unless the case involves the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States,
or the constitutionality of a Federal statute is fairly drawn
in question.
The only serious attempt to show'that appellant has a
direct personal interest in the Subject presented is found
in the section of the bill which alleges that he is now serving
as a Major in the Inspector General's Department of the

STEARNS v. WOOD.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ohio National Guard and is aggrieved because defendant
Wood, the Adjutant General of the State, is about to put
into full force and effect a general order issued by command
of the Secretary of War and known as Circular No. 8,
which, without right or authority, directs that the maximum rank of senior officers in complainant's department
shall be a Lieutenant Colonel, and if this is done he will
be prevented from attaining and serving in the higher
rank permitted by the existing laws of Ohio.
Section 3 of the Military Law (act of January 21, 1903,
c. 196, 32 Stat. 775, as amended by the act of May 27,
1908, c. 204, 35 Stat. 399), provides that on and after
January 21, 1910, the organization, armament and discipline of the organized militia in the several States, Territories, and the District of Columbia, shall be the same as
that which is now or may hereafter be prescribed for the
regular army of the United States, subject in time of peace
to such general exceptions as may be authorized by the
Secretary of War. Exercising his discretion the Secretary
of War directed the issuance of Circular No. 8,, to become
effective January 1, 1914. It is comprehensive in terms
and prescribes general regulations concerning the members, officers and organization of the state militia. The
validity of the order is denied.
The bill further avers that the Adjutant General of Ohio
has issued an order with respect to the mobilization of the
National Guard of that State wherein he commands that
upon any declaration of war all furloughs shall be revoked
and all the officers and soldiers shall assemble and proceed
wherever directed by the President whether within or
without the United States. The validity of this is also
denied.
The brief in behalf of appellant states that "this action
is a test case brought by an officer of the National Guard
against the Adjutant General of Ohio, who are nominal
complainant and respondent, and involves the construe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

tion of certain constitutional provisions, as follows:"
Art. I, ยง 8, Par. 16; the Second Amendment; the Tenth
Amendment; Art. I, ยง 8, Par. 15; the Preamble to the
Constitution; the provision making the President commander in chief of the militia when called into the Federal
service; the power granted to Congress to raise and support armies. "The action also seeks a construction with
respect to the right of the President and Congress over
the National Guard of the several States, and the status
and legal relation of the officers thereof to the War Department; and raises the further question whether the
National Guard or organized militia may be used without
the territorial limits of the United States, as such."
The general orders referred to in the bill do not directly
violate or threaten interference with the personal rights of
appellant-a Major in the National Guard whose present
rank remains undisturbed. He is not iherefore in position
to question their validity; and certainly he may not demand that we construe orders, acts of Congress, and the
Constitution for the information of himself and others,
notwithstanding their laudable feeling of deep interest in
the general subject. The province of courts is to decide
real controversies, not to discuss abstract propositions.
Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S.547, 557; Californiav. San Pablo
Railroad, 149 U. S. 308, 314; Richardson v. McChesney,
218 U. S.487, 492; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Cade,
233 U. S.642, 648.
We cannot consider the points suggested and the appeal is
Dismissed.

