OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

GLEASON v. THAW.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 143.

Submitted January 19, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Professional services of an attorney and counselor-at-law are not
property within the meaning of par. 2, ยง 17 of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898, as amended in 1903, excepting liabilities for obtaining
property by false pretenses from the general release of the discharge
in bankruptcy.

In view of the well known purpose of the Bankruptcy Act, exceptions
to the operation of a discharge thereunder should be confined to
those plainly expressed.
196 Fed. Rep. 359, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Bankruptcy Act and the effect of a discharge in bankruptcy,

are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John B. Gleason, pro 8e.
Mr. William A. Stone for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question for determination is whether the professional services of an attorney and counselor at law are
property within the meaning of paragraph 2, ยง 17, of the
Bankruptcy Act (30 Stat. 544, 550), as amended in 1903
(32 Stat. 797, 798), which excepts from the general release
of a discharge "liabilities for obtaining property by false
pretenses or false representations." The essential facts,
in the words of the Circuit Court of Appeals, are these
(196 Fed. Rep., p. 360):

GLEASON v. THAW.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"On June 28, 1906, the defendant, Harry K. Thaw,
was indicted for murder committed in the City of New
York. Briefly stated, the complaint alleges that in order
to secure the services of the plaintiff as chief counsel, the
defendant represented that he was the owner of an interest of at least $500,000 in the estate of his father
and had an annual income of $30,000 in his own right.
That relying upon these and other representations, the
-plaintiff consented to act as counsel for the defendant
and performed services for him in that capacity which
were worth the sum of $60,000 over and above all payments. The complaint charges that all of these representations were false and made- with fraudulent intent.
The defendant, among other defenses, pleaded in a supplementary answer, his discharge in bankruptcy by the
District Court of Pennsylvania, dated December 29, 1910.
To this the plaintiff demurs, insisting that the discharge
is insufficient in law, the plaintiff's cause of action being
liabilities for obtaining property by false representations."
The trial court, following Gleason v. Thaw (185 Fed.
Rep. 345), overruled the demurrer and dismissed the complaint; the appellate court, upon the same authority,
affirmed the judgment (196 Fed. Rep. 359).
Gleason v. Thaw, supra, came before the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit upon a petition to review
the final order of the District Court staying an action
brought by Gleason on the same indebtedness here involved, and presented the identical question of law now
before us. The court answered it in the negative, and
among other things in an opinion by Judge Gray said
(185 Fed. Rep., p. 347):
"The very ingenious and forceful argument presented
to this court by the petitioner for review, is founded
mainly upon the proposition that: 'The right to command
services of the value of $80,000.00 is property; the services
also are property; the test is value--not degree of intangi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

That the word 'property' is nomen
bility.'
generalissimum, as asserted by the petitioner, is not to be
denied, but no more is it to be denied that its meaning
may be restricted, not only by the application of the
maxim, noscitur a sociis, but by the purpose for which
it is used, or by its evident use as a word of art, or by its
use in a technical sense. The very generality of the word
requires restriction. . . . There are, however, well
considered decisions of the highest authority, in which,
from the view point of the particular case, personal rights
and liberties are to be included within the meaning of the
word 'property'. . . . Such cases, however, are far
from saying that services actually rendered under a supposed contract are themselves property, which have
been taken fraudulently from the possession of the one
who has rendered the service, within the meaning of that
word as used in the section of the bankruptcy act now
under consideration."
The accurate delimitation of the concept property would
afford a theme especially apposite for amplificative philosophic disquisition; but the Bankrupt Law is a prosy thing
intended for ready application to the everyday affairs of
practical business, and when construing its terms we are
constrained by their usual acceptation in that field of endeavor. The word property, without restriction, occurs
more than seventy times in the Act. Not once does it
plainly refer to professional services, and, except in very
few instances, to include them within its intendment would
produce a patent absurdity. Reference to the following
provisions will uffice to indicate the. sense of the word
therein. Section 1 (15) declares one shall be deemed insolvent "whenever the aggregate of his property, exclusive of any property which he may have conveyed, transferred, concealed, or removed . . . shall not, at a
fair valuation, be sufficient in amount to pay his debts."
Section 3-a provides that "acts of bankruptcy by a per-

GLEASON v. THAW.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

son shall consist of his having (1) conveyed, transferred,
concealed, or removed, or permitted to be concealed or
removed, any part of his property with intent to hinder . . . or (2) transferred, while insolvent, any
portion of his property to one or more of his creditors with
intent to prefer," etc. Section 50 provides, in respect of
trustees' bonds, "(d) the court shall require evidence as to
the actual value of the property of sureties; . . . (f)
the actual value of the property of the sureties, over and
above their liabilities and exemptions, on each bond shall
equal at least the amount of such bond." And ยง 60-d
brings the two things into sharp contrast-"If a debtor
shall, directly or indirectly, in contemplation of the filing
of a petition by or against him, pay money or transfer
property to an attorney and counselor at law, solicitor in
equity, or proctor in admiralty for services to be rendered,
the transaction shall be reexamined by the court on petition of the trustee," etc.
Congress, we think, never intended that property in the
paragraph under consideration should include professional
services. At most it denotes something subject to ownership, transfer or exclusive possession and enjoyment,
which may be brought within the dominion and control
of a court through some recognized process. This is certainly the full extent of the word's meaning as employed
in ordinary speech and business and the same significance
attaches to it in many carefully prepared writings. The
constitutions of many States provide that all property
shall be taxed, but it has never been supposed that this
applies to professional services.
We do not overlook, nor do we intend, to qualify, what
this court has said in other cases. Our sole present concern is with the interpretation of a particular statute; the
scope and purpose of constitutional limitations are in no
way involved-they depend upon considerations of a
wholly different character.
VOL. ccxxxvI-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Petitioner.

236 U. S.

In view of the well-known purposes of the Bankrupt
Law exceptions to the operation of a discharge thereunder
should be confined to those plainly expressed; and while
much might be said in favor of extending these to liabilities incurred for services obtained by fraud the language
of the act does not go so far.
The court below reached a proper conclusion and its
judgment is
Affirmed.

McCOACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. PRATT, EXECUTOR OF DREER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 149.

Argued January 25, 1915.-Decided March 1, 1915.

Where testator died before July 1, 1902, but creditors had the right,
under the local law, as in Pennsylvania, to file claims within a year,
and legatees cannot demand payment out of the personal estate
until after ascertainment that there is a residue available for payment of legacies, the interests of the legatees were not absolutely
vested in possession or enjoyment prior to July 1, 1902, and the
tax paid on such legacies under the War Revenue Act of 1898 should,
pursuant to ยง 3 of the act of June 27, 1902, be refunded. United
States v. Jones, ante, p. 106, followed, and Hertz v. Woodman, 218
U. S. 205, distinguished.
201 Fed. Rep. 1021, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of the War
Revenue Act of 1898 and the refunding act of June 27,
1902, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraliWallace, with whom The
Solicitor General was on the brief' for petitioner:

