McCORMICK v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

which are presented by the pleadings. We refer to them
to show that on account of the view of the courts below on
the taxability of the lands they omitted to pass on a number of important issues, some of which require a consideration of testimony, and some-it may be all-an examination of the local laws and decisions, as dependent on such
testimony. And, we repeat, a consideration of such testimony should be made in the first instance by the trial
court. Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176
U. S. 167; Owensboro v. Owensboro Water Works Co., 191
U. S. 358.
Decree reversed and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.

McCORMICK v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 170.

Argued March 4, 1915.-Decided March 15, 1915.

Where the bill presents a case of diversity of citizenship only, the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final: An appeal to this court must

be dismissed.
An allegation in a pleading that by reason of contracts with a municipality plaintiff had a vested right of property in such contracts or
in their performance and that a refusal to perform amounts to deprivation of such property does not give the allegation any other
character than that of one alleging ordinay breach of contract.
A constitutional question cannot be imported into the case in that
manner.
Appeal from 203 Fed. Rep. 921, dismissed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

VOL. ccxxxvi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Mr. B. F. Burwell for appellant.
Mr. Claude Weaver, with whom Mr. J. W. Johnson and
Mr. V. V. Hardcastlewere on the brief, for appellees.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, by
direction of the court.
Suit for specific performance of eighteen contracts for
the paving of certain streets in the city of Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma.
A temporary restraining order was applied for and
denied. The suit subsequently came on to be heard on the
bill, answer and proofs, and a decree was entered dismissing it. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 203 Fed. Rep. 921.
A question of jurisdiction arises, that is, whether an
appeal lies from the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
to this court, and that depends upon the ground on which
the jurisdiction of the District Court was invoked and
whether, as a consequence, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was final.
The bill alleges that McCormick, whom we shall designate as complainant, is a citizen and resident of St. Louis,
Missouri, and that the city of Oklahoma City is a citizen
and resident of Oklahoma, being a municipal corporation
thereof, and that the other defendants are its officers.
'The gravamen of the suit is that under an ordinance
of the city, resolutions were passed by the city council at
different times providing for the paving of certain streets
in the city and that under due and legal proceedings had
under such resolutions plans, specifications and estimates
of the work were prepared by the city engineer. That in
accordance with these and notices published complainant
filed with the city clerk proposals and bids which were
afterwards by the council duly accepted; that .they, there-

McCORMICK v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore, became and constituted valid and binding contracts
between the city and complainant for making such improvements and that he by reason of such contracts has
a vested right of property in the same and is entitled to be
permitted to perform the same. That subsequently the
council attempted by resolution or motion to reconsider
its action and to set aside the awards, in violation of complainant's rights. That he tendered formal written contracts and requested the acting mayor to execute them,
but that officer refused to do so or to approve the bonds
presented therewith. That complainant has done in all
other particulars the things required to be done and performed by him and had done some work under his contracts before they were attempted to be set aside. That
unless restrained the city will deprive complainant of the
privilege of making the improvements and prevent him
from making the profits thereon, which would amount
to at least $45,000; that the attempt of the city to set
aside the awards to complainant "is in violation of the
Constitution of the United States and in violation of the
constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma, and is an
attempt to deprive this complainant of property without
due process of law."
These are the general outlines of the bill and they are
sufficient to show that diversity of citizenship was alleged
and, in a general way, that the Constitution of the United
States and of the State of Oklahoma were violated. The
basis of the latter allegation is that complainant had binding contracts with the city which the city refused to permit him to perform. Their breach is alleged and nothing
more, and the allegation gets no other quality or character
by the assertion that complainant had a "vested right of
property" in the contracts or their performance and
that to take this away is a deprivation of property without
due process of law. Nor would such be the result if complainant had averred that the circumstances amounted

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

to an impairment of the obligation of his contract, a contention which he in effect urged upon the oral argument.
The case, therefore, falls under the ruling in St. Paul
Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, and subsequent
cases.
In Dawson v. Columbia Trust Company, 197 U. S. 178,
181, it was said that the mere fact that a city is a municipal
corporation does not give to its refusal to perform a contract the character of a law impairing its obligation or
depriving of property without due process of law. St.
Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, supra, was adduced.
In Shawnee Sewerage & Drainage Co. v. Stearns, 220
U. S. 462, 471, it was said: "The breach of a contract is
neither a confiscaiion of property nor a taking of property
without due process of law."
It follows that the bill presents a case of diversity of
citizenship only and the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was final.
We may observe that that court and the District Court
decided that there were no contracts consummated by
complainant with the city.
Appeal dismissed.

AMERICAN SEEDING MACHINE COMPANY v.
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 175.

Argued March 5, 1915.-Decided March 15, 1915.

International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, followed to
effect that §§ 3915 and 3941, of the Kentucky Anti-Trust Statutes,

are invalid under the due process provision of the Fourteenth

