OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

to enforce 'by mandamus or otherwise' an order to the
county court to have the tax assessed, etc. But the words
'or otherwise' do not authorize the Circuit Court to collect
the tax, but only allow the resort to other means beside
mandamus to compel the county court to do so. At least
until the Supreme Court of Missouri says otherwise we
should read them in that sense.
We answer both questions: No.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dis-

sent.

REYNOLDS v. FEWELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 102.

Argued December 7, 8, 1914.-Decided January 18, 1915.

The courts of Oklahoma have held that under § 7 of the Original Creek
Agreement of 1901 a noD-citizen husband, while by reason of nonmembership in the tribe was not to be counted in determining the
distributive shares for the purpose of allotment to, or in the right of,
enrolled members of the tribe, was entitled under tribal laws to take
an heir's part of the lands which had been allotted to his deceased
citizen wife. De Graffenreidv. Iowa Land & Trust Co., 20 Oklahoma,
6F7.
The laws of the Creeks were uncertain and ambiguous, and although
the construction of a tribal law by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
is not a construction of a law of the State, and this court has an undoubted right of review, it will not overturn, in a case at most only
debatable, a rule of construction that for years has governed transfers of property.
The Supplemental Creek Agreement of 1902, providing that the descent and distribution of allotments should be in accordance with
§ 49, Mansfield's Digest, Laws of Arkansas, was not an interpreta-

REYNOLDS v. FEWELL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the provisions for descent and distribution in the Original
Creek Agreement of 1901, but an express repeal thereof and the
establishment of another rule as to the future; but without affecting
the meaning of the provision in the Original Agreement as to the
cases governed by it.
34 Oklahoma, 112, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Original Creek Agreement and the laws of descent applicable
to allotments made thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William R. Lawrence and Mr. F. W. Clements for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph C. Stone, with whom Mr. Henry B. Martin
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought this action to recover
certain lands which had been allotted under the Original
Creek Agreement (act of March 1, 1901, c. 676; 31 Stat.
861; 32 Stat. 1971). The allotments described in the complaint had been made on behalf of tWo deceased Creeks,
Minnie Solander and her infant daughter, Hettie L.
Solander, that is, the respective allotments ran to the
'heirs' of each. The defendant in error claimed under a
lease, executed on September 7, 1905, by George A.
Solander, the surviving husband of Minnie Solander and
father of the other decedent. At the time of the death of
his wife and daughter, as for some years previously, George
A. Solander 'resided in the Creek Nation,' but he was not
a citizen of that Nation. The plaintiff in error claimed
under a conveyance from Phoebe B. Trusler, an enrolled
Creek, who as the sister of Minnie Solander was the nearest relative of Indian blood. The question was whether
George A. Solander was entitled to take as 'heir,' despite

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the fact that he was not a Creek citizen. It was answered
by the state court in the affirmative. 34 Oklahoma, 112;
124 Pac. Rep. 623.
While the complaint embraced a portion of the lands
allotted on behalf of Minnie Solander, as well as lands
allotted on behalf of Hettie L. Solander, it appears from
the record that the judgment related exclusively to the
latter. According to the agreed statement of facts, Hettie
L. Solander was born on February 22, 1899, and died on
November 17, 1899, before receiving her allotment and
leaving her father and aunt surviving. She was entitled
to be enrolled, and was enrolled, as a member of the tribe,
and the allotment on her behalf was made to her 'heirs,'
without further description, on December 4, 1901, under
the second paragraph of § 28 of the act of 1901, supra, and
the tribal deed was thereafter executed accordingly. Section 28 is as follows:
"Na person, except as herein provided, shall be added
to the rolls of citizenship of said tribe after the date of this
agreement, and no person whomsoever shall be added to
said rolls after the iatification of this agreement.
"All citizens who were living on the first day of April,
eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, entitled to be enrolled
under section twenty-one of the Act of Congress approved
June twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,
entitled 'An Act for the protection of the people of the
Indian Territory, and for other purposes,' shall be placed
upon the rolls to be made by said commission under said
Act of Congress, and if any such citizen has died since
that time, or may hereafter die, before receiving his allotment of lands and distributive share of all the funds of the
tribe, the lands and money to which he would be entitled,
if living, shall descend to his heirs according to the laws
of descent and distribution of the Creek Nation, and be
allotted and distributed to them accordingly.
"All children born to citizens so entitled to enrollment,

REYNOLDS v. FEWELL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

up to and including the first day of July, nineteen hundred,
and then living, shall be placed on the rolls made by said
commission; and if any such child die after said date, the
lands and moneys to which it would be entitled, if living,
shall descend to its heirs according to the laws of descent
and distribution of the Creek Nation, and be allotted and
distributed to them accordingly.
"The rolls so made by said commission, when approved
by the Secretary of the Interior, shall be the final rolls of
citizenship of said tribe, upon which the allotment of all
lands and the distribution of all moneys and other property of the tribe shall be made, and to no other persons."
We are thus referred to the 'laws of descent and distribution of the Creek nation' to ascertain the persons
entitled to the property. This explicit and determinative
reference disposes of the contention that George A.
Solander, although he might be an 'heir' under the Creek
laws, nevertheless could not tike the lands in controversy
because being a non-citizen he was not entitled to the allotment of a distributive share of the tribal lands in his own
right. It is sought to find support for this contention in
the concluding paragraph of § 28, above quoted, which
provides that the approved rolls shall be the final rolls of
citizenship, upon which 'allotment of all lands .
shall be made, and to no other persons.' But this paragraph should be read in the light of § 3 of the act of 1901,
supra, under which all lands were to be allotted 'among
the citizens of the tribe' so as 'to give each an equal share
of the whole in value, as nearly as may be.' The persons
who were to receive these equal portions were those duly
ascertained and enrolled, and the rolls approved by the
Secretary of the Interior were to be final with respect to
membership in the tribe and the corresponding determination of the distributive shares of the tribal lands. Thus,
the provision of the last paragraph of § 28 had manifest
regard to those who were to receive allotments if living,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

and to those on whose behalf allotments were to be made
if they had died. In the latter case, the allotment of the
distributive share which would have gone to the enrolled
citizen, if living, was to go to his 'heirs.' One who took as
such 'heir' would be none the less entitled because he
might have in addition an allotment in his own right as a
member of the tribe; that would not be a disturbance of
the principle of equality in distribution which was so emphatically laid down. Nor, on the other hand, would one
be excluded from taking, if he were a described 'heir,',by
reason of the fact that he could not himself have received
a distributive share as an enrolled citizen. The right of
such 'heir' to take would not be determined by reference
to his status as a citizen or non-citizen, or by his right to
a distributive share of the tribal lands as one enrolled, but
by the status of the decedent and the fact that he was an
'heir' of the decedent within the statutory definition.
We have recently had occasion to review the course of
legislation with respect to the distribution of the property
of Creek intestates. Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422;
Sizemore v. Brady, 235 U. S. 441. The Creek nation, as a
'distinct political society' (Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5
Pet. 1, 16) had its own laws governing the devolution of
the property of its citizens. When Congress put in force
in the Indian Territory certain general laws of Arkansas,
including Chapter 49 of Mansfield's Digest relating to
descents and distributions, it provided that 'the judicial
tribunals of the Indian nations' should retain exclusive
jurisdiction in all cases in which members of the nation
should be the only parties and that to such cases the laws
of Arkansas should not apply. Act of May 2, 1890, c. 182,
§§ 30, 31; 26 Stat. 81, 94, 95. In 1897, however, it was
provided that the laws of the United- States and of the
State of Arkansas in force in the Indian Territory should
'apply to. all persons therein, irrespective of race' (Act of
June 7, 1897, c. 3; 30 Stat. 62, 83); and, in 1898, Congress

REYNOLDS v. FEWELL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

abolished the tribal courts and prohibited the enforcement
of the tribal laws. Act of June 28, 1898, c. 517, §§ 26, 28;
30 Stat. 495, 504. The Original Creek Agreement of 1901,
supra, operated again to make effective, for the purposes
stated, the Creek tribal laws with respect to 'descent and
distribution' of the property of Creek intestates (see §§ 7
and 28), and the provisions having this import remained
in force until their repeal in the following year. Act of
May 27, 1902, c. 888; 32 Stat. 245, 258, 742; Supplemental
Agreement, Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, § 6; 32 Stat.
500, 501.
The Creek laws thus made controlling are set forth in
the agreed statement as follows:
"SEc. 6. Be it further enacted, that if any person die
without a will, having property and children, the property
shall be equally divided among the children by disinterested persons; and in all cases where there are no children,
the nearest relation shall inherit the property. Laws of
Muscogee Nation, 1880, p. 132.
"SEc. 8. The lawful or acknowledged wife of a deceased husband shall be entitled to one half of the estate,
if there are no other heirs and an heir's part, if there should
be other heirs, in all cases where there is no will. The
husband surviving shall inherit of a deceased wife in like
manner. Laws of Muscogee Nation, 1880, p. 60.
"SEc. 1. All non-citizens, not previously adopted, and
being married to citizens of this nation, or having children
entitled to citizenship, shall have a right to live in this nation and enjoy all the privileges enjoyed by other citizens,
except participation in the annuities and final participation
in the lands. Laws of tb , Muscogee Nation, 1890, p. 60."
See Perryman's Compiled Creek Laws of 1890; § 6
p. 32; § 8, p. 76; § 1, p. 66; Bledsoe's Indian Land Laws,
2d ed., §§ 829-831.
It will be observed that §§ 6 and 8 make no distinction
between citizens and non-citizens. Under § 8, it is 'the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

lawful or acknowledged wife,' or 'husband,' that is entitled to take. If a non-citizen within this description
was to have 'an heir's part,' there would seem to be no
reason for construing § 6 so as to exclude a non-citizen
father of a deceased citizen, when the father is the 'nearest
relation.' And it is contended by the defendant in error
that the provision of § 1, above quoted, only debarred
the non-citizen husband, or non-citizen father, from taking
a membership interest in the tribal property, that is, from
being counted as one of the units in the final distribution
of the tribal lands, and did not deprive him of the right
to take the part of an heir or next of kin in whatever property had come to be owned individually by the deceased
wife or child.
While the agreed statement asserts that the laws above
quoted are the 'only' Creek statutes 'in relation to descent
and distribution' at the time in question, the plaintiff
in error insists that we should take judicial notice of numerous other provisions of the Creek laws which it is
urged must control. Thus we are referred-taking those
statutes which are niost nearly in point-to §§ 299 and 300
of McKellop's Compilation (i893) of Creek Laws to the
effect that 'no non-citizens shall, on account of marriage
with a citizen of this Nation, acquire any right pertaining
or belonging to a citizen of this Nation' and that 'no noncitizen shall have the right to reside in or to own any
improvement in this Nation, except as proyided for in
the treaties between this Nation and the United States';
and also to § 108 (McKellop's Comp., 1900), apparently
approved October 30, 1894, that 'no non-citizen shall be
permitted to .own houses or fences of any kind within the
Nation, or any interest therein' and that 'any purchase,
grknt, lease or other conveyance of lands of the Muskogee
Nation, or title or claim thereto given by any citizen or
person claiming to be a citizen, contrary to § 2116 of the
United States Intercourse Laws' shall be void.

REYNOLDS v. FEWELL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is not certain that any of these last-mentioned provisions was intended to apply to the succession of a husband or father in case of intestacy. On the other hand,
the acquisition of property rights within the Nation by
an intermarried person, although a non-citizen, was
distinctly recognized by the Creek Act of April 6, 1894
(McKellop's Comp., 1900, §§ 76, 77), relating to the jurisdiction of the tribal courts. This act provided:
"SEC. 76. The courts of this Nation shall have and exercise jurisdiction over all controversies arising out of or
pertaining to property rights acquired in this Nation,
and situated in the same, by non-citizens who have intermarried with citizens of this Nation and by reason of such
marriage secured rights and privileges in this Nation
under which such property was acquired and accumulated
by them. The jurisdiction of our courts shall extend to
controversies over property and property rights acquired
by intermarried non-citizens of our Nation who, by virtue
of this intermarriage with citizens, acquired such property rights and privileges, and that irrespective of whether
such controversies are between non-citizens and citizens
of the Muskogee Nation or between any persons whomsoever, who claim in this Nation property rights under
and through such intermarried non-citizens which are
by them acquired in the mannqr aforesaid; and all persons
hereafter intermarrying with citizens of this Nation shall
thereby be deemed to consent that the courts of this Nation exercise jurisdiction over all property rights and
privileges that they acquire in this Nation by virtue of
their said marriage.
"SEc. 77. All property brought into this Nation by
non-citizens in consequence of intermarriage of such noncitizens with citizens of this Nation shall likewise be under
the jurisdiction of the courts of this Nation."
That the intermarried non-citizen could inherit under
the tribal laws appears to have been the conclusion reached
VOL. CCXXXVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in an unreported case (Porter v. Brook) in the United
States court for the Western District of the Indian Territory, and this ruling was followed by the Supreme Court
of the State of Oklahoma in the case of De Graffenreid v.
Iowa Land & Trust Co., 20 Oklahoma, 687. It was held
that a non-citizen husband, while, by reason of the fact of
his non-membership, he was not to be counted in dctermining the distributive shares for the purpose of allotment to,
or in the right of, enrolled members of the tribe, was
entitled under the tribal laws to take an heir's part of
the lands which had been allotted to his deceased citizen
wife. In that case the descent was controlled by the
provision of § 7 of the Original Creek Agreement that
the land allotted should descend to the heirs of the allottee
'according to the laws of descent and distribution of the
Creek Nation,'-the same expression th 4t is used in § 28.
This decision as to the right of intermarried non-citizens
to inherit has been repeatedly followed and has become a
rule of property which, recognizing the importance of the
security of titles, we should not disturb unless it is clearly
wrong. But so far- from the case being one of manifest
error, it is apparent from the review of their provisions
that the most that can be said is that the Creek laws were
uncertain and ambiguous and that their proper construction as an original question might be regarded as doubtful.
It is true, of course, as urged by the plaintiff in error, that
we are not dealing with a statute of a State the meaning
of which is necessarily settled by the state court, but
even where we have undoubted right of review we ought
not to overturn, in a case at most debatable, a local rule
of construction which for years has governed transfers
of property. See Nadal v. May, 233 U. S. 447, 454.
It is insisted that the Supplemental Creek Agreement
of 1902 (supra), in § 6, contains an interpretation by Congress of the words used in §§ 7 and 28 of the act of
1901. But we do not so read the later statute. Its evident

REYNOLDS v. FEWELL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose was not to interpret the reference in the act of
1901 to the Creek laws of 'descent and distribution,' or
to define the content and significance of such laws, but
to supersede the former provision and to establish another
rule. The previous provision with respect to descent
and distribution according to the Creek laws was expressly
repealed, and it was provided that 'the descent and distribution' should be in accordance with Chapter 49 of
Mansfield's Digest of the statutes of Arkansas with the
proviso that Creek heirs, if there were such, should take
to the exclusion of others. This was a recognition of
dissatisfaction with the provision of the Original Agreement which made the Creek laws controlling, but the
meaning and application of that provision in the cases
governed by it was in no way affected.
We are therefore of the opinion that George A. Solander
was entitled to the land which was allotted on behalf
of his infant daughter and, as in the case of an allotment
of this sort the restriction upon alienation was not applicable, he had the right to make the conveyance under which
the defendant in error claims. Skelton v. Dill, 235 U. S.
206.
The judgment of the state court is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

