OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

decisive result, the plaintiff sought to amend his petition
by charging that the cars were used in moving interstate
traffic, but the application was denied, the period of limitation having expired in the meantime. Error is assigned upon this ruling; but as it involved only a question
of pleading and practice under the laws of the State, it
is not subject to review by us. Texas & New Orleans R. R.
Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 416.
It also was held that the evidence produced upon the
third trial was not sufficient to sustain a recovery under
the petition, and error is assigned upon this. As the
petition did not state a cause Of action under the Safety
Appliance Act, but at most a right of recovery at common
law, the ruling upon the sufficiency of the evidence did
not involve a Federal question, and so is not open to reexamination in this court.
Finding no error in the record in respect of any Federal
right, the judgment must be
Affirmed.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF INDIANA v. STATE
OF MISSOURI ON THE INFORMATION OF
HADLEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL, SUCCEEDED
BY MAJOR.
REPUBLIC OIL COMPANY v. SAME
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Nos. 47, 48.

Argued November 8, 9, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.

It is. essential to the validity of a judgment that the court rendering
it have jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the parties; but it
is for the highest court of a State to determine its own jurisdiction
and that of the local tribunals.
Where the constitution.of a State gives to its highest court the power

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

to issue writs of quo warrantoand to hear and determine the same,
judgment of ouster and fine entered by that court implies that it
had jurisdiction to so decide and enter judgment and is conclusive
upon this court whether the judgment is civil or criminal or both.
Standard Oil Co. v. Tennessee, 217 U. S. 420.
Under due process of law one is entitled to notice and opportunity to
be heard, and the notice must correspond to the hearing and the
relief must be appropriate to the notice and the hearing.
Even a court of original general jurisdiction, civil and criminal, cannot
enter a judgment beyond the claim asserted. It would not be due
process of law.
Quwre: Whether under general rules, information in the nature of
quo warranto is a civil, or criminal, proceeding, and whether under
general allegations of misuse, with only a prayer for ouster, a fine
may be imposed in those jurisdictions where quo warranto has
ceased to be a criminal proceeding.
Whatever the rule elsewhere, in Missouri a corporation may in quo
warranto be subjected to a money judgment, whether in nature of
fine or damages for breach of implied contract not to violate its
franchise.
The prayer for relief is not a part of the notice guaranteed by the due
process clause of the Constitution. The facts state the limit of the
relief.
It is not a denial of due process of law for a court having jurisdiction
to determine quo warrantoand to enter judgment for a fine because
there is no statute fixing the maximum penalty.
The power to fine reposed in a court of last resort is not unlimited,
but is limited by the obligation not to impose excessive fines.
Right of appeal. is not essential to due process of law, and the legislature may determine where final power shall be lodged and litigation cease. Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 111.
If due process has been accorded as to notice and opportunity to be
heard, it is not for this court to determine whether error has been
committed in construction of statute or common law.
If the judgment of the state court is not void, this court cannot consider collateral and non-Federal questions.
A corporation tried under information in the nature of quo warranto
for combination in restraint of trade and sentenced to ouster and
fine is not denied equal protection of the law, because corporations
prosecuted under the anti-trust statute of the State would not be
subjected to as severe a penalty.
The highest court of Missouri having held that quo warranto for mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

user can be maintained against a corporation for entering into a
combination in restraint of trade, the validity or invalidity of the
anti-trust statute of that State has no bearing on the subject.
If the judgment of the state court cannot be reversed on. the constitutional ground, it cannot be modified or amended by this court.
This court has no right to assume that a state statute will be so applied as to interfere with the constitutional right of a corporation to
carry on interstate business.
218 Missouri, 1, affirmed.

WRIT of error to a judgment of ouster and fine against
plaintiffs in error in original quo warranto proceedings
in the Supreme Court of Missouri.
The Missouri Anti-trust Act (Rev. Stat. of 1899,
§§ 8968, 8971) provides that any person or corporation
which shall form a combination in restraint of trade shall
be deemed guilty of a conspiracy to defraud, and on conviction shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $5
nor more than $100 per day for each day the combination
continues, and in addition the guilty corporation shall
have its franchises forfeited.
In April, 1905, while this act was in force, the Attorney
General filed an information in the nature of a writ of
quo warranto against the Standard Oil Company and the
Republic Oil Company, foreign corporations, holding
licenses to do business in Missouri, and the WatersPierce Oil Company, a domestic company, alleging that
between the
day of
1901, and
March 29, 1905, they had formed and maintained a combination to prevent competition in the buying, selling and
refining oil to the great damage of the people of Missouri.
The information contained no reference to the Antitrust Act further than was involved in the allegation
that" by reason of the premises, said respondents, . .
grossly offended against the laws of the State, and wilfully
and flagrantly abused and misused their . . . franchises

.

.

.

and

their

acts

.

.

.

constitute

a

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

wilful and malicious perversion of the franchise granted
the said corporations . .
Wherefore, your Informant, prosecuting in this behalf for the State of Missouri,
prays" that each of the defendants be ousted of their said
corporate franchises and license to do business under the
laws of the State.
The defendants answered, denying all the allegations
of the petition and moving to dismiss on many grounds
not material to be considered here. The case was referred
to a commissioner to take testimony and report findings
of fact and'conclusions of law.
While the case was under consideration the anti-trust
statute was amended in March, 1907, so as to provide
that if any corporation should be found guilty of a viola,tion of the provisions of the act its charter or license
should be forfeited, and the court might also forfeit any
or all of its property to the State, or cancel its right to do
business, or the court might assess a fine. It was provided that the act should not operate to release any
penalty, forfeiture or liability already incurred.
After the passage of this amendment, making new and
increased penalties for a violation of the anti-trust statute, the commissioner made his report, finding (May 24,
1907), against the defendants on the law and the fact.
On June 22, 1907, the Republic Oil Company filed with
the Secretary of State, in statutory form, a notice of its
withdrawal from the State. On October 23, 1907, the
fact of this withdrawal was brought to the attention of
the court, and a motion-was made that the case be abated
so far as the Republic Oil Company was. concerned.
The motion was overruled, and later the court found
that each of the defendants had entered into a combination in restraint of trade and prevented and destroyed
competition. And it was adjudged that the defendants
had each forfeited their right to do business, and they were
each ousted of any and all right and franchise and fined
VOL.

ccxxiv-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

$50,000. In view of the capital of the company and the
amount of profits that had been made during the period
of the combination, some members of the court expressed
the opinion that the fine should be $1,000,000.
A motion for rehearing was denied. The WatersPierce Oil Company paid the fine and complied with
conditions, by virtue of which it was permitted to continue
to do business in the State. The other two defendants
brought the case here.
It is alleged that(b) "The court held that this was a civil proceeding,
and that it had no criminal jurisdiction. It then, in addition to an ouster, adjudged that this respondent should
pay a fine of $50,000. This fine was at least the exercise
of criminal jikrisdiction in an original proceeding, which
was beyond the court's power and jurisdiction. The
court thereby takes from the respondent its property
without due process of law, discriminates against respondent, and refuses to accord to it the equal protection of the
law, all of which is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
There are various assignments of error challenging the
constitutionality of the anti-trust statute, on the ground
that it deprived defendants of their property without
due process of law and interfered with interstate commerce. It was also claimed that the defendants were
denied the equal protection of the law, in that in forfeiting their franchise and imposing a fine of $50,000, without a jury trial, a different procedure had been adopted
and a different judgment entered from that which could
have been rendered on conviction by a jury for violation
of the anti-trust statute.
The defendants (now plaintiffs in 'rror) sought first
a reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, and, in the alternative, a modification off the
judgment.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

To this end attention was called to the fact that the
plaintiffs in error were parties in the case of United States
v. Standard Oil Company et al. They pray that the judgment herein be modified so as to provide that it should
not be held to conflict with any decree entered in that
equity cause so far as concerned property in Missouri
belonging to plaintiffs in error.
It was also urged that the statute making it a felony
for any person to sell or deal in articles manufactured by a
corporation whose license had been forfeited, would operate to destroy the value of the plaintiff's property in
Missouri, and would in effect prevent them from engaging
in interstate commerce. They moved that the judgment be modified here so as to provide against any such
result.
Mr. Frank Hagerman, with whom Mr. Alfred D. Eddy
and Mr. Robert W. Stewart were on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error:
A judgment of ouster, coupled with a fine of $50,000,
did not accord due process or the equal protection of the
law. The cases below were civil, and distinguished from
criminal. Const. of Missouri, Art. 6, §§ 2, 3, 22, 31. In
Missouri the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in quo
warranto is original, civil, as distinguished from criminal,
and there is no criminal jurisdiction except such as is
appellate. State v. Vallins, 140 Missouri, 523, 535;
State v. Loan Company, 142 Missouri, 325, 335; Ames v.
Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 461.
The cases, until judgment, proceeded upon the theory
that they were wholly civil in their nature and no suggestion at any time was made by anyone that the respondents could be fined.
When a judgment was finally rendered against each
respondent for an ouster and also for a fine of $50,000,
there was a clear attempt to exercise the criminal power

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

224 U. S.

of a court of justice; this too by a court which had no
original criminal jurisdiction in a proceeding civil in its
nature, and upon an information which asked no relief
of a criminal nature and none in the way of an imposition
of a fine. See § 2396, Rev. Stats., Missouri, 1899; Kansas
City v. Clark, 68 Missouri, 588; 4 Black. Com. 5; Kentucky
v. Denison, 24 How. 66.
Theretofore the power to impose a fine had been exercised, State v. Armour Packing Co., 173 Missouri, 356, 393,
only as an incident to the judgment of ouster, i. e., the
ouster was adjudged unless, as in the case of a remittitur
of excessive damages, the defendant voluntarily elected to
pay a sum of money called a fine. If the fine was not paid,
it was neither due nor collectible, but the defendant was
ousted of its franchises. State v. Delmar Jockey Club, 200
Missouri, 34, 69, 74.
At common law, no fine in a substantial sum could be
imposed. Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 461; 3 Black.
Com. 263; The King v. Francis, 2 T. R. 484; Bac. Ab.,
Title Information D; 2 Kyd on Corporations, 439.
In Missouri the common law so far as it authorized a
fine in any case in excess of $200 was never adopted; see
§§ 4151, 4152, Rev. Stats., 1899.
The Fourteenth Amendment accords to the defendant
the right to due process and the equal protection of the
law. The respondents had paid the statutory tax upon
their capital and were granted the right to do business in
Missouri for the remainder of their corporate existence,
Rev. Stat., Missouri, 1899, §§ 1024, 1025, the same as if
they were domestic corporations. To treat them, in a civil
suit, which asked no such relief, as criminals and fine each
of them $50,000, by an exercise of original criminal jurisdiction, upon the court's own suggestion, after the submission of the case and when the judgment was entered,
was not due process of law, because at the threshold to
that protection is the question of jurisdiction. If that

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

does not exist, there is no due process. Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 111; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34,
46; Bell v. Bell 181 U. S. 175, 178; Andrews v. Andrews,
188 U. S. 14.
The judgment of the court below did not accord the
equal protection of the law, because when rendered it
was for both ouster and fine. Gulf &c. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150, 154; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S.
79; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 559;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400.
United States v. Standard Oil Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 177;
S. C., 221 U. S. 1, involved the question of whether there
had been a violation of the Sherman Anti-trust Act by the
Standard Oil form of organization and method of conducting business. The Sherman Act does not, in substance,
differ from the statutes of Missouri as construed below,
further than that one applies to interstate and the other
to state transactions. The same facts which adjudged
guilt below were here held to establish guilt under the
Sherman Act. To prove the Government's case, all the
evidence offered below in the Missouri case was, in fact,
offered therein; the same reasons for a decree and judgment
were given by both state and Federal courts. In the
case under the Sherman Act the defendants were given a
fixed time in which to reorganize so as to avoid the consequences which now confront them. When the reorganization takes effect, the trust will be dissolved and the existing evils destroyed. As the organization in both cases
made guilt, the reorganization will make clean. Hence
if that reorganization takes place, as this court has heretofore decided would be proper, no objection can be made
of a further violation of the State law by reason of the
original reorganization.
The large investments in Missouri are of great importance and entitled to serious consideration. The Standard
Oil Company of Indiana was wholly owned by the Stand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

224 U. S.

ard Oil Company of New Jersey. Upon reorganization
its stock will be distributed to the individual stockholders
of that company. Not so with the Waters-Pierce Company.
In case of absolute ouster, the consequences are fearful. If there be a literal construction and enforcement
of § 8972, Rev. Stat., Missouri, 1899, and §§ 8969 and 8975,
Laws of Missouri, 1907, pp. 379, 380, the property becomes
practically confiscated, and any person dealing therewith
a felon.
The judgment of ouster and a fine was clearly wrong
as to the Republic Oil Company which voluntarily withdrew from the State. The action should, as to it, therefore, be simply abated at its costs.
The Republic Oil Company having withdrawn from the
State, thereby gave to informant, in substance, the entire
relief sought, which was solely exclusion from the State.
To thereafter retain the case and, without any claim for
such relief, or intimation before judgment that it could
be granted, adjudge against that company a fine of
$50,000, was clearly the exercise of criminal jurisdiction in
an original civil proceeding. Neither the common law,
statute nor constitution so authorized.
The effect of the judgment of ouster is confiscation.
Under § 8972 (Rev. Stats. of Missouri, 1899) and §§ 8969,
8975 (Laws of Missouri, 1907, pp. 379, 380), the obligation
of a contract is impaired and the equal protection of the
law denied. It needs no argument to demonstrate that
these sections do not accord the equal protection of the
law.
Neither an offending corporation nor its successor or
assign, to whom it may sell its plant, under the literal
reading of the statute may in the State deal in a commodity
made by it. No person may, in the State, deal in any
commodity made by such corporation, its successor or
assign. Individuals and partnerships engaged in the

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

same business and alike guilty of the: same act and of a
violation of the same statute, cannot be so punished.
Their property receive s no such blight. According to
previous decisions, the illegality of such discrimination is
too clear to admit of discussion. Gulf &c. Railway Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards
Co., 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540, 559; Southern Ry. Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400.
Section 8972 denies freedom in making contracts. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 390; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45,
53; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, 172, 173.
The statute is not one of exclusion; it applies alike
to all corporations, domestic and foreign, and therefore
cannot be upheld upon the ground of being a condition
to a foreign corporation entering the State or remaining
therein. Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S.
401, 409.
So the Constitution of the United States is a protection
against the act of the State regardless of the form which
it takes or method it is to pursue. It may be by judgment of a court or come into existence for the first time
by the effect to be given to such judgment. Terre Haute
&c. R. Co. v. Indiana,194 U. S. 579, 589; Attorney General
v. Lowry, 199 U. S. 233, 239; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinois,
200 U. S. 561, 580; West Chicago St. R. Co. v. Illinois, 201
U. S. 506, 519, 520.
Here the court below enforced its own penalty of ouster
for an abuse of a corporate privilege.
The judgment of ouster as entered and especially as
it is to be enforced under § 8972, Rev. Stat. of Missouri,
1899, and § 8975, Laws of Missouri, 1907, 380, unwarrantably interferes with the right to do interstate business
and hence it violates § 8 of Article I of the Constitution
of the United States. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

56; International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91.
The language of the judgment not only revokes the license,
but also recites that the respondents are "hereby ousted
of any and all rights accorded to them under the laws of
this State from doing business in this State."
The judgment of ouster as written should not stand.
If not absolutely reversed, it should at least be modified.
The statute, for the violation of which there was an
ouster, was, prior to the trial, repealed, and it was not due
process of law to enforce it. State v. Centerville Bridge
Co., 18 Alabama, 678, 681; In re Franklin Telegraph Co.,
119 Massachusetts, 449.
Mr. Elliott W. Major, Attorney General of the State
of Missouri, and Mr. Charles G. Revelle, for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The Standard Oil Company and the Republic Oil
Company by this writ of error seek to reverse a judgment
of ouster and fine of $50,000, entered against each of
them in original quo warranto proceedings by the Supreme
Court of Missouri, contending that they are thereby
deprived of property without due process of law and
-denied the equal protection of the law.
The briefs and arguments for the defendants were addressed mainly to the proposition that the fine of $50,000
was a criminal sentence in a civil suit and void because
beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and, for the further
reason, that the pleadings and prayer gave no notice
which would support such a sentence.
1. It is, of course, essential to the validity of any judgment that the court rendering it should have had jurisdiction, not only of the parties, but of the subject-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

matter. Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226, 234, 247. But it is equally well settled that it is
for the Supreme Court of a State finally to determine its
own jurisdiction and that of other local tribunals, since
the decision involves a construction of the laws of the
State by which the court was organized. In this case
the constitution of Missouri declared that "the Supreme
Court shall have power to issue writs of habeas corpus, quo
warranto, certiorari and other remedial writs, and to
hear and determine the same." Its decision and judgment necessarily imply that under that clause of the
constitution it had jurisdiction of the subject-matter and
authority to enter judgment of ouster and fine in civil
quo warranto proceedings. That ruling is conclusive upon
us regardless whether the judgment is civil or criminal
or both combined. Standard Oil Co. v. Tennessee, 217
U. S.413, 420.
2. The Federal question is whether, in that court,
with such jurisdiction, the defendants were denied due
process of law. Under the Fourteenth Amendment they
were entitled to notice and an opportunity to be heard.
That necessarily required that the notice and the hearing
should correspond, and that the relief granted should be
appropriate to that which had been heard and determined
on such notice. For even if a court has original general
jurisdiction, criminal and civil, at law and in equity, it
cannot enter a judgment which is beyond the claim asserted, or which, in its essential character, is not responsive to the cause of action on which the proceeding was
based.
"Though the court may possess jurisdiction of a cause,
of the subject-matter, and of the parties, it is still limited
in its modes of procedure, and in the extent and character
of its judgments. It must act judicially in all things,
and cannot then transcend the power conferred by the
law. If, for instance, the action be upon a money demand,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the court, notwithstanding its complete jurisdiction over
the subject and parties, has no power to pass judgment
of imprisonment in the penitentiary upon the defendant.
If the action be for a libel or personal tort, the court cannot
order in the case a specific performance of a contract.
If the action be for the possession of real property, the
court is powerless to admit in the case the probate of a
will. . . . The judgments mentioned, given in the
cases supposed, would not be merely erroneous: they
would be absolutely void; because the court in rendering
them would transcend the limits of its authority in those
cases." Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 282. See
also Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254, 265-268. Barnes
v. Railway, 122 U. S.1, 14.
The defendants claim that the present case is within
this principle-that the judgment for a fine of $50,000which some of the Missouri court thought should have
been a million dollars-was not only a criminal sentence
in a civil suit, but beyond the issues and the prayer for
relief in the Information-and therefore void as having
been in substance entered without notice and opportunity
to be heard. This raises the old question whether Information in the nature of quo warranto is a civil or a criminal
proceeding, and the further question whether, under
general allegations of misuser in an Information with
only a prayer for ouster, a fine may be imposed in those
jurisdictions where quo warrantohas ceased to be a criminal
proceeding. The uncertainty as to the relief that may be
granted in such case arises from the fact that at one time
the proceeding was wholly criminal and those guilty of
usurping a franchise were prosecuted by Information
instead of by Indictment, and punished both by judgment
of ouster and by fine. But in England before the Revolution, and since that date in most of the American States,
including Missouri, quo warranto has been resorted to
for the purpose of trying the civil right, and determining

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whether the defendant had usurped or forfeited the
franchise in question. After this method of procedure
began to be used as a form of action to try title, it was
inevitable that the civil feature would tend to dominate
in fixing its character for all purposes. But the discussion
as to the nature of such writs and the character of the
judgment that could be entered, though not controlled
by their use (Coffey v. County of Harlan, 204 U. S. 659,
664; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 667; Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, 634), has been prolonged by
the retention of the words Information, Prosecute, Guilty,
Punish, Fine-survivals of the period when the writ was
a criminal proceeding in every respect.
In some jurisdictions the writ is still treated as criminal
both in the procedure adopted and in the relief afforded.
State v. Kearn, 17 R. I. 391, 401. But there are practically
no decisions which deal with the nature and amount of
the fine which can be entered, in States where, as in
Missouri, quo warranto is treated as a purely civil proceeding. The references to the subject both in text-books
and opinions are few and casual. They usually repeat
Blackstone's statement (3 Comm. 262) that the writ is
now used for trying the civil right, "the fine being nominal
only." Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 470; Commonwealth v. Woelper, 3 Serg. & R. 29, 53; High on Extraordinary Legal Remedies, 593, 697, 702. These authorities and the general practice indicate that in most of the
American States only a nominal fine can be imposed in
civil quo warranto proceedings. We shall not enter upon
any discussion of the question as to the character of the
proceeding nor the amount and nature of the money
judgment. For, in Missouri, and prior to the decision in
this case, the rulings were to the effect that the Supreme
Court of Missouri had jurisdiction not only to oust but
to impose a substantial fine in quo warranto.
In 1865, under a constitution which, like the present,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

conferred power "to issue writs of quo warranto and hear
and determine the same," the court tried the case of State
ex Inf. v. Bermoudy, 36 Missouri, 279, brought against
the clerk of a Circuit Court for usurpation of the office.
There was a prayer for judgment of ouster and costs.
The court said:
"No evidence is offered to charge the defendant with
any evil,intent, and it being probable that he acted from
mistaken views only, the court will not avail itself of
the power given by law, to impose a fine on him, and
will compel him to pay the costs only of this proceeding."
In 1902, in State v. Armour Packing Co. et al., 173 Missouri, 356, 393, information in the nature of quo warranto
was filed in the Supreme Court against three corporations,
praying that their franchises be forfeited because they
had formed and maintained a conspiracy in restraint
of trade. The court held that, "under the circumstances,
the judgment of absolute ouster is not necessary, but
the needs of justice will be satisfied by the imposition of a
fine." It thereupon adjudged that each of the defendants
should pay the sum of $5,000 as a fine, together with
the costs of court.
In State ex Inf. v. Delmar Jockey Club, 200 Missouri, 34,
quo warranto was brought to forfeit the charter of the
company, because it had violated a criminal statute
prohibiting the sale of pools on horse races. A judgment
of ouster was entered and a fine of $5,000 was imposed.
On rehearing the judgment was amended and the provision for a fine omitted. Evidently this was not for
want of jurisdiction to impose such sentence, but because
it was considered that ouster was all that was demanded
by the facts. This appears from the fact'that in the
present case the court adopted the language of the original
Delmar decision, in which it was said that the fine is
imposed for a violation of the corporation's implied con-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tract not to violate the franchise granted by the State
(218 Missouri, 360). So that, whatever may be the rule
elsewhere, in Missouri a corporation may in quo warranto
be subjected to a money judgment-whether called a fine
as punishment,-or damages for its implied contract not
to violate its franchise.
3. But the defendants insist that even if the court had
jurisdiction of the subject-matter and was authorized
to impose a fine, there was nothing in the pleading to
indicate that such an issue was to be tried, nor any prayer
warranting such relief, and hence that the judgment is
wanting in due process of law and void for want of notice
of what was to be heard and determined. It is true that
the Information did not ask for damages or that a fine
should be imposed. But if this be treated as a criminal
case a prayer was no more necessary than in an Indictment or ordinary Information, since such proceedings
never contain any reference whatever to the judgment
or sentence to be rendered on conviction. In civil suits
the pleadings should no doubt contain a prayer for judgment so as to show that the judicial power of the court
is invoked. The rules of practice also may well require
that the plaintiff should indicate what remedy he seeks.
But the Prayer does not constitute a part of the notice
guaranteed by the Constitution. The facts stated fix the
limit of the relief that can be granted. While the judgment must not go beyond that to which the plaintiff was
entitled on proof of the allegations made, yet the court
may grant other and different relief than that for which
he prayed.
4. Nor, from a Federal standpoint, is there any invalidity in the judgment because there was no statute
fixing a maximum penalty, no rule for measuring damages,
and no hearing on a subject which it is claimed was not
referred to in the Information. At common law, and under
many English statutes, the amount of the fine to be im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

posed in criminal cases was not fixed. This was true of the
statute of 9 Ann, chapter 20, which, in quo warranto cases,
made it "lawful as well to give judgment of ouster as to
fine for usurping or unlawfully exercising any office or
franchise." The amount to be paid in all such cases was
left to the discretion of the court, "regulated by the
provisions of Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights that
excessive fines ought not to be demanded." 4 Black.
Comm. 378. Or, considering the fine as in the nature of a
civil penalty, the case is within the principle which permits the recovery of punitive damages. They are not
compensatory, nor is the amount measured by rule. But
"where the defendant has acted wantonly or perversely,
or with such malice as implies a spirit of mischief or
criminal indifference to civil obligations" (Lake Shore &c.
Ry. Co. v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101), damages may in some
jurisdictions be assessed, even in civil cases, by way of
punishment. It is true that, except in cases for the breach
of a contract of marriage, punitive damages have been
allowed only in actions for torts. But no Federal question
arises on a ruling that, in Missouri, punitive damages
may be recovered from a corporation for the violation of
its implied contract when, as alleged in the Information,
the defendants "wilfully and wantonly misused their licenses." Iowa Central Ry. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389.
The real objection is not so much to the existence of the
power to fix the amount of the fine as the fact that, when
exercised by the Supreme' Court of the State, it is not
subject to review, and is said to be unlimited. But it
is limited. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86,
111. It is limited by the obligation to administer justice,
and to no more assess excessive damages than to impose
excessive fines. But the power to render a final judgment
must be lodged somewhere, and in every case a point is
reached where litigation must cease. What that point
is can be determined by the legislative power of the State,

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for right of appeal is not essential to due process of law.
Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 111.
The Fourteenth Amendment guarantees that the defendant shall be given that character of notice and opportunity to be heard which is essential to due process
of law. When that has been done the requirements of the
Constitution are met, and it is not for this court to determine whether there has been an erroneous construction of statute or common law. Iowa Central Railway v.
Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 261.
The matter was summed up by Justice Moody in Twining
v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 110, where, citing many
authorities, he said:
"Due process requires that the court which assumes
to determine the rights of parties shall have jurisdiction, . .
and that there shall be notice and opportunity for hearing given the parties. . . . Subject to
these two fundamental conditions, which seem to be universally prescribed in all systems of law established by civilized countries, this court has up to this time sustained
all state laws, statutory or judicially declared, regulating
procedure, evidence and methods of trial, and held them
to be consistent with due process of law.
"
There is nothing in the present record which takes
the case out of that principle. This was not like a suit
on a note resulting in a sentence to the penitentiary; nor
does it resemble any of the extreme illustrations given
in Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 282, in which, after
a trial, the judgment of a court having jurisdiction might
be invalidated because the relief so far exceeded the issue
heard as, in effect, to deprive the defendant of the benefit
of his constitutional right to notice. No such question is
presented in the present case, for the plaintiffs in error
were bound to know that, under the laws of Missouri,
the court, on proof of the charge contained in the Information, might impose a fine, a-A were afforded an op-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

portunity to offer evidence in mitigation or reduction.
On the application for a rehearing there was no claim that
the fine was excessive, but the judgment was attacked on
the ground that, for want both of jurisdiction and of
notice, no such penalty could be imposed. We are concluded by the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
as to its power; the judgment was within the issues submitted and is not void as having been entered without
due process of law.
If the judgment was not void we cannot consider the
collateral questions as to whether the suit abated against
the Republic Oil Company when it gave notice of its
withdrawal from the State; nor whether the act of 1905,
amending the Anti-trust Act, operated to relieve the defendant from the penalties for all combinations in restraint of trade entered into prior to the adoption of the
amending statute. These are non-federal questions.
5. It is further contended that the defendants were
denied the equal protection of the law. This claim is
based upon the fact that without indictment or trial
by jury they were ousted of their franchise and subjected
toa fine of $50,000 at the discretion of the Supreme Court,
while corporations prosecuted in the Circuit Court for
the identically same acts in violation of the anti-trust
statute were entitled to a trial by jury and, if convicted,
could be ousted of their franchises and subjected to a fine
not to exceed $100 per day, during the time the combination continued in effect.
But proceedings by Information in the nature of quo
warranto differ in form and consequence from a prosecution by indictment for violation of a criminal statute.
In the one the State proceeds for a violation of the company's private contract-in the other it prosecutes for a
violation of public law. The corporation may be deprived
of its franchise for nonuser-a mere failure to act. It
may also be deprived of its charter for that which, though

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MISSOURI.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

innocent in itself, is beyond the power conferred upon
it as an artificial person. If, however, the act of misuser
is not only ultra vires but criminal, there is no merger of
the civil liability in the criminal offence. Separate proceedings may be instituted-one to secure the civil judgment, and the other to enforce the criminal law. Both
cases may involve a consideration of the same facts;
and evidence warranting a judgment of ouster may be
sufficient to sustain a conviction for crime. A judgment
may in one case sometimes be a bar to the other; but
neither remedy is exclusive. The double liability, in
civil and criminal proceedings, finds its counterpart in
many instances, as, for example, where an attorney is
disbarred or ousted of his right to practice in the court
because of conduct for which he may likewise be prosecuted and fined.
In addition to these considerations it is to be noted
that though the Anti-trust Act provides for penalties
somewhat similar to those which may be entered in quo
warranto proceedings, the statute did not, and, as held by
the Supreme Court, could not lessen the power conferred
upon it to hear and determine quo warranto proceedings
and to enter judgments which on general principles appertained to the exercise of such constitutional jurisdiction. Standard Oil Co. v. Tennessee, 217 U. S. 413,
421; Delmar Jockey Club v. Missouri, 210 U. S. 324.
It was pointed out in the opinion (218 Missouri, 349),
that where a corporation had entered into a combination
in restraint of trade, it thereby offended against the law of
its creation, and consequently forfeited its right longer
to exercise its franchise. It was thereupon held, that in
Missouri quo warranto might have been instituted for
such acts of misuser, even though there had been no
criminal statute on the subject. For this reason neither
the validity nor invalidity of the anti-trust statute have
any bearing on the case. The plaintiffs in error cannot
voL. ccxxIv-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Syllabus.

224 U. S.

complain that they were deprived of the equal protection
of the law, because in the civil proceeding they were not
tried in the manner, and subjected to the judgment,
appropriate in criminal cases.
* If the plaintiffs in error were afforded due process of
law, and were not deprived of the equal protection of the
law, the judgment cannot be reversed. And, if it cannot
be reversed, it cannot be modified to provide that it shall
not be construed to conflict with a decree entered in an
equity cause in another court to which plaintiffs are
parties. Neither can it be amended by adding a provision that the judgment of ouster shall not operate to
make those who buy plaintiff's products subject to prosecution, under the act of 1907, making it a felony for any
person to deal in articles manufactured by a corporation
whose license had been forfeited. This statute which,
it is said, will deprive plaintiffs of the right to do interstate business, is not before us. We have no right to
assume that it will be applied so as to interfere with any
right, which plaintiffs have, under the Constitution, to
do interstate business.
Affirmed.

CROZIER v. FRIED. KRUPP AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 8. Argued April 30, 1911.-Decided April 8, 1912.
Prior to the passage of the act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 851, c. 423,
a patentee, whose patent was infringed by an officer of the United

States, could not sue the United States unless a contract to pay was
implied; and the object of the statute is to afford a remedy under

circumstances where no contract can be implied, but where the

