OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

CROSS LAKE SHOOTING AND FISHING CLUB v.
STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.
No. 46. Argued April 18, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.
The contract clause of the Federal Constitution is not directed against
all impairment of contract obligations, but only against such as
result from a subsequent exertion of the legislative power of the
State.
The contract clause does not reach mere errors committed by a state
court when passing upon"the validity and effect of a contract under
the laws existingwhen it was made; and, even if such errors operated
to impair the contract obligation, there is no Federal question, in the
absence of a subsequent law, on which to rest the decision of .the
state court.
Where the state court has decided that the plaintiff in error never
acquired title because the grant was not one in prwsenti but depended upon conditions subsequent which had never been fulfilled,
and rests its judgment on that fact alone, and not on the effect of a
subsequent statute which might have affected the title had the
title of plaintiff in error been perfected, there is no Federal question.
Writ of error to review 123 Louisiana, 208, dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr.Edgar H. Farrar,with whom Mr. John D. Wilkinson was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. P. Hall, with whom Mr. Walter Guion, Attorney
General of the State of Louisiana, was on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a suit by the State of Louisiana against the

CROSS LAKE CLUB v. LOUISIANA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cross Lake Shooting and Fishing Club to recover about
11,000 acres of land, in the Parish of Caddo in that State,
of which the fishing club was in possession, and to which
it was asserting title, under a sale and deed made to its
remote grantors by the Board of Commissioners of the
Caddo Levee District.. Although defeated in the district
court, the State prevailed in the Supreme Court and there
obtained a final judgment in its favor. 123 Louisiana,
208. The fishing club has brought the case here, claiming
that the judgment gave effect to a state law which impinged upon the ontract clause of the Constitution of the
United States.
The facts are these: By Act No. 74 of 1892 the legislature of the State created the Caddo Levee District,
defined its boundaries, vested the control and management of its affairs in a Board of Commissioners, clothed
the Board with corporate powers, and made to it a grant
of state lands in the following terms:
"SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, etc., That in order to
provide additional means to carry out the purposes of this
act, and to furnish resources to enable the said Board to
assist in developing, establishing and completing the levee
system in the said District, all lands now belonging or
that may hereafter belong to the State of Louisiana and
embraced within the limits of the Levee District as herein
constituted shall be and the same are hereby granted,
given, bargained, donated, conveyed, and delivered unto
the said Board of Commissioners of the Caddo Levee
District, whether the said lands or parts of lands were
originally granted by the Congress of the United States
to the State of Louisiana or whether the said lands have
been or may hereafter be forfeited, or bought in by or for,
or sold to the State at tax sale for non-payment of taxes;
where the State has or may hereafter become the owner
of lands by or through tax sales, conveyances thereof shall
only be made to the said Board of Levee Commissioners

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

after the period of redemption shall have expired; provided, however, any and all former owners of lands which
have been forfeited to purchasers by or sold to the State
for non-payment of taxes may at any time within six
months next ensuing after the passage of this act redeem
the said lands or all of them upon paying to the Treasurer
of this State all taxes, costs and penalties due thereon,
down to the date of the said redemption, but such redemption shall be deemed and be taken to be sales of
lands by the State and all and every sum or sums of money
so received, shall be placed to the credit of the Caddo
Levee District. After the expiration of the said six
months it shall be the duty of the Auditor and Register
of the State Land Office, on behalf of and in the name of.
the State to convey to the said board of Levee Commissioners by proper instruments of conveyance, all lands
hereby granted or intended to be granted and conveyed
to the said Board whenever from time to time the said
Auditor or Register of the State Land Office or either of
them shall be requested to do so by the said Board of
Levee Commissioners or by the President thereof, and
thereafter the said President of the said Board shall cause
the said conveyances to be properly recorded in the Recorder's office of the respective parishes wherein the said
lands are located and when the said conveyances are so
recorded the title to the said lands with the possession
thereof shall from thenceforth vest absolutely in the said
Board of Commissioners, its successors or grantees. The
said lands shall be exempted from taxes after being conveyed to, and while they remain in the possession or under
the control of the said Board. The said Board of Levee
Commissioners shall have the power and authority to
sell, mortgage and pledge or otherwise dispose of the said
lands in such quantities, and at such times, and at such
prices as to the Board may seem proper. But all proceeds
derived therefrom shall be deposited in the State Treasury

CROSS LAKE CLUB v. LOUISIANA.

224 U.S.

Opinion of the Court

to the credit of the Caddo Levee District and shall be
drawn only -upon the warrants of the President of said
Board, properly attested as provided in this act."
The lands in question were within the district so created
and at the date of the act were owned by the State, but
whether it had acquired them as swamp-lands under the
legislation of Congress -(Acts, March 2, 1849, 9 Stat. 352,
c. 87; September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84) or as the bed
of what was a navigable lake when the State was admitted into the Union (see Pollardv. Hagan, 3 How. 212),
is left uncertain. For present purposes, however, this
uncertainty may be disregarded and the State's title
treated as resting on the swamp-land grant by Congress,
as was claimed by the fishing club in the state courts.
No instrument conveying the lands to the Board of the
Levee District was ever.executed by the State Auditor or
the Register of the State Land Office or recorded in the
recorder's office of the parish. But in 1895 the Board sold
and deeded the lands to the remote grantors of the fishing
club for the agreed price of $1,100, or 10 cents per acre,
which'was deposited in a bank under an agreement
whereby it would be payable to the Board whenever the
latter should perfect the title by obtaining a conveyance
from the Auditor and Register. Such a conveyance was
not obtained, and in December, 1901, the grantees in the
deed requested the Board to complete the title, and in
that connection offered to pay $3,500 more for the lands;
whereupon the Board adopted a resolution accepting the
offer and authorizing its president to take *propersteps to
perfect the title. But it does not appear that the additional sum was either paid or tendered, or that anything
was done under the resolution.
In July, 1902, the legislature of the State passed an act
(Laws of 1902, No. 171, p. 324) authorizing the Register
of the State Land Office to sell these lands at not less than
$5 per acre, nor in greater quantities than 320 acres to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

any one person, directing that the proceeds of such sales
be placed to the credit of the Board of the Levee District,
and containing the following repealing provision:
"Section 4. Be it further enacted, etc., That Act No. 74
of the Acts of the General Assembly of Louisiana for 1892
and Act No. 160 of the Acts of 1900 be and the same are
hereby repealed in so far as they may in any way whatever affect any of the lands described herein, the same
never having been -transferred by the Register of the State
Land Office and the State Auditor, nor either of them by
any instrument of conveyance from the State as required
by said act to complete the title to same."
This suit was brought in 1906. The petition made no
mention of the act of 1902, but proceeded upon the theory
among others, that under § 9 of Act No. 74 of 1892, supra,
the Board of the Levee District was wholly without authority to sell or otherwise dispose of the lands until a
proper instrument conveying them to the Board had been
executed by the Auditor and Register and duly recorded
in the recorder's office of the parish, and that, as no such
instrument had been executed or recorded, the sale and
deed by the ward, under which the fishing club was
asserting title, was unauthorized and void. The answer,
which was also silent respecting the act of 1902, alleged,
in substance, that the act of 1892 was a grant in prasenti
of the lands and operated to transfer them to the Board
of the Levee District without anY conveyance from the
Auditor and Register; that the fishing club's grantors
purchased on the faith of that act; and that to permit the
State to retake the lands would impair the obligation of
its contract embraced in the act.
At the hearing in the district court,.counsel for the State
placed some reliance upon the act of 1902, but the court
ruled that the act of 1892 was a grant in prcesenti of all,
lands falling within its terms other than those acquired
through tax sales; that the proyision requiring convey-

CROSS LAKE CLUB v. LOUISIANA.
224 U.S.

Opinion of the Court

ances from the Auditor and Register related oniy to lands
acquired through such sales; that, as the lands in suit had
not been acquired in that way, the sale and deed by the
Board to the fishing club's grantors were authorized and
valid, even although there was no conveyance from the
Auditor and Register; and that the rights acquired thereby
were not divested or affected by the subsequent act of
1902. The record does not disclose that there was any
reliance upon that act in the Supreme Court, and yet it
was practically: conceded in argument here that there
was. But, whether relied upon or not, the act was mentioned in the statement preceding the court's opinion
and was not otherwise noticed or treated as a factor in the
decision. The court held that the act of 1892 was not a
grant in prosenti; that a conveyance from the Auditor
and Register was essential to invest the Board With any
-disposable title; and that, in the absence of such a conveyance, the sale and deed by the Board were wholly
unauthorized and void. Upon that subject the court
said (p. 214)
"In our opinion, the levee board acquired no title to
the -lands in dispute under the act of 1892, because no
deed of Conveyance thereto was ever executed by the
Auditor and Register, or either of them, 4nd, of course,
no such deed was eve°'"recorded. . .. . This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider the other issues
presented by the pleadingsi,
. .; and it is wholly
immaterial whether the board attempted to sell the land
or to give it away, or whether it. received an amount
agreed to be paid or received nothing. Our reasons for
the conclusion that the board acquired no title, and could
therefore convey none, predicated on the admitted fact
that no deed of conveyance of the lands in question has
ever been executed by the auditor or register, are, briefly,
as follows:"
Then, after proceeding with an analysis and interpreta-

OCTOBER- TERM, 1911,
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

tion of the provisions of § 9 of the act of 1892, it was
further said (p. 217):
"Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the law in
question is susceptible of but one interpretation, i. e.,
that, its makers intended that disposable title to all lands
granted or.intended to be granted by it should vest in the
grantee only upon registry, in the parishes where the lands
lie, of proper instruments of conveyance executed by the
Auditor and Register of the State Land Office. So far as
the tax lands are concerned, the reason for thus qualifying the grant is obvious enough. . . . As to the
swamp lands, it may well be that in many instances there
were pending unsettled claims and controversies of which
the land office was advised, with which' the Register
alone was qualified to deal, and which rendered it inadvisable that new titles should issue save to the knowledge of that officer. But whether these views as to the
reasons which inspired the law, be correct or not, the law
itself is plain, and it has (in effect) twice received from
this court the interpretation which we are now placing
on it; once in a case involving lands formerly constituting
the bed of a shallow lake, and again in a case involving
lands acquired by the state under its tax laws."
With this statement of the case we come to consider
whether it presents any question under that clause of the
Constitution which declares, "No State shall .
pass any . . . law impairing the obligation of contracts." This clause, as its terms disclose, is not directed
against all impairment of contract obligations, but only
against such as results from a subsequent exertion of the
legislative power of the State. It does not reach mere
errors committed by a state court when passing upon the
validity or effect of a contract under the laws in existence
when it was made. And so, while such errors may operate
to impair the obligation of the contract, they do not give
rise to a Federal question. But when the state court,

CROSS LAKE CLUB v. LOUISIANA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

either expressly or by necessary implication, gives effect
to a subsequent law of the State whereby the obligation
of the contract is alleged to be impaired, a Federal question is presented. In such a case it becomes our duty to
take jurisdiction and to determine the existence and
validity of the contract, what obligations arose from it,
and whether they are impaired by the subsequent law.
But if there be no such law, or if no effect be given to it
by the state court, we cannot take jurisdiction, no matter
how earnestly it may be insisted that that court erred in
its conclusion respecting the validity or effect of the contract; and this is true even where it is asserted, as it is
here, that the judgment is not in accord with prior decisions on the faith of which the rights in question were
acquired. Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379, 383;
Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 111-112;
Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 220-221; Turner v. Wilkes
Co., 173 U. S. 461; National Mutual Building and Loan.
Ass'n v. Brahan, 193 U. S. 635, 647; Hubert v. New Orleans, 215 U. S. 170, 175; Fisher v. New Orleans, 218 U. S.
438; Interurban Railway Co. v. Olathe, 222 U. S. 187.
It is most earnestly insisted that, even conceding that
our jurisdiction is as restricted as just stated, it still includes the present case, because the decision of the state
court, although not expressly rested upon the act of 1902,
by necessary implication gave effect to it; and in support
of this position it is said that but for that act the State
coull not have maintained the suit. But we do not understand that the State's right to maintain the suit was dependent upon that act, nor do we perceive any reason
for believing that the act was an influential, though unmentioned, factor in the decision. Under the construction given to the act of 1892 the State still held the title,
no conveyance having been made to the Board of the
Levee District, and, of course, the right to maintain the
suit was appurtenant to the title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

What has been said sufficiently demonstrates that no
effect Whatever was given to the act of 1902 and therefore
that the case presents no' question under the contract
clause of the Constitution; and, as there is no suggestion
of the presence of any other Federal question, the writ of
error is
Dismissed.

GRITTS v. FISHER, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, AND MACVEAGH, SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT 6F APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No.. 896.

Argued January 10, 11, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

Children born to enrolled members of the Cherokee tribe after September 1, 1902, and living on March 4, 1906, are entitled to enrollment
as members of the tribe and to participation in the allotment and
distribution of its lands and funds made under the act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat: 725, c. 1375, and subsequent acts relating to such
allotment and distribution.
Section 2 of'the act of April 26, 1906, as amended June 21, 1906, for
the enrollment of minor children living March 4, 1906, is not to be
construed as excluding those born after September 1, 1902.
Under the act of July 1, 1902, individual members of the Cherokee
tribe did not individually acquire any vested rights in the surplus
lands and funds of the tribe that disabled Congress from thereafter
making provision for admitting newly-born members of the tribe
to the allotment and distribution, as it did by the act of April 26,
1906.'
The'act of July 1, 1902, limiting the allottees and distributees of
Cherokee lands and funds, was not a contract but only an act of
Congress and can have no greater effect; it was but an exertion
of the governmental administrative control.over tribal property of
tribal Indians, and subject to change by Congress at any time before it was carried into effect and while tribal relations continued.
37 App. D. C. 473, affirmed.

