OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

different order is prescribed by the act of 1898, and something more. Labor claims are given priority, and it is
provided that debts having priority shall be paid in full.
The only exception is "taxes legally due and owing by
the bankrupt to the United States, State, county, district
or municipality." These were civil obligations, not personal conventions, and preference was given to them, but
as to debts we must assume a change of purpose in the
change of order. And we cannot say that it was inadvertent. The act takes into consideration, we think, the
whole range of indebtedness of the bankrupt, national,
state and individual, and assigns the order of payment.
The policy which dictated it was beneficent and well
might induce a postponement of the claims, even of the
sovereign in favor of those who necessarily depended upon
their daily labor. And to give such claims priority could
in no case seriously affect the sovereign. To deny them
priority would in all cases seriously affect the claimants.
Reversed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY
CITY OF RICHMOND.

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 195. Argued March 6, 7, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
A municipal ordinance will not be held unconstitutional as an unreasonable grant of power because it permits the use of streets by a public service corporation only in such manner as is satisfactory to the
municipal officers in charge of such streets; and so held that an ordinance of the City of Richmond, Virginia, in regard to location and
construction of telegraph wires and conduits did not deprive telegraph companies of their property without due process of law.

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. RICHMOND.
224 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The act of July 24, 1866, 14 Stat. 221, c. 230, permitting telegraph companies to occupy post-roads is permissive only and not a source of
positive rights; it conveys no title in streets or roads, and does not
found one by delegating the power to take by eminent domain.
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Penna. R. R. Co., 195 U. S. 540.
Primafacie a telegraph company, not having the right of eminent domain, must submit to the terms of the owners of property which it
desires to occupy, including those imposed by municipalities for
use of streets.
Quwre: Whether by reason of such rights as are given by the act of
July 24, 1866, a municipality is restricted to only imposing reasonable
terms for the use of its streets by telegraph companies.
It is not unreasonable for a municipality to require as compensation
for the use of its streets by telegraph companies a money charge, in
this case of two dollars for each pole, and also the right to string a
limited number of wires on its poles or to use one of the pipes in
the conduit for municipal service; or to require space to be left in
conduits for use of third parties on compensation and permission
by the city.
The court must assume that a municipality acts within its powers, if
it can be authorized to do what it has done.
Charges for use of streets acquiesced in and paid for many years without complaint, will not be declared unreasonable on mere protest.
Where, as in this case, the provisions imposing penalties for noncompliance are separable from the ordinance, it is time enough to
file a bill when the attempt is made to apply the penalties oppressively; they cannot be made the basis of a bill until then.
In this case held that a provision of a municipal ordinance limiting
the use of streets for conduits under the terms imposed for fifteen
years with the right of the city to then order the conduits removed
does not deprive the telegraph company of its rights under the act
of July 24, 1866, the ordinance. itself providing that whatever rights
the company has under that act shall not be affected.
178 Fed. Rep. 310, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of an
ordinance of the City of Richmond in regard to telegraph
and telephone wires, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. A. L. Holladay was
on the brief, for appellant:
The ordinance does not impose definite rules for the
VOL. CcXXIv-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

224 U. S.

guidance of the telegraph company in the operations of
its business within the city, but exposes the operations of
the company to the arbitrary direction of the officers of
the city without any definite rules to guide the officers in
the discharge of their duties.
The telegraph company is subject to such necessary
provisions respecting its buildings, poles and wires which
the comfort and convenience of the community may require, West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 359, but
it is not exposed to the arbitrary discretion of any officer
of the city with respect to the operations of its lines.
Neither the city nor the State can prevent it from operating within their limits by any form of legislation whatever.
Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Baltimore v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 217; Anderson v. Wellington, 40 Kansas, 173; Garrabad v. Dering, 84 Wisconsin,
585; State Center v. Barenstein, 66 Iowa, 249; Winthrop
v. New England Chocolate Co., 180 Massachusetts, 464;
Barthet v. New Orleans, 24 Fed. Rep. 363; Frazee's Case,
63 Michigan, 396; Chicago v. Trotter, 136 Illinois, 430;
Lumber Co. v. Cicero, 176 Illinois, 9; Newton v. Belger, 10
N. E. Rep. 464; State v. Tenant, 14 S.E. Rep. 387; Sioux
Falls v. Kirby, 60 N. W. Rep. 156; Boyd v. Frankfort, 77
S. W. Rep. 669; Omaha Gas Co. v. Withnell, 110 N. W.
Rep. 680; Robison v. Miner, 37 N. W. Rep. 21; State v.
Mahner, 9 So. Rep. 480; May v. People, 27 Pac. Rep. 1010;
St. Louis v. Russell, 22 S.W. Rep. 470; Noel v. People, 58
N. E. Rep. 616; Elkhart v. Murray, 165 Indiana, 304;
Montgomery v. West, 42 So. Rep. 1000.
The ordinance imposes excessive fines and penalties for
the failure to obey the arbitrary orders of the city officials
in matters concerning which the company has no guide
except the direction of these officers. Ex parte Young, 209
U. S.123; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S.79.
The ordinance requires the company to furnish to the
city large and extensive facilities for the doing of the city's

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. RICHMOND.
224 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

business without compensation or reward therefor, and
such compulsion is not a legitimate exercise of the police
power. For instances in which license fees have been
declared unconstitutional or illegal see 2 Dillon on Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., §661; State v. Bean, 91 No. Car.
554; State v. Hoboken, 33 N. J. L. 280; Telephone Co. v.
Sheboygan, 111 Wisconsin, 23; Muhlenbrinck v. Long
Branch, 42 N. J. L. 364; Van Hook v. Selma, 70 Alabama,
361; Fort Smith v. Ayers, 43 Arkansas, 82; New Haven v.
Water Co., 44 Connecticut, 106.
The placing of a cable containing one or a dozen or any
greater number of wires within the conduit can require no
more work in the issuing of a license therefor, or in the inspection thereof, than if only one wire were placed therein,
and in the ordinance in question we have the identical
graduation of fees which was the leading reason causing
the Connecticut Supreme Court to hold an ordinance
void. Jackson v. Newman, 59 Mississippi, 385; Baltimore
v. Harlem Stage Co., 59 Maryland, 330; City of Ottumwa v.
Zekind, 64 N. W. Rep. 646; New York v. Hexamer, 59 App.
Div. 4; State v. Glavin, 34 Atl. Rep. 708; Welch v. Hotchkiss, 39 Connecticut, 143; Allegan v. Day, 42 N. W. Rep.
977.

In this case the license charges are made purely as
measures for collecting revenue for the city and as a
punishment against the telegraph company for endeavoring to protect its rights.
The claim of the city to require reservation of space
upon poles for overhead wires cannot be sustained, nor
can its demand be sustained that the company, in placing
its wires underground, furnish all the material and construct this expensive work and set apart at least one duct
for the use of the city free of charge therefor.
The ordinance respecting underground wires requires
the company to construct property which may be available for others to use, and which it is not permitted to use

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

224 U. S.

without the consent of the city, and which may never be
used.
The ordinance imposes illegal conolitions, restrictions,
expenses and burdens as conditions of the right to use the
streets of the City of Richmond, which right is secured to
the telegraph company by the act of Congress of 1866,
subject only to the compliance with reasonable police
regulations for the protection and convenience of the inhabitants of the city.
Within these underground limits, with manholes placed
by the telegraph company at each block, the total cost of
inspection in order to ascertain that the conduits are
maintained in a safe and proper condition would be practically nothing. The charge of $2.00 per mile, therefore,
cannot be maintained upon the pretext of the expense of
inspection, because no such expense would be incurred
by the city. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. New Hope, 187 U. S.
419; Atl. & Pac. Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 161;
Postal Tel. Co. v. New Hope, 192 U. S. 55, do not sustain
the contentions of the city in this respect.
The ordinance seeks to put limits upon the right of
the telegraph company to use the streets, and to require
the abandonment of the use of the streets at the demand
of the city, while the act of 1866 secures to the telegraph
company the full and unlimited right to use the streets
subject only to fair and reasonable regulations by the
city. Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Ui. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1;
St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92; Leloup v.
Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640.
The evident design of the preparation and passage of
the ordinance was to compel the telegraph and telephone
companies affected by it, to submit absolutely to the control of the city within the limits of the city; that is manifest from an examination of practically every section of
the ordinance, and the question which we now present is:
Can the city thus limit and control the operations of the

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. RICHMOND.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

telegraph company engaged in interstate commerce agency
of the Federal Government, and compel it to submit in all
essentials to the terms the city has set forth in this ordinance the same as the City of Richmond has compelled
the Southern Bell Telephone Company to submit to it,
the latter company not being invested with any of the
rights conferred by the act of Congress of July 24, 1866?
This question can only be answered in the negative.
The definition as to what constitutes a proper, as distinguished from an improper, delegation of power under
the authorities is perhaps not an easy one to make, but it
is clear, that, with respect to this ordinance, it is not necessary that a close analysis of the authorities be made in
order to discover the dividing line, because this ordinance
goes so far beyond what is proper. United States v.
Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 694.
Mr. H. R. Pollard for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion to the court.

This is a bill in equity filed on June 21, 1904, to restrain
the enforcement of an ordinance of September 10, 1895;
codified as chapter 88 of the ordinances of Richmond,
and amended March 15, 1902, and December 18, 1903.
The plaintiff alleges that the ordinance infringes its rights
under the act of July 24, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221 (Rev.
Stats., §§ 5263, et seq.), and under Article I, § 8 (the commerce clause), and the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, 178 Fed. Rep. 310, and the plaintiff
appealed. The act of Congress gives to telegraph companies that accept its provisions the right to construct,
maintain and operate lines over the post-roads of the
United States, such as the streets of Richmond concerned
are admitted to be. Rev. Stats., § 3964. Act of March 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

1884, c. 9, 23 Stat. 3. Some of the objections to the
ordinance are based upon this statute and some are not;
we take them as they come.
By § 1 poles and wires are not to be put up 'until the
City Engineer shall have first determined the size, quality,
character, number, location, condition, appearance, and
manner of erection of' the same. By § 4 the Committee
on Streets may require permission to be given to others
to place upon the poles light current wires which in the
Committee's opinion will not unreasonably interfere with
the owners' business; terms, if not agreed upon, to be
submitted to arbitration. By § 15 the Chief of the Fire
Department and the Superintendent of Fire Alarm and
Police Telegraph are to inspect poles and wires, and if
a pole is unsafe, or the attachments, or insulations, etc.,
are unsuitable or unsafe, are to require them to be altered
or replaced and removed, with a fine for each day's
failure to obey the order. By § 26 violation of any provision, or failure to obey any requirement made under
the ordinance by the City Engineer or the just named
Superintendent or Chief, if not specially fined, is to be
fined from ten to five hundred dollars a day, by the
Police Justice. Finally by § 28, as amended in 1903, all
overhead wires within a certain territory are to be removed,
and within two months plans for conduits are to be submitted to the Committee on Streets and Shockoe Creek,
showing location, plan, size, construction and material.
These plans may be altered or amended by the Committee
and when satisfactory to it are to be followed by the
owner of the wires in a manner satisfactory to the City
Engineer. The pavements are to be replaced and kept
in repair to his satisfaction and the city saved harmless
from damages. The conduits are to provide for an increase of 30 per cent, not to be occupied by third parties
without consent of the Committee and compensation,
but the wires of the city to be carried free, one duct being

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. RICHMOND.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reserved for them. The location, size, shape and subdivision of the conduits, the material and manner of construction, must be satisfactory to the City Engineer, and
the work of laying underground conduits is to be under
the direction and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
of Fire Alarm and Police Telegraph.
All these provisions are objected to as subjecting the
appellant to an arbitrary discretion-in § 1, that of the
City Engineer as to the poles; in § 4, that the Committee
on Streets as to the use of the poles; in § 15, that of the
Chief and Superintendent mentioned as to not only the
safety of the poles and wires but the unsuitableness of
the latter or their attachments,-insulation, or appliances;
in §28, that of the Committee on Streets as to underground
plans, that of the Superintendent of Fire Alarm as to
laying the conduits, and that of the City Engineer as
to the replacement of pavement in the streets, and the
carrying out of the plans in all the details just stated.
It is argued also that by § 26 the appellant is subjected
to further requirements without limit from the officers
named, but this argument may be dismissed, the requirements referred to being only those 'made under this
chapter,' that is, specifically authorized in the other
sections to which we have referred. Again the objections
are not to be fortified by those decisions that turn on the
power to delegate legislative functions. United States v.
Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506. We have been shown no ground
for supposing that the ordinance exceeded the power
of the legislature to authorize or of the city to enact,
unless it interferes with some special paramount right
of the appellant. The bill is brought wholly on the ground
that the appellant has such rights that no state legislation
can touch. Unless it has them there i nothing in the
Constitution of the United States to prevent the grant of
these discretionary powers to the committees and officers
named. Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43. Gundling

OCTO3ER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183. Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S.
361, 371. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S.
210, 225.
The appellant says that it has the right to occupy the
streets of Richmond under the act of Congress, and therefore, although subject to reasonable regulation, it cannot
be subjected to a discretion guided by no rules. Neither
branch of this proposition, as applied to this case, commands our assent. To begin with the end, while it is
true that rules are not laid down in terms, they are implied
so far as there need to be any. If the Committee and
officers do their duty there is no room in the questions
left to them for arbitrary whim. They are to exercise
their judgment on the suitableness, safety, &c., of the
places, poles and wires by the criteria that would be applied
by all persons skilled in such affairs who should seek to
reconcile the welfare of the public and the instalment of
the plant. The objection that other motives may come
in is merely that which may be made to all authority, that
it may be dishonest, an objection that would make government impossible if it prevailed. It is said that the
ordinance should confine the Committee and officers to
finding whether required and specified facts exist. But
not only is it impossible to set down beforehand every
particular fact that may have to be taken into account,
but in case of dishonesty it would do no good. We are of
opinion that the ordinance is not unreasonable as a grant
of arbitrary power. Regulations very like these were
upheld, so far as they presented Federal questions, against
a company assumed to have a right to use the streets,
in Missouri, ex rel. Laclede Gaslight Co. v. Murphy, 170
U. S. 78, 99. See also Wilson v. Eureka City, 173 U. S.
32.
In view of what we have said and the appellant's admission that it is subject to reasonable regulation it would
be unnecessary to consider its rights under the act of

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. RICHMOND.

224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Congress but for some further complaint that the appellant's property is taken without due process of law. That
complaint opens the question what property the appellant
has. The act of Congress of course conveyed no title and
did not attempt- to found one by delegating the power to
take by eminent domain. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
PennsylvaniaRailroadCo., 195 U. S. 540, 574. Itmade the
erection of telegraph lines free to all submitting to its
conditions, as against an attempt by a State to exclude
them because they were foreign corporations, or because
of its wish to erect a monopoly of its own. Pensacola
Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1.
It has been held to prevent a State from stopping the
operation of lines within the act by injunction for failure
to pay taxes. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Attorney
General of Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530. But except in
this negative sense the statute is only permissive, not a
source of positive rights. The inability of the State to
prohibit the appellant from getting a foothold within its
territory, both because of the statute and of its carrying
on of commerce among the States, gives the appellant
no right to use the soil of the streets, even though postroads, as against private owners or as against the city
or State where it owns the land. St. Louis v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, 101. S. C., 149 U. S.
465. Richmond v. Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Co.,
174 U. S. 761, 771. Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v.
Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160, 163. Hudson County Water
Co. v. McCarter,209 U. S. 349, 357.
The only ground of title disclosed by the appellant is
the act of 1866, coupled perhaps with the fact that its
lines are established. The rights of the city to the streets
are left a little vague, but the bill assumes that they are
such as to authorize the charge of a reasonable rental
on the principle of St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 148 U. S. 92. Any license that the city may have

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

granted as owner or representative of the owner of the
public, easement or otherwise may be assumed to have
been revoked, and so far as the city's title is infringed by
the appellant nothing appears to limit the city's right to
insist upon it, as fully as a private owner might. Leaving
the question of title on one side, except so far as to note
that the appellant does not show one, and that the city
has power to admit it to the highways, the other regulations complained of do not violate the appellant's constitutional rights.
When the appellant without the right to exercise the
power of eminent domain desires to occupy land belonging
to others, prima facie it must submit to their terms. We
assume, as we have- said, that the city has some interest
in the streets that is affected by the presence or by the
establishment of conduits or poles. If it demands, as a
condition of its assent, as it does by § 6, that positions
shall be reserved upon the poles for the city, and by § 28
that provision shall be made for thirty per cent increase
and that the city's wires shall be carried free of charge,
one duct being reserved for them, it is within its rights.
Even assuming,. as seems to be implied by some of the
language in St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
148 U. S. 92, 104, 105; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Attorney General of Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, that in
consequence of the act of Congress, the city is restricted
to reasonable demands, the foregoing requirements do
not seem to us unreasonable in view of the position
of the parties. The city must use these poles and conduits or others, and it is not unfair that it should avoid
the expense and additional burden of a separate system
and insist on getting the help it needs from the system
already there. See Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Chicopee,
207 Massachusetts, 341. It is no sufficient objection that
from the point of view of rental the burden on certain
poles may vary in a proportion different from the value

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. RICHMOND.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of those poles. The notion of rental cannot be used thus
to restrict the conditions that may be imposed. The
conditions are reasonable with reference to the occupation
of the streets considered as a whole, and are not made
otherwise by the fact that there is also a specific money
charge for each pole or underground mile of wire. ,
The requirement that space be left in the conduits for
wires of third parties, to be used upon permission by the
city and compensation, §§ 4, 28, is merely another incident
of the necessity for insisting upon a single system. It
would seem not to be unreasonable for legislation, apart
from any question of property rights, to require that a
single conduit should contain all the wires under a street.
When the legislature also is fixing the terms on which it
will yield a property right the validity of the condition
becomes doubly clear. So a provision in § 28 for moving
or altering conduits at the appellant's expense upon notice
from the city that the change is necessary for the construction or repair of gas, sewer, or water mains. These
items seem to us as easily justified as the order to put
the wires underground, the legality of which the appellant
fully admits.
The money charges of two dollars per pole and the
same sum per mile of underground wire, are found fault
with. §§ 10, 32. Many of the cases relied upon by the
appellant are cases turning on the limitations to the
powers of the municipality. But, as we have said, this
bill is brought on the theory that any such legislation by
the State would be bad under the Constitution and:act
of Congress-not upon the suggestion that the City of
Richmond is acting ultra vires. If the city could be
authorized to do what it has done, we must assume that
it is acting within its powers. Taking up the question
so limited, we agree with the court below that after the
appellant, as is found, has paid the charges without complaint for many years it would require something more

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

than a mere protest now to induce us to find it unreasonable. The sum is not so great as has been charged and
sustained heretofore. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, 104. S. C., 149 U. S. 465. Postal
Telegraph Cable Co. v. Baltimore, 156 U. S. 210. Memphis
v. Postal Telegraph Cable Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 600, 91 C.
C. A. 135.
There is the frequently recurring contention that the
ordinance is void because of the great penalties that may
be incurred in the time necessary to test its legality.
Especially mentioned is § 27, as amended in 1902, which
imposes a fine of from $100 to $500 for each pole remaining
after the time set for their removal, and of from $100 to
$500 for every week thereafter. It does not look as if the
penalties in this ordinance were established with a view
to prevent the appellant from resorting to the Federal
courts, nor do we apprehend that an attempt will be
made to enforce them in respect to the past. But the
penalties are separable from the rest of the ordinance, and
if an oppressive application of them should be attempted
it will be time enough then for the appellant to file its bill.
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 417.
GrenadaLumber Co. v. Mississippi,217 U. S. 433, 443.
One more objection to the ordinance is found in §31,
which limits the privilege as to the conduits to fifteen years
and provides that after that time the city may put such
restrictions, conditions and charges as it sees fit, or may
order the conduits removed. It seems to be thought that
this is an attempt to make the appellant contract itself
out of the benefit of the act of Congress. What we have
said will show some reason for not so regarding the ordinance-and as an amendment, § 34, adopted since the bill
was filed, provides that none of the obligations, &c., of
the chapter shall interfere with rights under the act of
1866, the appellant's position would be no worse by reason
of its complying with what it cannot help. We think it

WORLD'S FAIR MINING CO. v. POWERS.
224 U. S.

173

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

unnecessary to discuss the bill in greater detail to show

that it cannot be maintained.
Decree dismissing bill affirmed.

WORLD'S FAIR MINING COMPANY v. POWERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 207. Argued March 11, 12, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
The owner of a mine contracted with a purchaser for the latter to go
into possession and proceed, with the development of, and extract
ore from, the mine, and to deposit to the credit of the owner in a
designated bank the net proceeds up to a specified amount when
deeds to the property, deposited in escrow should be delivered.
The purchaser proceeded with the work, but deposited proceeds to
his own credit in another bank, whereupon the owner attached such
deposit and took forcible possession of the mine. In a suit brought
by the purchaser, held that:
The deposit of proceeds of ore in the specified bank was a condition
concurrent or precedent to the obligation of the owner to go on
with the contract; and, unless the declaration disclosed an excuse
for the breach, the owner was justified in retaking possession.
That the action of the owner in attaching the deposit was not
an excuse for a breach by the purchaser, nor did the declaration disclose any sufficient excuse for the breach.
Under the contract the act of the owner in suing for part of the
purchase price which belonged to him would not prevent him
from terminating the contract for failure to perform; there was
no election.
10 Arizona, 5, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for sale of mines and what constituted breaches thereof,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank H. Hereford, with whom Mr. F. E. Curley
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

The pleadings fully allege those conditions of the con-

