OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

the hypothesis that there was subsequent legislation, we
think there is nothing supporting the claim of impairment
of contract, because the Supreme Court of Idaho was
clearly right in deciding that no contract provision was
impaired, since the Water Company had voluntarily laid
its main in the ungraded street in question and was supplying water from such main to residents on the street,
and its duty was to supply water "without distinction of
persons."
Affirmed.

GUARANTEE TITLE & TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE OF PITTSBURGH INDUSTRIAL IRON
WORKS, BANKRUPT, v. TITLE GUARANTY &
SURETY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 188.

Argued March 5, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

Under the general rule applicable to all sovereigns, the United States
is not bound by the provisions of an insolvency law unless specially
mentioned therein.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1867 and the act of March 3, 1797, 1 Stat. 515,
c. 20, now §§ 3467, 3468, 3469, Rev. Stat., by both of which all debts
due the United States are given priority over all claims, were in pari
materia, and the Bankruptcy Act of 1867 affirmed the act of 1797.
Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898 was not an affirmation of the act of 1797
or of Rev. Stat., § 3467, 3468, 3469, and the change of provisions in
regard to priority indicates a change of purpose in that respect.
Under a beneficent policy, which favors those working for their daily
bread and does not seriously affect the sovereign, Congress, in enacting the Bankruptcy Law of 1898, preferred labor claims and gave
them priority over all other claims except taxes, and the courts must
assume a change of purpose in the change of order.

GUARANTEE CO. v. TITLE GUARANTY CO.
224 U. S.

153'

Opinion of the Court.

In this case held that even if a surety company which had paid the
debt of the principal to the Government was subrogated to the claim
of the Government and was entitled to whatever priority the Government was entitled to, under the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, the
claim not being for taxes but a mere debt was not entitled to priority
in distribution of the bankrupt's assets over claims for labor preferred by the act.
174 Fed. Rep. 385, 98 C. C. A. 603, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 in regard to priority of claims of the
United States against the bankrupt, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. R. T. M. McCready for appellant.
Mr. George J. Shaffer, with whom Mr. Walter Lyon
and Mr. John P. Hunter were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case involves the consideration of the priority of
payment out of the estate of a bankrupt of claims due the
United States and claims for labor.
The United States is not a party to the action, but appellee brings itself into relation with it as subrogated to
its rights by the payment of a judgment obtained against
the appellee, as surety on a bond for the bankrupt. We
shall assume that appellee may assert whatever priority
the United States possessed.
After the payment of the judgment appellee petitioned
the District Court having jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
proceedings for an order directing the Trustee in Bankruptcy to pay it the amount of the judgment before making any other distribution of the funds of the bankrupt.
The Referee in Bankruptcy decided against the priority,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

and also decided that the claim had not been presented
in time for allowance. Upon petition for review and the
questions having been certified to the District Court,
the report of the Referee was confirmed. This action
was reversed by the Court of Appeals, and the appellee
awarded priority.
The priority of the United States is established, it is
contended, by §§ 3466, 3467 and 3468 of the Revised
Statutes, which are, respectively, as follows:
Section 3466. "Whenever any person indebted to the
United States is insolvent, or whenever the estate of any
deceased debtor, in the hands of the executors or administrators, is insufficient to pay all the debts due from
the deceased, the debts due to the United States shall be
first satisfied; and the priority hereby established shall
extend as well to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his debts, makes a voluntary
assignment thereof, or in which the estate and effects of
an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor are attached
by process of law, as to cases in which an act of bankruptcy
is committed."
Section 3467. "Every executor, administrator, or assignee, or other person, who pays any debt due by the
person or estate from whom or for which he acts, before
he satisfies and pays the debts due to the United States
from such person or estate, shall become answerable in
his own person and estate for the debts so due to the
United States, or for so much thereof as may remain due
and unpaid."
Section 3468. "Whenever the principal in any bond
given to the United States is insolvent, or whenever, such
principal being deceased, his estate and effects which
came to the hands of his executor, administrator or assignee, are insufficient for the payment of his debts, and,
in either of such cases, any surety on the bond, or the
executor, administrator, or assignee of such surety pays

GUARANTEE CO. v. TITLE GUARANTY CO. 155
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the United States the money due upon such bond,
such surety, his executor, administrator, or assignee, shall
have the like priority for the recovery and receipt of the
moneys out of the estate and effects of such insolvent or
deceased principal as is secured to the United States; and
may bring and maintain a suit upon the bond, in law or
equity, in his own name, for the recovery of all moneys
paid thereon."
The counter contention of appellant is that those sections have been superseded by the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, which declare a different policy and
give priority to labor claims. Those provisions we shall
presently quote ana consider.
The comprehensive objection is made to the applicability of the provisions that the United States as a sovereign is not bound by the general language of a statute,
and is not bound by the provision of an insolvency law,
unless specifically mentioned therein. This objection
prevailed in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and is said
to be sustained by Dollar Savings Bank v. United States,
19 Wall. 227, 239; United States v. Herron, 20 Wall. 251,
260; Lewis, Trustee, v. United States, 92 U. S. 618.
The proposition is established. The first case cited
gives an illustration of it not connected with bankruptcy
laws. In the other two cases it was applied to such laws.
United States v. Herron was an action brought on a
bond executed by one Collins as principal and Herron
and others as sureties. Herron pleaded a discharge in
bankruptcy under the act of '1867 (March 2, 1867, 14
Stat. 530, c. 176). The question was therefore presented
whether a discharge under the act barred a debt due to
the United States. It was held that such a discharge
was not a bar, although it was also held that the United
States might have proved its debt and been given priority
by the act.
The decision was expressly put upon the ground '.'that

.156

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the sovereign authority of the country is not bound by
the words of a statute unless named therein, if the statute
tends to restrain or diminish the powers, rights, or interests of the sovereign." There was much reasoning to
sustain the proposition, and it was especially applied to
discharges in bankruptcy. Expressing the general assent
to the proposition announced, the court said (p. 262):
"Greater unanimity of decision in the courts or of views
among text writers can hardly be found upon any important question than exists in respect to this question in
the parent country, nor is there any diversity of sentiment
in our courts, Federal or State, nor among the text writers
of this country."
In Lewis, Trustee, v. United States, Lewis had been appointed trustee of the estates of Jay Cooke & Company,
and as such received and held their separate individual
estates and assets, and the estates and assets of the firm
as well. The estates of the bankrupts were insufficient
to pay all their indebtedness. The United States claimed
priority of payment of its debt out of the individual estates as against the creditors of the firm. Lewis denied
the validity of the demand, but it was sustained.
As one of the elements in its decision the court considered the provision of the act of 1867 (§ 5101 of the Revised Statutes) that in the order for a dividend "all debts
due to the United States, and all taxes and assessments
under the laws thereof," should be "entitled to priority
and preference." The court also considered as an element of its decision the act of March 3, 1797 (1 Stat. 512,
515, c. 20), which provided as follows:
"That where any revenue officer or other person hereafter becoming indebted to the United States, by bond or
otherwise, shall become insolvent, or where the estate of
any deceased debtor in the hands of executors or administrators shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due
from the deceased, the debt due to the United States

GUARANTEE CO. v. TITLE GUARANTY CO. 157
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall be first satisfied, and the priority hereby established
shall be deemed to extend as well to cases in which a
debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his debts,
shall make a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which
the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or
absent debtor shall be attached by process of law, as to
the cases in which a legal act of bankruptcy shall be committed."
The court decided that it was "almost too clear to
admit of serious controversy" that under this act and the
facts in the case the United States was entitled to the
priority which they claimed, and passed to the contention
against it based on the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.
The court met the contention by the general declaration that "the United States are in no wise bound by the
Bankruptcy Act." The disposing effect of the declaration
was appreciated, for it was said "that the claim of the
United States was not proved in the bankruptcy proceedings in question was, therefore, quite immaterial." Citing
United States v. Herron, supra, and Harrison v. Sterry,
5 Cranch, 289.
The court, however, did consider the provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act and said of the clause which it had quoted
that it was "in pari materia with the several acts giving
priority of payment to the United States, and was doubtless put in to recognize and reaffirm the rights which
those statutes give and to exclude the possibility of a
different conclusion." And, emphasizing the priority of
the United States, it was pointed out (p. 623) that the
Bankruptcy Law declared that the United States should
be first paid and that the act of 1867 gave the debts of
the United States priority. "Neither statute," the court
said (p. 623), "contains any qualification, and we can
interpolate none." The inference from the language of
the court, it must be admitted, is quite strong, and the
Court of Appeals considered that "in the light thereof the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

omission in the Act of 1898 of words expressly giving
priority to debts due to the United States had no more
significance than, the presence of such words in the Act of
1867'"-that is, as we understand the reasoning, that
§ 3466 of the Revised Statutes, which is a reproduction of
the statute of 1797, with immaterial changes, was allsufficient to give priority and that the rights it gave were
only recognized and reaffirmed by the provisions for
priority in the Bankruptcy Act of 1898. But, as we have
seen, the decision in Lewis v. United States declared that
the statute of 1797 and the Bankruptcy Act were to be
regarded as in pari materia,and both were unqualified; or,
as the court said, as neither contained any qualification,
none could be interpolated. They being affirmations of
each other, either would have been sufficient without the
other. The Bankruptcy Act of 1867, as we have seen,
provided for priority, first, for the payment of expenses,
and,. second, of "all debts due to the United States, and
all taxes and assessments under the laws thereof." The
priority, therefore, given by the Bankruptcy Act was
coextensive with the priority given by the statute of 1797.
In other words, to repeat, there was a reaffirmation by
the Bankruptcy Act of the statute of 1797. But there is
not such affirmation by the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 of
tha' statute, which still exists, as we have said, as § 3466
of the Revised Statutes, supra. There is a change in provisions, and 'we come to the question if there is a change
of purpose. A consideration of those provisions becomes
necessary. We shall quote those only which affect the
United States. They are as follows: "Section 1. . .
(9) 'Creditor' shall include any one who owns a demand
provable, in bankruptcy." (Sec. 17.) A discharge in
bankruptcy releases the bankrupt from all of his provable
debts except such as are due as a tax levied by the United
States. (Sec. 57-J.) Debts owing to the United States as
a penalty or forfeiture shall not be allowed except for the

GUARANTEE CO. v. TITLE GUARAN4TY CO.
224 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

amount of the pecuniary loss sustained by the act, transaction or proceeding out of which the penalty arose.
Priority is provided for in § 64 as follows:" (a) The court
shall order the trustee to pay all taxes legally due the
United States. (b) Debts to have priority, except as
herein provided, and to be paid in full,
and the
order of payment shall be" (4) wages due to workmen,
clerks, or servants which have been earned within three
months before the date of the commencement of the proceedings; and (5) debts owing to any person who by the
laws of the States or the United States is entitled to
priority."
With these provisions we may compare §§ 5091 and 5101
of the Revised Statutes, which are reproductions of the
act of 1867. Section 5091 provided that creditors whose
debts were duly proved and allowed should be entitled to
share pro rata without any priority or preference except as
allowed in § 5101. The latter section (5101) provided as
follows:
"In the order for a dividend, the following claims shall
be entitled to priority, and to be first paid in full in the
following order:
Second. All debts due to the United States, and
all taxes and assessments under the laws thereof. .
Fourth. Wages due to any operative, clerk, or house
servant, to an amount not exceeding fifty dollars, for
labor performed within six months next preceding the
first publication of the notice of proceedings in bankruptcy. Fifth. All debts due to any person who, by the
laws of the United States, are, or may be, entitled to a
priority, in like manner as if the provisions of this Title
had not been adopted. . .
It will be seen, therefore, that by the statute of 1797
(now § 3466) and § 5101 of the Revised Statutes all debts
due to the United States were expressly given priority to
the wages due any operative, clerk or house servant. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

different order is prescribed by the act of 1898, and something more. Labor claims are given priority, and it is
provided that debts having priority shall be paid in full.
The only exception is "taxes legally due and owing by
the bankrupt to the United States, State, county, district
or municipality." These were civil obligations, not personal conventions, and preference was given to them, but
as to debts we must assume a change of purpose in the
change of order. And we cannot say that it was inadvertent. The act takes into consideration, we think, the
whole range of indebtedness of the bankrupt, national,
state and individual, and assigns the order of payment.
The policy which dictated it was beneficent and well
might induce a postponement of the claims, even of the
sovereign in favor of those who necessarily depended upon
their daily labor. And to give such claims priority could
in no case seriously affect the sovereign. To deny them
priority would in all cases seriously affect the claimants.
Reversed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY
CITY OF RICHMOND.

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 195. Argued March 6, 7, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
A municipal ordinance will not be held unconstitutional as an unreasonable grant of power because it permits the use of streets by a public service corporation only in such manner as is satisfactory to the
municipal officers in charge of such streets; and so held that an ordinance of the City of Richmond, Virginia, in regard to location and
construction of telegraph wires and conduits did not deprive telegraph companies of their property without due process of law.

