UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 309
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

force. It follows that the decree of the Court of Appeals.
must be reversed with directions to that court to affirm the
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
dismissing the bill, without prejudice however to the right
of the defendant here, who was the complainant below,
to proceed in the Court of Claims in accordance with the
provisions of the act of 1910.
Reversed and remanded.

THE UNITED STATES v. SOCIfETf ANONYME
DES ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS CAIL.
SOCIT

ANONYME DES ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS CAIL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 209, 210.

Argued March 12, 13, 1912.-Decided April 8, 1912.

Ina order to find that there was an implied contract for use of a patent,
there must be use with patentee's assent and agreement to pay
something therefor, United States v. Berdan Fire Arms Company,
156 U. S. 552, and these elements may be collected from conduct
of the parties, even if there are no explicit declarations.
Where the facts show that the patentee consented that the Government use his invention, and the proper officers of the Department
in which it was used have stated that there is a claim for royalties
if the patent is a valid one, the claim is founded on contract and the
Court of Claims has jurisdiction.
The intention to plainly do a wrongful act by deliberately taking the
property of another without compensation will not be imputed to
officers of the United States without the most convincing proof.
The excellence of an ordnance invention is testified to by its use by
the Government in guns for the national defense.
In this case, held that the De Bange gas check for large guns is a device of excellence, that the patents therefor are valid, and the gas
checking device used by the Government is an infringement thereof.
The law secures the patentee against infringement by a use in otherforms and proportions than those specifically described in the claims.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

This court will not direct the Court of Claims to certify evidence and
not its conclusions from the evidence. The rule is that the finding
must be of the facts established by the evidence.
This court, in appeals from the Court of Claims, can only act upon the
record; and a finding of that court that a definite amount of compensation is due from the Government for use of a patent, to which
no objection is taken or exception reserved, is as finally determinative
of the matter, as a special verdict of a jury: The evidence cannot be
certified up so as to make such finding reviewable by this court.
United States v. New York Indians, 173 U. S. 464, followed, and
Cebailos & Co. v. United States, 214 U. S. 47, distinguished.
44 Ct. Cl. 610, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims of claims of patentee of the De Bange gas
check for use of that invention by the Government,
whether there was such use and what the proper compensation should be therefor, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and

Mr. Malcolm A. Coles for the United States.
Mr. ,PhilipMauro and Mr. T. D. Merwin, for appellee
in No. 209 and appellant in No. 210.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit is for royalties alleged to be due for the use
by the Government of a certain patented invention known
as a "gas check" or "obturator," a device applied to
breech-loading cannon to prevent the escape of gas.
The Court of Claims rendered judgment against the
United States for the sum of $136,000. Both parties
appeal, the United States contending against any judgment, the claimant contending for the recovery of a larger
sum. No further distinction is necessary to be observed
between the appeals. The discussion of the case will
dispose of both.
The first contention of the Government is that the facts

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 311
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

set out in the findings did not constitute an implied contract in fact as distinguished from a tort, and that, therefore, the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction of the case.
Such a contract is necessary to sustain the exercise of
jurisdiction. Russell v. United States, 182 U. S.516, and
cases cited. The Court of Claims decided that such a
contract existed and that the jurisdiction of the court was
established, citing United States v. Berdan Fire Arms Mfg.
Company, 156 U. S.552. The court said: "The findings
disclose an invitation to present the details of the patent
to the defendant. [the Government], its examination by a
board of officers appointed to investigate such inventions,
and its final use without the slightest claim of ownership.
Nothing appears to show an intention to dispute claimant's
title to the patent, hence an implied contract arose to
pay for such use."
In discussing the correctness of these conclusions we
necessarily assume the validity of the patent, its utility
and use by the Government, the question being only for
the present whether such use was a trespass upon the rights
of the claimant, or in concession of.such rights and of an
obligation to pay for them.
The findings lack, and, it may be, necessarily lack,
definiteness. They trace the history and progress of the
invention of gas checks from an early period to the culmination in the patent to Colonel De Bange, an officer
of the French army, in 1884, granted upon an application
made in 1883. It immediately attracted the notice of
American army and naval officers and received favorable
commendation in ordnance notes.
In 1883, under an act of Congress of that year (March 3,
1883, 22 Stat. 472, 474), a board was constituted known
as the "Gun Foundry Board," composed of eminent officers of the army and navy, headed by Rear Admiral
Simpson of the navy, whose duty it was, among others,
as it is recited in the findings, to report on the establish-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

ment of a Government foundry, "'or what other method,
if any, should be adopted for the manufacture of heavy
ordnance adapted to modern warfare, for the use of the
army and navy of the United States."'
The board visited the claimant's works at Paris on
June 29, 1883. "In the official report of this board
reference is made to a visit to the claimant's works at
Paris, France, on August 29, 1883, and to the inspection
by said board of the De Bange system of ordnance. In
the said report of said board is the following:
"'Breech fermeture.-AlU the French guns are breechloading, and are fitted with the interrupted screw system,
as modified by Colonel De Bange to suit his gas check.
"'Gas check.-The De Bange gas check is universally
employed."'
Prior to the visit of the Gun Foundry Board the De
Bange obturator was brought directly to the attention of
the United States ordnance authorities through Lieutenant
Commander Chadwick, naval attach6 at London, to whom
De Bange explained his invention and who gave to Lieutenant Commander Folger of the Bureau of Ordnance,.
Navy Department, a detailed description of the gas check,
with a description of the method of making it, furnished
by De Bange, subsequently (July 5, 1883) fqrwarding to
the department the device, accompanied by the following
letter:
"SIR: I have the honor to forward herewith a De Bange
'obturator,' which was kindly presented on request by
the French minister of war.
"I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
F. E. CHADWICK,
Lt. Comdr., U. S. Navy, Naval Attach.

"Commodore J. E.

WALKER,

U. S. Navy, Chief of Bureau of Navigation,
Navy Department, Washington."

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 313
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1884 the ordnance officers of the United States,
after experimenting with the De Bange device, adopted
it for heavy ordnance (5-inch caliber and upward) and
have used no other device since.
"The United States Government [we quote from the
findings] has never disputed the title of claimant's assignor,
Colonel De Bange, as inventor of the said invention;
but, on the contrary, the said invention has, ever since
its adoption, been known in the service of the United
States as the 'De Bange gas check,' and is described by
that name in the official reports of the Secretaries of War
and of the Navy."
The findings contain certain correspondence which is
relied on by the Government to sustain its contention,
and, as it is not possible to condense it, it is given in full:.
"PARIS, June 29, 1891.
Colonel De Bange to H. E., the Minister Plenipotentiaryof
the United States.
"MR. MINISTER: In order to respond to the desire
expressed by your excellency in the letter which you
have done me the honor to address to me, I add some
details to my previous observations.
"One of my patents bears the number 331,618; it relates to gun carriages; it is not very important because
one can do without it; but the second, No. 301,220, which is
connected with the obturation of guns and breech mechanism is of the highest importance. Without my obturator
the loading of a gun by the breech is. difficult and the service is rendered ineffectual. The metallic ring used in Germany is far from having its value and imparts.to the gun
a considerable inferiority. Thus all the makers of canhon
are led to employ my invention, either openly or in a
disguised form, styled by them improvement. The War
and Navy Departments at New York, which are well
acquainted with the question, will certainly not contest

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the truth of my assertions; they have under their eyes,
on trial, guns which speak for themselves.
"This is not the first time that I have had to complain
of my, idea being borrowed without my knowledge in
France or abroad. The English Government particularly
had taken up my system, and without my having demanded anything had offered me twenty thousand pounds
sterling to indemnify me. I refused this offer, it is true,
but because as a French officer I ought not to aid in the
arming of a power which I do not consider as friendly. In
part, deprived of my assistance, England has copied me
badly and possesses but a moderate artillery.
"In any case, I appeal to the sentiments of equity of the
Government of the United States, convinced that it will
recognize easily the justice of my claim.
"Pray accept, &c., &c.,
(Sgd.)
Colonel DE BANGE.
"UNITED

STATES LEGATION,

NAVAL ATTACHA,

Paris,July 2nd 1891.
The Naval Attach6 at London suggested in a communication to Mr. Reid, our Minister there, that Colonel
De Bange's letter be forwarded to the Navy Department.
The Minister, however, referred it to the Secretary of State.
De Bange sent the following letter to the Secretary of
the Navy:
"VERSAILLES,

NEAR PARIS,

16/8/91.

"Colonel De Bange to Monsieur Benjamin F. Tracy,. Sec. retary of the Navy at Washington.
"MR. SECRETARY: Some months ago I addressed the
United States minister at Paris, verbally and by writing,
several remarks :on the subject of loans which I had made
of my invention to the departments of War and of the
Navy; finally, as -I have undertaken to write to you directly, I now have the honor to lay before you the following:

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 315
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"I had taken out letters patent, which treated of
artillery in the United States, one number, 301,220, relative to l'obturation of guns, and of principal importance;
the other number, 331,618, relative to the carriage.
"Furthermore, I have seen at Paris many of your
officers to whom I furnished without reserve all the information which they have asked of me.
"Under these circumstances I hope that if the Government has desired to utilize my inventions, it will inform
me; there has been no defect, and I have learned from a
reliable source that my system was copied, unknown to
me, by the departments of War and of the Navy, be it
under the disguise of an improvement or-be it openly.
"I regret that this has occurred, but in any case I consider that an indemnity is due me. If you will have the
kindness to notify the Government of my claim, I am confident that it will see that justice is accorded me in the
indemnity to which I believe myself to be entitled.
"Please accept, Mr. Secretary, the expression of sentiments of highest consideration, with which I am
"Your obedient servant,
"DE BANGE.
"Please reply.
This letter seems also to have been sent to the Department of State and referrred by it to the Secretary of the
Navy, as appears from the following letter of the Chief
of the Bureau of Ordnance:
August 27,1891.
"Respectfully returned to the honorable Secretary of
the Navy.
"The bureau has not manufactured and is not using
any gun carriages which contain principles which could
be held as infringing any claims secured in United States
patent No. 331,618. The gas check which has been
adopted for the naval guns of 6-in. calibre and upwards
"BUREAU OF ORDNANCE,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

resembles in certain features that described in United
States patent No. 301,220, issued to Col. De Bange. It
also differs from it materially in particulars which are
original in this bureau.
. "I am not in position to give an opinion as to the question of infringement, and have to suggest that the applicant refer the matter to the Court of Claims.
"The bureau will note for the information of the
applicant that there are no funds appropriated or available for the payment of any claim that might be allowed
by the Court of Claims, and that it will be necessary for
the applicant to go to Congress for relief in the event of a
decision being obtained which will warrant such action.
(Sgd.)

WM. M. FOLGER,

Chief Bureau of Ordnance."
The Navy Department then addressed the Secretary
of State as follows:
"NAVY

DEPARTMENT,

"Washington; September 3, 1891.
"SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
your communication of the 20th ultimo, enclosing copies of
correspondence relating to a claim of Colonel De Bange,
a retired officer of the French army, residing in Paris,
France, who alleges the use by this Government of certain
inventions patented by him in guns and gun carriages.
"In reply I have to state that the Chief of the Bureau
of Ordnance, in this department, to whom the communication and accompanying papers were referred, reports as
follows:
"' The bureau has not manufactured, and is not using,
any gun carriages which contain principles which could
be held as infringing any claims described in U. S. patent
No. 331,618.
"' The gas check which has been adopted for the naval
guns of 6-inch calibre and upwards resembles in certain

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 317
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

features that described in U. S. patent 301,220, issued to
Colonel De Bange. It also differs from it materially in
particulars which were original in this bureau.'
"In view of the statement made by the Chief of the
Bureau of Ordnance, there appears to be no proper ground
for the claim of Colonel De Bange.
"Very respectfully,

F. M.

RAMSEY,

"Acting Secretary of the Navy.
"The Honorable the SECRETARY OF STATE."

On January 31, 1894, the claimant, by its attorneys
addressed substantially. shimilar letters to the Secretary
of War and the Secretary of the Navy, stating its claim
for the use of its patented invention and requesting payment for the use of it. The letters described and extolled
the device and stated that they "deemed it expedient
to take a low average price and apply it to all guns."
They fixed such price at $200 per gun.
The Secretary of the Navy, on February 10, 1894, in
replying, referred to and quoted from the department's
letter of August 20, 1891, and added: "As the status of
the case has not been changed since the date of the department's letter above mentioned, and as the matter
has been previously disposed of by the department, no
further consideration of the case appears to be required."
The letter of the claimant's attorneys, however, was
the subject of a report and recommendation by the Chief
of Bureau of Ordnance, which resulted in the following
letters:
"BUREAU OF ORDNANCE,

December 4, 18A4.
"Respectfully returned to the department.
"The gas check applied to guns constructed for the
navy is that illustrated in United States Letters Patent
No. 318,093, of May 10, 1885, and so far as this patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

is valid no royalties should be paid. (See Court of Claims
Reports, p. 334, vol. 23, 1887-88.) If, however, as the
bureau believes to be the case, the above-mentioned
patent is only valid so far as it covers improvements
on the De Bange patent (No. 301,220, of July 1, 1884),
then, so far as the latter patent is valid, the within claim
for royalties, in .the bureau's opinion, is a proper one,
and would be maintained by the courts.
"It must be notgd, however, that until recently there
has been no authority of law for the payment of royalties
out of the naval appropriations, and the manufacture of
most of the gas checks in question had been completed prior
to the legislation giving such authority. Moreover, the
bureau is of opinion that the Davis patent (No. 318,093,
of May 19, 1885) covers real and important improvements, Without which it is doubtful if the- De Bange
system would have been adopted for United States naval
guns, and consequently it will be necessary to decide as
to the relative values of the device in its original and
improved forms. The fact that practically the same
gas check is in use in all United States army guns of
recent construction, and is being applied to guns now
being made by the Bethlehem Iron Company, under
contract with the War Department, should also be considered, since independent action on the part of the Navy
Department might easily be against the interests of the
Government.
"It is therefore recommended that an investigation
be made in regard to the De Bange patent, and if, this
patent is concluded to be valid that the War Department
be consulted as to whether a definite sum, to be fixed
upon either by a board or in some other way; should -not
be offered the claimants for the right, on the part of the
Governmetit to use the device in question on all its guns.
"W. T. SAMPSON.
"Chief of Bureau of Ordnance."

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 319
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The final action of the Navy Department upon petitioner's claim was communicated to the petitioner in a
letter of the Secretary of the Navy, dated December 31,
1894, as follows:
"NAVY DEPARTMENT,

"Washington, December 31, 1894.
The department has carefully considered
the questions presented in the brief filed by you, as well
as in former correspondence, relative to the. matter of
the claim of the Soci6t6 Anonyme des Anciens Etablissements Cail for compensation for the use by the United
States of a gas check invented by Col. Charles T. W. V.
De Bange, of the French army.
"It appears that the matter is now in such a condition
that it will in all probability involve not only questions
arising under the patent issued to Colonel De Bange,
but also those growing out of the claims and affecting
the rights of other patentees. Under these circumstances
the department is of opinion that the full consideration
and determination of these questions can be more certainly and equitably reached and the rights, of all the
parties concerned, as well as the Government, more definitely ascertained and assured through the medium of
a court of justice. It is therefore suggested that the
necessary proceedings for the consideration and adjustment of the matter by the Court of Claims be instituted.
"Very respectfully,
"H. A. HERBERT, Secretary.
"GENTLEMEN:

"Messrs. POLLOCK & MAURO,.

"Attorneys at Law, Washington, D. C."
The final action of the War Department was communicated to claimant's attorneys in a letter dated January 14, 1895, in which the language and suggestion of
the Secretary of the Navy were adopted substantially
verbtim.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

It is not possible to review the arguments by which the
claimant asserts and the Government denies the sufficiency
of the facts as we have related them to constitute an implied contract between the claimant and the Government.
The ultimate contention of the Government is that the
mere use of the patentee's invention with his knowledge
does not create an implied contract in fact to pay for such
use, but "there must be (1) a use of it with the patentee's
assent, and there must also be (2) an agreement or meeting
of minds on the part of the patentee and on the part of
the user as to compensation for the use, even though the
amount of the compensation be not fixed." These elements, it is insisted, were present in the Berdan Case,
which we have seen was relied on by the Court of Claims;
they are, it is further insisted, absent in the case at bar.
But these elements do not have to appear by the explicit declaration of the parties. They may be collected
from their conduct. The alternative of a contract is
important to be kept in mind. The officers of the Government knew of the De Bange invention and were aware
of its great importance, and the purpose to deliberately
take property of another without the intention that he
should be compensated-in other words, to do plainly a
wrongful act-cannot be imputed to them without the
most convincing proof. Such proof does not exist in the
present case. On the contrary, the record shows that
compensation was contemplated. There was doubt as to
the extent of it because there was doubt as to how far the
devices used were attributable to or belonged to De Bange
or whether they constituted an infringement of his patent,
and therefore there was hesitancy and doubt, not as to
compensation, but as to the amount and extent of it.
We agree with the Court of Claims that there is resemblance between this case and the Berdan Case. In
that, case the court had no difficulty: in adducing the
assent of Berdan to the use of his invention. The court

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 321
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found more difficulty in inferring the assent of the Government. The court said, by Mr. Justice Brewer: "While
the findings are not specific and emphatic as to the assent
of the Government to the terms of any contract, yet we
think they are sufficient. There was certainly no denial
of the patentee's rights to the invention; no assertion on
the part of the Government that the patent was wrongfully

issued; no claim of the right to use the invention regardless
of the patent; no disregard of all claims of the patentee,
and no use in spite of protest or remonstrance. Negatively, at least, the findings are clear. The Government
used the invention with the consent and express permission of the owner, and it did not, while so using it, repudiate the title of such owner."
Like comment may be made of the facts in the case at
bar. It is true that the letter of William F. Folger, Chief
of the Bureau of Ordnance, stated that while the gas
check used by the Government resembled in certain features De Bange's gas check, it differed from it materially
in particulars which were original in the bureau. But this
was not a denial of the use or the utility of De Bange's
invention. Whether there was infringement the officer
did not decide, but suggested that the "applicant refer
the matter to the Court of Claims." Subsequently the
Acting Secretary of the Navy did deny infringement.
But that position was abandoned and the Secretaries
of War and the Navy "suggested that the necessary
proceedings for the consideration of the adjustment of
the matter by the Court of Claims be instituted." There
were parallel circumstances in the Berdan Case.
The invention of Berdan was an "extractor-ejector"
for use in breech-loading rifles, and that which was used
by the Government was devised by one of its employ~s.
There was a difference between it and Berdan's device,
but the officers of the- Government doubted if the difference was-material, and concluded that it was a matVOL. ccxxiv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

ter for the courts to decide. It is true there was no assertion of right against the Berdan device in consequence
of the difference between it and the device used by the
Government as, it may be said, there was in the case at
bar by the letter of Admiral Ramsey of September 3, 1891.
But the-position taken in that letter was, as we have seen,
abandoned, and it was declared that so far as the De Bange
patent was valid its claim for royalties was, in the opinion
of the Bureau of Ordnance, a proper one and would be
sustained by the courts. This was in 1894. Prior to that
time and afterwards the Government continued to use the
device. We think the Court of Claims had jurisdiction.
The Government contends that it has not infringed
the De Bange patent. Infringement is a question of fact,
and as an aid to its solution courts are furnished usually
with an expert comparison of the contending devices,
their identity or difference of construction and modes of
operation. This record is destitute of such testimony.
The Government contends for the very narrow construction of the patent based on its claims and the prior art.
The only proof of the prior art, however, is a reference to
thirteen or fourteen patents by number and patentee,
some of which are English, some French and some American. The only explanation of them is in the argument
of counsel and an exhibition of the patents. It is very
doubtful if we may take notice- of even the American
patents; more doubtful if we may of the foreign ones.
We, however, have considered counsel's explanation of
them. They reveal nothing material to be considered
that the findings of the Court of Claims do not show of
the prior art and the progress from its failure to the success of the De Bange invention, a success, it may be conceded, that availed itself of all that the prior art demonstrated, but went beyond it to the fulfillment that it had
not achieved.
The necessity of a gas check to the success of breech-

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 323
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

loading guns all could see, and what a device, to be successful, must do; but the world struggled a long time
with the problem, and that problem was to find something
which would stand the intense heat generated and the
great force caused by- the explosion of the powder in a high
power gun and the backward escape of the resultant gas
under the enormous pressure exerted, and this not in one
service of the gun, but in many services. The experiments
are detailed in the findings. Metallic cups were tried and
paper cups. As early as 1858 India rubber was suggested.
Its elasticity, it was thought, would afford all that was
necessary for a complete automatic obturation, the gas by
its expansion "to seal its own escape."
Rubber had some success when constructed in rings
of varying degrees of suppleness and hardness, and seemed
to have settled the problem. But defects subsequently
developed and experiments continued for something better and which would fulfill all the conditions. Then soap
obturators were tried, and finally Colonel De Bange's
invention of tallow and asbestos. If our purpose was
speculative, not practical, we might pause to wonder
how such substances could produce such results under
the conditions to which they are subjected, and by wondering we express in a way the quality of the invention.
We are told by the findings of the Court of Claims that
a gas check "is subject to a pressure of from 30,000 to
40,000 pounds per square inch, to very high temperatures,
to the effects of corrosive gases, and the effects of rapid
and violent shocks."
We need not, however, dwell longer on the excellence
of the invention. The Government has testified to its
excellence by using it in the guns intended for the national defense.
But it is contended that the claim of the patent is
for a specific combination of elements and thatathat combination of elements is not used by the Government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

This contention is based upon what is considered to
be the proper construction of claim 1 of the patent, a
strict construction being urged of it-indeed, as we understand the argument, the claim must be confined to the
specific forms of its elements, giving the widest latitude
to imitation.
The patent answers the contention. Describing his
invention, De Bange calls it "certain new and useful
improvements in breech-loading guns." Specifying the
improvements, he says that they "apply to breech-loading
guns which employ a screw-plug having its threads interrupted." Further specifying, he adds: "I have devised a system of packing placed in advance of the plug,
and which is expanded by the force of the explosion of
the powder to make a tight joint to prevent the leakage
of gas." He declares the drawings form a part of the
specification and represent what he considers the best
means of carrying out the invention. It is only necessary
to give Figures 1, 2, 6 and 7.

They are described in the patent as follows: "Figure 1
is a central longitudinal section. The: strong lines show
the parts ready for firing. The dotted lines show the
transverse lever in a position for conveniently operating
to turn the screw-plug. Fig. 2 is a rear view showing
the parts locked. Fig. 3 is a corresponding view showing

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 325
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the parts unlocked. .
.
Figs. 6 and 7 represent the
packing-ring detached. Fig. 6 is a face view, and Fig. 7
a section in the plane of the axis." The specification
then proceeds as follows:
"A liberal hole in the line of the axis of the screw-plug
B carries a stout sliding pin, N, at the extreme front of
which is a stout head, N'. The portion of the body adjacent to the head N' is slightly enlarged. The head N'
is adapted to receive the force of the powder at the discharge. At the moment of the discharge this head moves
backward, compressing a relatively soft and expansible
packing-ring, M, behind it. Certain portions of this ring
will be distinguished, when necessary, by additional
marks, as M' M 2 . The body M' of this packing is of
asbestos saturated with tallow, and affords a sufficiently
yielding mass with the required capacity for enduring
heat and for withstanding the very strong compressive
force to which it is subjected by the discharge. It is inclosed between two thin shells, M2 M 2, of copper, one
fitting the body M' on the inner and the other on the
outer side, and nearly incasing the entire packing. Both
the body M' and the copper M 2 are then inclosed between
two strong shells of brass, MI MI. The entire packing
thus made is adapted to maintain its form, but to allow a
small amount of radial expansion sufficient to pack the
joint tightly against the escape of gas. This expansion
is due to two causes-the tapering form of the front end
of the pin N, which acts on the interior of the packing,
and the powerful compression received from the head N'.
The expansion from one or both causes is sufficient to
press the exterior of the copper M2 tightly against the
interior of the gun, thus effectually preventing any leakage of gas."
Claim 1 is the important one and is as follows:
"1. The partially-threaded plug B, headed pin N N',
extending through said plug, and the yielding packing M,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

arranged between the head N' and the inner end of the
plug, in combination with each other and with the gun A,
arranged as shown, to allow the pin to be driven rearward and compress the packing, as herein specified."
It will be observed, therefore, that De Bange declared
that what he devised was a "system of packing" which
by the force of the explosion of the powder is expanded
to make a tight joint to prevent the leakage of gas. The
mechanical parts are but aids to this result, securing in
place the packing and enabling its qualities to operate, enabling it to maintain its form but to allow radial expansion
sufficient "to pack the joint tightly against the escape
of gas." This expansion has also the effect of pressing
"the copper (M2)" against the interior of the gun and
co6perates to prevent the leakage of gas.
That this pacling constitutes the very essence of the
invention is declared in all of the literature on the subject
and recognized in all of the Government publications.
The Government now contends for a limitation of it, and
insists that it consists of "a yielding packing M," exactly
as described, although the description is declared by De
Bange to represent "the best means of carrying out liis invention," and he declares also that "modifications could
be used in the forms and proportions."
We cannot therefore assent to the contention of the
Government, and in rejecting it we do not render "the
claim elastic and indefinite where it should be certain."
We preserve that which was declared to be and which
has always been recognized to be the invention, and by
those competent to declare, whose duty it was to comprehend and estimate, not only the result achieved but
by what achieved.
In the description furnished by De Bange to Commander
Chadwick a covering of cloth is described. The description in the Ordnance Notes of April 20, 1883, mentions
"plates of tin, strengthened at the edges by thin brass

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 327
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rings." Another description speaks of "a metallic split
ring." These are but details. As said by the Court of
Claims, through Booth, J., "The invention described
by the language of the claim was the yielding pad of asbestos and tallow." And this, the learned Judge also said,
predominates as the one "central idea" in every description of the patent in either the specifications or claim.
We learn from the court that it heard much expert
testimony, and in its opinion it considers two subsequent
patents expressed to be improvements on the De Bange
patent. One of these was issued to James B. Davis and
the other to Gregory Gerdom. The difference between
them and the De Bange patent was commented on, and
it was said that the record disclosed that in all inventions
subsequent to De Bange's "the pad of asbestos and tallow
is the functioning element of the device, without which
its utility is as nothing," and that a pad of that composition supplied "the necessary expansion, indispensable to
forward the operation of both the Davis and Gerdom
patents. The United States used the Gerdom patent
and paid him substantial royalities for its use."
It would seem, therefore, that the contention of the
Government Iturns upon a question of fact found against
it by the court below; that is, it was found that the
particular envelope of the tallow and asbestos pad were
not essential features of De Bange's invention, and that
the substitution of steel rings for brass rings could be an
infringement of the invention. As said by counsel for
claimant, claim 1 "does not recite among its elements the
materials whereof the envelope [of the pad] and rings are
made.

.

.

.

It

is, on the contrary,

obvious that

any suitable material may be used for these subsidiary
parts." It is conceded that the pliable copper envelope
(MI) may be properly regarded as a part of the "yielding
packing." The patentee so states, but he does not say
that the "strong shells of brass M3 M3 are parts" of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

It would indeed be arbitrary, as'said by claimant, to read
into the claim the specific metal of which those shells
are composed "for no other purpose than to render it
[the claim] worthless."
We have seen De Bange describe what he conceived
to be the best form of his invention, and contemplated
that it could be represented in other forms and proportions.
This, however, was unnecessary, for the law would secure
him against imitation by other forms and proportions.
Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330; Hotchkiss v. Greenwood,
11 How. 248, 265; Western Electric Co. v. La Rue, 139
U. S. 601, 608.
We think, therefore, that the Court of Claims rightfully decided the question of infringement against the
Government.
The cross-appeal of claimant is directed to the question
of damages.
In the original petition filed by it on January 31, 1895,
damages were laid at $140,000. There was'no traverse
filed until October, 1907. An amended petition was filed
April 12,1909, and judgment was prayed for $1,447,667.98.
In this petition it was alleged that the invention was used
upon 1,518 guns of various calibers within the six years
next preceding the filing of the original petition, the
number which was used by the army and that used by
the navy being given. The total cost of the guns was
stated to be $18,226,263. There is no finding responding
to these allegations. The opinion of the court was filed
December 2, 1907, that is, before the filing of the amended
petition. The opinion contains the following statement:
"There is nd testimony in the record upon which the
quantum of damagds can be predicated. The measure of
damages would be the value of the device to the defendants. Following the precedents heretofore established, the
case will stand upon the docket, with leave to furnish testimony upon this point."

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 329
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On the twentieth of May, 1909, judgment was rendered
for claimant in the sum of $136,000. Each party moved
for an amendment to the findings, which were overruled
in part and allowed in part. The former findings were
withdrawn and amended findings of fact filed. No exception appears to have been taken to this action. Indeed, the record does not furnish us with a comparison
between the findings which were withdrawn and those
filed. There is nothing to show upon what the court's
ruling was invoked.
A motion was presented to this court April 25, 1910,
to remand the case to the Court of Claims, and that that
court be instructed to find and certify as matters of fact,
in addition to the facts found, in regard to the cost of
the guns in which the De Bange obturators were used,
the amount the Government paid or contracted to pay
for patented improvements in breech-loading mechanism
for ordnance, and whether there appears in the record
the testimony of experts as to the value of the De Bange
device, or what would be a reasonable compensation
for its use, and, if so, to state the amounts of such estimates.
It was further moved that the Court of Claims 'be
instructed to strike out certain matters in the findings
which were described to. be evidentiary. The .motion
was postponed to the hearing,. and is now to be considered.
The motion is, in effect, for a direction to the. Court of
Claims to certify the evidence to this court, and not its
conclusions from. the evidence. This is clearly in contravention of the rule of this, court which requires the
record on appeal from the Court of Cla ims to contain a
finding by the court "of the facts in the case established
by the evidence in the nature of a special verdict, but
not the evidence establishing it."
Besides, as we have seen, the record does not disclose
what ruling was invoked. We can only act upon the
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

record, and that shows a finding of the court upon the
question of compensation, to which finding there was no
objection taken nor exception reserved. The finding
determines the matter, being in the nature of a special
verdict of a jury. United States v. New York Indians, 173
U. S. 464.
Ceballos & Co. v. United States, 214 U. S. 47, is not applicable. There was a contract of which there could be
no dispute, and therefore a motion to embrace it in the
record from the Court of Claims was granted and the case
reviewed in the light thereof.
The motion to remand the case is therefore denied.
Judgment affirmed.

CITY OF POMONA v. SUNSET TELEPHONE AND
TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE ,CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 215.

Argued March 14, 15, 1912.-Decided April 8, 1912.

A provision in a state constitution that municipal corporations may
establish and operate public utility plants, and that persons and
corporations may establish and operate works for supplying public
service upon such conditions and under such regulations as the
municipality may prescribe, is a step towards municipal control or
ownership, and is not a grant to others of a right to occupy streets
without the con*nt of the municipality; nor does it limit the municipality to regulations under its police power. The conditions are
of general import; and so held as to the provision in Article XI, ยง 19,
of the constitution of California as amended October 11, 1911.
There is no sufficient reason why this court should not follow the
highest court of California in construing "telegraph" corporations as
used in ยง 536 of the Civil Code of that State as not including " telephone" corporations.

