HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

combination of the said systems in evasion of such decree
or any part thereof.
Reversed and remanded accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the hearing or
determination of 'this case.

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 496. Argued October 12, 13, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.
The United States has capacity to maintain a suit to set aside conveyances made by allottee Indians of allotted lands within the
statutory period of restriction; and this suit brought against numerous defendants, all of whom were grantees of allottees of the same
tribe, is properly maintainable in equity; the return of the consideration to the grantee is not essential; there is no defect of parties because the allottee Indians making the conveyances are not joined;
there is no misjoinder of causes of action, and the bill is not multifarious.
Congress has power to extend the restrictions upon alienation of allotted lands by allottee Indians, Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221
U. S. 286; and so held that the provision for extending the period of
alienation of lands allotted in severalty to full-blood Cherokees in the
act of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312, c. 199, is a valid exercise by Congress of its power over Indian affairs.
The relations of the United States to the Cherokee Indians as estabfished by treaties and statutes reviewed, and held that in executing
the policy of extinguishing the tribal organization and title, and the
allotment of the tribal lands in severalty, the intent of Congress was
to fulfill the national obligation, not only by an equitable apportionment of the property but by safeguarding through suitable restrictions the individual ownership of the allottees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

The placing of restrictions upon the right of alienation was an essential
part of the plan of individual allotment of tribal lands among the
members of the Five Civilized Tribes; and such restrictions evinced
the continuance to this extent of the guardianship of the United
States over the Indians as wards of the Nation.
Conferring citizenship upon an allottee Indian is not inconsistent with
retaining control over his disposition of lands allotted to him. Tiger
v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286.
The maintenance of limitations prescribed by Congress as part of its
plan for distribution of Indian lands is distinctly an interest of the
United States, and one which it may sue in its own courts to enforce.
A transfer of allottee lands in violation of statutory restrictions is not
simply a violation of the proprietary rights of the Indian but of the
governmental rights of the United States.
Where there is a violation of the rights of the United States, and a
justiciable question as to the effect thereof, the United States may
invoke the jurisdiction ofta court of equity, And a pecuniary interest
in the controversy is not essential. United States v. American Bell
Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315.
Congress has power to authorize the Government to sue to maintain
the statutory restrictions upon alienation of Indian allottee lands.
Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373.
Where Congress has power to authorize the Government to sue, an
appropriation for expenses of suits already brought is a recognition
of the right to bring them; and so held that the provisions of the act
of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312, c. 199, and of subsequent acts making
appropriations for suits brought to cancel conveyances made by
Cherokee allottee Indians in violation of statutory restrictions on
alienation are within the power of Congress.
The presence of the Indian grantors as parties to suits brought by the
United States to set aside conveyances of allotted lands made in
violation of statutory restrictions on alienation is not essential; nor
are the grantees placed in danger of double litigation by reason of the
absence of the grantors as parties.
The effect of an act of Congress passed in pursuance of a policy and a
matter of general knowledge cannot be destroyed so as to assist those
who attempted to profit by violating its provisions; and so held that
when a conveyance is made by an allottee Indian in violation of
statutory restrictions on alienation, the return of the consideration
is not an essential prerequisite to a decree of cancellation.
Qu&nre, but not presented on this record, whether eases may arise
where, without interferingwith the policy of restricting alienation,

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the decree should provide in cancelling the transfers for a return of
the consideration and the bringing in as parties of any person whose
presence might be necessary.
The bill in a suit brought to cancel for the same reason in each instance
a large number of conveyances of allotted lands, made by, different
members of the same tribe to different defendants, held not to be
multifarious in this case as it is manifestly in the interest of justice
to avoid unnecessary suits; nor is there in such a case a misjoinder
of causes of action.
179 Fed. Rep. 13, modified and affirmed.

THE United States by its Attorney-General, upon the
recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior, brought
this suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Oklahoma to cancel certain conveyances of allotted lands made by members of the Cherokee
Nation. Demurrer to the bill was sustained by the Circuit
Court and the bill was dismissed. United States v. Allen,
and similar cases, 171 Fed. Rep. 907. The judgment was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and the trial
court was directed to proceed with the suits in accordance
with the views expressed in its opinion. 179 Fed. Rep. 13.
The Government states in its brief that between July 14,
1908, and October 12, 1909, the United States brought 301
bills in equity against some 16,000 defendants to cancel
some 30,000 conveyances of allotted lands, made by as
many or more grantors, members of the Five Civilized
Tribes, upon the ground that the conveyances were in
violation of existing restrictions upon the power of alienation. It is said that the selection and grouping of defendants in each case was determined by the substantial identity of the facts and propositions of law upon which the
question of alienability of the lands depended.
Forty-six bills were filed to cancel 3715 conveyances
of lands of Cherokee Indians.
This particular suit deals with conveyances by Cherokee
allottees of the full-blood of lands allotted subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

to the act of April 26, 1906. 34 Stat. 137, c. 1876. The
grantors were not made parties. There are involved a
number of separate conveyances to distinct grantees,
parties defendant, two of whom prosecute this appeal
from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The bill alleges that under the treaties between the
United States and the Cherokee tribe of Indians and its
members, the United States granted to the Cherokee tribe
certain lands in the Indian Territory, now the Eastern
District of Oklahoma, and obligated itself by the terms
of these treaties and of its laws to protect the Cherokee
tribe in the enjoyment of the lands granted; that according to the terms of said treaties and laws, and of the patent
to the lands, the Cherokee tribe and every member thereof
have at all times been and now are without power to dispose of any interest in the lands without the authority
of the United States, or otherwise than in the manner it
prescribed; that the Government of the United States, by
reason of the helpless and dependent character of the
Indian tribes, and of their several members, is the guardian
and has exclusive control of their property, by virtue of
which there is imposed upon the United States the duty
to do whatever may be necessary for their guidance,
welfare and protection; that the Cherokee tribe has always
been and is now treated as a tribe of Indians by the Government of the United States and its several branches;
that this tribe is now under the care of an Indian agent
duly appointed under the laws of Congress, and large
sums are still appropriated by Congress for the benefit
and protection of the tribe and of its individual members,
and for the maintenance of schools; and that under the
laws of Congress the Government of the United States
still has a large sum of money in its possession belonging
to the tribe, and there still remains unallotted a large
area of tribal lands, the common property of the tribe.
It is further alleged that in the exercise of its powers to

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

regulate and govern the affairs of the Cherokee tribe of
Indians and its members, having in view their welfare and
the carrying out of its treaty obligations, Congress by the
act approved July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 716, c. 1375), provided
that the lands belonging to the Cherokee tribe in the
present State of Oklahoma should be allotted in severalty
among its membdrs, but deeming the Indians to be untutored and improvident and still requiring the protection
and supervision of the General Government, it was provided by this act that the portion of the lands so allotted
as homesteads should be inalienable, and further that the
allotted lands other than homesteads should be alienable
only in five years after the issuance of patent to the allottee, and that, in accordance with its provisions, the act
of Congress was duly ratified by the Cherokee people on
the seventh day of August, 1902.
The bill describes certain conveyances of lands situated
in the Eastern District of Oklahoma made by Cherokee
Indians to the defendants, respectively, with particulars
as to the lands embraced in the conveyances, the consideration, the dates of execution, acknowledgment and
recording, and also the dates of the allotment certificates
and of the recording of allotment deeds. The dates of
the conveyances were between November 19, 1904, and
May 7, 1908, and of the allotment certificates between
April 30, 1906, and May 4, 1908. It is alleged that each
of the tracts of land described was land of the Cherokee
tribe which had been allotted to full-blood Indians of
that tribe, that is, to those mentioned as grantors in the
conveyances specified; that they were so allotted as to
be subject to restrictions upon their alienation and incumbrance, and were so subject at the date of the execution and recording of the deeds described, which restrictions have never been removed; that the facts concerning
the allotments and restrictions were matters of public
record and notorious, and that the restrictions were imVOL. ccxxiv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

posed by public laws of the United States of which the
defendants had knowledge and by which they were put
upon inquiry and notice as to all matters concerning the
condition of the particular tracts of land mentioned in
the bill; that the deeds had been secured by the defendants in willful violation of law and of the duty which
rested upon this Nation and every member thereof, and
for the purpose of unlawfully incumbering the allotted
lands; and that by causing the deeds to be recorded the
defendants had unlawfully obtained an apparent title
or interest of record in the lands described in defiance of
said agency supervision and in open violation and contempt of the laws of the United States to the irreparable
.injury of the Indians and in direct interference with the
supervision and jontrol, policy and duty of the Government of the United States in that behalf.
It is also averred on information and belief that the
defendants have unlawfully secured from members of the
Cherokee tribe other deeds, conveyances, mortgages,
powers of attorney and contracts for and about their
allotments, which the Indians and freedmen were without
authority to make; that as these have not been recorded
the complainant is unable to give a minute and correct
description without the discovery prayed for; that the
defendants are continuing to induce the members of the
Cherokee tribe named in the bill and other members of
said tribe to execute deeds and instruments for and about
their allotments, and threaten that they will continue
such unlawful acts; that this unlawful conduct will greatly
harass the United States in the discharge of its duties and
in the administration of its policy in relation to these
Indians and compel it to bring many suits in order to
annul the deeds and instruments which the defendants
have taken and are taking as alleged; that in addition to
the instruments specified in the bill upward of four thousand instruments of a similar nature purporting to con-

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Statement of the Cae..

vey or to incumber the title to lands located within the
Eastern District of Oklahoma and duly allotted to members of the Five Civilized Tribes or belonging to said
tribes, have been executed and placed -on record by the
defendants herein and other persons and corporations in
contravention of the treaties, entered into between the
United States and the several Indian tribes, and the laws
of the United States; and that unless the United States
shall be permitted to join in its bills numerous defendants,
against each of whom it has a like cause of action, and
against each of whom it seeks the same relief, and whose
pretended claims are based.upon similar facts and involve
precisely the same questions of law, it will be driven to
the necessity of bringing a great number of distinct and
separate suits, and that it will be practically impossible
for the United States to prosecute, and for the courts to
adjudicate and dispose of so large a number of separate
and distinct suits within any reasonable length of time.
The bill prays that the specified conveyances be declared void and that the title to the lands described be
decreed to be in the allottees or their heirs, subject to the
terms, conditions and limitations contained in the treaties,
agreements and laws of the United States. Discovery of
all claims to lands allotted to any of the Cherokee tribe or
to unallotted lands of the tribe, and the surrender of instruments for cancellation, are sought; and it is also prayed
that all defendants in possession, or claiming possession,
be ordered to vacate or to cease making such claims, and
that the United States have such other and further relief
as may be proper.
The objections to the sufficiency of the bill as set forth
in the demurrers are thus summarized in the appellants'
brief:
(1) That the United States has no capacity to maintain
the suit.
(2) That the bill is wholly without equity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

224 U. S.

(3) That there is a defect of parties.
(4) That there is a misjoinder of alleged causes of action.
(5) That the bill is multifarious.
The appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which reversed the judgment of the Circuit
Court sustaining the demurrers, is taken under § 3 of the
act of June 25, 1910, c. 408 (36 Stat. 837).
Mr. Joseph C. Stone, Mr. Robert J. Boone and Mr. S. T.
Bledsoe for appellants: I
For treaties and statutory provisions affecting the lands
of allottees in the Five Civilized Tribes, see as to Tribal
Titles, of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, Treaties of
October, 1820, 7 Stat. 210; September 27, 1830, 7 Stat.
333; of 1837, 11 Stat. 57; of 1855, act of Congress of
May 28, 1830; Treaty of 1855, 11 Stat. 611; of 1866, 14
Stat. 769; of the Creeks; Treaty of February 1, 1833, 7
Stat. 417, and patent issued pursuant thereto; of 1852;
Treaty of August 7, 1856; of the Seminoles; Art. 1 of
Treaty of 1856, 11 Stat. 699; Art. III of Treaty of 1866,
14 Stat. 755; of the Cherokees; Treaty of May 6, 1828;
of August 6, 1846, 9 Stat. 871.
As to title of allottees to individual allotments, see
Atoka Agreement with the Choctaws and Chickasaws,
§ 29, act of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495, and Supplemental
Agreement, 32 Stat. 641; § 3, original Creek Agreement,
31 Stat. 861; Seminole Agreement, December 16, 1897, 30
Stat. 567; Cherokee Agreement, 32 Stat. 716.
All the above provisions with reference to the allotment
of lands of the various tribes should be considered and
. The succeeding cases of Mullen v. United States, post, p. 448; Goat
v. United States, post, p. 458; and Deming Investment Co. v. United
States, post, p. 471, which were appeals taken by different parties from
the decrees entered by the Circuit Court of Appeals in United States v.
Allen and similar cases, 179 Fed. Rep. 13, were argued simultaneously,
with this case.

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

.

Argument for Appellants.

construed in the light of the previous legislation looking to
allotment.
For legislation affecting all five of the tribes, see act of
March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 645, authorizing the appointment
of commissioners.
Pursuant to the authority conferred upon this commission to enter into agreements with the Five Civilized
Tribes for the allotment in severalty of their lands and
the provision that on the allotment of the lands held by
such tribes, respectively, the reversionary interest of the
United States therein should be relinquished and should
cease, negotiations were entered into, resulting in the
agreements above quoted from.
Relinquishment as used in this connection is correctly
interpreted in United States v. Joseph, 94 U. S. 614.
When the members of each of the Five Civilized Tribes
select, as required by the provisions referred to, the lands
they desire to take in allotment, and that selection is approved, nothing further remains to be done by such
members in order to perfect their title to the lands so
selected. The issuance of the allotment certificate and
patent which 'follows are mere ministerial acts. It requires neither allotment certificate nor patent to pass
title to the allottee. The provision that "there shall be
allotted," etc., contained in the various agreements is
sufficient when the land is selected and designated to pass
title to the allottee without the necessity of certificate or
patent. Wallace v. Adams, 143 Fed. Rep. 716; Jones v.
Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 16; Doe v. Wilson, 23 How. 457;
Quinney v. Denney, 18 Wisconsin, 485; Crews v. Burcham,
1 Black, 352; French v. Spencer, 21 How. 228; Stark v.
Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Lamb v. Davenport, 18 Wall. 307;
Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S. 78; Best v. Polk, 18 Wall. 112;
Oliver v. Forbes, 17 Kansas, 113; Clark v. Lord, 20 Kansas,
390; Francisv. Francis, 99 N. W. Rep. 000, 203 U. S. 233;
United States v. Torrey, 154 Fed. Rep. 263; United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

224 U. S.

v. Moore, 154 Fed. Rep. 712; New York Indians v. United
States, 170 U. S. 1.
The mere existence of restriction upon alienation imposed for the protection of the allottee vests no interest
whatever in the United States in reversion or otherwise. A
violation of the statute imposing restrictions upon alienation does not in any event redound to the interest of the
United States or impair the title of the allottee. Libby v.
Clark, 118 U. S. 250, 255; Schrimpscher v. Stockton, 183
U. S. 290, 299.
The whole estate having vested in the allottee, there
can be no possible interest remaining in the United
States. Not even -a possibility of forfeiture .or reversion.
The United States owns no property interest upon
which to maintain this action, nor may the same be maintained for the protection of citizens, generally, against
violations of law.
The sole authority of the Circuit Courts of the United
States to exercise jurisdiction over causes where the
United States is plaintiff or petitioner, is given by the
act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 434. For its construction
see United States v. Sayward, 160 U. S. 493; United States
v. Payne Lumber Company, 206 U. S. 467; United States
v. Anger, 153 Fed. Rep. 671; United States v. PaineLumber
Company, 154 Fed. Rep. 263.
The former members of the Five Civilized Tribes are
citizens of the United States and the State of Oklahoma,
and not wards of either the state or the National Government. Mackey v. Cox, 18 How. 100; Mehlin v. Ice, 56 Fed.
Rep. 12.
Allotment agreements were made by the various tribes
and approval thereof given by Congress as follows:
Seminole Original Allotment Agreement (30 Stat. 567);
Seminole Supplemental Allotment Agreement (31 Stat.
250); Choctaw and Chickasaw Allotment Agreement (30

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Stat. 495-505); Supplemental Allotment Agreement (32
Stat. 641); Creek Allotment Agreement (31 Stat. 861);
Creek Supplemental Agreement (32 Stat. 500), and
Cherokee Allotment Agreement (32 Stat. 716).
The policy of isolation from surrounding country applied to Indians on Indian Reservations was never, in
fact, applied to the territory of the Five Civilized Tribes.
In 1890 there were 180,182 persons residing in Indian
Territory, of whom 51,279 were Indians. In 1900, the
population of Indian Territory had increased to 392,000,
of which 52,500 were Indians. In 1890 the' Indian population, which included a few more Indians than those of
the Five Civilized Tribes, constituted 25.5 per cent of the
total population and in 1900, 13.4 per cent.
These conditions, and the progress made irn securing of
allotment agreements with the various tribes, caused
Congress in 1901 to deem it advisable to confer the full
rights of citizenship upon every Indian in the Indian
Territory. See act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1447.
For effect of the General Allotment Act of 1887 as applied to conditions similar to those in Oklahoma with
reference to citizenship, see United States v. Saunders, 96
Fed. Rep. 268; United States v. Kopp, 110 Fed. Rep. 161;
Ex parte Viles, 139 Fed. Rep. 68; United States v. Dooley,
151 Fed. Rep. 697; United States v. Auger, 153 Fed. Rep.
671; Ex parte Savage, 158 Fed. Rep. 214; United States v.
Boss, 160 Fed. Rep. 132.
No such public policy exists as that upon which the
jurisdiction of the trial court was sustained by majority
of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The allottees are indispensable parties. They own the
lands involved and have such an interest in the subjectmatter of the controversies that final decrees cannot be
made without affecting their interest.
Every party to a contract of sale except one who has
released his interest or an agent through whom the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

224 U. S.

has passed is a necessary party to set it aside. Shields v.
Barrow, 17 How. 130; Coiron v. Millaudon, 19 How. 113;
Gaylords v. Kelshaw, 1 Wall. 81; Ribbon v. Railroad Cos.,
16 Wall. 446; Lawrence v. Wirtz, 1 Wash. C. C. 417;
Tobin v. Walkinshaw, 1 McAll. 26; Bell v. Donohoe, 17
Fed. Rep. 710; Florence Machine Co. v. Singer Mfg. Co.,
8 Blatchf. 113; Chadbourne v. Coe, 45 Fed. Rep. 822; Pmpire C. & T. Co. v. Empire C. & M. Co., 150 U. S. 159;
New Orleans W. Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 471; S. C.,
in C. C. A., 51 Fed. Rep. 479; Clark v. Great Northern
Ry. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 282; but see French v. Shoemaker,
14 Wall. 314; West v. Duncan, 42 Fed. Rep. 430; Smith
v. Lee, 77 Fed. Rep. 779.
In every case where the parties acted in good faith the
court ought to decree a personal judgment against the
allottees for the amount of the consideration, for it was
paid by mistake and the consideration for the payment
has failed. If the contracts were void, but in good faith,
equity will impute a promise to repay. Wrought Iron
Bridge Co. v. Utica, 17 Fed. Rep. 316; City of Louisiana
v. Wood, 12 Otto, 294; Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall.
676; Tate v. Gains (Okla.), 105 Pac. Rep. 193.
Though the void deeds will be treated as nullities, the
law will imply just such an obligation to pay for the enhanced value to the premises on account of the improvements as the Secretary of the Interior would have permitted the allottees to contract, upon proper application
to him. Where the lands had no rental value, and, on
account of the improvements so made in good faith, now
have a great rental value, it should be decreed that the
rentals or a part thereof be set aside each year until compensation shall. have been made for the same. Muskogee
Development Co. v. Green (Okla.), 97 Pac. Rep. 619; White
v. Brown (Ind. T.), 38 S. W. Rep. 335; Poplin v. Clausen,
38 S. W. Rep. 974; Shumate v. Harbin, 15 S. E. Rep. 270;
Brockway v. Thomas, 36 Arkansas, 518; Beard v. Dansby,

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

48 Arkansas, 182; 2 S. W. Rep. 701; Potts v. Cullum, 68
Illinois, 217.
The United States cannot maintain this bill. It is
wholly devoid of equity. The United States has not
offered to return the consideration; it is out of possession,
and if the facts alleged are true, it has an adequate remedy
at law. Frost v. Spittley, 121 U. S. 552; Orton v. Smith, 18
How. 263; Dick v. Foraker, 155 U. S. 404, 414; United
States v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86.
If the conveyances referred to are void they constitute
no cloud upon the title of the owner thereof, and a bill
will not lie to cancel the same, even though the other
grounds of equitable jurisdiction are present. United.
States v. Saunders, 96 Fed. Rep. 268; Piersol v. Elliott,
6 Pet. 96, 101; Rich v. Braxton, 158 U. S. 375, 407; Kennedy v. Hazelton, 128 U. S. 667, 672; Town of Venice v.
Woodruff, 62 N. Y. 462, 467; March, Executrix, v. The City
of Brooklyn, 59 N. Y. 280.
The bill of complaint is multifarious.
The Solicitor General and Mr. A. N. Frostand Mr. Harlow A. Leekley, Special Assistants to the Attorney General,
for the United States:
The United States may by suit in equity enforce the
restrictions imposed by it upon the alienation of allotted
tribal lands by members of the Indian tribes. Marchie
Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286; United
States v. Allen, 179 Fed. Rep. 13; Conley v. Ballinger, 216
U. S. 84; United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375; Worcester
v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; United
States v. Am. Bell Tel. Co., 128 U. S. 315; United States v.
San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273; United States v.
Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; In the Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488;
Beck v. Flournoy Live Stock Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 30; United
States v. Flournoy Live Stock &c. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 886;
Pilgrim v. Beck, 69 Fed. Rep. 895; United States v. Flour-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

noy &c. Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 576; Rainbow v. Young, 161 Fed.
Rep. 835.
The Indian allottees are not necessary parties to such a
suit, as the United States has rights and interests of its
own to conserve and is, moreover, under obligation to
protect the Indians in those restrictions. United States v.
Allen, 179 Fed. Rep. 13; United States v. Am. Bell Tel. Co.,
128 U. S. 315; United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125
U. S. 273; United States v. Hammers, 221 U. S. 220;
Marchie Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286;
United States v. Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S. 160; Pilgrim
v. Beck, 69 Fed. Rep. 895.
The bill is not multifarious for it joins only such transactions as depend for their validity or invalidity upon the
same state of facts and the same propositions of law.
Story on Equity Pleading, 14th ed., § 539; Jennison's
Chancery Practice, 26; Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56;
Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Caifrey, 128 Fed. Rep. 770; Bitterman
v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 207 U. S.205.
MR. JusTIcE HUGHES, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The conveyances, which this suit was brought to cancel,
were executed by members of the Cherokee tribe of Indians, of the full-blood, of lands allotted to them in severalty. The statute under which the allotments were made
(act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716), accepted by the
Cherokee nation on August 7, 1902, provided that the
lands should be inalienable for a period specified. Sections 11-15 (Id., p. 717). The lands in question were "surplus" lands, that is, those other than homesteads. While
the restrictions, applicable to lands of this character, were
still in force, Congress extended the period of inalienability
by the act of April 26, 1906. 34 Stat. 137, c. 1876. Section 19 of this act (Id., p. 144) is as follows:
"SEc. 19. That no full-blood Indian of the Choctaw,

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chickasaw, Cherokee, Creek or Seminole tribes shall
have power to alienate, sell, dispose of, or encumber in
any manner any of the lands allotted to him for a period
of twenty-five years from and after the passage and approval of this Act, unless such restriction shall, prior to
the expiration of said period, be removed by Act of
Congress; and for all purposes the quantum of Indian
blood possessed by any member of said tribes shall be
determined by the rolls of citizens of said tribes approved
by the Secretary of the Interior: Provided, however, That
such full-blood Indians of any of said tribes may lease any
lands other than homesteads for more than one year
under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Secretary of the Interior; and in case of the inability
of any full-blood owner of a homestead, on account of
infirmity or age, to work or farm his homestead, the
Secretary of the Interior, upon proof of such inability,
may authorize the leasing of such homestead under such
rules and regulations: Provided further, That conveyances
heretofore made by members of any of the Five Civilized
Tribes subsequent to the selection of allotment and subsequent to removal of restriction, where patents thereafter issue, shall not be deemed or held invalid solely
because said conveyances were made prior to issuance and
recording or delivery of patent or deed; but this shall not
be held or construed as affecting the validity or invalidity
of any such conveyance, except as hereinabove provided;
and every deed executed before, or for the making of
which a contract or agreement was entered into before the
removal of restrictions, be and the same is hereby, declared void: Provided further, That all lands upon which
restrictions are removed shall be subject to taxation, and
the other lands shall be exempt from taxation as long as
the title remains in the original allottee."
The power of Congress thus to extend the restriction
upon alienation was sustained by this court in Tiger v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286. There the question
related to a conveyance of inherited lands, made by a
Creek Indian, of the full-blood, without the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior as required by § 22 of the
act of 1906. The conveyance had been executed after
the expiration of the five-year limitation upon alienation,
prescribed by the supplemental agreement with the Creek
Nation (act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, § 16; 32 Stat. 503);
but meanwhile, and during the continuance of the original
restriction, the act of 1906 had been enacted. It was
held that the restriction of the later statute was valid.
The reasoning of this decision is conclusive as to the
validity of the extension by § 19 of the act of 1906 of the
period of inalienability of lands allotted, as in this case,
to full-blood Cherokees. And the same principle governs
the restrictions provided by the act of May 27, 1908, c.
199, 35 Stat. 312.
It is not open to dispute that, upon the facts alleged,
all the conveyances specified in the bill in this suit were
executed in violation of restrictions lawfully imposed.
The principal question now presented is with respect
to the capacity of the United States to sue in its own
courts to enforce these restrictions.
The relations of the United States to the Cherokees
have repeatedly been described in the decisions of this
court. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1; Worcester v.
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515; United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567;
Mackey v. Coxe, 18 How. 100; The Cherokee Trust Funds,
117 U. S. 288; Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co.,
135 U. S. 641; United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427;
Cherokee Nation v. Journeycake, 155 U. S. 196; Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. 5. 294; Lowe v. Pisher, 223 U. S. 95. But in
view of the nature of the present controversy the facts of
main importance may be briefly restated.

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The United States made its first treaty with the Cherokees on November 28, 1785 (7 Stat. 18). Constituting
one of the most powerful tribes of Indians which then
inhabited the country, they claimed the principal part
of the territory now comprised within the States of North
and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Tennessee.
By this treaty, the Cherokees acknowledged that they
were under the protection of the United States of America
and of no other sovereign, the boundary of their hunting
grounds was fixed, and it was provided that "for the
benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention
of injuries or oppressions on the part of the citizens or
Indians, the United States in Congress assembled shall
have the sole and exclusive right of regulating trade with
the Indians, and managing all ,their affairs in such manner
as they think proper." Another treaty with similar
objects was made on July 2, 1791 (7 Stat. 39). In 1817,
following a migration of a portion of the tribe to lands of
the United States on the Arkansas and White Rivers,
the Cherokee Nation ceded to the United States certain
tracts which they formerly held, and in exchange the
United States bound themselves to give to that branch of
the Nation on the Arkansas as much land as they had
received, or might thereafter receive, east of the Mississippi. 7 Stat. 156 (July 8, 1817). A further cession
of land was made to the United States in 1819. 7 Stat.
195By(February 27, 1819).
the terms of the treaty of May 6, 1828
(7 Stat. 311,
315), with the representatives of the Cherokee Nation,
West, reciting the purpose of securing to them and their
friends and brothers from the east who might join them,
"a permanent home" which should "under the most
solemn guarantee of the United States be, and remain,
theirs forever-a home that shall never, in all future time,
be embarrassed by having extended around it the lines or
placed over it the jurisdiction of a Territory or State,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the United States agreed to guarantee to the Cherokees
forever seven millions of acres of land, as described,
situated in what became known as the Indian Territory,
and, in .addition, "a perpetual outlet, West, and a free
and unmolested use of all the Country lying West of the
Western boundary of the above described limits, and as
far West as the sovereignty of the United States and their
right of soil extend." On May 28, 1830, Congress authorized the President to assure title to the Indians to such
exchanged lands, and to execute a patent if desired,
"provided always, that such lands shall revert to the
United States, if the Indians become extinct or abandon
the same." 4 Stat. 411. A supplementary treaty confirming the guarantee of lands and fixing boundaries was
made on February 14, 1833. 7 Stat. 414.
The continued presence of the Eastern Cherokees gave
rise to serious controversies and oppressive legislation in
the States where they resided. To terminate these
difficulties and "with a view to reuniting their people
in one body," a treaty was signed at New Echota, in the
State of Georgia, on December 29, 1835. 7 Stat. 478.
The Cherokee Nation ceded to the United States all their
land east of the Mississippi River in consideration of
the payment of five million dollars; and in addition to the
lands described in the treaties of 1828 and 1833, the United
States agreed to convey to the Cherokees eight hundred
thousand acres for the sum of five hundred thousand
dollars. It was stipulated that the ceded lands should
not at any future time, without the consent of the
Cherokee Nation, be included "within the territorial
limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory," and
the United States agreed to secure to the Cherokee
Nation "the right by their national councils" to make
such laws as might be deemed necessary "for the*government and protection of the persons and property within
their own country belonging to their people or such

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.

224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

persons as have -connected themselves with them: provided always that they shall. not .be inconsistent with
the constitution of the United States and. such acts of
Congress as have been or may be passed regulating trade
and intercourse with the Indians-; and also, that they
shall not be considered as extending to such citizens and
army of the United States as may travel or reside in the
Indian country by permission according to the laws and
regulations established by the Government of the same."
The two tracts-the one consisting of the seven million
acres and the "outlet," .together aggregating 13,574,135.14
acres, and the other of 800,000 acres-were conveyed to
the Cherokee Nation by patent on December 31, 1838,
subject to the condition specified in the act of .1830, that
the land should revert to the United States if the Cherokee
Nation should become extinct or abandon the same. On
September 6, 1839, the Cherokees adopted a constitution
for the reunited nation.. Dissensions having arisen among
the members of the tribe, a new treaty was miade with
the United States on August 6, 1846 (9 Stat. 871), in which
it was set forth that the lands occupied by the Cherokee
Nation should "be secured to the whole Cherokee people
for their common use and benefit," and provision was
made for the settlement of differences. There was a
further treaty on July 19, 1866. 14 Stat. 799.
The "Cherokee Outlet" was purchased by the United
States in 1893. for the sum of $8,595,736. 27 Stat. 640.
At this time, ,the conditions in the Indian Territory were
most unsatisfactory. There had been a large accession
of whites who made no claim to Indian citizenship and.
were residing in the Territory with ,the approval of the
Indian authorities. These greatly outnumbered the
Indians. The existing means of. government had failed
of their purpose, and an exigency had arisen, originally
unforeseen, requiring the adoption of new measures. This
led to the enactment of legislation which contemplated

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the dissolution of the tribal organizations and the distribution of the tribal property. By § 15 of the act of
March 3, 1893, c. 209 (27 Stat. 612, 645), it was provided:
"The consent of the United States is hereby given to the
allotment of lands in severalty not exceeding one hundred
and sixty acres to any one individual within the limits of
the country occupied by the Cherokees, Creeks, Choctaws,
Chickasaws and Seminoles; and upon such allotments
the individuals to whom the same may be alloted shall
be deemed to be in all respects citizens of the United
States, . . . and upon the allotment of the lands held
by said tribes respectively the reversionary interest of the
United States therein shall be relinquished and shall
cease." And by § 16 of the same act provision was made
for the appointment of commissioners to enter into negotiations with the Five Civilized Tribes "for the purpose
of the extinguishment of the national or tribal title to
any lands within that Territory now held by any and all
of such nations or tribes, either by cession of the same or
some part thereof to the United States, or by the allotment and division of the same in severalty among the
Indians of such nations or tribes, respectively, as may be
entitled to the same, or by such other method as may be
agreed upon between the several nations and tribes afore-.
said, or each of them, with the United States, with a view
to such and [sic] adjustment, upon the basis of justice and
equity, as may, with the consent of such nations or tribes
of Indians, so far as may be necessary, be requisite and
suitable to enable the ultimate creation of. a State or
States of the Union which shall embrace the lands within
such India [sic] Territory."
But in executing this policy, Congress was solicitous to
conserve the interests of the Indians and to fulfill the national obligation, not simply by assuring an equitable
apportionment of the property, but by safeguarding the
individual ownership of allottees through suitable restric-

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions which were designed to secure them in their possession and to prevent their exploitation.
The necessity for legislative action, and the purposes
to be subserved, were fully presented in the report submitted in May, 1894, by the Senate Committee on the
Five Civilized Tribes (S. Rept. No. 377, 53d Cong. 2d
Sess.), a portion of which is quoted in the statement of
facts made by the' court in Stephens v. Cherokee Nation,
supra, pp. 447-451. The committee said (p. 448): "'This
section of the country was set apart to the Indian with
the avowed purpose of maintaining an Indian community
beyond and away from the influence of white people.
We stipulated that they should have unrestricted selfgovernment and full jurisdiction over persons and property
within their respective limits, and that we would protect
them against intrusion of white people, and that we would
-not incorporate them in a political organization without
their consent. Every treaty, from 1828 to and including
the treaty of 1866, was based on this idea of exclusion of
the Indians from the whites and non-participation by the
whites in their political and industrial affairs. We made
it possible for the Indians of that section of country to
maintain their tribal relations and their Indian polity,
laws and civilization if they wished so to do. And, if now,
the isolation and exclusiveness sought to be given to them
by our solemn treaties is destroyed, and they are overrun
by a population of strangers five times in number to their
own, it is not the fault of the Government of the United
States, but comes from their own acts in admitting whites
to citizenship under their laws and by inviting white people
to come within their jurisdiction, to become traders,
farmers and to follow professional pursuits."'
And, referring to the tribal lands, the report continued:
"The theory of the Government was when it made title
to the lands in the Indian Territory to the Indian tribes
as bodies politic that the title was held for all of the Indians
VOL. ccxxiv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

of such tribe. All were to be the equal participators in
the benefits to be derived from such holding. But we find
in practice such is not the case. A few enterprising citizens of the tribe, frequently not Indians by blood but by
intermarriage, have in fact become the practical owners
of the best and greatest part of these lands, while the title
still remains in the tribe-theoretically for all, yet in fact
the great body of the tribe derives no more benefit from
their title than the neighbors in Kansas, Arkansas or
Missouri. . . . As we have said, the title to these
lands is held by the tribe in trust for the people. We have
shown that this trust is not being properly executed, nor
will it be if left to the Indians, and the question arises
what is the duty of the Government of the United States
with reference to this trust? While we have .recognized
these tribes as dependent nations, the Government has
likewise recognized its guardianship over the Indians and
its obligations to protect them in their property and personal rights. In the treaty with the Cherokees, made in
1846, we stipulated that they should pass laws for equal
protection, and for the security of life, liberty and property. If the tribe fails to administer its trust properly by
securing to all the people of the tribe equitable participation in the common property of the tribe, there appears
to be no redress for ,the Indian so deprived of his rights,
unless the Government does interfere to administer such
trust."
The commission for which provision was made by the
act of 1893-known as the Dawes Commission-also made
reports to Congress (November 20, 1894, and November 18, 1895), " finding a deplorable state of affairs and the
general prevalence of misrule." In the report of November 18, 1895, the commission said: "There is no alternative left to the United States butto assume the responsibility for future conditions in this Territory. It has
created the forms of government which have brought

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

about these results, and the continuance rests on its authority. . . . The commission is compelled by the evidence forced upon them during their examination into
the administration of the so-called governments in this
Territory to report that these governments in all their
branches are wholly corrupt, irresponsible, and unworthy
to be longer trusted with the care and control of the money
and other property of Indian citizens, much less their
lives, which they scarcely pretend to protect." Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, supra, pp. 452, 453.
By the abts of June 10, 1896, c. 398 (29 Stat. 321, 339),
and of June 7, 1897, c. 3 (30 Stat. 62, 84), the authority of
the Dawes Commission was continued and extended; and
provision was made for the hearing and determination
of applications for citizenship in the tribes and for the
making of rolls of membership. It was further provided
by the statute of 1897, that none of the acts, ordinances,
and resolutions (with certain stated exceptions) of the
council of either of the Five Tribes should take effect if
disapproved by the President. Then followed the act of
June 28, 1898, c. 517 (30 Stat. 495), a comprehensive
statute embracing provisions as to the enrollment of
members of the tribes and for the allotment of "the exclusive use and occupancy of the surface of all the lands
of said nation or tribe susceptible of allotment, among the
citizens thereof, as shown by said roll, giving to each, so
far as possible, his fair and equal share thereof, considering
the nature and fertility of the soil, location and value of
the same." By this legislation "the United States practically assumed the full control over the Cherokees as well
as the other nations constituting the five civilized tribes
and took upon itself the determination of membership in
the tribes for the purpose of adjusting their rights in the
tribal property." Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, supra,
p. 306.
Between 1898 and 1902, allotment agreements with

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the Five Civilized Tribes were approved by Congress.
The allotment act of July 1, 1902, which rMated to the
Cherokees (32 Stat. 716, c. 1375), provided (§ 63) that
the tribal government should not continue longer than
March 4, 1906. But by joint resolution of Congress passed
March 2, 1906, the tribal existence and government of
this tribe and of the others were "continued in full force
and effect for all purposes under the existing laws until
all property of such tribes, or the proceeds thereof, shall
be distributed among the individual members of said tribes
unless hereafter otherwise provided by law." 34 Stat.
822. A similar provision was contained in the act of
April 26, 1906. 34 Stat. 137, 148.
The placing of restrictions upon the right of alienation
was an essential part of the plan of individual allotment;
and limitations were imposed by each of the allotment
agreements. The separate statutes were supplemented
by the general acts of 1906 and 1908, already mentioned.
These restrictions evinced the continuance, to this extent
at least, of the guardianship which the United States had
exercised from the beginning. That the conferring of
-citizenship was in no wise inconsistent with the retention
of control over the disposition of the allotted lands, was
expressly decided in the case of Tiger v. Western Investment Co., supra, in which the conclusions of the court were
thus stated (p. 316):
"Conceding that Marchie Tiger by the act conferring
citizenship obtained a status which gave him certain
civil and political rights, inhering in the privileges and
immunities of such citizenship unnecessary to here discuss,
he was still a ward of the Nation so far as the alienation
of these lands was concerned, and a member of the existing
Creek Nation. . . . Upon the matters involved our
conclusions are that Congress has had at all times, and
now has, the right to pass legislation, in the interest of
the Indians as a dependent people; that there is nothing in

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

citizenship incompatible with this guardianship over the
Indian's lands inherited from allottees as shown in this
case; that in the present case when the act of 1906 was
passed, the Congress had not released its control over the
alienation of lands of full-blood Indians of the Creek Nation; that it was within the power of Congress to continue
to restrict alienation by requiring, as to full-blood Indians,
the consent of the Secretary of the Interior to a proposed
alienation of lands such as are involved in this case; that
it rests with Congress to determine when its guardianship
shall cease, and while it still continues it has the right
to vary its restrictions upon alienation of Indian lands in
the promotion of what it deems the best interest of the
Indian."
During the continuance of this guardianship, the right
and duty of the Nation to enforce by all appropriate
means the restrictions designed for the security of the
Indians cannot be gainsaid. While relating to the welfare
of the Indians, the maintenance of the limitations which
Congress has prescribed as a part of its plan of distribution is distinctly an interest of the United States. A review
of its dealings with the tribes permits no other conclusion.
Out of its peculiar relation to these dependent peoples
sprang obligations to the fulfillment of which the national
honor has been committed. "From their very weakness
and helplessness, so largely due to the course of dealing
of the Federal Government with them and the treaties
in which it has been promised, there arises the duty of protection, and with it the power. This has always been recognized by the Executive and by Congress, and by this
court, whenever the question has arisen." United States
v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 384.
This national interest is not to be expressed in terms of
property, or to be limited to the assertion of rights incident
to the ownership of a reversion or to the holding of a
technical title in trust. When, in 1838, patent was issued

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

to the Cherokees providing that it was subject to the condition that the granted lands should revert to the United
States if the Cherokee Nation became extinct oi abandoned them, neither the rights nor the duties of the United
States were confined to the reversionary interest thus
secured. And its relinquishment made it no less a matter
of national concern that the restrictions designed to protect the Indian allottees should be enforced. But this
object could not be accomplished if the enforcement were
left to the Indians themselves. It is no answer to say that
conveyances obtained in violation of restrictions would
be void. That, of course, is true, and yet, by means of
the conveyances and the consequent assertion of rights
of ownership by the grantees, the Indians might be deprived of the practical benefits of their allotments. It
was the intent of Congress that, for their sustenance and
as a fitting aid to their progress, they should be secure in
their possession during the period specified and should
actually hold and enjoy the allotted lands. As was well
said by the court below, "If they are unable to resist the
allurements by which they are enticed into making the
conveyances, will they be expected to undertake the
difficult and protracted litigation necessary to set aside
their own acts? To ask these questions is to answer them.
Congress intended that both the Indians and the members
of the white race should obey its limitations. A transfer
of- the allotments is not simply a violation of the proprietary rights of the Indian. It violates the governmental rights of the United States. If these Indians may
be divested of their lands, they will be thrown back upon
the Nation a pauperized, discontented and, possibly, belligerent people." The authority to enforce restrictions of
this character is the necessary complement of the power to
impose them.
Whether these restrictions upon the alienation .of the
allotted lands had been violated and the alleged convey-

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ances were void, was a justiciable question; and in order
that it might properly discharge its duty, and that it might
obtain adequate relief, suited to the nature of the case in
accordance with the principles of equity, the United States
was entitled to invoke the equity jurisdiction of its courts.
It was not essential that it should have a pecuniary interest
in the controversy. In United States v. American Bell
Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315, 367, where the suit was
brought to obtain the cancellation of certain patents,
this court in commenting upon the statements which had
been made in the case of United States v. San Jacinto Tin
Co., 125 U. S. 273, with respect to the right of the United
States to sue, said: "This language is construed by counsel
for the appellee in this case to limit the relief granted at
the instance of the United States to cases in which it has
a direct pecuniary interest. But it is not susceptible of
such construction. It was evidently in the mind of the
court that the case before it was one where the property
right to the land in controversy was the matter of importance, but it was careful to say that the cases in which the
instrumentality of the court cannot thus be used are -those
where the United States has no pecuniary interest in the
remedy sought, and is also under no obligation to the
party who will be benefited to sustain an action for his use,
and also where it does not appear that any obligation
existed on the part of the United States to the public or
to any individual. The essence of the right of the United
States to interfere in the present case is its obligation to
protect the public from the monopoly of the patent which
was procured by fraud, and it would be difficult to find
language more aptly used to include this in the class of
cases which are not excluded from the jurisdiction of the
court by want of interest in the government of the United
States. It is insisted that these decisions have reference
exclusively to patents for land, and that they are not
applicable to patents for inventions and discoveries. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

argument very largely urged for that view is the one just
stated, that in the cases which had reference to patents for
land the pecuniary interest of the United States was the
foundation of the jurisdiction. This, however, is repelled
by the language just cited, and by the fact that in more
than one of the cases, notably in United States v. Hughes,
supra, [11 How. 552], the right of the government to sustain the suit was based upon its legal or moral obligation
to give a good title to another party who had a prior and
a better claim to the land, but whose right was obstructed
by the patent issued by the United States."
And in In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, where the question was
as to the jurisdiction of a court of equity at the suit of the
Government to enjoin interference with the transportation
of the mails, the court, while adverting to the fact that the
United States had a property in the mails, declined to
place its decision upon that ground alone, and rested it also
upon governmental duty. The court said (pp. 584, 586):
"Every government, entrusted, by the very terms of its
being, with powers and duties to be exercised and discharged for the general welfare, has a right to apply to
its own courts for any proper assistance in the exercise
of the one and the discharge of the other, and it is no sufficient answer to its appeal to one of those courts that it
has no pecuniary interest in the matter. . . . The
national government, given by the Constitution power to
regulate interstate commerce, has by express statute
assumed jurisdiction over such commerce when carried
upon railroads. It is charged, therefore, with the duty of
keeping those highways of interstate commerce free from
obstruction, for it has always been recognized as one of
the powers and duties of a government to remove obstructions from the highways under its control."
In United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.432, the suit was
brought to restrain the collection of certain county taxes
alleged to be due in respect 'of permanent improvements

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on, and personal property used in the cultivation of, lands
occupied by Sioux Indians in South Dakota. The lands
had been allotted under the general allotment act of
February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 389. One of the questions
certified to this court was whether the United States had
such an interest in the controversy or in its subjects as
entitled it to maintain the suit; and the question was
answered in the affirmative. It is true that, in that case,
the statute provided that the United States should hold
the land allotted for twenty-five years in trust for the sole
use and benefit of the Indian allottee. But the decision
rested upon a broader foundation than the mere holding
of a legal title to land in. trust, and embraced the recognition of the interest of the United States in securing immunity to the Indians from taxation conflicting with the
measures it had adopted for their protection. The court
said (p. 444): "In view of the relation of the United States
to the real and personal property in question, as well as
to these dependent Indians still under national control,
and in view of the injurious effect of the assessment and
taxation complained of upon the plans of the Government
with reference to the Indians, it is clear that the United
States is entitled to maintain this suit." By the act of
August 15, 1894, c. 290, 28 Stat. 286, 305, as amended
by the act of February 6, 1901, c. 217, 31 Stat. 760,
Congress authorized suits to be brought against the United
States, in its Circuit Courts, "involving the right of any
person, in whole or in part of Indian blood or descent"
(with certain exceptions) "to any allotment of lands under
any law or treaty." Sloan v. United States, 193 U. S. 614.
Prior to the amendment of 1901, the United States could
not be sued in such a case. But the amendment required
that "in said suit the parties thereto shall be the claimant
as plaintiff and the United States as party defendant."
Commenting upon this, the court said in McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458, 469: "Nothing could more clearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

demonstrate, than does this requirement, the conception
of Congress that the United States continued as trustee
to have an active interest in the proper disposition of
allotted Indian lands and the necessity of its being made
a party to controversies concerning the same, for the
purpose of securing a harmonious and uniform operation
of the legislation of Congress on the subject." And In
Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488, 509, this court said: "In
United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432, we sustained the
right of the Government to protect the lands thus allotted
and patented from any encumbrance of state taxation.
Undoubtedly an allottee can enforce his right to an interest in the tribal or other property (for that right is expressly granted) and equally clear is it that Congress may
enforce and protect any condition which it attaches to
any of its grants. This it may do by appropriate proceedings in either a National or a state court."
Not only was the United States entitled to prosecute
this suit by virtue of the interest springing from its peculiar relations to the Indians and the course of dealing
which had finally led to the plan of separate allotments
accompanied by restrictions for the protection of the
allottees, but Congress has explicitly recognized the right
of the Government thus to enforce these restrictions and
has made appropriations for the maintenance of suits
of this description. And, at least, the power of Congress
to authorize the Government to sue, in view of the relation
of the United States to the subject-matter and of the nature of the question to be determined, cannot be doubted.
Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 387, 388.
By the act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, which
defined restrictions with respect to allotments to members
of the Five Civilized Tribes, the representatives of the
Secretary of the Interior were authorized to advise all
allottees, having restricted lands, of their rights, and at

the request of any such allottee to bring suit in his name

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to cancel any conveyance or incumbrance in violation of
the act and to take all steps necessary to assist the allottees
in acquiring and retaining possession. But the following
provision was added (p. 314):
"Nothing in this act shall be construed as a denial of
the right of the United States to take such steps as may
be necessary, including the bringing of any suit and the
prosecution and appeal thereof, to acquire or retain possession of restricted Indian lands, or to remove cloud
therefrom, or clear title to the same, in cases where deeds,
leases or contracts of any other kind or character whatsoever have been or shall be made contrary to law with
respect to such lands prior to the removal therefrom of
restrictions upon the alienation thereof; such suits to be
brought on the recommendation of the Secretary of the
Interior, without costs or charges to the allottees, the
necessary expenses incurred in so doing to be defrayed
from the money appropriated by this act."
It is urged that this clause did not confer authority
to sue, but was inserted merely to rebut any possible
inference of an intention to deny this right to the United
States. This seems to us a strained construction in view
of the obvious purpose of the act. And it fails to give
adequate effect to the words, "such suits to be brought on
the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior, without costs or charges to the allottees, the necessary expenses
incurred in so doing to be defrayed from the money appropriated by this act." In addition to the appropriation of
moneys for expenditure under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, that act appropriated the sum of
$50,000 "to be immediately available and available until
expended as the Attorney General may direct," which
was "to be used in the payment of necessary expenses
incident to any suits brought at the request of the Secretary of the Interior in the eastern judicial district of Oklahoma;" with the proviso that $10,000 of this amount,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

or so much as might be necessary, should be expended in
the prosecution of cases in the western judicial district of
that State. In 1909 (act of March 4, 1909, c. 299, 35
Stat. 945, 1014), a further appropriation of a like sum for
the same purposes was made under the heading "Suits
to set aside conveyances of allotted lands." Another
appropriation was made in 1910 (act of June 25, 1910,
c. 384, 36 Stat. 703, 748), under a similar heading with
specific reference to the "Five Civilized Tribes," and also
with the provision "and not to exceed ten thousand dollars
of said sum shall be available for the expenses of the United
States on appeals to the Supreme Court of the United
States;" and still another to the same effect in 1911 (act
of March 4, 1911, c. 285, 36 Stat. 1363, 1425).
We conclude that the United States has the capacity to
prosecute this suit.
It is further urged that there is a defect of parties, on
account of the absence of the Indian grantors. It is said
that they are the owners of the lands and hence sustain
such a relation to the controversy that final decree cannot
be made without affecting their interest. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 139; Williams v. Bankhead, 19 Wall.
563.
The argument necessarily proceeds upon the assumption that the representation of these Indians by the United
States is of an incomplete or inadequate character; that
although the United States, by virtue of the guardianship
it has retained, is prosecuting this suit for the purpose of
enforcing the restrictions Congress has imposed, and of
thus securing possession to the Indians, their presence
as parties to the suit is essential to their protection. This
position is wholly untenable. There can be no more
complete representation than that on the part of the
United States in acting on behalf of these dependentswhom Congress, with respect to the restricted lands, has
not yet released from tutelage. Its efficacy does not

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

depend upon the Indian's acquiescence. It does not rest
upon convention, nor is it circumscribed by rules which
govern private relations. It is a representation which
traces its source to the plenary control of Congress in
legislating for the protection of the Indians under its care,
and it recognizes no limitations that are inconsistent
with the discharge of the national duty.
When the United States instituted this suit, it undertook to represent, and did represent, the Indian grantors
whose conveyances it sought to cancel. It was not necessary to make these grantors parties, for the Government
was in court on their behalf. Their presence as parties
could not add to, or detract from, the effect of the proceedings to determine the violation of the restrictions and
the consequent invalidity of the conveyances. As by the
act of Congress they were precluded from alienating their
lands, they were likewise precluded from taking any position in the legal proceedings instituted by the Government to enforce the restrictions which would render such
proceedings ineffectual or give support to the prohibited
acts. The pause could not be dismissed upon their consent; they could not compromise it; nor could they assume
any attitude with respect to their interest which would
derogate from its complete representation by the United
States. This is involved necessarily in the conclusion
that the United States is entitled to sue, and in the nature
and purpose of the suit.
These considerations also dispose of the contention
that by reason of the. absence of the grantors as parties,
the grantees are placed in danger. of double litigation; so
that if they should succeed here they would still be exposed to suit by the allottees. It is not pertinent to comment upon the improbability of the contingency, if it
exists in legal contemplation. But if the United States,
representing the owners of restricted lands, is entitled to
bring, a suit of this character, it must follow that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

decree will bind not only the United States, but the Indians whom it represents in the litigation. This consequence is involved in the representation. Kerrison v.
Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, 160; Shaw v. RailroadCo., 100 U. S.
605, 611; Beals v. Ill. &c. R..R. Co., 133 U. S. 290, 295.
And it could not, consistently with any principle, be
tolerated that, after the United States on behalf of its
wards had invoked the jurisdiction of its courts to cancel
conveyances in violation of the restrictions prescribed
by Congress, these wards should themselves be permitted
to relitigate the question.
In what cases the United States will undertake to
represent Indian owners of restricted lands in suits of
this sort is left under the acts of Congress to the discretion of the Executive Department. The allottee may be
permitted to bring his own action, or if so brought the
United States may aid him in its conduct, as in the Tiger
Case. And, as already noted, the act of May 27, 1908,
makes provision for proceedings by the representatives
of the Secretary of the Interior in the name of the allottee.
But in the opportunities thus afforded there is no room for
the vexation of repeated litigation of the same controversy.
And when the United States itself undertakes to represent
the allottees of lands under restriction and brings suit
to cancel prohibited transfers, such action necessarily
precludes the. prosecution by the allottees, of any other
suit for a similar purpose relating to the same property.
It is said that the allottees have received the consideration and should be made parties in order that equitable
restoration may be enforced. Where, however, conveyance has been made in violation of the restrictions, it is
plain that the return of the consideration cannot be regarded as an essential prerequisite to a decree of cancellation. Otherwise, if the Indian grantor had squandered
the money, he would lose the land which Congress intended he should. hold, and the very incompetence and

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thriftlessness which were the occasion of the measures for
his protection would render them of no avail. The
effectiveness of the acts of Congress is not thus to be
destroyed. The restrictions were set forth in public laws,
and were matters of general knowledge. Those who
dealt with the Indians contrary to these provisions are
not entitled to insist that they should keep the land if
the purchase price is not repaid, and thus frustrate the
policy of the statute. United States v. Trinidad Coal Co.,
137 U. S. 160, 170, 171.
But it is suggested that there may be instances where
the consideration could be restored without interfering
with the policy which prohibited the transfer; that is,
without in any way impairing the right to the recovery
of the land or the assurance to the Indian of his possession
free from incumbrance. It is said, for example, that there
may have been an exchange of lands, and that the Indian
grantor should not, on retaking the restricted lands, be
permitted at the same time to retain those which he has
received from the grantee. Or there may be other property held by the Indian grantor free from restrictions,
so that restoration of the consideration may be enforced
without working a deprivation of the restricted lands contrary to the act of Congress. We need not attempt to surmise what cases of this sort may arise. It is sufficient to
say that no such case is here presented. It is not presented
by the mere allegation of the bill that the conveyances
assailed purport to have been made for pecuniary consideration. It will be competent for the court, on a
proper showing as to any of the transactions that provision
can be made for a return of the consideration, consistently
with the cancellation of the conveyances and with securing
to the allottees the possession of the restricted lands in
accordance with the statute, to provide for bringing in
as a party to the suit any person whose presence for that
purpose is found to be necessary.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

A further objection is that the bill is multifarious. But
in view of the numerous transfers which the Government
attacks, it was manifestly in the interest of the convenient
administration of justice that unnecessary suits should be
avoided and that transactions presenting the same question for determination should be grouped in a single
proceeding. The objection to- the misjoinder of causes
of action is likewise without merit.
Our conclusion is that the suit was well brought. The
judgment of the court below is affirmed with the modification that the cause shall proceed in conformity with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON dissents on the question of juris-

diction, but not on the merits.

MULLEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 404.

Argued October 12, 13, 1911.-Decided April 15, 1912.

The relations of the United States and the Choctaw Indians by treaties
and statutes in regard to the allotment of lands and the restriction
of alienation reviewed, and held that where a person, whose name
appeared upon the rolls of the Choctaw Indians, died after the ratification of the agreement of distribution and before receiving the
allotment, there was no provision for restriction but the land passed
at once to his heirs; in such cases the United States cannot maintain

an action to set aside conveyances made by the heirs within the
period of restriction applicable to homestead allotments made to
members of the tribe during life.
179 Fed. Rep. 13, reversed as to this point.

