BEUTLER v. GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY.
224 U. S.

Argument for Beutler.

BEUTLER v. GRAND TRUNK JUNCTION RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 194.

Submitted March 6, 1912.-Decided March 18, 1912.

Courts may not abolish an established rule of law upon personal notions
of what is expedient; and so as to the fellow-servant doctrine even
if it be, as it has been called, a bad exception to a bad rule.
In cases tried in the United States courts the court must follow its understanding of the common law when no settled rule of property
intervenes.
The fellow-servant rule applies where the character of their respective
occupations brings the people engaged in them into necessary and
frequent contact even if they have no personal relations.
An employ6 of a railroad company engaged in work in the repair yard
is a fellow-servant of the crew of a switching engine of the same
company engaged in running cars needing repairs into the yard.
Although the question of fellow-servant may be left to the jury in the
state court, the question whether the facts do or do not constitute
a ground of liability is one of law; this court accordingly answers a
question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals as to whether
employ~s in this case were fellow-servants.
If a law is bad, the legislature, and not juries, must change it.

THE facts, which involve the determination of whether
certain classes of employ~s of railroad companies are fellow-servants, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James J. Barbour, with whom Mr. Raymond W.
Beach and Mr. Elmer E. Beach were on the brief for
Beutler:
A car repairer exclusively employed under a separate
and special foreman in the car repair department of a
railroad company whose duties never bring him in relation to or in contact with the persons comprising an

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Railway Company.

224 U. S.

engine and switching crew-exclusively engaged in a
separate and distinct department known as the operating
department-is not a fellow-servant with the members
of such engine or switching crew. Gilmore v. Nor. Pac.
R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 866, 870; Pike v. Chicago & A.
R. R. Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 95, 99; Nor. Pac. v. Herbert, 116
U. S. 642; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 383;
Santa Fe & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Holmes, 202 U. S. 438;
McCabe & Steen Co. v. Wilson, 209 U. S. 275, 280; Northern PacificR. R. Co. v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349.
The case at bar arose in Illinois, and the Supreme
Court of that State has held in cases similar to the one
at bar that the doctrine of fellow-servant does not apply.
Although the state decisions are not binding on this court,
the reasoning therein may well be adopted as the law
covering this particular case. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v.
Hambly, 154 U. S. 361; I., I. & I. R.. R. Co. v. Otstot, 212
Illinois, 429; Rolling Mill Co. v. Johnson, 114 Illinois, 57;
P. D. & E. Ry. Co. v. Rice, 144 Illinois, 227; Haas v. St.
L. & S. Ry. Co., 111 Mo. App. 706, 713; Gathman v. City
of Chicagol 236 Illinois, 9, 15; L. E. & W. R. R. Co. v.
Middleton, 142 Illinois, 550; Duffy v. Kitilen, 195 Illinois,
630, 634.
Mr. George W. Kretzinger for Railway Company:
The trial court in holding that the deceased and the
engine and switchirg crew were fellow-servants followed
the law as many times declared by this court.
Persons in the service of the same employer and bearing such relations to each other and to the business they
are jointly engaged in, as a switching crew and a car
repairer in the railroad yards of the master, are fellowservants, and the master is not liable for an injury to
one through- the negligence of the other.
In this case it must be assumed that all proper regulations were made by the master for the safety of the

BEUTLER v. GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY.
224 U. S.

Argume'nt for' Railway Company.

deceased while he was at work on the car. There is no
charge made that the method adopted for the safety of
the deceased was not reasonably safe, but the sole trouble
was that the switching crew did not heed the signal but
negligently allowed the car, which was being propelled
toward the one on which deceased was working, to run
against it with such force that it ran over and killed him.
The duty and implied contractof the master
with its
servants is that it will exercise reasonable care to furnish
its servants a safe place to work and shall employ competent co-servants, etc.
Where there is a general agent or superintendent having
the management or control of any particular department
or branch of the business, such agent takes the place of
the corporation and any neglect or omission of duty in
respect to his employ6s is, the negligence of the master,
for which the latter is responsible. Randall v. Balt. &
Ohio R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 478; Quebec Steamship Co. v.
Merchant, 133.U. S. 375; Central Railroad Co. v. Keegan,
160 U. S. 267.
The cause of the accident was the negligence of the
engine and switching crew, and such negligence in this
respect was the negligence of fellow-servants for which
the defendants in error are not liable. Nor. Pac.Ry. Co.
v. Dixon, 194 U. S. 345; Nor. Pac. R. R. v. Peterson,
162 U. S. 355.
. The negligence of the switching crew which caused
the death of the deceased was not the negligence of one
clothed with the control and management of the operating department of defendants in error. The case at bar,
therefore, does not form an exception as to the general
law of non-liability as above defined. New England R.
R. Co. v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 328, 339; Tex. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Bourman, 212 U. S. 536.
The cases cited by plai~tiff in error do not apply to
this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The deceased, Fetta, was at work in the repair yard
of a railroad; other servants of the road, an engine and
switching crew, ran a car needing repair from the general
tracks into the special yard, and by their negligence
killed him. There was no further relation between the
parties than these facts disclose, and the question is
certified whether they were fellow-servants within the
rule that would exempt the railroad from liability in
that case.
The doctrine as to fellow-servants may be, as it has
been called, a bad exception to a bad rule, but it is established, and it is not open to courts to do away with
it upon their personal notions of what is expedient. So
it has been decided that in cases tried in the United States
courts we must follow our own understanding of the common law when no settled rule of property intervenes.
Kuhn v.'Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349. Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349, 360.
The precedents in this court carry the doctrine as far
as it is necessary to carry it in this case to show that the
'two persons concerned were engaged in a common employment. No testimony can shake the obvious fact
that the character of their respective occupations brought
the people engaged in them into necessary and frequent
contact, although they may have had no personal relations. Every time that a car was to be repaired it had
to be switched into the repair yard. There is no room
for the exception to the rule that exists where the negligence consists in the undisclosed failure to furnish a safe
place to work in, anexception that perhaps has been
pushed to an extreme in the effort to limit the rule. Santa
Fe Pacific R. R. Co. v. Holmes, 202 U. S. 438. McCabe
& Steen Construction Co. v. Wilson, 209 U. S. 275.. The
head of the switching crew and the deceased were as

SAN JUAN LIGHT CO. v. REQUENA.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

clearly fellow-servants as the section hand and engineer
in Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Bourman, 212 U. S. 536.
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349. It
may be that in the state court the question would be
left to the jury, Gathman v. Chicago, 236 Illinois, 9; Indiana, Illinois & Iowa R. R. Co. v. Otstot, 212 Illinois, 429,
but whether certain facts do or do not constitute a ground
of liability is in its nature a question of law. To leave
it uncertain is to leave the law uncertain. If the law is
bad the legislature, not juries, must make a change. We
answer the certificate, Yes.

SAN JUAN LIGHT & TRANSIT CO. v. REQUENA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
'FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 96.

Argued December 13, 1911.-Decided March 18, 1912.

Denial by the trial court of a motion to strike from the complaint allegations as to exemplary damages does not harm defendant if the
court instructs the jury that only compensatory, and not exemplary,
damages can be recovered.
Where the parties, with the assent of the court, unite in trying a case on
the theory that a particular matter is within the issues, that theory
cannot be rejected when the case is in the appellate court for review.
The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur is that when a thing which causes
injury, without fault of the person injured, is shown to be under
the exclusive control of defendant, and would not cause the damage
in ordinary course if the party in control used proper care, it affords
reasonable evidence, in absence of an explanation, that the injury
arose from defendant's want of care.
The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur was rightly applied against defendant
electric light company in the case of a person injured while adjusting
an electric light in his residence by an electric shock transmitted

