OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

224 U. S.

HOLT, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF DAVIS,
KELLY & CO., v. CRUCIBLE STEEL COMPANY
OF AMERICA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 183.

Argued March 4, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

Under § 67a of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, the effect to be given to an
unrecorded chattel mortgage must be determined by the recording
law of the State.
As construed by the highest court of the State, the term " creditors " as
used in § 496, Kentucky Statutes, 1903, which declares that no
mortgage shall be valid against purchasers without notice or creditors until recorded does not include antecedent creditors, or subsequent creditors whose claims are acquired with notice, but does include subsequent creditors without notice, who by diligence secure
a specific lien before the mortgage is recorded; but that court has
not specifically decided whether the term includes subsequent creditors without notice who have not so secured such lien.
The Circuit Court of Appeals having held that under the decisions of
the highest court of the State bearing on the question, the term
"creditors" as used in.§496, Kentucky Statutes, 1903, does not include
subsequent creditors without notice who have not secured a lien on
the property prior to the recording thereof, and this court not being
able to say that such construction is wrong, held that the title of the
holder of an unrecorded chattel mortgage on property in Kentucky
is valid and effective as against the trustee in bankruptcy as to the
creditors who became such after the mortgage was given and who
had not fastened any lien on the property prior to the proceeding in
bankruptcy.
174 Fed. Rep. 127, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve priority of claims against the
bankrupts' estate, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. H. Nettelroth, with whom Mr. John C. Doolan
was on the brief, for appellant:
The contest is a proceeding in bankruptcy between the

HOLT v. CRUCIBLE STEEL CO.
224 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

holder of an unrecorded chattel mortgage, on one side,
and the trustee in bankruptcy, on behalf of certain subsequent creditors, on the other side.
As § 496, Kentucky Statutes, providing that no deed
or deed of trust or mortgage conveying a legal or equitable
title to real or personal estate shall be valid against a
purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice
thereof, or against creditors, until such deed shall be acknowledged or proved according to law, and lodged for
record, has been construed, an unrecorded mortgage is
invalid as to subsequent creditors without notice even
though such creditors have fastened no lien upon the
mortgaged property. Wicks Bros. v. McConnell, 102
Kentucky, 434; Besten & Langan v. People's Messenger &
Parcel Delivery Co., 99 S. W. Rep. 631; 30 Ky. Law Rep.
787; Swafford's Adm'r v. Asher, 105 S. W. Rep. 164; 31
Ky. Law Rep. 1338; In re Ducker, 134 Fed. Rep. 43; 13
Am. Bankruptcy Rep. 760.
York Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344, involved a similar question under the laws of Ohio, but
under the laws of that State such creditors only who have
obtained a lien may resist an unrecorded mortgage.
Appellant relies upon §§ 67a and b of the Bankruptcy
Act.
Mr. Keith L. Bullitt, with whom Mr. Win. Marshall
Bullitt was on the brief, for appellee:
An unrecorded chattel mortgage is valid under § 496,
Kentucky Statutes, as against subsequent creditors who
have not reduced their claims to liens. The contract in
this case is in effect a mortgage for the purchase price of the
steel. Baldwin v. Crow, 86 Kentucky, 679; Wicks v. McConnell, 102 Kentucky, 434, 436; Swafford's Adm'r v.
Asher, 31 Ky. Law Rep. 1338.
The lien of the unrecorded mortgage of the Crucible
Steel Co. is superior to that of general unsecured creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

whose debts were created subsequent to the execution of
the contract.
The rule in Kentucky prior to the decision of Swafford's
Adm'r v. Asher, 31 Ky. Law Rep. 1338, and Besten &
Langanv. People's Messenger Co., 99 S. W. Rep. 631, and
the general rule throughout the United States, has been
that the term " creditors" includes only those who by judgment, attachment, or otherwise, have obtained an interest
in, or a lien upon, the property covered by the mortgage,
Button v. Rathbone, 124 N. Y. 538; Overstreetv. Mannering,
67 Texas, 657; 8 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 241; Ayres v.
Duprey, 27 Texas, 593; McFadden v. Worthington, 45
Illinois, 365; Stewart v. Beale, 7 Hun, 405; Ransom v.
Schmela, 13 Nebraska, 77; 12 N. W. Rep. 926; Grace v.
Wade, 45 Texas, 527; Citizens' Bank v. Hibbs, 11 Ky. Law
Rep. 441; Underwoodv. Ogden, 6 B. Mon. 606 (Ky.); Bailey
& Carter v. Welch, 4 B. Mon. 244; United States Bank v.
Huth, 4 B. Mon. 423, 451; Wicks Bros. v. McConnell, 102
Kentucky, 534; In re Ducker, 134 Fed. Rep. 48; In re
Doran, 154 Fed. Rep. 471; York Mfg. Co. v. Cassell, 201
U. S. 344.
The rule in Kentucky has not been changed by the
decisions rendered in Swafford's Adm'r v. Asher, and
Besten v. People's Messenger Co., supra.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This appeal brings up for review a decree reversing an
order of the District Court for the Western District of
Kentucky in a proceeding in bankruptcy. The matter
in dispute is the validity, under the recording law of that
State, of an unrecorded chattel mortgage as against creditors who became such after the mortgage was given,
and without knowledge of it, where none of them had
secured a lien upon the mortgaged property by execution,

HOLT v. CRUCIBLE STEEL CO.

224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

attachment or otherwise. The mortgagee, in making proof
of its claim, asserted a lien under the mortgage and sought
priority of payment out of the proceeds of the property
covered by it. The claim was allowed, but the District
Court, being of opinion that the mortgage was invalid
as against the subsequent creditors without notice, held
that it gave no right to priority of payment as against
them. The mortgagee appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and that court, taking the view that the mortgage
was valid as against those creditors, since none had
secured any specific lien upon the mortgaged property,
sustained the right to priority asserted by the mortgagee.
174 Fed. Rep. 127. The trustee prosecutes the present
appeal.
Section 67a of the Bankruptcy Act declares:
"Claims which for want of record or for other reasons
would not have been valid liens as against the claims of the
creditors of the bankrupt shall not be liens against his
estate."
And the applicable provision of the recording law of
Kentucky (Stat. 1903, § 496) is as follows:
"No deed or deed of trust or mortgage conveying a
legal or equitable title to real or personal estate shall
be valid against a purchaser for a valuable consideration,
without notice thereof, or against creditors, until such
deeds shall be acknowledged or proved according to law,
and lodged for record."
It is apparent from the language of § 67a and from
the decisions of this court in York Manufacturing Co. v.
Cassell, 201 U. S. 344; Thomas V'. Taggart, 209 U. S. 385,
and other like cases, that the effect to be given to the
unrecorded chattel mortgage must be determined by the
recording law of the State; and it is also apparent that
the question arising under that law turns upon who are
included in the term "creditors" in § 496.
Upon that question the decisions of the Court of Appeals

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

of the State have not been uniform, but it is conceded, and
is evident upon an examination of the more recent decisions, that the term does not include antecedent creditors,
or subsequent creditors whose claims are acquired with
notice of the unrecorded mortgage, but does include
subsequent creditors, without notice, who by their diligence secure a specific lien upon the property, as by
execution or attachment, before the mortgage is recorded.
Baldwin v. Crow, 86 Kentucky, 679; Wicks v. McConnell,
'102 Kentucky, 434; Clift v. Williams, 105 Kentucky, 559;
Bowles' Ex'r v. Jones, 123 Kentucky, 395; Swafford's
Adm'r v. Asher, 105 S. W. Rep. 164. And so, the question
for decision is reduced to this: Does the term include subsequent creditors, without notice, who have not secured
such a lien?
No case in that court has been called to our attention,
and none has been found by us, in which this question
was presented for decision and decided; but in two of the
later cases there are expressions bearing thereon which
are respectively relied upon here. Thus, in Wicks Bros. v.
McConnell, supra, where the prior cases were reviewed
with the evident purpose of extracting a general and
guiding rule, it was said: "On the one hand, the unrecorded
lien is upheld as against creditors who cannot be presumed to have given credit upon the faith of the property
held in lien. On the other hand, creditors who may be
presumed on such faith to have given credit are protected
as against the secret lien in the rights which they secure by
their diligence in the levy of their execution or attachment."
(Italics ours.) And in Swafford's Adm'r v. Asher, supra,
it was said: "As the mortgage was not recorded, it would,
of course, not be valid as to creditors whose debts were subsequently created; but as to those whose debts were created
prior to the purchase of the teams and the mortgage
upon them the lien is valid, although not recorded as
required by § 496 of the Kentucky Statutes of 1903, and,

HOLT v. CRUCIBLE STEEL CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as said before, there is nothing to show that any debt of the
estate was created after the purchase of the teams, except that
of appellant, who had actual notice." As Wicks v. McConnell was cited as sustaining this statement, it is not
probable that the court regarded it as overruling or departing from what had been said in that case; and this
view receives added support from the fact that the opinion
in Swafford's Adm'r v. Asher was marked by the court
"Not to be officially reported." These considerations,
coupled with the further fact that in cases such as Bowles'
Ex'r v. Jones, supra, where subsequent creditors prevailed
over such a mortgagee, the court was careful to state, not
only that the claims of the creditors arose after the date
of the unrecorded mortgage, but also that the creditors had
obtained attachment or other liens upon the mortgaged
property before the mortgage was recorded, are persuasive that what was said in Wicks Bros. v. McConnell
should be accepted as reflecting the true construction
of § 496, in the absence of some more positive and direct
ruling upon the subject by the Court of Appeals of the
State. Such was the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and we are at least unable to say.that it was wrong. It
follows that, as here the subsequent creditors had not
fastened any lien upon the property covered by the
mortgage prior to the proceedings in bankruptcy by
which the title passed to the trustee, the mortgage,
although unrecorded, was valid and effective against
them.
Decree affirmed.

