OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. WYNNE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 103.

Submitted December 14, 1911.-Decided April 15, 1912.

A state statute which attaches onerous penalties to the non-payment
of extravagant demands denies the due process of law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment.

The statute of Arkansas of 1907, Act 61, providing that railroad
companies must pay claims for live stock killed or injured by their

trains within thirty days after notice and that failure to do so shall'
entitle the owner to double damages and an attorney's fee, even if
the amount sued for is less than the amount originally demanded,

as construed by the Supreme Court of that State, is unconstitutional as a denial of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Quwre: and not decided whether the statute is unconstitutional as
denying. due process of law even where the original demand is
sustained.
90 Arkansas, 538, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Con-

stitution of a statute of the State of Arkansas imposing
double liability in certain instances upon railway corporations, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. E. Hemingway and Mr. E. B. Kinsworthy for
plaintiff in error:
The statute and judgment deprive plaintiff in error of
its property without due process of law and are unconstitutional as they require payment of double damages and an attorney's fee, merely because the company
failed to pay an unliquidated demand, with respect to

ST. LOUIS, I. M. & S. RY. CO. v. WYNNE.
224 U. S.

355

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which there were bona fide and substantial doubts as to
the extent of the damage and as to its liability.
The mere fact that the horses were killed by the train,
did not establish the railway's liability. And if it was
liable for any amount, it could not exceed the reasonable
-narket value of the horses killed.
The law not only recognizes a defense, but it maintains
courts to entertain and try it. The railway company,
in failing to pay the claim, and in submitting to the courts
the question of its liability, acted entirely within its lawful rights.
As the statute provides heavy penalties against railway companies that are not provided against others, for
a mere failure to pay a disputed claim; and as no penalty
is imposed on a claimant who presents a demand against
a railway that is invalid or excessive; and as the heavy
penalty of double damages and attorney's fee was designed,
and is calculated to deter railways from exercising their
lawful right, to defend any doubtful claim, and to coerce
the payment of all claims, whether fair or unfair, unless
their invalidity be obvious or certainly demonstrable, such
discrimination and designed coercion operate to deny to
railways the equal protection of the laws.
A penalty, in excess of costs and reasonable expenses,
cannot be imposed for a complete failure to make good a
defense against an ordinary indebtedness. But even if
so, no penalty is proper for failing to pay, and contesting in court a claim which such contest proves to have been
excessive. Pacific Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. , irter, 92 Arkansas, 378, 387; Gulf, Colo. &c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v. Mathews, 174 U. S. 96.
The case of SeaboardAir Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73,
is distinguished, as in that case the statute imposed only
a penalty of fifty dollars, and was not primarily to enforce
the collection of a debt, but to compel the performance
of duties which the carrier assumed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S.

The state court did not sustain the penalty on the
ground that it was intended to enforce performance of a
duty under a police regulation, and the penalty attacked
is the one conditioned upon the breach of no duty whatever, except the duty to pay a disputed claim, which,
from its nature, is necessarily unliquidated as to amount,
and with respect to which delay in payment may often
be, not only reasonable, but necessary.
The statute is invalid because it was designed and is
calculated, by its heavy penalties, to deter railroads
from contesting any claim fairly involved in doubt, either
with respect to liability or the amount of damage, and
to coerce the payment of all such claims; in this respect it
denies to railroads the equal protection of the law. Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 145.
The practical effect of the statute is to impose absolute
liability, and, in effect, to deny the right to defend.
The statute denies the railways the equal protection
of the law, since they are penalized for making the same
defense that all other persons can make without risk of
penalty, and for the further reason, that claimants who
present unfounded or excessive claims and press them
to an unsuccessful termination, incur no penalty and in
no way compensate the road for its expense, trouble and
cost. Fidelity Mut. Life Ass. v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308;
Minn. Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 96, do not apply.
Mr. R. E. Wiley, and Mr. Powell Clayton for defendant in error:
The statute does not permit the owner to demand an
amount clearly excessive and to refuse to accept any
thing less until he brings his suit, and then, by reducing his demand in his complaint to a reasonable sum,
fasten an absolute liability upon the defendant for the
penalty without giving it an opportunity to contest its
liability, although it had succeeded in ite contention

ST. LOUIS, I. M. & S. RY. CO. v. WYNNE.
224 U. S.

357

Argument for Defendant in Error.

that it was not liable for the full amount originally demanded. Statutes must be interpreted, if possible, to
make them consistent with the Constitution. Hooper v.
California,155 U. S. 648, 657; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S.
252, 269; Grenada County v. Brown, 112 U. S. 261, 269;
Brewer v. Blougher, 14 Pet. 178, 198; United States v.
Coombs, 12 Pet. 72; Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 448;
Knight's Templars' Ind. Co. v. Jarman, 187 U. S. 197, 205.
The true construction of the statute is that the railroad
must have thirty days' notice of the killing of the stock,
and within this thirty days it must pay the true value oin
demand. If the demand for the amount due is made for
the first time in the complaint, then the railroad may
defeat a recovery of the penalty by paying the amount
sued for.
A railroad company has the right to resist a demand
that it does not owe, but the demand is always governed
by the allegations of the complaint, and not by any prior
negotiations between the parties, and the jury in the
case at bar has determined that the plaintiff in error did
owe the amount demanded. Pacific Mut. Life Ins. Co. v.
Carter, 92 Arkansas, 379; Haglin v. Atkinson-Williams
Hardware Co., 93 Arkansas, 85, do not apply, as the
amount recovered in each instance was less than the
amount demanded in the complaint.
The statute, as properly construed, is not in conflict
with the Fourteenth Amendment. Seaboard Air Line
Railway v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; Minn. & St. Louis Ry.
Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26.
Under the statute there can be no recovery unless the
company is negligent, but in order to justify a recovery
of the double damages there must be, not only negligence
in killing the stock, but also a refusal to respond for the
actual damages suffered. Atchison, Topeka &c. R. R.
Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Fidelity Mutual Life Ass.
v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

The penalty is not so heavy as to deter the railroad
company from contesting a claim, and thus denying to
it the equal protection of the law. Missouri Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512, where the penalty was double
the amount of damage done; Minneapolis & St. Louis
Railway Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26, where the penalty
was for double the value of the stock killed or injured;
Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, where the
penalty was for many times the amount of the damage.
Railroads are proper subjects of classification with
respect to the matters contained in the statute. Missouri
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512; Missouri Pac. Ry.
Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.
Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404; Farmers' &c. Ins. Co. v. Dobney,
189 U. S. 301; Missouri, Kan. & Tex. Ry. Co. v. May,
194 U. S. 267.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
A statute of the State of Arkansas (Laws of 1907,
Act 61), relating to the liability of. carriers by railroad
for live stock killed, wounded or injured by their trains,
contains this provision:
"And said railroad shall pay the owner of such stock
within thirty days after notice is served on such railroad
by such owner. Failure to do so shall entitle said owner
to double the amount of damages awarded him by any
jury trying such cause, 'and a reasonable attorney's fee.
And provided further, that if the owner of such stock killed
or wounded shall bring suit against such railroad after
the thirty days have expired, and the jury trying such
cause shall give such owner a less amount of damage
than he sues for, then such owner shall recover only the
amount given him by said jury and not be entitled to recover any attorney's fees."

ST. LOUIS, I. M. & S. RY. CO. v. WYNNE.
224 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

The owner of two horses, which were. killed within
the State by a train of a railway company, served upon
the company a written notice demanding damages in the
sum of $500. The company refused to pay the demand,
and after the expiration of thirty days'the owner brought
suit in a court of the State to recover his damages, alleged
in the complaint to be $400. A trial to a jury resulted
in a verdict for the owner, assessing his damages it the
amount sued for, and the court, deeming the statute
applicable, gave judgment for double that amount arid
for an attorney's fee of $50. The company objected that
the statute, as thus applied was repugnant to the due
process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, but the objection was overruled, and on appeal to the Supreme Court
of the State the judgment was affirmed. 90 Arkansas,
538. The case is here on a writ of error to that court.
It will be perceived that, while before the suit the owner
demanded $500 as damages, which the company refused
to pay, he did not in his suit either claim or establish that
he was entitled to that amount. On the contrary, by
the allegations in his complaint he confessed, and by the
verdict of the jury it was found, that his damages were
but $400. Evidently, therefore, the prior demand was
excessive and the company rightfully refused to pay it.
And yet, the statute was construed as penalizing that
refusal and requiring a judgment for double damages and
an attorney's fee. In other words, the application made
of the statute was such that the company was subjected
to this extraordinary liability for refusing to pay the excessive demand made before the suit.
We think the conclusion is unayoidable that the statute,
as so construed and applied,, is an arbitrary exercise of
the powers of government and violative of the fundamental rights embraced within the conception of due
process of law. It 'does not merely provide a reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

incentive for the prompt settlement, without suit, of just
demands of a class admitting of special treatment by
the legislature, as was the case with the statute considered
in Seaboard Air Line Railway Co. v. Seegers, 207 U. S.73-,
but attaches onerous penalties to the non-payment of
extravagant demands, thereby making submission to
them the preferable alternative. Thus, it takes property
from one and gives it to another, not because of a breach
by the former of a duty to the latter or to the public, but
because of a lawful exercise of an undoubted right. Plainly
this cannot be done consistently with due process of law.
And, in principle, the Supreme Court of the State has
so held since its decision in this case. In Pacific Mutual
Life Insurance Co. v. Carter,92 Arkansas, 378, that court
had occasion to consider a statute of the State providing
that if a loss under a policy of insurance was not paid
within the time specified, "after demand made therefor,"
the company should be liable, in addition to the amount of
the loss, to twelve per cent damages and a reasonable
attorney's fee. An insured demanded in payment of a
loss under such a policy the sum of $1,666.66, which the
insurance company refused to pay, and in a suit on the policy, wherein it was found that the loss was but $1,444.44,
the insured was awarded the statutory damages and an
attorney's fee. That part of the judgment was'reversed,
and it was said (p. 387):
"But the act makes the company liable for failure to
pay the loss 'after demand made therefor.' The statute
thus contemplates that there shall be a demand. A recovery for penalty and attorney's fee cannot be had
when complainant makes demand for more than he is
entitled to recover. It could never have been the purpose
of the Legislature to make the insurance companies pay
a penalty and attorney's fee for contesting a claim that
they did not owe. Such an act would be unconstitutional.
The companies have the right to resist the payment of a

ST. LOUIS, I. M. & S. RY. CO. v. WYNNE.
224 U. S.

361

Opinion of the Court.

demand that they do not owe. When the plaintiff demands an excessive amount, he is in the wrong. The
penalty and attorney's fee is for the benefit of the one who
is only seeking to recover after demand what is due him
under the terms of his contract, and who is compelled
to resort to the courts to obtain it."
In the brief for the railway company the contention
is advanced that the statute would still be wanting in
due process of law were it construed as imposing double
liability, with an attorney's fee, only where the prior
demand is fully established in the suit following the refusal to pay; but that question does not necessarily arise
upon the facts of this case, and we purposely refrain
from considering it.
Confining ourselves to what is necessary for the decision of the case in hand, we hold that the statute, as
construed and applied by the state courts, is wanting
in due process of law and repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The judgment is accordingly reversed, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

