OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

alive and beneficently '"to protect those dependent upon
the employ6 as well as the employ6 himself," and that,
therefore, "a; 'personal representative' " might act in the
place of the deceased. But it is further argued that this
was not the only purpose of the act. It had the purpose of
giving to a defendant company the right to have its liability determined in one action, and that such liability would
be secured whether executors or administrators sued or
heirs sued. The reasoning is not very satisfactory and
puts out of account the absolute words of the statute.
And these take a special force in Porto Rico. An employers' liability act existed there at the time of the enactment of the National act, which gave a cause of action, if
the conditions of liability existed, to the widow of the
deceased or to his children or dependent parents. The
National act gives the right of action to personal representatives only.
Judgment reversed without prejudice to such rights as the
personal representatives may have.

McCAUGHEY

v. LYALL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 228.

Submitted April 19, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

Section 1582 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, as construed
by the Supreme Court of that State, is not unconstitutional as denying due process of law to an heir of a mortgagor because it permits
foreclosure against the administrator without making the heir a
party to the suit.
The legislative power of the State is the source of the rights in real
estate and remedies in regard thereto.

McCAUGHEY v. LYALL.
224 U. Si

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The highest court of the State can construe the laws of that State so
as to make of them a consistent system of jurisprudence accommodating the rights and the remedies dealt with by the legislature.
152 California, 615, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the due process clause of the Constitution of a statute
of California, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Cyrus F. McNutt, with whom Mr. Win. G. Griffith
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
By § 1384, Civil Code of California, the property of one
who dies without disposing of it by will, passes to the heirs
of the intestate, subject to the control of the probate
court, and to the possession of any administrator appointed by that court, for the purposes of administration.
The Supreme Court of the State held that upon the
death of the ancestor, the title to the real estate vests
immediately in the heir. Bates v. Howard, 105 California,
173, at 183; Estate of Woodworth, 31 California, 595, at
604; Chapmn v. Hollister, 42 California, 462, 463.
While the legislature can provide that such heir shall
take the estate subject to burden, such as the payment
of the debts of the ancestor and support of his family
for the time being, that is, during administration, Brenham v. Story, 39 California, 179-185, when the law of the
State has established the right of the heir to take by descent and has provided that such descent shall be cast eo
instanti at the death of the ancestor, his right is fixed by
such positive law and he becomes invested of the measure
of title which that law has fixed and he cannot be divested
of such title without due process of law.. See § 1582,
Code Civ. Proc., as follows: Actions for the recovery of
any property, real or personal, or for the possession thereof,
or to quiet title thereto, or to determine any adverse claim
thereon, and all actions founded upon contracts, may be
maintained by and against executors and administrators

OCTOBER TERM. 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

224 U. S.

in all cases in which the same might have been maintained
by or against their respective testators or intestates.
This statute, which is the basis of the rule established
by the court that the heir at law is not a necessary party
defendant in an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage
given by his ancestor during his lifetime, is repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The general rule is that in actions to foreclose mortgages
after the death of the mortgagors, their heirs are necessary
parties defendant. Lane v. Erskine, 13 Illinois, 501; Harvey v. Thornton, 14 Illinois, 217; Starke v. Brown, 12 Wisco'nsin, 572; Zaegel v. Kuster', 51 Wisconsin, 31; Johnson
v. Johnson (S. C.), 3 S. E. Rep. 606.
This is so even where the mortgagor retains an equitable interest only and the legal title is vested in the mortgagee. Frazier v. Bean, Admr. (N. C.), 2 S. E. Rep.
159.
Plaintiffs in error were neither made parties to the
complaint, nor was any process issued against them by
any fictitious or other name. The plaintiff contented himself with suing the administratrix alone. The judgment
which was-rendered was rendered against her solely. The
very existence of the heirs at law was ignored and no account taken of them at any stage of the proceedings. They
therefore neither had "notice " nor "opportunity to be
heard," both of which, as already suggested, are essential
to jurisdiction of the person, and are essential in order that
the proceedings shall bind such person. Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97,'Myers
v. Shields, 61 Fed. Rep. 713; Iowa Cent. R. Co. v. Iowa,
160 U. S. 389; Calhoon v. Fletcher, 83 Alabama, 574;
Mulligan v. Smith, 59 California, 206; Clark v. Lewis,
35 Illinois, 417; Garvin v. Dussman, 114 Indiana, 429;
Highland v. Brazil Block Coal Co., 128 Indiana, 335;
Happy v. Mosier, 48 N. Y. 313; Gillman v. Tucker, 128
N. Y. 190; Zaegler v. South &c. Alabama R. Co., 58

McCAUGHEY v. LYALL.
224U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Alabama, 599; Brown v. Denver, 7 Colorado, 305; Citizens'
Horse T. Co. v. Belleville, 47 Ill. App. 388.
Mr. Alexander Lyall pro se and for other defendants in
error.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.,
This writ of error is directed to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of California sustaining the
title of defendants in error to certain lands in that State
derived through a sheriff's sale of the same upon suit
for foreclosure of a mortgage. The suit was instituted
and prosecuted against the administratrix of the estate
of the father of plaintiffs in error, they not having been
made parties nor given notice of pendency of the suit.
The facts, as stated in the opinion of the court, are
as follows (152 California, 615, 616):
"George McCaughey died intestate on March 1, 1890.
The plaintiffs are his children and heirs at law. During
his lifetime, on June 6, 1889, the deceased executed a
mortgage on certain land to one H. J. Finger to secure
a promissory note for five hundred dollars, which was
due and unpaid at the death of the decedent. After his
death Susan McCaughey was duly appointed and qualified
as administratrix of his estate. The note and mortgage
were duly presented to the administratrix and were
allowed by her and approved by the probate judge. In
January, 1894, Finger commenced an action against the
administratrix to foreclose the mortgage, but did not
make plaintiffs parties to such action. Such proceedings
were had that a judgment of foreclosure was regularly
rendered under which the land was duly sold by the sheriff
on April 10, 1895, to defendant Lyall, who in due' time
received a sheriff's deed therefor. Several years afterwards
this present action was brought by said heirs to have
VOL. ccxxiv-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

it adjudicated that they are the owners of an undivided
one-half of the said land; that the claim of the defendants
thereto be adjudged null and void; that plaintiffs recover
the possession of the land, etc. A general demurrer to
the complaint was intierposed by the defendant Lyall
and by other defendants. The demurrers were sustained;
and plaintiffs declining to amend, judgment was rendered
for defendants."
The judgment was affirmed by Department 2 of the
Supreme Court and a petition for rehearing in banc was
denied: Thereupon the chief justice of the court granted
this writ of error.
The contention of plaintiffs in error is that the law cast
upon them the title to the land upon the death of their
intestate ancestor and that such title could not be divested
in a suit in which they were not parties.
To sustain the contention plaintiffs in error make, as
we shall see, one part of the law of the State paramount
to another part, certain decisions of the courts of the
State paramount to other decisions, putting out of view
that necessarily the coordination of the laws of the State
and the accommodation of the decisions of its courts
is the function and province of the tribunals of the State,
legislative and judicial respectively.
For their rights of property -plaintiffs adduce § 1384 of
the Civil Code of the State, which provides that "the
property, both real and personal, of one who dies without
disposing of it by will, passes.to the heirs of the intestate,
subject to the control of the probate court, and to the
possession of any administrator appointed by that court,
for the purposes of administration." And decisions of
the Supreme Court are cited holding, it is said, "that
upon the death of the ancestor, the title to the real estate
vests immediately in the heir." From the code and the
decisions it is deduced that the descent being cast at the
instant of the death of ancestor, the "right of the heir is

McCAUGHEY v. LYALL.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fixed by such positive law and he becomes invested with
the measure of title which that law has fixed and cannot
be divested of such title without due process of law."
It is admitted that the heir takes subject to administration, but with that limitation only, it being contended
further that "he holds precisely the title held by the
ancestor." Section 1582 of the Code of Civil Procedure
of the State is cited as defining the limitation. It provides
that "actions for the recovery of any property5 real or
personal, or for the possession thereof, or to quiet title
thereto, or'to determine any adverse claim thereon, and
all actions founded upon contracts, may be maintained
by and against executors and administrators in all cases
in which the same might have been maintained by or
against their respective testators or intestates."
The Supreme Court of the State in a number of decisions
has considered that section to mean that an heir is not
a necessary party with the administrator. Cunninghamv.
Ashley, 45 California, 485; Bayly v. Muehe, 65 California,
345; Finger v. McCaughey, 119 California, 59; Dickey v.
Gibson, 121 California, 276. This is conceded by plaintiffs
in error, but they say that because § 1582 of the Code of
Civil Procedure "is made the basis of the rule established
by the Supreme Court of the State" they complain of it,
and respectfully urge that it "is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, § 1." This is equivalent to saying that the
legislative power of the State, being the source of the
rights and the remedies, has so dealt with one as to make
the other repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States; or, if the complaint be of the decisions, that the
Supreme Court of the State cannot construe the laws of
the State and make of them a consistent system of jurisprudence, accommodating rights and remedies. Both contentions are so clearly untenable that further discussion is
unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.

