DEMING INVESTMENT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 471
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

Indian blood were entitled to convey their surplus lands.
So far as the bill assails such conveyances it is without
equity.
As all the conveyances made to the appellants are not
particularly described in the printed record before this
court, it is impossible to specify those which were lawful
and those which were obnoxious to the statute. We are
of opinion (1) that the bill should be sustained so far as it
relates to conveyances of homestead lands; (2) that it
should also be sustained to the extent that it is directed
against conveyances of surplus lands made by freedmen
allottees who were minors and thus excepted from the provision of the act of April 21, 1904, and those made by
adult allottees prior to that date; and (3) that so far as the
bill relates to conveyances of surplus lands made by adult
freedmen allottees subsequent to April 21, 1904, it should
be dismissed.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals will therefore be affirmed, with the modification that the cause
shall proceed in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

DEMING INVESTMENT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 434.

Argued October 12, 13, 1911.-Decided April 29, 1912.

Goat v. United States, ante, p. 458, followed in regard to validity of
conveyances of lands allotted to Seminole Indians, and the right of
the United States to maintain actions to set such conveyances aside.
179 Fed. Rep. 13, modified and affirmed as to this point.

THE facts, which involve the validity of certain deeds
and mortgages of allotted lands made by Seminole In-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

dians and the right of the United States to have the same
set aside, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. C. Stone, Mr. Robert J. Boone and Mr. S. T.
Bledsoe, for appellants.1
The Solicitor General and Mr. A. N. Frost and Mr. Harlow A. Leekley, Special Assistants to the Attorney General,
for the United States. 1
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The United States sought by this suit to cancel certain
deeds and mortgages of lands allotted to members of the
Seminole tribe of Indians. The judgment of the Circuit
Court, sustaining demurrers to the bill, was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. United States v. Allen, and
similar cases, 179 Fed. Rep. 13.
The suit was brought on July 22, 1908, and embraced
several conveyances to distinct grantees. This appeal is
prosecuted-under ยง 3 of the act of June 25, 1910, c. 409,
36 Stat. 837-by only one of the defendants, The Deming
Investment Company, of Oklahoma City.
The bill attacks mortgages made to this appellant, by
others than the allottees, during the months of August,
October and December, 1906. It is alleged that they were
attempted incumbrances of allotted lands of members of
the Seminole tribe; that none of these lands had been
patented to individuals at the time of the transactions;
and that all contracts for the sale, disposition and incumbrance of the lands prior to the date of patent were expressly declared by law to be void. (Agreement of December 16, 1897, ratified by the act of July 1, 1898, c. 542,
30 Stat. 567.)
In its brief the appellant states that "each conveyance
only involves the surplus allotment and not the home' See abstract of arguments in Heckman v. United'States, ante, p. 413.

DEMING INVESTMENT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 473
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stead of the particular allottee," a statement which we do
not understand the Government to challenge so far as the
mortgages to the appellant are concerned. The bill does
not allege that these mortgages, or any of them, embraced

homestead lands..
Nor is it alleged in the bill that any of the allottees
whose allotments had been mortgaged to the appellant
were of Indian blood, but the lands are described as those
which had been allotted to Seminole freedmen whose
names appear upon the freedmen rolls of that tribe. Upon
the allegations of the bill, these allottees, so far as they
were adults, must be held to come within the provision of
the act of April 21, 1904, c. 1402 (33 Stat. 189, 204),
which removed all restrictions upon alienation by adult
allottees not of Indian blood with respect to their surplus
lands; and, by virtue of the allotment, they had an interest in the allotted lands which on the removal of the
restriction they were entitled to convey. Goat v. United
States, decided this day, ante, p. 458.
Minors were excepted from this enabling provision of
the act of 1904; and in one instance the mortgage is 'described as covering a portion of the allotment of a minor
freedmen allottee, Ellen Sango, age 17. In this, as in
other cases, the age of the allottees is given apparently as
of the time when the mortgage was executed. The dates
of the conveyances made by the allottees are not set forth.
Upon the authority of Goat v. United States, supra, the
bill, with respect to the appellant, should be sustained so
far as it relates to mortgages covering lands which had
been conveyed by minor allottees, or by adult allottees
before April 21, 1904; and it should be dismissed as to the
surplus lands conveyed by adult freedmen allottees subsequent to that date. The judgment of the Circuit Court

of Appeals is affirmed, with the modification that the
cause shall proceed in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

