ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

But it is argued that if such a disease is due to the presence
of tubercular germs in a man's system before the accident
the defendant ought not to be required to pay more than
it would to a normal man. On this point also we are. of

opinion that the jury were warranted in finding.that the
disease was the direct result of the injury, as they were
required to, by the very conservative instructions to them,
before holding the defendant to answer for it. Crane
Elevator Co. v. Lippert, 63. Fed. Rep. 942. 11 C., C. A.
521. Spade v. Lynn & Boston R. R. Co., 172 Massachusetts, 488, 491. Smith v. London & South Western Ry. Co.,

L. R. 6 C. P. 14, 21.
Jugment affirmed.

B. ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No.

208.

Argued April 25,-26, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

This court will entertain a direct review of -thejudgment of the Circuit
Court under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of 1891, in a.
revenue case which inivolves not only questions of classification'and
amount of dut' thereunder, but also questions as to the constitutionality of a law of the.United States or the validity or construc•tion of a treaty under its authority.
Where the importer throughout has insisted that the merchandise is
dutiable at the rate fixed by a reciprocal agreement entered into
by the United States under § 3 of'the Tariff Act of 1897., there is a
direct appeal to this court under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act of 1891, provided such agreement is a treaty.'
Generally a treaty is a compact between two or more independent
nations with a view to the public welfare, but quwre,whether under
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States an agreement
is a treaty unless made by the President and ratified by two-thirds
of the Senate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

In construing the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of 1891, the intent-of
Congress will be considered, and it was manifestly to permit rights
and obligations resting on international compacts and their construction to be passed on by this court.
A reciprocal agreement between the United States and a foreign nation entered into and proclaimed by the President under authority
of § 3 of the Tariff Act of 1897 is a treaty within the meaning of
§ 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act.
A term used in a reciprocal agreement made under § 3 of the Tariff
Act of 1897 will be construed in the same way that such term is
defined in the act itself; and so held that the word "statuary" used
in the reciprocal agreement of May 30, 1898, with France of,30 Stat.
1774, includes only such statuary as is cut, carved, or otherwise
wrought by hand as the work of a sculptor.
172 Fed. Rep. 161, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of the tariff
acts and of the reciprocal agreement with. France of
May 30, 1898, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Henry J. Webster, with whom Mr. John K. Maxwell
and Mr. Howard T. Walden were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The so-called agreement with France is a treaty.
The President and Senate undoubtedly have complete
control of the making of treaties, so long as they refuse to
join with the House of Representatives in making a treaty
by act of Congress. There is a practical limitation to
their power of carrying treaties into execution in cases
where an act of Congress is necessary for that purpose,
but that is a separate matter from their power to make
treaties, which is unqualified. The. House, therefore, has
no right to demand any agency or share in the making
of treaties, but has only a right to demand a share in the
legislation, if any be necessary, to make them effective.
If, 'however, the President and Senate voluntarily join
with the House. in the enactment of a law which authorizes the making of a treaty, and provides for its taking
effect upon proclamation by the President, such action

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

includes the approval of the President, the advice and
consent of the Senate, and the legislation required to put
it in to execution.
The power to pass a law authorizing the President to
make a treaty reducing rates of duty in consideration
of reciprocal reductions by a foreign nation, is an exercise
of the power conferred by Art. I, § 8, to make all laws
necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers. Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 533, 538;
quoting from Fisher v. Blight, 2 Cranch, 358.
The mere designation of the instrument by another
name, even by Congress and the President, does not
prevent its being a treaty, if it is such in substance.
Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429, quoted
with approval in Fairbank v. United States, 181 U; S.
283.
Treaties have quite frequently been denominated conventions, but that does not change their nature as treaties.
Bartram v. Robertson, 122 U. S. 116, 118.
If a treaty remains a treaty when called a convention,
it would seem equally to remain a treaty when called an
agreement.
Congress has referred to the Hawaiian treaty in two
instances as a convention, and in two others as a treaty.
Act Aug. 15, 1875, 19 Stat. 200; Act Mar. 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 844; Act Aug. 27, 1894, par. 182Y, 28 Stat. 521; Act
July 24, 1897, par. 209, 30 Stat. 168.
In the general sense and without special reference to
the Constitution and laws of the United States, the socalled commercial agreement with France is unquestionably a treaty.
There is no decided case involving directly the question
whether a certain instrument was a treaty or not. As to
what a treaty is, see Foster v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314;
Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540; United States v. Rauscher,
119 U. S. 407; Whitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

This contract with France was between two independent

nations; it was a formal contract, written in both French
and English, signed by both parties and duly proclaimed by
the President and also by the Secretary of the Treasury; it
was upon' consideration-a promise for a promise; it was
for a considerable time and furnished a rule for almost
daily action during its continuance; it Was for the public
welfare, and made in the name of the State, and was
actually executed for a period of eleven years, its termination having been directed by §4, act of August 5th, 1909,
36 Stat. 83.
In the Constitution and laws of the United States, the
word "treaty" has no special meaning different from. the
general definition. Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S.
483, 489.
The reason for vesting the power to make treaties in
the President and Senate appears to have been simply
to secure secrecy and despatch, which, it was recognized,
were often necessary, and except for this consideration,
the power would doubtless have been expressly vested
in Congress as a vrhole. 2 Madison, Journal of Const.
Cony. of 1787, edited by Hunt, 327; Chas.. Pinckney,
4 Elliott's Debates in State Conventions on Adoption of
Federal Constitution, 25.3-267.
As to executive and legislative construction, see Annals
of Congress,- 4th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 759, 771. See
discussion in 1816; the. question whether legislation -was
necessary to .carry a certain -treaty into effect, the House

proposing to pass an act to carry a treaty into effect,
to which the Senate disagreed; Annals of Congress, 14th
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1022, 1057.
For legislative interpretation, see law enacted by Congress -in 1872 for making postal arrangements, 17 Stat.
304, now § 398, Rev. Stat., in pursuance of which the
treaty of Berne was entered into October 9, 1874, 19 Stat.
577, and was ratified by the Postmaster General by and

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

with the advice and consent of the President (ib. 588);
Cotzhausen v. Nazro, 107 U. S. 215, 217. See also act
tantamount to an offer to a foreign nation, which, when
accepted by it, constituted a treaty in substance, although
not incorporated into one document signed by both
parties, and which granted certain rights to Canadian
vessels in waters of the United States, to become effective
when Canada extended the same privilege to American
vessels in Canadian waters. Act of June 19, 1878, 20
Stat. 175, amended May 24, 1890, 26 Stat. 120, and again
March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 683. These were acts of Congress passed by both houses and approved by the President.
The Secretary of the Treasury in official documents
has frequently referred to this contract. with France, and
others made in the same manner and by the same authority with other countries, as treaties (Treas. Dec. 19405,
21886, 22277, 22353, 23954). The Board of General
Appraisers has done the same (T. D. 23166, 24971, 25442,
26208, 29070, 30490, 31202). This oft-repeated use of
the word "treaty" as applied to these so-called commercial
agreements indicates a general understanding in the executive departments that they are treaties.
In some court decisions this particular agreement with
France has been called a treaty, without discussion as
to the exact meaning of the word. Nicholas v. United
States, 122 Fed. Rep. 892; Migliavacca Wine Co. v.' United
States, 148 Fed. Rep. 142; Shaw v. United States, 1 Cust.
App. 426, also reported T. D. 31500.
Section 3 of the act of 1897, supra, was an expression
of the advice and consent not only of the Senate, but also
of the House of Representatives.
The Constitution, in conferring the power to make
treaties, does not prescribe the time or method of the
Senate giving its advice and consent. It can as well be
given before negotiations as after, and certainly the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

sent of the whole Congress is not inferior to the consent of the Senate alone. Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1,
85; Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Pet. 185, 209, affirming 1 McLean,
185; Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall. 39, 59.
The supreme legislative authority in the United States
is Congress. Const., Art. I, § 1. The power of the
President and Senate to make treaties is necessarily
subordinate in some respects.
A treaty can be repealed by an act of Congress. Head
Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 599.
The more or less general use of the word "agreement"
instead of "treaty" as applied to these reciprocal commercial contracts is easily accounted for.
It is within the spirit and intent of the act of March 3,
1891, supra, to give this court jurisdiction in this case.
Durousseauv. United States, 6 Cranch, 307, 314.
If the agreement with France is a treaty, this court
has jurisdiction of the entire case. Homer v. United
States, 143 U. S. 570, 576.
The term " statuary" in the treaty with France includes
all kinds or species of statuary, of any material and made
by any process.
A name of an article used in a statute without qualification includes that article in all its forms and species.
Chew Hing Lung v. Wise, 176 U. S. 156, 160; Schoelkopf
v. United States, 71 Fed. Rep. 694.
There is absolutely nothing on the face of the treaty
to indicate' any limitation of the term "statuary" to a
particular class of statuary.
Wherd a treaty admits of two constructions, one restrictive as to the rights that may be claimed under it,
and the other liberal, the latter is to be preferred. Shanks
v. Dupont, 3 Pet. 242. Such is the settled rule in this
court. Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, 487; Chow
Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536, 539; New York
indiansv. United States, 170 U. S. 1, 23..

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The published presidential proclamation of the treaty
with France, 30 Stat. 1774; T. D. 19405, contains no
intimation that the statuary therein referred to was to
be only professional productions of sculptors.
Although the particular amendment adopted by the
Senate, and not included in the treaty and proclamation,
did not have the approval of the President, it was not,
therefore, ineffective as an amendment. A strict and
technical view would have been that the treaty as finally
ratified and proclaimed by the President did not have the
full and complete consent of the Senate, and, therefore,
was no treaty. But the court apparently did not regard
this view with sufficient seriousness to even mention it.
Obviously the treaty must contain the whole contract
between the parties. New York Indians Case, supra;Fourteen Diamond Rings, 183 U. S. 176; Meigs v. McClung's
Lessee, 9 Cranch, 11.
The intention should not' be imputed to Congress to
limit the statuary covered by § 3 by a clause "kept in
the background," in the midst of a long and involved
statute. The provision' on which the Government relies
is obscurely placed as a proviso to par. 454 of the Tariff
Act of 1897 (30 Stat. 194).
The office of a proviso, generally, is either to except
something from the enacting clause, or to qualify or restrain its generality, or to exclude some possible ground. of
misinterpretation of it, as extending to cases not intended
by the legislature to be brought within its purview.
Minis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423, 445; United States
v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 165; White v. United States,
191 U. S. 545, 551.
Section 3 is a thing apart. It did not, ex proprio vigore,
fix any rate of duty, or provide for the free admission
of any articles. It could not operate contemporaneously
with §§ 1 and 2, as to the same importation. The moment
it is effective, §§ 1 and 2 are suspended pro tanto. Barber

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

224 U. S.

v. Schell, 107 U. S. 617, 620; Nicholas v. United States,
122 Fed. Rep. 892; United States v. Luyties, 124 Fed. Rep.
977; United States v. Wile, 124 Fed. Rep. 1023; S. C., 130
Fed. Rep. 331.
The cases of Richard & Co. v. United States, 158 Fed.
Rep. 1019, and Shaw v. United States, 158 Fed. Rep. 648,
212 U. S. 559, can be distinguished.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wemple, with whom
Mr. Charles E. McNabb, Assistant Attorney, and Mr.
Frank L. Lawrence, Special Attorney, were on the brief,
for the United States:
This court has no jurisdiction of the appeal in any
view of the case.
A reciprocal commercial agreement under § 3 of the
Tariff Act of 1897 is not a treaty within the meaning of
the Constitution of the United States and § 5 of the
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828.
As such agreements cannot legally extend the scope of
the, law, the agreement with France cannot be construed
to embrace statuary not covered by said § 3.
The merchandise in suit, not being wrought by hand
from metal and the professional production of a statuary
or sculptor only, is excluded from the operation of § 3
by the express limitation in paragraph 454 of the same
act.
No question is presented of which this court has jurisdiction upon direct appeal from the Circuit Court.
The sovereign is not suable in its own courts
without its
expressed consent., This is a suit against the United
States, and general. ac'ts do not apply to the sovereign
unless the sovereign be mentioned therein. Cheatham v.
United States, 92 U. S. 85.
Jurisdiction is unwarranted by the record, and unsupported by the law. The commercial agreement is
not a treaty. In a broad sense perhaps all treaties are

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

agreements or contracts, the word "agreement" being
sufficiently comprehensive to embrace all forms of stipulation, written or verbal, and relating to all kinds of
subjects, Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 517, but
all agreements or contracts are not treaties. "Treaty"
is a word of superior dignity; "agreement" is not to be
taken as generic, but as comprehending only what is
inferior.
This particular agreement is not a treaty within the
meaning of the Constitution and of the Judiciary Act of
1891. Holines v. Jennison, 1-4 Pet. 540, 570.
There is a distinction between a treaty and an act of
Congress.
In this country a treaty is something more than a
contract, for the Federal Constitution declares it to be
the law of the land. Haver v. Yaker, 9 Wall. 32, 35;
Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 598; United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407.
The commercial agreement was not a law; the law was
§ 3 of the Tariff Act of 1897. The agreement could legally
add nothing to that. United States v. Wile, 130 Fed. Rep.
331; Richard v. United States, 151 Fed. Rep. 954; S. C.,
158 Fed.. Rep. 1019.
Upon its proclamation one rate of duty was substituted
for another, the latter being "suspended" by the law
during the continuance of the agreement.
Authority to ascertain and declare the event or state
of things upon which a law shall take effect may be constitutionally delegated to the President, but he is restricted to that. No legislative power can be delegated.
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 682; Brig Aurora, 7 Cranch,
382,388.

It is different with treaties. They are made by the
President by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate. Concurrence of two-thirds of the Senators present
is essential.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the U1nited States.

224 U. S.

It is incompatible with the Constitution to regard an
agreement under § 3 of the Tariff Act of 1897 as a treaty
upon the theory that the legislative assent was signified
in advance rather than after negotiation, when such
assent is implied from a majority vote, as in the case of
the Tariff Act of 1897. The vote in the Senate stood:
Yeas 38, nays 28, not voting 23 (Cong. Rec., 55th Cong.,
1st sess., vol. 30, pt. 3, p. 2447). That is less than "twothirds of tbe Senators present," and a treaty to be one in
the constitutional sense can only thus be made by the
President and the Senate. Head Money Cases, 112 U. S.
580, 599; New York Indians v. United States, 170 U. S.
1, 23; De Limd v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 194, 195.
A resolution adopted by the Senate by less than twothirds of a quorum was held without legal significance in
respect to the intention of the Senate in the ratification
of the treaty of peace with Spain.. Fourteen Diamond
Rings v. United States, 183 U. S.176, 183. Cotzhausen v.
Nazro, 107 U. S.215, cited by appellants, did not decide
that a postal agreement is a treaty within the meaning
of the Constitution, and may be made without the concurrence of two-thirds of the Senators present. Whether
or not it was a treaty in the constitutional sense was not
in issue and not decided.
Improper use of terms is not uncommon in legislation.
See § 1955 of the Revised Statutes, where "exportation"
to Alaska from any port in the United States is spoken of.
There can be no doubt that the word "exportation"
was there irregularly used, and should- not be deemed a
legislative interpretation or use extending it to shipments
which are not exportations within the meaning of the
•
Constitution.
IThe commercial agreement with France was negotiated
as an agreement and not as a treaty. The word "treaty"
nowhere appears, but the word "agreement" is frequently
used. The certificate of the Secretary of State, further-

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

more, refers to it as a "reciprocal
ment."

commercial agree-

There is implied legislative declaration in the very act
under discussion that agreements of the sort mentioned
in § 3 are not treaties. See .§4 of the same act, 30 Stat.
204, 205.
Both "agreement" and "concession," as far as the
President is concerned, had reference only to merchandise
imported into the foreign county from the United States.
The law designated the articles that might be imported into
the United" States from the foreign country and specified
the duty to be collected in lieu of the ordinary rates,
expressly suspended. The President could not add to the
articles nor change the rates of duty. Congress left neither
to his discretion.
The word "statuary" means the same in § 3 as in
paragraph 454 of the Tariff Act of 1897. Nicholas v. United
States, 122 Fed. Rep. 892; Richard v. United States, 151
Fed. Rep. 954.
The same words occurring in different parts of a statute
are to be taken in the same sense. Swan & Finch Co. v.
United States, 190 U. S. 143, 145, 146; 17 Opin. Atty.
Gen. 579; 21 id. 501; 23 id. 418; Reiche v. Smythe, 13
Wall. 162, 165.
MR. JUSTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of
the United States, for the Southern District of New York,

affirming a decision of the Board of General Appraisers,
which sustained an assessment of duty by the collector at
the port of New York upon a certain bronze bust imported
by the appellants, B. Altman & Co.
The bust was imported from France and was assessed a
duty of 45 per cent. ad valorem under paragraph 193 of
the Tariff Act of 1897 (30 Stat. 151, 167), which covers
articles or wares not specially provided for in the act,
VOL. ccxxiv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

composed wholly or in part of metal, and whether partly
or wholly manufactured. A protest was filed by the importers, in which they contended that the bust should
be classed as statuary under the commercial reciprocal
agreement with France (30 Stat. 1774), which was negotiated under the authority contained in § 3 of the Tariff
Act of 1897 to make reciprocal agreements with reference,
among other articles, to "paintings in oil or water colors,
pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary." .A considerable amount of testimony was taken before the Board of
General Appraisers, and it held that the bust was cast in a
foundry by mechanics from a model furnished by the artist, and that the artist did little or no work upon the casting, and overruled the protest, on the authority of Richard
v. United States, 158 Fed. Rep. 1019, and Tiffany v. United
States, 71 Fed. Rep. 691.
The Circuit Court affirmed the order and decision of the
Board of General Appraisers on the authority of the same
cases, and an appeal was prayed to this court, which was
allowed, the Circuit Judge certifying that the questions
involved in the case were, in his opinion, of such importance as to require a review of. the decision of the court by
the Supreme Court of the United States.
Certain errors were assigned, and the following are insisted upon in this court:
"1. In not holding that the commercial agreement between the United States and France, as proclaimed by the
President of the United States (T. D. 19405 and 30 Stat.
1774), was to be in full scope according to its language without being in any way restricted or modified by the definition contained in paragraph 454, section 1, of the Tariff Act
of July 24, 1897, but which definition was not embodied
either in the commercial agreement itself or in the President's proclamation thereof.
"2. In not holding that the term 'statuary' as used in
section 3 of the Tariff Act and in said commercial agree-

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment with France or the President's proclamation thereof,
was not subject to the definition contained in paragraph 454, Schedule N, Section 1, of said Tariff Act.
"3. In not holding the merchandise dutiable at 15 per
cent. ad volorem under section 3 of the Tariff Act and the
commercial agreement with France and the President's
proclamation thereof.
"7. In holding the merchandise dutiable at 45 per cent.
under paragraph 193 as manufactured metal.
"8. In affirming the decision of the Board of General.
Appraisers.
"9. In not reversing the decision of the Board of General Appraisers and of the Collector of the Port and holding the merchandise dutiable at either 15 per cent. under.
section 3 and the Commercial Agreement with France,
as proclaimed by the President."
• A motion was made by the Solicitor General to dismiss
the appeal. That motion was postponed for hearing with
the case upon its merits. To support the motion it is
contended on behalf of the United States that no question
is involved which, under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 827, 828, c. 517,
entitles the appellant to a direct appeal from the Circuit
Court to this court. By the Circuit Court of Appeals Act
that court is given jurisdiction to review appeals in revenue cases and by the sixth section of the act judgments
of that court in such cases are made final.
Prior to June 10, 1890, the right to a review of revenue
cases was by appeal to this court from the Circuit Court.
(R. S., § 699.) By the act of June 10, 1890, 26 Stat. 131,
c. 407, special provision was made for the review of revenue cases where the owner, importer, etc., was dissatisfied with the decision of the Board of General Appraisers.
Under § 15 of that act an appeal was given from the decision of the Board of General Ap.praisers "as to the construction of the law and the facts respecting the classi-

OCTOPER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

fication of such merchandise and the rate of duty imposed
thereon under such classification . . . to the circuit
court of the United States within the district in which the
matter arises, for a review of the questions of law and
fact involved in such decision." And it was provided
that the decision of the Circuit Court should be final,
unless the court should be of the opinion that the question
involved was of such importance as to require a review of
such decision by the Supreme Court of the United States,
in which case an appeal was allowed to this court. It is
to be observed that the cases herein referred to are strictly
revenue cases, in which the decision concerns the classification of merchandise and the rate of duty imposed
thereon under the classification made. This act remained
in force until amended by the act of May 27, 1908, 35
Stat. 403, c. 205, to which we shall have occasion to refer
later. In the meantime, on March- 3, 1891, the Circuit
Court of Appeals Act was passed, giving a direct appeal
in certain cases to this court. So much of § 5 as is pertinent to this case provides:
"That appeals or writs of error may be taken from the
district courts or from the existing circuit courts direct
to the Supreme Court in the following cases:
In any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any
treaty made under its authority, is drawn in question."
The Circuit Court of Appeals Act did not repeal the
revenue act to which we have referred, but broadly provided for direct appeal to this court from the Circuit Court
in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any
treaty, etc., was drawn in question.
We think the cases show that this court, so far as it has
had occasion to deal with the question, has permitted
direct appeal to this court in all revenue cases where, in

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

addition to the objection to classification of merchandise
and rate of duty imposed, a real question under § 5 has
been involved.
In Anglo-Californian Bank v.. United States, 175 LT. S.
37, an attempt was made to take an appeal to this court
from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the decree of the Circuit Court, which overruled the
decision of the Board of General Appraisers, and it was
held that the appeal would not lie. In the course of the
opinion Mr. Chief Justice Fuller said that under the act of
June 10, 1890, a direct appeal would lie to this court if the
Circuit Court certified that the question involved was of
such importance as to require a review of such decision
and decree by this court, but the Chief Justice pointed out
that the attempted appeal was not an appeal from the
Circuit Court directly to this court, nor did the case fall
within any of the classes of cases enumerated in § 5, in
which a direct appeal to this court would lie, and, moreover, that the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, prescribed
a different rule as to the prosecution of appeals. While the
question here made was not directly involved in that
case, it is to be fairly inferred that the court would have
sustained an appeal had the case been brought from the
.Circuit Court within the terms of § 5 and upon one of the
grounds there stated.
In the case of Spreckels Sugar Ref. Co. v. McClain, 192
U. S.397, an appeal was allowed from the Circuit Court
of Appeals to this court, and, concerning what were
revenue cases within the meaning of the Circuit Court of
Appeals Act, under the sixth section, making that court's
judgment final in cases arising under the revenue laws, this
court said (p. 408):
"So far as we now remember, this precise point has not
heretofore arisen for our determination. Looking at the
purpose and scope of the act of 1891, we are of opinion that
the position of the Government on this point cannot be

OCTOBER TERM,. 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

sustained. It rests upon an interpretation of the act that
is.too technical and narrow. The meaning of the-words
'arising . . . under the revenue laws,' in the sixth
section, is satisfied if they are held as embracing a case
strictly arising under laws providing for internal revenues
and which does not, by reason of any question in it, belong
also to the class mentioned in the fifth section of that
act."'
While the Spreckels Case was commented on and limited
in some measure in the subsequent case*of Macfadden v.
United States, 213 U. S. 288, nothing was said to indicate
any
with the definition of this court as to
Swhatdisagreement
was a case arising under the revenue laws,
and the
court said that the Spreckels Case was held not to be final
in the Circuit Court of Appeals because the original jurisdiction involved the construction of the Constitution of
the United States, as well as a strictly revenue question,
and that, thus construed, it was consistent with 'all the
decisions.
. From the principles laid. down in these cases, we think
it is plain that this court will entertain a direct review
in a revenue case which involves not only questions of
classification and amount of duty thereunder, as specified
in the revenue act to which we have referred, but also a
question under the fiftlh section as to the constitutionality
of a law of the United States or -the validity or construction of a treaty under its authority.
Nor did the amendment of the revenue act by the act
of May 27, 1908, affect any change in this respect, for its
provisions, with respect to the review of the decision of a
Circuit Court, are substantially identical with the act of
June 10, 1890, except that the decision of a Circuit Court
is made final, unless the court certifies that it is of the
opinion that the question involved is of such importance
as to require a review of such decision by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, the decree of which may be reviewed in the

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court in any of the ways provided in cases arising
under the revenue laws by the act approved March 3,
1891, being the Circuit Court of Appeals Act; but that
act-(Amendment of May 27, 1908), like the act of June 10,
1890, provides only for the review of decisions of the
-Board of General Appraisers "as to the construction of
the law and the facts respecting the classification of such
merchandise and the rate of duty imposed thereon under
such classification."
We do not think that this act
changes the effect of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act
and operates to prevent an appeal here in cases really involving the Constitution of the United States or the construction of a treaty.
The Government relies, in support of its motion to dismiss, on Shaw v. United States, 212 U. S. 559. In that
case, however, the appeal was undertaken to be made
directly from the Circuit Court because of an alleged
deprivation of constitutional right, and because of the construction of. a reciprocal agreement made with Italy under
the Tariff Act of 1897. The case was dismissed on the
authority of American Sugar.Ref. Co. v. United States, 211
U. S. 155, inwhich it was held that the only real substantial
controversy concerned the construction of the Tariff Act
.of 1897. An examination of the record in the Shaw -Case
shows that no real constitutional question was involved
and that the assessment of duty was in accordance with
the reciprocal commercial agreement with Italy. See Shaw
v. United States, 158 Fed. Rep. 648.
The report of the American Sugar Refining Company
Case, to which the court referred in the Shaw Case and
which was decided at the same term (211 U. S.155), shows
that it was an attempt to appeal directly from the Circuit
Court, and that this court did not think that the constitutional question made in the -case had any real merit,
but that the only question was a construction of the Tariff
Act relating to the collection of duty upon sugar, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

therefore this court had no jurisdiction by direct appeal.
In this connection this court said (p. 161):
"The present direct appeal to this court is a mere attempt to obtain a reconsideration of questions arising
under the revenue laws and already determined by the
Circuit Court of Appeals [upon a former appeal] in due
course. Such direct appeals [from a circuit court], under
§ 5 of the act of 1891, cannot be entertained unless the
construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States is involved."
An examination of the record in the present case shows
that the importer throughout insisted that the statuary
was dutiable atil5 per cent. ad valorem under the reciprocal
agreement between the United States and France entered
into under the authority of § 3 of the Tariff Act of 1897. If
this contention be correct, then the assessment was wrong,
and, if the reciprocal agreement referred to was a treaty
within the meaning of § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act, then there was a right of direct appeal to this court.
Generally, a treaty is defined as "a compact made between two or more independent nations with a view to
the public welfare." 2 Bouvier's Dictionary, 1136. True,
that under the Constitution of the United States the
treaty making power is vested in the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, and a treaty
must be ratified by a two-thirds vote of that body (Art. II,
§ 2), and treaties are declared to be the supreme law of
the land (Art. VI); but we are to ascertain, if possible, the
intention of Congress in giving direct appeal to this court
in cases involving the construction of treaties. As is well
known, that act was intended to cut down and limit the
jurisdiction of this court, and many cases were made final
in the Circuit Court of Appeals which theretofore came to
this court, but it was thought best to preserve the right to
a review by direct appeal or writ of error from a Circuit
Court in certain matters of importance, and, among others,

ALTMAN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

those involving the construction of treaties. We think
that the purpose of Congress was manifestly to permit
rights and obligations of that character to be passed upon
in the Federal court of final resort, and that matters of
such vital importance, arising out of opposing constructions of international compacts, somethnes involving the
peace of nations, should be subject todirect and prompt review by the highest court of the Nation. While it may be
true that this commercial agreement, made under authority of the Tariff Act of 1897, § 3, was not a treaty possessing the dignity of one requiring ratification by the Senate
of the United States, it was an international compact,
negotiated between the. representatives of two sovereign
nations and made in the name and on behalf of the contracting countries, and dealing with important commercial
relations between the two countries, and was proclaimed
by the President. If not technically a treaty requiring
ratification, nevertheless it was a compact authorized by
the Congress of the United States, negotiated and proclaimed under the authority of its President. We think
such a compact is a treaty under the Circuit Court of
Appeals Act, and, where its construction is directly involved, as it is here, there is a right of review by direct
appeal to this court.
Coming to the merits, the contention of the importer
is that the word "statuary" should receive its popular
construction, and that the term should include such a
piece of cast bronze as is here involved, but we think the
definition and authority of the act cannot be ignored in
this connection.
The negotiation was entered into between the representatives of the two countries under the authority of § 3
of the Tariff Act of 1897, as we have seen. In that act the
term "statuary" is defined as follows: "The term 'statuary' as used in this act shall be understood to include
only such statuary as is cut, carved, or otherwise wrought

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

by hand from a solid block or mass of marble, stone, or
alabaster, or from metal, and as is the professional production of a statuary or sculptor only." The reciprocal
agreements were authorized with reference to "paintings
in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and
statuary." We think this must have reference to statuary
as already defined in the act, which both parties understood was the source of their authority to negotiate the
reciprocal commercial agreement in question, for the
agreement provides:
"It is reciprocally agreed on the part of the United
States, in accordance with the provisions of section 3 of
the United States Tariff Act of 1897, that during the
continuance in force of this agreement the following
articles of commerce, the product of the soil or industry
of France, shall be admitted into the United States at
rates of duty not exceeding the following, to wit:
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen-and-ink
drawings, and statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem."
Thus in its terms the agreement was made under the
authority and in accordance with §3 of the Tariff Act of
1897, in which very act the term statuary, as used therein,
was specifically defined, as we have already stated.
We think that it is clear that the Board of General Appraisers and the Circuit Court did not err in finding that
this bronze statue was not wrought by hand from metal.
On the other hand, the testimony is clear that the statue
was cast from metal by artisans employed for that purpose, and was very little touched, if at all, in its finishing,
by the professional designer.
The result is that the judgment must be
Affirmed.

