CALNAN CO. v. DOHERTY.
224 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

puted according to the methods then prevailing, and
which had resulted from the enactment of the statute of
1882.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded, with a direction to enterjudgment in favor of claimant for $4,213.86.

J. W. CALNAN COMPANY v. DOHERTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 212.

Argued March 14, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

A ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the petitioning creditors
held provable claims is not a judgment allowing or rejecting a claim
within the meaning of § 25b of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, and
cannot under § 25a and subparagraph 1 be reviewed by this court.
Where the prerequisites for an appeal to this court specified in subparagraph 1 of § 25b of the Bankruptcy Act do not exist, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals does not make the findings of fact and conclusions
of law required by clause 3 of General Order 36, the appeal must be
dismissed. Chapman v. Bowen, 207 U. S. 89.
Appellate jurisdiction over a ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in a bankruptcy matter may not be exercised by this court by virtue
of § 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, Tefft v. Munsuri,
222 U. S. 114.
Appeal from 174 Fed. Rep. 222, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clarence F. Eldredge for appellant.
The court declined to hear further argument. Mr. Johf
H. Blanchardand Mr. Hugh C. Blanchardfiled a brief for
appellee.
VOL. CCXXIV-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

By

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

Involuntary proceedings in bankruptcy were commenced against the J. W. Calnan Company, appellant
here, in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, by a creditor owning claims
aggregating $713.86. After the filing of an answer by the
alleged bankrupt, two creditors-one owning a judgment
for $1,038.71 and the other asserting a claim of $963.75intervened and joined in the petition.
The Calnan Company was adjudicated a bankrupt on
May 13, 1909. Eight days afterwards an appeal was
prayed for and allowed from that decision. In the assignment of errors, in addition to alleging that the court erred
in adjudicating it a bankrupt, the Calnan Company
alleged that the court erred in finding that the alleged
creditors owning claims for $713.86 and $963.75 respectively were creditors holding valid provable claims against
it. In many forms of statement it was also alleged that
the court erred in finding that the company had made an
unlawful preferential payment to a creditor. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. (174 Fed. Rep.
222.) Within thirty days after the denial of a petition for
a rehearing this appeal was taken.
Section 25b and subparagraph 1 of the Bankruptcy Act
are mainly relied upon by counsel for the appellant as
conferring jurisdiction upon this court to review the judgment of the Court of Appeals. The clauses referred to
authorize an appeal to this court in bankruptcy proceedings from any final decision of a Court of Appeals allowing
or rejecting a claim "where the amount in controversy
exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars, and the question
is one which might have been taken on appeal or writ of
error from the highest court of a State" to this court.
The contention, however, is untenable. By § 25 (a) of

CALNAN CO. ,v. DOHERTY.
224 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Bankruptcy Act appeals in bankruptcy proceedings
are authorized to the Circuit Courts of Appeals in three
specified cases, two being: "(1) From a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt;" and, "(3) from a judgment allowing or rejecting
a debt or claim of five hundred dollars or over." It is
manifest that the ruling made in the course of the determination of an issue as to alleged bankruptcy upon a
subordinate issue as to whether or not the petitioning
creditors held "provable" claims is not a judgment allowing or rejecting a debt or claim within the meaning of the
section, and it is also evident that a decision by the Court of
Appeals upon such a ruling is not a "final decision
allowing or rejecting a claim under this act," within the
meaning of § 25b. See in this connection Duryea Power
Company v. Sternbergh, 218 U. S. 299, 300. Aside, however, from these considerations the prerequisites for an
appeal to this court specified in subparagraph 1 of § 25 (b)
do not exist, nor could the appeal be entertained inasmuch as the Court of Appeals did not make the findings of
fact and conclusions of law required by clause 3 of General
Order 36. Chapman v. Bowen, 207 U. S. 89, 90.
The further contention that jurisdiction may be exercised by virtue of § 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, is shown to be without merit by our recent decision
in Tefft, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114.
Appeal dismissed.

