OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

GROMER, TREASURER OF PORTO RICO, v.
STANDARD DREDGING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 174.

Submitted February 28, 1911.-Decided April 22, 1912.

Quere: whether § 12 of the act of Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico
of March 8, 1906, providing that an injunction may issue to prevent
collection of illegal tolls, applies to the District Court of the United
States for Porto Rico.
Even though the bill might not be sustained because complainant has
an adequate remedy or because the court has not power to issue an injunction, the court prefers, in this case, to rest its decision on the fact
that the bill should be dismissed upon the merits.
Under § 13 of the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, c. 191,
and the act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 731, c. 1383, tfe Territory of
Porto Rico has jurisdiction for taxing purposes over the harbors and
navigable waters surrounding Porto Rico.
The purpose of the Foraker Act was to give local self-government to
Porto Rico, conferring an autonomy similar to that of the States and
Territories, reserving to the United States rights to the harbor areas
and navigable waters for the purpose .of exercising the usual national
control and jurisdiction over commerce and navigation.
While the United States can reserve control over such places as it sees
fit within a territory to which it gives autonomy, it does not reserve
any such places unless it is so expressed in the act.
Property which has acquired a situs within the jurisdiction of the
Territory of Porto Rico is not exempt from taxation by the Territory
simply because it is exclusively used by the owner for carrying out a
contract with the Government.
Where jurisdiction to tax property exists, the validity of the tax cannot
be determined by an inquiry as to the extent to which the property
may be benefited.
In this case there is nothing in the recbrd to show that the property
taxed had not acquired a situs in Porto Rico or that takes it out of
the rule that tangible personal property is subject to taxation by the
State or Territory in which it is, no matter where the domicile of the
owner may be.'
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 142, reversed.
I Mr. Justice Day, with whom Mr. Justice Hughes and Mr. Justice

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

363

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the power of Porto Rico to tax
machinery and vessels in the harbor of San Juan engaged
in work in pursuance of a contract with the United States,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Paul Charlton and Mr. Foster V. Brown, for appellant.
Mr. Charles Hartzell and Mr. Manuel Roderiguez-Serra
for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is the power of Porto Rico to
tax certain machinery and boats which at the time of the
levy of the taxes were in the harbor of San Juan engaged
in dredging work in pursuance of a contract of the Standard Dredging Company with the United States Government.
The dredging company filed a bill to enjoin the appellant, Treasurer of Porto Rico, from enforcing the tax.
Appellant demurred to the bill for insufficiency and want
of equity, which was over-ruled. He declined to answer,
and the injunction which had been granted was made
perpetual. This appeal was then taken.
The material allegations of the bill are as follows:
The dredging company is a Delaware corporation, with
its principal office and place of business at the city of
Wilmington, State of Delaware. Gromer is Treasurer of
Porto Rico.
That theretofore and prior to April 1, 19081 the dredgLamar concurred,, dissented solely on this point (see p. 373, post) on the
ground that the decision of the court below that the property had not
acquired a situs in Porto Rico was correct and was sufficient to sustain the judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

ing company entered into a contract with the United
States Government to dredge certain portions of the
harbor of San Juan and the channel leading from the
ocean to the harbor area. Prior to that date, for use in
connection with its operations under the contract, it
brought to the harbor one dredge, one tugboat, two
scows for dumping material to be removed, ofIe coal scow
and one launch. The boats and machinery are its property and have been constantly used by it in the performance of its contract, and were not used in connection with
any other business or operations, and were at all times
within the harbor where the operations under the contract were carried on. The dredging company has neither
conducted nor carried on any other business in Porto
Rico or the waters adjacent thereto except its operations
under the contract.
Gromer, as Treasurer of Porto Rico, pretending to act
under the revenue laws of Porto Rico, assumed to assess
and levy on the said property as of the value of $75,000
a tax of $1,200, for the fiscal year 1908-9, and he and his
agents "have levied an embargo on part of said property . . . and are threatening to foreclose the same
and to sell the property for the purpose of enforcing the
collection of the said alleged tax."
The tax is illegal and its enforcement will be illegal by
virtue of the laws of the United States and of Porto Rico,
and especially by virtue of the acts and proclamations of
Congress and of the President of the United States creating reservations in and about the island of Porto Rico.
The insular government of Porto Rico is not authorized to
levy or collect any tax in cohnection with property the
situs of which is within the reservation or within any
navigable waters of harbor areas of the island of Porto
Rico. The property of the company has not been brought
within the jurisdiction of the insular government, nor is it
subject to taxation while being employed in the perform-

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

365

Opinion of the Court.

ance of the contract with the United States and within the
harbor area.
It is alleged that the company is without any remedy at
law, and an injunction is therefore prayed.
In support of his demurrer appellant contends that the
dredging company had an adequate remedy at law and
that § 12 of the act of the Legislative Assembly of Porto
Rico, approved March 8, 1906 (Acts 1906, p. 86 at 89),
which provides that an "injunction may be issued to prevent the illegal levying of any tax, duty or toll, or for the
illegal collection thereof, or against any proceeding to
enforce such collection . . ." does not apply to the

District Court of the United States for Porto Rico. We,
however, pass the contention, as we prefer to rest our
decision on the merits.
The bill of the dredging company, and its contentions
here, are based on two propositions: (1) the property was
not within the jurisdiction of Porto Rico but was within

the harbor area reserved by the United States; (2) the
property was being used "within the harbor area" in the
performance of a contract with the United States and
therefore not subject to taxation for insular purposes.
To sustain the first proposition § 13 of the Foraker Act
(April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, c. 191) is relied on and the
act of Congress of July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 731, c. 1383).
Section 13 (31 Stat. 80) reads as follows:
"That all property which may have been acquired in'
Porto Rico by the United States under the cession of
Spain in said treaty of peace in any public bridges, road
houses, water powers, highways, unnavigable streams,
and the beds thereof, subterranean waters, mines, or minerals under the surface of private lands, and all property which, at the time of the cession belonged, under the
laws of Spain then in force, to the various harbor works
boards of Porto Rico, and of the harbor shores, docks,
slips, and reclaimed lands, but not including harborareas or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

navigable waters, is hereby placed under the control of the
government established by this Act to be administered
for the benefit of the people of Porto Rico; and the legislative assembly hereby created shall have authority, subject
to the limitations imposed upon all its acts, to legislate
with respect to all such matters as it may deem advisable." [Italics ours.]
Under the act of Congress of July 1, 1902, a division of
the public properties of Porto Rico was made under which
the President of the United States was authorized to reserve certain public properties for the use of the Federal
Government. The properties not reserved were granted
to the Government of Porto Rico to be held or disposed of
for the use and benefit of the people of the island. The
reservations included lands and buildings for army and
navy and other Federal governmental purposes. The exception of harbors and navigable streams was as follows:
"And, all the public lands and buildings, not including
harbor areas and navigable streams and bodies of water
and the submerged lands underlying the same, owned by
the United States iA said island and not so reserved," etc.
Considering these provisions alone it is, we think, manifest that they only provide for proprietary reservations
and dispositions and not for limitations upon the exercise
of government. This conclusion is confirmed by § 1 of
the Foraker Act, which provides that the provisions of
the act "shall apply to the Island of Porto Rico and to
the adjacent islands and waters of the islands lying east
of the seventy-fourth meridian of longitude west of Greenwich, which were ceded to the United States by the
Government of Spain by treaty entered into on the tenth
day of December, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight; and
the name Porto Rico, as used in this Act, shall be held to
include not only the island of that name, but all of the
adjacent islands, as aforesaid."
As early as 1901 the control by the Government of the

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

United States over Porto Rican waters came up for consideration and was referred by the Secretary of War to
the Attorney General for determination. The elements in
question were the River and Harbor Act of 1899 (March 3,
1899, 30 Stat. 1151, c. 425) and the act of April 12, 1900,
"temporarily to provide revenues and a civil government
for Porto Rico, and for other purposes." 31 Stat. 77, 80.
Section 14 of the latter act provided, with certain exceptions, that the statutory laws of the United States not
locally inapplicable should have the same force and effect
in Porto Ribo as in the United States. Section 13 provided
that certain harbor property which at the time of the
cession belonged, under the laws of Spain, to the various
Harbor Works Boards of Porto Rico, "but not including
harbor areas or navigable waters," should be "placed
under the control of the government established by this
act and to be administered for the benefit of the people of
Porto Rico." The Legislative Assembly created by the
act was given authority "to legislate with respect to all
such matters" as it might deem advisable, and this authority was extended to all matters of a legislative character not locally inapplicable. It was further provided that
all laws should be Leferred to Congress, which reserved
the power to annul the same.
The River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat.
1121, 1151, c. 425) prohibited unauthorized obstructions
to navigation in any of the waters of the United States,
and provided for control by the Secretary of War of
wharves and similar structures in ports and other waters
of the United States..
The Attorney General expressed the opinion that under
these statutes the coastal waters, harbors and other
navigable waters of the island were waters of the United
States and that a license granted by the Secretary of War
to build a wharf inthe harbor, given before the ratification of the treaty with Spain, was valid, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

power under the license to rebuild the wharf, which had
been destroyed by fire, continued as against the control of
the Executive Council of Porto Rico. Commenting on
the provisions of the River and Harbor Act and the acts
in regard to Porto Rico, it was said that Congress, since
the ratification of the treaty with Spain, has nowhere indicated that Porto Rican waters are not to be regarded as
waters of the United States, nor directed that the authority of the Secretary of War, under the River and Harbor Act of 1899, shall not extend to the Porto Rican
waters. "On the contrary, Congress has used language
in the Porto Rican Act, as, for instance, in section 13,
which clearly contemplates national jurisdiction over
those waters as waters of the United States." 23 Op.
Atty. Genl. 551. In other words, the jurisdiction of the
United States over those waters was the jurisdiction that
the United States had over all other navigable waters, an
exercise of which the River and Harbor Act was an example.
This is made clear by a subsequent opinion, in which it
was declared "that Congress had committed to local control, subject to the express limitation upon the looal legislative power, the administration of certain public property and utilities, including 'harbor shores, docks, slips,
and reclaimed lands,' but excluding 'harbor areas or
navigable waters.' " And, speaking of §§ 12 and 13 of the
Porto Rican Act of April 12, 1900, it was said that the
"obvious implication" from them is "that the General
Government retains title to, possession of, and control
over certain other public property, of which fortifications
and their appurtenances are specified, and also reserves
for its own administration the usual national powers over
lights, buoys, and other matters affecting navigation or
'works undertaken by the United States.' " And it was
said, further: "From all this it is certain that the ordinary
national' control of the marine belt affects the coastal

,'ROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U.S.

369

Opinion of the Court.

Waters of Porto Rico as well as those of any State or any
other Territory of the United States." But as to the
"harbor margins" it was said that "the Government of
the United States, by reason of these grants . . . to
Porto Rico, is in the same position with reference to the
island government, as well as to private owners, as it
would be in a similar case affecting a State of the United
States." 23 Op. Atty. Genl. 564, 566.
From this principle it was concluded that the United
States could not appropriate the islands of Culebra for a
naval base, they being within the limits described in § 1 of
the act of April 12, 1900. And § 1 of that act is identical
with § 1 of the Foraker Act and its provisions for "harbor
areas and navigable waters" are the same as in the Foraker
Act. The views of the Attorney General, therefore, are expressly applicable, for the language of the act of April 12,
1900, which determined them, was repeated in the Foraker
Act, which we are now called upon to consider.
The distinction made between local control of property
and the exercise of government is a substantial one and is
illustrated in cases. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 30;
Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S.264; Fort Leavenworth R. R. Co.
v. Lowe, 114 U. S.525; Id. 542; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Chiles, 214 U. S. 274, 278; Reynolds v. People, 1
Colorado, 179, 181; Scott v. United States, 1 Wyoming,
40; Territory v. Burgess, 8 Montana, 57.
We have seen that by § 1 of the Foraker Act all of its
.provisions are made applicable to a certain defined area,
and that the name Porto Rico "shall be held to include
not only the island of that name, but all adjacent islands
and waters of the islands." The governmental powers
conferred upon Porto Rico must be coextensive with that
area, subject to the reservation that all laws passed shall
not be in conflict with the laws of the United States, and
the power of enacting such laws is conferred upon the
Legislative Assembly. There is precaution against abuse.
VOL. ccxxiv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

They must be reported to Congress, which has the power
to annul them.
The purpose of the act is to give local self-government,
conferring an autonomy similar to that of the States and
Territories, reserving to the United States rights to the
harbor areas and navigable waters for the purpose of exercising the usual national control and jurisdiction over
commerce and navigation.
The United States could have reserved government
control 4nd exercised it as it does in instances, by the consent of the States, over certain places in the States devoted to the governmental service of the United States.
We do not think, as we have said, that the United States
has done so, and that it has not is the view of the executive department of the Government as expressed through
the Attorney General. The War Department entertained the same view as to military reservations in Porto
Rico and also as to such reservations in the Philippine
Islands.
Section 12 of the Philippine Act placed all property
rights acquired from Spain under the control of the island
government for the benefit of its inhabitants, except
"such land or other'property as shall be designated by the
President of the United States for military and other reservations for the Government of the United States." The
extent of the power thus reserved was referred for consideration by the Secretary of War to the Attorney General, and in an opinion written by Solicitor General Hoyt
and approved by Attorney General Moody it was held
that the provisions granted and reserved property, but
did not confer governmental jurisdiction. It was said in
the course of the opinior,, after referring to the provisions
of the Philippine Act which directed that all laws passed
by the Philippine Government should be reported to
Congress and the reservation by Congress of the power to
annul the same (a similar provision is in the Porto Rico

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

371

Opinion of the Court.

Act), that "the relation of Congress to all territorial legislation is similar [certain organic acts of the States being
cited], and thus it may be said that the exercise of local
jurisdiction for ordinary municipal purposes over a reservation in a territory is valid until and unless disapproved by Congress:" 26 Op. Atty. Genl. 91, 97.
There is an allegation in the bill that the property was
not "subject to any lien or burden of taxation while being
employed in the performance of its said contract -with the
United States of America and within the said harbor
area." It is not clear what is meant by the allegation.
So far as it means that the property is an instrument of
the National Government and not subject, therefore, to
local taxation, the contention cannot prevail. Baltimore
Ship Building & Dry Dock Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375,
382. Indeed, the contention is a very broad one and
would seem to be independent of the situation of the property, and, if true at all, would apply to property employed
in the service of the United States, wherever situated and
no matter to what extent employed. Appellant discusses
it somewhat. We shall consider it in the aspect presented
by appellee. Counsel say that "the basic and underlying
principle which must control in the determination of the
case is as to the extent of the control or jurisdiction of the
insular government over the harbor of San Juan, and in
this connection as to whether or not property situated
entirely within the harbor area, engaged in operations
connected with the lands underlying such harbor area,
could receive any benefit from the expenditure from
moneys raised by the insular government from taxation."
There is a confusing mixture of elements. If Porto
Rico had jurisdiction over the harbor area it had jurisdiction to tax property which was situated in the harbor, no
matter how engaged; and, being so situated, the validity
of the tax upon it cannot be determined by an inquiry of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the extent it may be benefited. Thomas v. Gay, supra;
Wagoner v. Evans, 170 U. S. 588.
It, however, may be said that the property was only
temporarily in the waters of Porto Rico and that its situs
was at the domicile of the dredging company.
The fact is not alleged, and no other fact which removed
the property from the application of the rule that tangible
personal property is subject to taxation by the State in
which it is, no matter where the domicile of the owner
may be. Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198 U.
S.299, 305.
The allegation is that prior to the first of April, 1908,
the property was brought to and within the harbor of
San Juan. The date is that of the assessment and levy
of the tax, but whence the property had been brought, or
how long it had been in the harbor before the levy of the
tax, is not averred, nor was it necessary from the purpose
of the cause of action alleged. There is not an intimation
that the property had its situs for taxation elsewhere.
The claims of exemption from the tax, and the only
claims of exemption, were: (1) That Porto Rico, by virtue
of the laws of the United States and of Porto Rico, and
especially by virtue of those acts and proclamations of
Congress and of the President of the United States creating reservations in and about the Island of Porto Rico,
was "not authorized to levy or collect any tax in connection with property the status [situs?] of which" was
"within such reservation, or within any navigable waters
or harbor areas of the said island of Porto Rico." (2) That
the property was not subject to taxation "while being employed in the performance of" the dredging company's
"contract with the United States of America and within
the said harbor area."
These allegations are, as we have alrehdy seen, ,the
basis of the contentions made and argued by the company. It is true that after discussing them counsel "in-

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

DAY, HUGHES

and

LAMAR,

373

JJ., dissenting.

vite the attention of the court" to "certain other considerations" expressed in the opinion of the court below.
To analyze or summarize the opinion would extend our
discussion unduly. Elements that are really independent
are mingled somewhat, making it difficult to assign the
exact strength given to them respectively, but we think
the basis of the decision was, as it is of the contentions
discussed by counsel for the company, that the property
was not subject to the taxing power of Porto Rico because
of its situation within the harbor area and because the
title to such area had been reserved to the National
Government, an untenable position, as we have seen.
Decree reversed, with directions to sustain the demurrer and
dismiss the bill.
MR. JUsTICE DAY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE HUGHES and MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, dissenting.
We are unable to concur in the judgment just pronounced. The reversal of the judgment below is, in our
view, inconsistent with decisions heretofore made in this
court concerning the power of taxation.
We agree with the decision of the court that the Territory of Porto Rico has jurisdiction for taxing purposes
over the harbor and waters in question and that the use of
the property for Government purposes does not exempt it
from taxation, and therefore do not dissent from anything
that is said in the opinion of the court upon those subjects.
Our objection to the judgment of reversal is that, as we
see it, there is a ground of decision in the court below,
ample to sustain its decree, which does not turn upon
the determination of the controversy as to the political
jurisdiction over these waters. In our opinion, the property of the Dredging Company had not acquired a taxable situs within the jurisdiction of the Territory of Porto
Rico.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
DAY, HitGHEs

and

LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

224 U. S.

The case was heard upon demurrer, and we must therefore take the allegations of the bill well pleaded to be true.
From them it appears that prior to the first day of April,
1908, complainant company, a corporation of the State
of Delaware, having its principal office and place of business at Wilmington, in that State, entered into a contract
with the United States to perform certain services in connection with the dredging of portions of the harbor of
SAn Juan, Porto Rico, and the channel leading from the
ocean to the harbor. The bill alleges:
"That by virtue of the requirements of the said contract your orator did, prior to the said first -day of April,
1908, bring to and within the said harbor area of the said
harbor of San Juan certain boats and machinery, to be
used by it in connection with its operations under the said
contract, to wit, one dredge, one tugboat, two scows for
dumping material to be removed, one coal scow and one
launch. That the said machinery and boats so brought by
the said complainant and used in connection with its operations under said contract in the said harbor area of
the harbor of San Juan were and are the property of the
said complainant Company, and since the same were so
brought to the said harbor area the same have been constantly used by the said complainant and engaged in its

operations in carrying out its said contract with the said
the United States; and the same have not been used in
connection with any other business or operations whatsoever, and the same have at all times been entirely within
the said harbor areas where the said operations under said
contract were so being carried on. And your orator further states that it has not conducted or carried on any
business in Porto Rico or in the waters adjacent thereto,
except the said operations under the said contract with
the United States aforesaid."
It is further alleged that on the first day of April, 1908,
the taxing officer of Porto Rico undertook to levy a tax

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

DAY, HUGHES

and

LAMAR,

375

JJ., dissenting.

of $1,200 upon a valuation of the property at $75,000,
under the laws of the Territory, as of that date.
The case was submitted upon briefs without argument.
In the brief of the Attorney General, as well as that of the
appellee, the question principally argued concerns the
jurisdiction of the Territory of Porto Rico over the harbor
and waters of the bay. In the brief of the Attorney General argument is made and cases are cited to sustain the
claim that the situs of the property for the purposes of
taxation was within the jurisdiction of the Territory. In
the brief submitted by the appellee reference is made to
the opinion of the court for additional reasons for supporting the decree, which reasons are not adverted to at
length in the brief. In the opinion of the court the allegations of the bill are treated, as might rightly be done, as
raising the question of taxable situs of this property, and,
among other things, the judge says (p. 146):
"It has, we think, been settled by numerous recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, that the
old rule of personal property following the domicil of the
owner has been so varied and departed from as that it
does not mean very much at the present time; the real
question to be decided in every such case being whether
the personal property-be the same rolling stock, machinery, merchandise, or even floating property, such as
steamships, ' boats, or dredges-has been brought within
the taxing jurisdiction of the government attempting to
levy the tax. In other words, it must always be determined
that the situs of the property is within the taxing jurisdiction. See Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. State of Virginia, 198 U. S. 299, and the many cases cited. Also
Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. State of Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409,
and cases cited, and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395, and citations."
After consideration of the subject the court reached the
conclusion, not only that the local government of Porto

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
DAY, HUGHES and LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

224 U. S.

Rico had no jurisdiction over the harbor and waters
where this work was done, but that the property had no
taxable situs in Porto Rico. See pp. 154 and 155, Vol. V,
Porto Rico Federal Reporter.
It is well settled that property outside of the jurisdiction
of a State cannot be taxed within the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v.
Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Delaware, L. &c. R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Refrigerator Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194.
As a general rule, in the absence of a situs elsewhere,
the domicile of the owner is the place where personalty is
taxable. As was said in Tappan v. Merchants' National
Bank, 19 Wall. 490, by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking
for the court (p. 499):
."Personal property, in the absence of any law to the
contrary, follows the person of the owner, and has its
situs at his domicile. But, for the purposes of taxation,
it may be separated from him, and he may be taxed on
its account at the place where it is actually located. These
are familiar principles, and have been often acted upon
in this court."
To the same effect, see St. Louis v. Wiggins Ferry Co.,
11 Wall. 423; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133;
Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409.
In Buck'v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392, this court, while recognizing the rule of taxable situs of personal property as distinguished from the domicile of the owner, held that notes
temporarily within a State, although in the possession of
an agent of the owner and there held for collection, were
not within the taxing power, where the owner lived elsewhere.
It requires a showing that the property sought to be
taxed is incorporated in or commingled with the property
of the taxing authority, before it can become liable to
taxation in any other jurisdiction than that of the domicile

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

DAY, HUGHES

377

and LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

of the owner. Commonwealth v. American Dredging Co.,
122 Pa. St. 386 (see infra).
The decisions in this court indicate that personal property of a tangible character, to become taxable, must have
acquired a situs of a permanent nature within the jurisdiction of the authority seeking to levy the tax. The use
of the term "permanent" in this connection may not
mean the continued and unchangeable location of the
property at a given place, but certainly does intend to
include the idea of location which is not of a temporary or
fleeting character.
As was said by this court in Morgan v. Parham,16 Wall.
471, 476, in declaring that a vessel engaged in interstate
commerce was not subject to taxation in the city of Mobile, Alabama, although it was physically within the limits
of the city in the course of navigation:
"It is the opinion of the court that the State of Alabama
had no jurisdiction over this vessel for, the purpose of
taxation, for the reason that it had not become incorporated into the personal property of that State, but was
there temporarily only."
In Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S.
299, it was held that, certain vessels engaged in interstate
commerce and registered outside of the State of Virginia
were taxable in that State, it appearing that they were continuously used in navigating the waters of that State. Of
that ciase this court said in Southern PacificCo. v. Kentucky,
222 U. S. 63, 72:
"The case of The Old Dominion Steamship Company v.
Virginia, affords an instance of where the domicile of the
owner as a taxing situs was held to have been lost and a
new taxing situs acquired by reason of a permanent location within another jurisdiction. But in that case the
judgment was rested upon the fact that the vessels had
for years been continuously and exclusively engaged in
the navigation of the Virginia waters, which State had

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
DAY, HUGHES and LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

224 U. S.

thereby acquired jurisdiction for imposing a tax as upon
property which had become incorporated into the tangible
property within her territory."
In Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, supra, this court
had occasion to consider the taxation of vessels plying
between the ports of different States, and it was held that
where a vessel has acquired an actual situs in a State other
than that which is the domicile of the owner, it may be
taxed, because it is within the jurisdiction of the taxing
authority, and, after reviewing the previous cases in this
court, Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court, said
(p. 423);
"But, if enrollment at that place was within the statutes, it is wholly immaterial, since thV previous decisions
to which we have referred decisively establish that enrollment is irrelevant to the question of taxation, because the
power of taxation of vessels depends either upon the actual
doinicil of the owner or the permanent situs of the property within the taxing jurisdiction."
As was said in one of the latest of this court's deliverances upon the subject, Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New
Orleans, 205 U. S. 395, "but personal property may be
taxed in its permanent abiding ,place, although the domicile of the owner is elsewhere."
And in the latest deliverance of this court upon the subject, Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, supra, decided at
this term, the principle is again stated and applied, that
tangible personal property, unless it has acquired an
actual situs elsewhere, is taxable at the domicile of the
owner.
In all the cases to which our attention has been called,
decided in this court, the idea of permanency in the abiding
place is emphasized as essential to taxable situs-that is,
the property sought to be taxed must become "commingled" with the property of the State (Old Dominion
Steamship Co. v. Virginia, supra), or "intermingled" with

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

DAY,

HUGHES

379

and LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

the general property of the' State (Delaware, L. &c. R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra), or "permanently located"
there (Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194), or "incorporated in" the local property (Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, supra). All these expressions
indicate the idea of a permanent situs of the property.
The question then comes to this: When the Porto Rico
authorities, on the first of April, 1908, undertook to levy
this tax upon the dredging outfit, had it acquired a situs
in that jurisdiction for the purpose of taxation? Answering this question, we must bear in mind that there is no
showing that the property was permanently located in
San Juan harbor, in the sense we have indicated, but
that, on the contrary, it appears it was brought into Porto
Rico for the purpose of carrying out a Government contract upon which the owner of the property had entered
at the time of the attempted taxation; that it was not
used in connection with any other business or operation
whatsoever, but had been continuously and entirely engaged in carrying out the contract for which it was taken
to Porto Rico, and that the owner of the property had not
engaged in any operations in Porto Rico or the waters
thereof, except only those under the contract with the
United States.
Tangible personal property is taxable at the owner's
domicile, except where it is shown to have an actual situs
elsewhere, and, as we have seen, actual situs is not gained
when the property comes only temporarily within the
taxing jurisdiction. Applying this test, we are of the opinion that this dredging outfit had not become incorporated
into the personal property of the Territory of Porto Rico,
as manifestly it was there temporarily only. In our judgment this situation falls far short of a location in Porto
Rico sufficient to subject it to the taxing power of that
Territory.
The cases relied upon and cited in the brief of the At-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
DAY, HUGHES

and

LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

224 U. S.

torney General of Porto Rico, National Dredging Co. v.
The State, 99 Alabama, 462, and North Western Lumber
Co. v. Chehalis County, 25 Washington, 95, are entirely
different in their facts.
In the Alabama case the dredging outfit was held presumably to be in Mobile Bay for the purpose of carrying
out a series of contracts in the line of the dredging company's business. The court says (p. 465):
"Indeed, as appears from this record, other property of
the same kind, which had previously been used by residents of Alabama in the prosecution of this work, was
purchased by the appellant company, and, being incorporated with that involved here, has all along been used
like it in dredging the channel of Mobile Bay, and one
scow so used was built in the city of Mobile, and has never
been, we assume, outside of the State."
And the court further says (p. 466):
"In other words, taking into consideration the business
of the corporation, the amount and continuing character
of the work to be done in Mobile Bay, the preparations
made by the company for doing so much thereof as is authorized under one annual appropriation, it may be that
this property will be for years engaged upon this work, as
a part of that now being used by the company of like kind
with this had been used thereon for a year or years prior
to 1891. On this state of the case-or even leaving out of
view the considerations last adverted to-it is clear, we
think, that this property is not merely temporarily within
Alabama, but that, to the contrary, its presence here is
for such an indefinite period as involves the idea of permanency, in the sense in which that term is used with
respect to the situs of property for the purposes of taxation."
In the Washington case, the property sought to be
taxed was certain tugboats, which were claimed to be
exempt from taxation because they were registered at a

GROMER v. STANDARD DREDGING CO.
224 U. S.

DAY, HUGHES and LAMAR,

381

JJ., dissenting.

port in another State. The evidence disclosed that these
tugs had been in use in the State of Washington from
four to seven years and not elsewhere, and that the only
absence of the tugs from the harbors of that State was for
the temporary purpose of repairs, and further, that they
were used for all those years appurtenant to and as a
part of the lumber plant and business of the lumber company in the county and State where taxed. Under such
circumstances the Supreme Court of Washington held
that the tugs were permanently in Washington, transacting a local business, and had acquired a taxable situs
within that State.
A statement of these cases readily distinguishes them
from the one at bar. In the case now before us it was
sought to tax the dredging property upon its removal
from the domicile of its owner for the performance of a
single contract and for the transaction of no other business whatsoever, and presumably, as the court below said,
not to remain in the jurisdiction beyond the term of the
contract for which it was used. To tax property in this
situation, it seems to us, would be extending the doctrine
of taxable situs elsewhere than at the owner's domicile
beyond any authority shown, and certainly beyond the
reason of the rule. If property thus located could be
taxed, the same principle would permit the taxing of a
dredging outfit upon the Great Lakes of the country,
frequently moving from port to port, in the performance
of dredging contracts, in every jurisdiction where it might
temporarily be, as well as at the domicile of the owner,
where such property could unquestionably be reached.
In Commonwealth v. American Dredging Co., supra,
where a dredging outfit was specifically involved, the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held that so much of the
capital stock of the corporation as was invested in the
State of New Jersey in a dredging outfit, namely, $92,000
in four dredges which were built outside of the State of

•382

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
DAY, HuGEs and LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

224 U. S.

Pennsylvania, three of which had never been within the
limits of that State and the fourth of which had never
been within its limits until after the end of the year;
$6,000 in a tug which was built outside of the State of
Pennsylvania and was not within its limits during the year,
and $38,500 in eleven scows, built outside of the State of
Pennsylvania and never within its limits, the property
all being employed for corporate purposes in the States of
New Jersey, Maryland and Virginia, was nevertheless subject to taxation in the State of Pennsylvania, which was the
domicile of the American Dredging Company, the owner
of the property. In reaching that conclusion Mr. Justice
Paxson, who spoke for the court, said (p. 391):
"It must be conceded that the property in question
must be liable to taxation in some jurisdiction. If it
were permanently located in another state, it would be
liable to taxation there. But the facts show that it is
not permanently located out of the state. From the
nature of the business, it is in one place to-day and another to-morrow, and, hence, not taxable in the jurisdiction where temporarily employed. It follows that if not
taxable here, it escapes altogether. The rule as to vessels
engaged in foreign or -interstate commerce is that their
situs, for the purpose of taxation is their home port of
registry, or the residence of their owner, if unregistered.
Pullman Palace CarCo. v. Twombly, 29 Fed. Rep. 66; Hays
v. Pacific Mail Steamship Co., 17 How. 596.
"These vessels, if they may be so called, were not registered. Hence their situs for taxation is the domicil of
the owners. This rule must prevail in the absence of
anything to show that they are so permanently located in
another state as to be liable to taxation under the laws of
that state."
That case was commented on in the opinion of this
court in Delaware,L. &c. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra,
in which it was held that the capital stock of a corporation

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

383

Syllabus.

represented by property in stocks of coal which had been
sent out of the State and were deposited in other States
for sale could not be taxed.
Of the Dredging Company Case, Mr. Justice Peckham,
speaking for this court, said (p. 356):
"Such property is entirely unlike the property involved
in Commonwealth v. American Dredging Co., 122 Pa. St.
386. That property consisted of vessels, or scows, or tugs,
only temporarily out of the State of Pennsylvania, for.the
purpose of engaging in business, and liable to return to the
State at any time, and was without any actual situs beyond the jurisdiction of the State itself."
We think, therefore, that the property in question was
taxable in Delaware at the domicile of the owner, and we
agree with the District Court in its conclusion that it had
not acquired a taxable situs in Porto Rico.
For this reason we dissent from the judgment of the
court.

UNITED STATES v. TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION OF ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 386. Argued October 20, 23, 1911.-Decided April 22, 1912.
Whether the unification of terminals in a railroad center is a permissible
facility in aid of interstate commerce, or an illegal combination in
restraint thereof, depends upon the intent to be inferred from the extent of the control secured over the instrumentalities which such
commerce is compelled to use, the method by which such control has
been obtained, and the manner in which it is exercised.
The unification of substantially every terminal facility by which the
traffic of St. Louis is served is a combination in restraint of interstate

