GULF, COL. & S. F. RY. v. DENNIS.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

agency down to March 10, 1911, the time of the service of
the subpoena. We think the testimony clearly shows that
the relation of Adams to the defendant company was
the same at that time as it had been when the various
transactions, to which we have referred, were taking place
in the years 1905 and the following. There could hardly
be stronger testimony than the defendant's own letter
of July 7, 1909, in which it is distinctly stated that
"Mr. Adams, who runs our house in Louisville, has a
certain interest in the profits," etc.
Reaching this conclusion, we are constrained to hold
that the court below erred in quashing the return to the
subpoena and in dismissing the case, and therefore the
.judgment must be reversed and the case remanded, with
directions to, overrule the order quashing the return and to
set aside the decree denying the jurisdiction of the court.
Reversed.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.
v. DENNIS.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MILAM COUNTY, STATE
OF TEXAS.
No. 203.

Submitted March 6, 1912.-Decided April 29, 1912.

The county court in Texas, being the highest court of the State to
which the case could be carried, considering the amount involved,
held that a railroad company was liable-not only for the damages
claimed, but also for an attorney's fee under Chapter 47, Laws of
Texas, 1909. The railroad company sued out a writ of error from
this court, having insisted in the state court that the statute violated
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Federal Constitution. Before the case was reached in this court, the highest court
of the State in another case adjudged the statute to be violative of
a provision in the state constitution and void. That fact being
brought to the attention of this court, held that:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

The case not having been finally terminated, the right to the attorney's fee is still sub judice, and effect must be given by this court
to the intervening decision of the highest state court and, as to dismiss the writ would leave the judgment to be enforced as rendered,
the proper procedure is to vacate the judgment and remand the case
to the county court so that it may give effect to the intervening decision of the highest state court.
In the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction over the courts of the several States, this court is not absolutely confined to the consideration
and decision of the Federal questions, but may inquire whether,
owing to any intervening event, such questions have ceased to be
material, and dispose of the case in the light of that event.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. W. Terry, Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, Mr. A. H.
Culwdll, Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton and
Mr. Evans Browne, for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action to recover damages from a railway
cQmpany for the killing of a cow by one of its trains in
Milam County, Texas. The case originated in a justice's
court and was carried by appeal to the County Court,
where the plaintiff obtained a judgment for $75 as damages and $20 as attorney's fee. The attorney's fee was
awarded under a statute of the State (Laws of 1909, c. 47,
p. 93) which the company insisted was repugnant to the
due process of law and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. The insistence was overruled and the company
sued out this writ of error, the County Court being the
highest court in the State to which the case could be
carried, considering the amount involved.

GULF, COL. & S. F. RY. v. DENNIS.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Since the case was brought here the statute under
which the attorney's fee was awarded has been adjudged
invalid under the state constitution, by the highest court
of the State, because the subject to which it relates is not
*sufficiently expressed in its title. Ft. Worth & D. C. Ry. Co.
v. Loyd, 132 S. W. Rep. 899. Thus, the judgment of the
County Court and the later decision of the highest court
of the State are not in accord. The former proceeds upon
the theory that the statute is valid under the state constitution, while the latter conclusively establishes that it
is invalid. In these circumstances, what is the duty of
this court respecting this matter of local law? Must we
proceed upon the same theory as did the County Court,
or must we give effect to the later decision of the highest
court of the State? If we take the latter course and reverse the judgment for the attorney's fee, the question of
the validity of the statute under the Fourteenth Amendment need not be considered, otherwise, it must be. The
intervening decision does not in itself annul the judgment
for the fee or prevent its enforcement, and so does not
render the Federal question a moot one, unless it operates
to place upon us the duty of reversing the judgment without regard to the merits of that question.
The case is still pending. The right to the attorney's
fee is still sub judice. It depends entirely upon the statute,
and. the highest court of the State has pronounced the
statute invalid under the state constitution. How, then,
can we sustain the right or give effect to the statute?
Should we not .in this situation apply the settled rule, that
the decision of the highest court of a State declaring a
statute of the State valid or invalid under the state constitution must be accepted by this court? If this were a
criminal case, wherein the accused had been convicted of
a violation of a state statute, alleged to be repugnant to
the*Constitution of the United States, would we not give
effect to an intervening decision of the highest court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

State declaring the statute invalid under the shte constitution? These questions may not be directly answt red
by the prior decisions of this court, but their right solutioli
is more than suggested by the well-recognized rule of decision, that when, during the pendency in an appellate
court of an action for a penalty, civil or criminal, the
statute prescribing the penalty is repealed, without any
saving clause, the appellate court must dispose of the
case under the law in force when its decision is given,
even although to do so requires the reversal of a judgment
which was right when rendered. United States v. Schooner
Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103, 110; Yeaton v. United States, 5
Cranch, 281; Schooner Rachel v. United States, 6 Cranch,
329; Vance v. Rankin, 194 Illinois, 625; Hartung v. People,
22 N. Y. 95; Musgrove v. Vicksburg & Nashville R. R. Co.,
50 Mississippi, 677; Montague v. State, 54 Maryland, 481;
Denver & R. G. Ry. Co. v. Crawford, 11 Colorado, 598;
Sheppard v. State, 1 Tex. App. 522; Kenyon v. State, 31
Tex. Cr. 13; Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 469; 2 Sutherland Stat. Con., 2d ed., ยง 286. In the first of the cases
cited it was said by Chief Justice Marshall:
"It is in the general true that the province of an appellate court is only to inquire whether a judgment when
rendered was erroneous or not. But if, subsequent to the
judgment, and before the decision of the appellate court,
a law intervenes and positively changes the rule which
governs, the law must be obeyed, or its obligation denied. . . . In such a case the court must decide according to existing laws, and if it be necessary to set aside
a judgment, rightful when rendered, but which-cannot be
affirmed but in violation of law, the judgment must be
set aside;"
We think what was there said is, in principle, applicable
here. For while on a writ of error to a state court our
province ordinarily is only to inquire whether that court
has erred in the decision of some Federal question, it does

GULF, COL. & S. F. RY. v. DENNIS.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not follow that where, pending the writ, a statute of the
State or a decision of its highest judicial tribunal intervenes and puts an end to the right which the judgment
sustains, we should ignore the changed situation and
affirm or reverse the judgment with sole regard to the
Federal question. On the contrary, we are of opinion that
in such a case it becomes our duty to recognize the
changed situation, and either to apply the intervening
law or decision or to set aside-the judgment and remand
the case So that the state court may do so. To do this is
not to review, in any proper sense of the term, the decision
of that court upon a non-Federal question, but only to
give effect to a matter arising since its judgment and bearing directly upon the right disposition of the case.
This view of the subject received practical recognition
in the case of Pacific Mail Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall.
450. It was an action in a California court to recover halfpilotage fees allowed by a law of that State to a licensed
port pilot whose services were tendered and declined.
Objections of a Federal nature were interposed, but judgment was given for the plaintiff, and the case was then /
brought here. During its pendency in this court the legislature of the State passed a new statute, embodying the

provisions of the prior law, with some modifications, and
also in terms repealing it. The point was then made that
the repealing clause terminated the right to recover and
therefore that the action could no longer be maintained.
And while the question whether the simultaneous reenactment and repeal of the prior law interrupted its continuity was a question of local law, it was fully considered,
and the conclusion was reached that in practical operation
and effect there was no repeal, but only a continuance of
the prior law, with modifications not there material, thus
leaving the right to recover and the Federal questions unaffected. The latter were then considered, and, being
found untenable, the judgment was affirmed. In-a dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

senting opinion, having the approval of three members of
the court, it was maintained that the new act abrogated
the prior law, thereby putting an end to the right to recover, and that in consequence the judgment should be
reversed, with a direction to dismiss the action. Thus, the
entire court proceeded upon the theory that it was necessary to inquire whether the intervening statute put an
end to the right to the fees in question, and, if so, to give
effect to the statute accordingly.
Almost from the beginning it has been the settled rule
in this court that when, pending a writ of error to a lower
Federal court, and without the fault of the defendant in
error, an event occurs which renders it impossible, if the
case was decided in favor of the plaintiff in error, to grant
him any effectual relief whatever, the court will not proceed to a formal judgment, but will dismiss the writ. And
in Kimball v. Kimball, 174 U. S. 158, it became necessary
to consider whether this rule was applicable to a case
brought here on a writ of error to a state court. The
question was resolved in the affirmative, and it was said
(p. 162):
"From the necessity of the case, this court is compelled,
as all other courts are, to allow facts which affect its right
and its duty to proceed in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction, but which do not appear upon the record
before it, to be proved by extrinsic evidence. Dakota
County v. Glidden, 113 U. S. 222, 225, 226; Mills v. Green,
above cited [159 U. S. 651, 653]. The reasons are quite as
.strong, to say the least, for applying the rule to a writ of
error to a state court, on which the jurisdiction of this
court is limited to Federal questions only, as to a writ of
error to a Circuit Court of the United States, on which the
.jurisdiction of this court extends to the whole case."
We conclude that in the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction over the courts of the several States we 'are not
absolutely confined to the consideration and decision of the

GULF, COL. & S. F. RY. v. DENNIS.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Federal questions presented, but as a necessary incident
of that jurisdiction are authorized to inquire whether by
some intervening event those questions have ceased to be
material to the right disposition of any particular case,
and to dispose of it in the light of that event.
The present case is not one in which the writ should be
dismissed, because that would leave the judgment to be
enforced as rendered, which the intervening decision shows
ought not to be done. Instead of being an obstacle to
granting any effectual relief to the plaintiff in error, that
decision constitutes in itself an all-sufficient ground for
relieving it from the attorney's fee, independently of the
Federal question presented on the record; and for the
reasons before stated we think it becomes our duty to
vacate the judgment so that the state court may apply
the decision by awarding a new judgment in conformity
therewith.
The judgment is accordingly reversed, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

