CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

agency, known as the Board of Publication of the Cumberland Presbyterian Church. It was held that to align
the corporation itself with the complainants was virtually
to decide the merits in their favor; that the corporation
was simply a title holder-an instrumentality, the mastery
of which was in dispute; and that it was properly made a
party defendant.
As, in that case, the controversy embraced the fundamental question of the rights of the religious associations,
said to be represented by the respective parties, to control
the corporite agency and to have the benefit in their
denominational work of the corporate property, so here
the controversy is with respect to the control of the church
property which the three trustees hold in trust. These
trustees were not indispensable parties complainant as
alleged in the plea, and, as mere title holders, they were
properly made parties defendant. The court erred in
aligning them with the complainants.
Decree reversed.

CONVERSE, RECEIVER, v. HAMILTON.
SAME v. McCAULEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
Nos. 42, 43.

Argued November 7, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.

This court looks to the constitution and statutes of a State and the
decisions of its courts to determine the nature, extent, and method
of enforcing the liability of stockholders of a corporation of that
State.
The provisions of the Minnesota constitution imposing double liability
on stockholders of corporations other than those carrying on manufacturing or mechanical business is self-executing, and under it eck

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

- stockholder becomes liable for the debts of the corporation in amount
measured by the par value of his stock.
The liability of stockholders under the Minnesota constitution is not
to the corporation but to the creditors collectively; is not'penal but
contractual; not joint, but several; and the means of its enforcement
are subject to legislative regulation.
Under § 272 of the Laws of Minnesota, the receiver of a corporation,
the stockholders whereof are subject to double liability, is invested
with authority to sue for and collect the amount of the assessment
etablished in the sequestration suit provided by the statute.
A receiver to collect the double liability of stockholders of a Minnesota
corporation is more than a mere chancery receiver; he is a quasiassignee, invested with the rights of creditors, and he may enforce
the same in any court of competent jurisdiction.
As the statute of Minnesota providing for determining whether stockholders of a corporation of that State are subject to statutory double
liability does not preclude a stockholder from showing that he is not a
stockholder or from setting up any defense personal to himself, it is
not unconstitutional as denying due process of law, but is a reasonable regulation, and the jurisdiction of the court is sustained by the
relation of the stockholder to the corporation and his contractual
obligation in respect to its debts.
While an ordinary chancery receiver cannot exercise his powers in
jurisdictions other than that of the court appointing him, except by
comity, one Who is a quasi-assignee and invested with the rights of
his cestuis qu trustent may sue in other jurisdictions, and his right
so to do is protected by the full faith and credit clause of the Federal
Constitution.
While there are certain well-recognized exceptions to the full faith and
credit clause, especially in regard to the enforcement of penal statutes, the right of a receiver of a Minnesota corporation to sue in the
courtsof another State torecover the double liability imposed on
the stockholders is within the rule, and the courts of the latter State
are bound to give full faith and credit to the laws of Minnesota and
the judicial proceedings upon which the receiver's title, authority
and right to relief are grounded.
136 Wisconsin, 589, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the recognition to be given,
under the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution,.in the courts of a State of a receiver appointed
by the courts of another State and the right of such re-

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ceiver to enforce double liability against the stockholders
in the former State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. A. Severance, with whom Mr. Burr W. Jones,
Mr. E. J. B. Schubring, Mr. Frank B. Kellogg and Mr.
Robert E. Olds were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
It was held by the Supreme Court of Minnesota that
the manufacturing company was not exclusively a manufacturing or mechanical corporation, and hence the
stockholders are liable. Merchants' National Bank v.
Minnesota Thresher M. Co., 90 Minnesota,, 144; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 524.
The plaintiff receiver under chapter 272 of the General
Laws of Minnesota for 1899, and §§ 3184 to 3190, inclusive, of the Revised Laws of 1905, is a representative of
the corporation and of its creditors, and has title to the
assessments sued upon and is authorized to enforce such
assessments by proper proceedings either in that State or
elsewhere. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Ayer (Mass.), 84 N. E. Rep. 98.
Prior to the enactment of chapter 272, the receiver did
not have such title, being nothing but. the ordinary
chancery receiver, and hence he could not maintain an
action to recover stockholders' liability outside the State
of Minnesota. Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335; Hale v.
Allinson, 188 U. S. 56; Finney v. Guy, 106 Wisconsin, 256.
Chapter 272 and §§ 3184 to 3190, Revised Laws of
1905, merely changed and enlarged the remedy for the
enforcement of stockholders' liability, and did not change
the substantive right, and hence the said laws are constitutional. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Ayer (Mass.), 84 N. E. Rep. 98; Straw & Ellsworth
v. Kilbourne Co., 80 Minnesota, 125; London & Northwest
American Mortgage Co. v. St. Paul Park Improvement Co.,
84 Minnesota, 144.
The judgment at law against the thresher company in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

the state court of Minnesota and the decree in the subsequent suit based thereon, by which decree the receiver
was appointed, cannot be collaterally attacked. Cases
supra and Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. PhAix Ins. Co., 108
Michigan, 170; Bank v. Lawrence, 117 Michigan, 669;
Hinckley v. Kettle River Co., 80 Minnesota, 32; Parker v.
Stoughton Mill. Co., 91 Wisconsin, 181.
Chapter 272 and §§ 3184 to 3190, both declare that assessments levied pursuant to their provisions, which the
demurrer admits were followed in this case, are conclusive
upon stockholders wherever they may be. Straw v. Kilbourne Co., 80 Minnesota, 125, 136; The Bernheimer Case,
supra; Converse v. Ayer, 84 N. E. Rep. 100.
Under Bernheimer v. Converse and other cases decided
by this court, full faith and credit must be given in all
courts to the interlocutory decrees of the District Court
of Washington County, Minnesota) levying the assessments in question. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319;
Hancock Nat'l Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, and cases
therein cited.
There is no question of comity in this case as in Finney
v. Guy, 106 Wisconsin, 256; S. C., 189 U. S. 335; Hale v.
Allinson, 188 U. S. 56.
In Hunt v. Whewell, 122 Wisconsin, 33, the Wisconsin
court erred in holding that the questions were settled by
Finney v. Guy, and so the decision is contrary to Bernheimer v. Converse.
In the case at bar the question is as to the credit and
effect given in the courts of Minnesota in a like action to
an assessment there ordered by interlocutory decrees such
as those attached to the complaint. An approval of the
position of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in this case
would be a distinct disavowal of Hancock Bank v. Farnum,
and the decisions in many other cases in which the constitutional provision requiring full faith and credit to be
given to judicial proceedings of sister States, has been

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

under consideration. It would mean that the right to
recover in an action based upon such judicial proceedings
would be determined not by the Constitution but by the
whim or caprice of the courts of the State where the suit
was brought. The law of this case is well stated in the
dissenting opinion below of Mr. Justice Timlin.
Mr. Charles E. Buell, with whom Mr. John B. Sanborn
and Mr. Chauncey E. Blake were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The question of "full faith and credit" is not involved
in this case.
An assessment made by the court upon the stock of an
insolvent Minnesota corporation and upon the stockholders thereof in an action to sequester the assets of the
corporation is not such a judgment against the stockholders as to come within the full faith and credit clause
of the Federal Constitution. Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S.
56.
The corporation is not the representative of the stockholder in the sense that it can represent him in making an
assessment upon his stock, so as to establish a personal
liability. Hale v. Allinson, supra; Hanson v. Davison, 73
Minnesota, 454; Willus v. Mann, 91 Minnesota, 494;
Lageman v. Casserly, 107 Minnesota, 491; Finney v. Guy,
106 Wisconsin, 256; Danforth v. Chemical Co., 68 Minnesota, 308; Schraderv. Manufacturers' Bank, 133 U. S. 67.
It has always been the law of Wisconsin, and was always
the law of Minnesota until the enactment of chapter 272,
Laws of 1899, that upon the insolvency of a corporation
whose stockholders were subject to a double liability the
only remedy the creditors had to enforce that liability was
by an action brought by all the creditors or by one or
more creditors on behalf of all against the corporation and
all of the stockholders to wind up the corporation, sequester its assets and enforce the double liability of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S.

stockholders and that the judgment as to such double
liability bound only such of the stockholders as could be

personally served with process within the jurisdiction of
the court or should voluntarily appear in the action and
that no other action could be brought to enforce such
liability either in the State in which the insolvent corporation was located or elsewhere. In re Martin's Estate, 56
Minnesota, 420; Allen v. Walsh, 25 Minnesota, 543;
Merchants' Bank v. Bailey Mfg. Co., 34 Minnesota, 323;
Minneapolis Base Ball Co. v. City Bank, 66 Minnesota,
441; Hanson v. Davison, 73 Minnesota, 454; Coleman v.
White, 14 Wisconsin, 700;. Cleveland v. Marine Bank, 17
Wisconsin, 545; Merchants' Bank v. Chandler, 19 Wisconsin, 434; Terry v. Chandler, 23 Wisconsin, 456; Hurlbut v.
Marshall, 62 Wisconsin, 590; Gianella v. Biglow, 96 Wisconsin, 185; Booth v. Dear, 96 Wisconsin, 516; Gager v.
Marsden, 101 Wisconsin, 598; Foster v. Posson, 105 Wisconsin, 99; Finney v. Guy, 106 Wisconsin, 256; Eau Claire
Nat. Bank v. Benson, 106 Wisconsin, 624; Hunt v. Whewell,
122 Wisconsin, 33; Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56; Finney
v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335.
Chapter 272, Laws of Minnesota for the year 1899, and
the amendments thereto have not changed the legal aspect of this case.
Whether or not a right exists depends on the law of the
State where it was created; the remedy for enforcing such
right depends upon the law of the forum where it is
sought to be enforced. Herrickv. Minneapolis & St. Louis
Ry. Co., 31 Minnesota, 11; Northern Pacific Railroad v.
Babcock, 154 U. S. 190, 197; Marshall v. Sherman, 148
N. Y. 9; Leucke v. Treadway, 45 Mo. App. 507.
A receiver has no extraterritorial jurisdiction or power
of official action and is not entitled, as matter of right, to
sue in a foreign jurisdiction; and the refusal of another
State to entertain such suit does not amount to failure to
give full faith and credit to the laws and judgments of the

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

State of appointment within the meaning of the Federal
Constitution. High on Receivers, § 239; Booth v. Clark,
17 How. 322; Filkins v. Nunnemacher, 81 Wisconsin, 91;
Farmers' & Merchants' Ins. Co. v. Needles, 52 Missouri,
17; Brigham v. Luddington, 12 Blatchf. 237; Hagard v.
Durant, 10 Fed. Rep. 471..
The statutes of a State have no extraterritoril force.
A foreign receiver cannot, as matter of right, maintain an
action outside of the State of his appointment. He is
often permitted through comity, or the courtesy of a
sister State, to maintain an action therein; but never
where the courts of such sister State have declared the
maintenance of such action to be against the public policy
of that State or that the rights of its citizens would be
thereby jeopardized or impaired. High on Receivers,
§ 241; Comstock v. Frederickson, 51 Minnesota, 350;
Mercantile Bank v. MacFarlane,71 Minnesota, 497; Hanson v. Davison, 73 Minnesota, 454 (455); Herrick v. Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry. Co., 31 Minnesota, 11; New Haven
Nail Co. v. Linden Spring Co., 142 Massachusetts, 349;
Post & Co. v. Toledo &c. R. R. Co., 144 Massachusetts,
345; Higgins v. Central N. E. R. R., 155 Massachusetts,
176; Howarth v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts, 570; Smith
v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 96 Massachusetts, 336; Rice v.
Hosiery Co., 56 N. H. 114, 127; Nimick & Co. v. Mingo
Iron Works Co., 25 W. Va. 184; Rover on Interstate Law,
167, 226; Foster v. Glazener, 27 Alabama, 391; Stevens v.
Brown, 20 W. Va. 450 (460, 461); Gilman v. Ketchum, 84
Wisconsin, 60; Sobemheimer v. Wheeler, 45 N. J. Eq. 614;
Disconto Gesellschaft v. Umbreit, 127 Wisconsin, 651; Bagby
v. A. M. & 0. R. Co., 86 Pa. St. 291; Falk v. Jones, 49 N. J.
Eq. 484; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335 (345).
Whether or not a complaint in a state court states a
cause of action, no Federal question being involved, is
exclusively for the state court to determine. Finney Case,
189 U. S. 335; Johnson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 187

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S.

U. S. 491, 496; Allen v. Alleghany Co., 196 U. S. 458;
Kirtley v. Holmes, 46 C. C. A. 102; 107 Fed. Rep. 1;
Lewis v. Clark, 64 C. C. A. 138; 129 Fed. Rep. 570;
Rogers v. Riley, 80 Fed. Rep. 759; Burr v. Smith, 113 Fed.
Rep. 858.
The validity of chapter 272, Laws of Minnesota for 1899,
and the amendments thereto are not drawn in question in
this case; hence no Federal question is raised.
Where a case turns upon the construction and not upon
the validity of statute of another State it does not necessarily involve a Federal question. Finney v. Guy, 189
U. S. 335, 340; Johnson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 187
U. S. 491, 496; Allen v. Alleghany Co., 196 U. S. 463;
Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 222; Banholzer v. New York
Life Ins. Co., 178 U. S.402; Johnson v. New York Life
Ins. Co., 187 U. S.491.
Upon demurrer to a complaint alleging the law of another State the defendant is not concluded by such allegations; the court will examine the statutes and decisions of
such State and determine for itself whether the law is as
pleaded. Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S.335 (343, 344); Knickerbocker Trust Co. v. Iselin, 185 N. Y. 54 (58).
There is nothing in any of the cases arising under the
amended Minnesota statute and decided by this court
since the amendment to the Minnesota law in conflict
with the decision of the Wisconsin court in Hunt v.
Whewell.
In First National Bank of Ottawa v. Converse, 200 U. S.
425; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v.
First National Bank of Suffield, 212 U. S. 565, and Converse v. Stewart, 218 U. S.666, no question was raised as to
whether the action was against the public policy of the
State where brought or whether a remedy was provided
by the Minnesota law different from that of the lex fori,
and which remedy was denied the citizens of the State
where such action was brought, or whether this court

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would compel a state court to entertain such action
against its solemn declaration that by so doing it would
subject its citizens to great and manifold injustice and
hardship. Howarth v. Angle, 162 N. Y. 179; Post & Co. v.
Toledo, Cincinnati & St. Louis Railroad, 144 Massachusetts, 341; Howarth v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts, 570;
Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, distinguished. No case holds that the failure of a state court
to permit such action to be brought is a violation of the
"full faith and credit" clause of the Federal Constitution.
The cases cited-several of which are from the Minnesota
court and all from courts of the highest standing-uniformly hold that such receiver cannot maintain such action as a strict right, but only when the public policy of
the sister State will permit.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
These were actions at law, brought in the Circuit Court
of Dane County, Wisconsin, by a receiver of an insolvent
Minnesota corporation, the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Company, to enforce an asserted double liability
of two of its stockholders. The facts stated in the complaints, which were substantially alike, were these: A
judgment creditor, upon whose judgment an execution
had been issued and returned nulla bona, commenced a
suit against the company in the District Court of Washington County, Minnesota, for the sequestration of its
property and effects and for the appointment of a receiver
of the same. The company appeared in the suit- a receiver
was appointed, and such further proceedings were had
therein, conformably to the statutes of the State, as resulted in the appearance of the creditors of the company,
in the presentation and adjudication of their claims aggregating many thousands of dollars, in an ascertainment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the complete insolvency of the company and of the necessity of resorting to the double liability of its stockholders
for the payment of its creditors, and in orders levying
upon its stockholders two successive assessments of 36,
and 64 per cent. of the par value of their respective shares,
requiring that these assessments be paid to the receiver
within stated periods, and directing the receiver, in case
any of the stockholders should fail to pay either assessment within the time prescribed, to institute and prosecute
all such actions, whether within or without the State,
as should be necessary to enforce the assessments. Some
of the stockholders intervened in the suit and appealed
from the order levying the first assessment, and the order
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 90 Minnesota, 144.
The defendants here were stockholders in the company
and failed and refused to pay either assessment, although
payment was duly demanded of them. But they were
not made parties to the sequestration Suit and were not
notified, otherwise than by publication or by mail, of
the applications for the orders levying the assessments.
Upon the expiration of the times prescribed in the orders
the receiver brought the present actions to enforce them.
The complaints set forth the proceedings in the sequestration suit and the provisions of the Minnesota constitution
and statutes relating to the double liability of stockholders
and its enforcement, with the interpretation placed upon
those provisions by the Supreme Court of that State, and
also made the claim that § 1, Art. IV, of the Constitution
of the United States and § 905, Rev. Stat., required the
courts of Wisconsin to give such faith and credit to those
proceedings and provisions as they have by law or usage
in the courts of Minnesota.
Demurrers to the complaints were sustained upon the
ground that to permit the actions to be maintained in the
Wisconsin courts would be contrary to the settled policy

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of that State in respect of the enforcement of the like
liability of stockholders in its own corporations, and
judgments of dismissal were entered accordingly. The
judgments were affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State, 136 Wisconsin, 589 and 594, and the receiver sued
out these writs of error, alleging that he had been denied
a right asserted, as before indicated, under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Of course, we must look to the Minnesota constitution,
statutes and decisions to determine the nature and extent
of the liability in question, and the effect given in that
State to the laws and judicial proceedings therein looking
to its enforcement. and when this is done we find that the
situation, as applied to the cases now before us, is as
follows:
1. Section 3, article 10, of the Minnesota constitution
provides: "Each stockholder in any corporation, excepting
those organized for the purpose of carrying on any kind
of manufacturing or mechanical business, shall be liable
to the amount of stock held or owned by him." The
insolvent company, before mentioned, is within the
general terms of this provision, not the excepting clause.
Merchants' National Bank v. Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Co., 90 Minnesota, 144; Bernheimer v. Converse,
206 U. S. 516, 524. The provision is self-executing, and
under it each stockholder becomes liable for the debts
of the corporation in an amount measured by tlhe par
value of his stock. This liability is not to the corporation
but to the creditors collectively, is not penal but contractual, is not joint but several, and the mode and means
of its enforcement are subject to legislative regulation.
Willis v. Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140; Minneapolis Baseball
Co. v. City Bank, 66 Minnesota, 441, 446; Hanson v. Davison, 73 Minnesota, 454; Straw & Ellsworth Co. v. Kilbourne
Co., 80 Minnesota, 125; London & Northwest Co. v. St. Paul
Co., 84 Minnesota, 144; Bernheimer v. Converse, supra.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

2. The proceedings in the sequestration suit, looking
to the enforcement of this liability, were had under
chapter 272, Laws of 1899, and §§ 3184-3190, Revised
Laws of 1905, the latter being a continuation of the former
with changes not here material. An earlier statute prescribed a mode of enforcement by a single suit in equity
in a home court, which was to be prosecuted by all the
creditors jointly, or by some for the benefit of all, against
all the stockholders, or as many as could be served with
process in the State, and all the rights of the different
parties were to be finally adjusted therein. That mode
was bxclusive. A receiver could not sue on behalf of
the creditors in a home court or elsewhere. A single
creditor could not sue in his own behalf, and, if all united,
or one sued for the benefit of all, it was essential that
the suit be in a home court. The statute was so interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State. See Hale
v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, and Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S.
335, where the cases were carefully reviewed. In one
of them, Minneapolis Baseball Co. v. City Bank, supra,
that court, after holding that the liability could not
then be enforced through a suit by a receiver, added:
"If it be desirable, in order to secure a speedy, economical
and practical method of enforcing the liability, to invest
the receiver with such power, it must be done by statute."
Doubtless responding to this suggestion, the legislature
enacted chapter 272, Laws of 1899. It expressly prescribed
the mode of enforcement pursued in the present instance;
that is to say, it made provision for bringing all the creditors into the sequestration suit, for the presentation and
adjudication of their claims, for ascertaining the relation
of the corporate debts and the expenses of the receivership
to the available assets, and whether and to what extent
it was necessary to resort to the stockholders' double
liability, for levying such assessments upon- the stockholders according to their respective holdings as should

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be necessary to pay the debts, and for investing the
receiver with authority to collect the assessments on
behalf of the creditors. And it also contained the following provisions respecting the effect to be given to the
orders levying assessments and respecting the authority
and duties of the receiver (Gen. LaWs, 1899, p. 317):
"SEC. 5. Said order and the assessment thereby levied
shall be conclusive upon and against all parties liable
upon or on account of any stock or shares of said corporation, whether appearing or represented at said hearing
or having notice thereof or not, as to all matters relating
to the amount of and the propriety of and necessity for
the said assessment. This provision shall also apply to
any subsequent assessment levied by said court as hereinafter provided.
"SEc. 6. It shall be the duty of such assignee or receiver to, and he may, immediately after the expiration
of the time specified in said order for the payment of the
amount so assessed by the parties liable therefor, institute
and maintain an action or actions against any and every
party liable upon or on account of any share or shares
of such stock who has failed to pay the amount so assessed
against the same, for the amount for which such party
is so liable. Said actions may be maintained against each
stockholder, severally, in this state or in any other state
or country where such stockholder, or any property subject to attachment, garnishment or other process in an
action against such stockholder, may be found. . .
3. Under this statute, as interpreted by the Supreme
Court of the State, as also by this court, the receiver is
not an ordinary chancery receiver or arm of the court
appointing him, but a qua8i-assignee and representative
of the creditors, and when the order levying the assessment is made he becomes invested with the creditors'
rights of action against the stockholders and with. full
authority to enforce the same in any court of competent

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

jurisdiction in the State or elsewhere. Straw & Ellsworth
Co. v. Kilbourne Co., supra; Bernheimer v. Converse, supra.
4. The constitutional validity of chapter 272 has been
sustained by the Supreme Court of the State, as also by
this court; and this because (1) the statute is but a reasonable regulation of the mode and means of enforcing the
double liability assumed by those who become stockholders
in a Minnesota corporation; (2) while the order levying
the assessment is made conclusive, as against all stockholders, of all matters relating to the amount and propriety
of the assessment and the necessity therefor, one against
whom it is sought to be enforced is not precluded from
showing that he is not a stockholder, or is not the holder
of as many shares as is alleged, or has a claim against the
corporation which in law or equity he is entitled to set off
against the assessment, or has any other defense personal
to himself, and (3) while the order is made conclusive as
against a stockholder, even although he may not have
been a party to the suit in which it was made and may not
have been notified that an assessment was contemplated,
this is not a. tenable objection, for the order is not in the
nature of a personal judgment against the stockholder
and as to him is amply sustained by the presence in that
suit of the corporation, considering his relation to it and
his contractual obligation in respect of its debts. Straw &
Ellsworth Co. v. Kilbourne Co., supra; London & Northwest Co. v. St. Paul Co., supra; Bernheimer v. Converse,
supra.
This statement of the nature of the liability in question,
of the laws of Minnesota bearing upon its enforcement,
and of -he effect which judicial proceedings under those
laws have in that State, discloses, as we think, that in
the cases now before us the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
failed to give full faith and credit to those laws and to the
proceedings thereunder, upon which the receiver's right
to sue was grounded. It is true that an ordinary chancery

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

receiver is a mere arm of the court appointing him, is

invested with no estate in the property committed to his
charge, and is clothed with no power to exercise his
official duties in other jurisdictions. Booth v. Clark, 17
How. 322; Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56; Great Western
Mining and Mfg. Co. v. Harris, 198 U. S. 561. But here

the receiver was not merely an ordinary chancery receiver,
but much more. By the proceedings in the sequestration
suit, had conformably to the laws of Minnesota, he became a quasi-assignee and representative of the creditors,
was invested with their rights of action against the stockholders, and was charged with the enforcement of those
rights in the courts of that State and elsewhere. So, when
he invoked the aid of the Wisconsin court the case presented was, in substance, that of a trustee, clothed with adequate title for the occasion, seeking to enforce, for the benefit of his cestuis que trustent, a right of action, transitory
in character, against one who was liable contractually and
severally, if at all. The receiver's right to maintain the
actions in that court was denied in the belief that it turned
upon a question of comity only, unaffected by the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution of the United
States, and this view of it was regarded as sustained by
the decision of this court in Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335.
But that case is obviously distinguishable from those now
before us. It involved the right of a Minnesota receiver
and of the creditors of a Minnesota corporation to sue a
stockholder in Wisconsin prior to the enactment of chapter 272, and while the earlier statute, before mentioned,
provided an exclusive remedy through a single suit in
equity in a Minnesota court. That remedy having been
exhausted, the receiver and the creditors sought, by an
ancillary suit in Wisconsin, to enforce the liability of a
stockholder who resided in that State and was not a
party to the suit in Minnesota. The Supreme Court of
Wisconsin, treating the right to maintain the suit in that
VOL. ccxxiv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

State as depending upon comity only, ruled that it ought
not to be entertained. The case was then brought here,
it being claimed that full faith and credit had not been
accorded to the laws of Minnesota and the proceedings
in the suit in that State. This claim was grounded upon
a contention that the first decisions in Minnesota, holding
that the remedy provided by the earlier statute was
exclusive, that a receiver could not sue thereunder, and
that the rights of creditors against stockholders must be
worked out in the single suit in the home court, had been
overruled by later decisions giving, as was alleged, a
different interpretation to that statute. The contention
was fully considered by this court, the cases relied upon
being carefully reviewed, and the conclusion was reached
that "the law of Minnesota still remains upon this particular matter as stated in the former cases, which have
not been overruled." The claim under the full faith and
credit clause was accordingly held untenable, and it was
then said: "Whether, aside from the Federal considerations just discussed, the Wisconsin court should have
permitted this action to be maintained, because of the
principle of comity between the States, is a question
exclusively for the courts of that State to decide."
We perceive nothing in the decision in that case which
makes for the conclusion that when the representative
character, title and duties of a receiver have been. established by proceedings in a Minnesota court conformably
to the altogether different provisions of the later statute embodied in chapter 272, his right to enforce in the
courts of another State the assessments judicially levied
in Minnesota depends upon comity, unaffected by the full
faith and credit clause. Indeed, the implication of the
decision is to the contrary. We say this, first, because
had it been thought that the controlling question was one
of comity only there would have been no occasion to consider what effect was accorded in Minnesota to the

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

earlier statute and* to the proceedings thereunder, and,
second, because especial care was taken to explain that
the case in hand was not controlled by the decision in
Haincock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640. That
was an action in a Rhode Island court by a creditor of
a Kansas corporation against one of its stockholders to
enforce the contractual double liability of the latter. The
creditor had recovered against the c6rporation in a court
in Kansas a judgment which, according to the laws of
that State, invested the creditor with a cause of action
against the stockholder which could be asserted in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of
Rhode Island, treating the right to maintain the action
in that State against the stockholder as dependent upon
comity only, and finding that the right with which the
creditor was invested under the law of Kansas was unlike
that conferred by the law of Rhode Island in like situations, ruled that the action could not be maintained in
the courts of that State. 20 R. I. 466. But when the
case came here it was held that full faith and credit had
not been given to the Kansas judgment upon which the
creditor relied, and the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Rhode Island was accordingly reversed, it being said
in that connection: "The question to be determined in
this case was not what credit and effect are given in an
action against a stockholder in the courts of Rhode Island
to a judgment in those courts against the corporation of
which he is a stockholder, but what credit and effect are
given in the courts of Kansas in a like action to a similar
judgment there rendered. Thus and thus only can the
full faith and credit prescribed by the Constitution of the
United States and the act of Congress be secured."
In Bernheimer v. Converse, 206. U. S. 516, the present
receiver sought, by reason of the proceedings in the Minnesota court under chapter 272, to maintain an action in
New York against a stockholder residing in that State

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

to enforce one of the assessments before mentioned, and
this court sustained the action, saying (p. 534):
"It is objected that the receiver cannot bring this
action, and Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322; Hale v. Allinson,
188 U. S. 56, and Great Western Mining Co. v.- Harris,
198 U. S. 561, are cited and relied upon. But in each and
all of these cases it was held that a chancery receiver,
having no other authority than that which would arise
from his appointment as such, could not maintain an action in another jurisdiction. In this case the statute confers the right upon the receiver, as a quasi-assignee, and
representative of the creditors, and as such vested with
the authority to maintain an action. In such case we think
the receiver may sue in a foreign jurisdiction. Relfe v.
Rundle, 103 U. S. 222, 226; Howarth v. Lombard, 175
Massachusetts, 570; Howarthv.Angle, 162 N. Y. 179, 182."
And in Converse v. First National Bank of Suffield, 212
U. S. 567, where, in a similar action, the Supreme Court
of Errors of Connecticut had given judgment against
the receiver, this court reversed the judgment on the
authority of Bernheimer v. Converse, supra.
True, the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution
is not without well-recognized exceptions, as is pointed
out in Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Andrews v.
Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, and National Exchange Bank v.
Wiley, 195 U. S. 257, but the laws and proceedings relied
upon here come within the general rule which that clause
establishes, and not within any exception. Thus, the
liability to which they relate is contractual, not penal.
The proceedings were had with adequate jurisdiction to
make them binding upon the stockholders in the particulars before named. The subject to which chapter 272
is addressed is peculiarly within the regulatory power of
the State of Minnesota; so much so that no other State
properly can be said to have any public policy thereon.
And what the law of Wisconsin may be respecting the

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

relative rights and obligations of creditors and stockholders of corporations of its creation, and the mode and
means of enforcing them, is apart from the question under
consideration.
Besides, it is not questioned that the Wisconsin court
in which the receiver sought to enforce the causes of
action with which he had become invested under the laws
and proceedings relied upon, was possessed of jurisdiction
which was fully adequate to the occasion. His right to
resort to that court was not denied by reason of any jurisdictional impediment, but because the Supreme Court
of the State was of opinion that, as to such' causes of
action, the courts of that State "could, if they chose,
close their doors and refuse to entertain the same."
In these circumstances we think the conclusion is
unavoidable that the laws of Minnesota and the -judicial
proceedings in that State, upon which the receiver's title,
authority and right to relief were grounded, and by which
the stockholders were bound, were not accorded that
faith and credit to which they were entitled under the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
The judgments are accordingly reversed, and the cases
are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

