OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

We find no error in the rulings of which the plaintiff in
error complains, and the judgment of the court below is
therefore
Affirmed.

GRAHAM v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 721.

Argued April 17, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

The statute of West Virginia, providing that where a prisoner has
been convicted and sentenced to the penitentiary, the question of
his identity with one previously convicted one or morq times can be
tried on information, and if proved, imposing additional imprisonment in case of one prior conviction for five years, and in case of
two convictions, for life, is not unconstitutional, as to one twice previously convicted and on whom life imprisonment has been imposed,
either as depriving him of his liberty without due process of law,
denying him the equal protection of the law, placing him in second
jeopardy for the same offense, abridging his privileges and immunities as a citizen of the United States, or inflicting cruel and unusual punishment.
The propriety of inflicting severer punishment upon old offenders has
long been recognized in this country and in England-such increased
punishment is not a second punishment for the earlier crime but is
justified by the repetition of criminal conduct.
One who has been convicted before is not denied due process of law by
having the question of identity passed upon separately from the
question of guilt of the second offense.
A State which adopts the policy of heavier punishment for repeated
offending may provide for guarding against second offenders escaping
by reason of their identity not being known at the time of sentence.
Proceeding by information instead of indictment to ascertain the
identity of a convicted criminal with one previously convicted does
not deny due process of law or equal protection of the law; and
this even if other persons accused of crime are proceeded against by
indictment.

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. S.

617

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Fourteenth Amendment did not introduce a factitious equality
without regard to practical differences that are best met by corresponding differences of treatment, Standard Oil Co. v. Tennessee,
217 U. S. 413; and a State may make different arrangements for
trials under different circumstances of even the same class of offenses, if all in the same class arc subject to the same procedure.
Where one has been. charged with having been previously convicted
of another offense, he is not put in double jeopardy by having the
question of his identity determined by a trial, nor are any of his
immunities and privileges as a citizen of the United States abridged.
The imposition of a heavier penalty for repeated offenses does not
amount to inflicting a cruel and unusual punishment.
Questions of validity of a state penal statute under the state constitution are not open in this court.
6& W. Va. 248, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of West Virginia providing for heavier penalties
on persons convicted of crime if previously convicted, and
for determining the identity of persons formerly convicted,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. W. Baker, with whom Mr. Frank J. Hogan,
Mr. EvereU F. Moore and Mr. D. B. Evans were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
Defendant is a person within the jurisdiction of the
State of West Virginia, and is denied by the said State
the equal protection of the laws, because the statute
arbitrarily discriminates among persons in the same class
and condition. Art. III, § 4, Code, c. 152, § 1. It permits
persons of his class to be proceeded against by information while all others have the right to be proceeded against
only by indictment; so that the said statute denies even
one and the same person the equal protection of the laws,
in that if he be out of the penitentiary he is entitled as of
right to the protection of the grand jury and its indictment returned and pending against him, but if he be in
the prison this right is ipso facto taken arbitrarily from
him and is replaced by the right to an information only,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S

presenting and permitting the single issue of identity of
person.
The statute requires the said prosecution against him
to be by information, and the sentence to be to the penitentiary for life, whereas the constitution and laws of said
.State (except only this statute) require all acts or omissions punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary to
be prosecuted and punished "on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury," and not otherwise. Hodgson v.
Vermont, 168 U. S. 272; Bowman v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22,
33; In re Lowrie, 8 Colorado, 499; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
Applying the principles of the last-cited case, the West
Virginia statute now in question denies the defendant the
equal protection, of the laws in the respects and for the
reasons which we have already mentioned; and in that
each section of the statute is so connected and interwoven
with the other sections, the invalidity of any one section
destroys the entire act. Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S.692,
697; State v. Lewin, 53 Kansas, 697; Budd v. State, 22
Tennessee, 483; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S.226; Bell's
Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Gulf,
Colorado & Sante Fe Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S.150, 165;
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283,
293; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Company, 183
U. S.79, 100, 112.
So, in the case at bar, the statute is a positive and direct
discrimination between persons in exactly the same
class--those who have suffered former convictions-based
simply upon the fact that the prisoner is in the penitentiary. In re Landford, 57 Fed. Rep. 570.
That the statute violates the equality clause of the
Federal Constitution, see West Virginia v. Davis, 69 S.E.
Rep. 639, decided by the same court one week prior to this
case.
Thus the laws of West Virginia discriminate, so as to"

GRAEIAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

put plaintiff in error into the penitentiary for life on an
unasworn information, simply because he was in the
prison, and in favor of Davis, so as to keep him out of the
county jail, unless on indictment alleging, and proof showing, a former cQnviction.
Defendant is deprived of his liberty and property by
the State of West Virginia without due process of the law
in that the statute which requires the imprisonment of
the defendant in the penitentiary for life under the sentence imposed on him under an unsworn information operates a deprivation of his liberty without due process of law.
This aspect of the case is not controlled by Hurtado v.
California,110 U. S. 516, but see Stoutenburg v. Frazier, 16
App. D. C. 229, 235, 236; Curry v. Dist. of Col., 14 App.
D. C. 423, 439; Lappin v. Dist. of Col., 22 App. D. C. 68,
77.
The statute conclusively presumes the fact and validity
of the alleged prior convictions and concludes every defense against the defendant except only that of nonidentity of person; he is precluded from the right to present any defense to the alleged 'prior convictions-the
main fact presumed against him; he cannot show a pardon;
nor want of jurisdiction; nor acquittal of the prior charges
of former conviction; nor any other defense whatever.
Mobile, J. & K. C. R, R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35,.43;
Lindsley v. Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81.
, As to what is and is not due process of law, see In re
Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448"; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366, 383.
Defendant's privileges and immunities as a citizen of
the United States are abridged in making and enforcing
the said statute, as he is thereby denied his immunity
from double jeopardy. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; In
re Butler, 138 Michigan, 453; Herndon v. Commonwealth,
105 Kentucky, 197; Oliver v. Commonwealth, 113 Kentucky, 228; Commonwealth v. Phillips, 11 Pick. 28; Satter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

field v. Commonwealth, 105 Virginia, 867; Scott v. Chichester,
107 Virginia, 933.
The case of Davis v. West Virginia, supra, shows that
the statute makes a former conviction an element of the
guilt of the defendant on a second offense being committed. Unless this be so, where is the warrant for the
infliction of the increased punishment? Peoples v. Sickles,
156 N. Y. 541. See also Paetz v. State, 129 Wisconsin, 174,
9 A. & E. Ann. Cas. 767; Davis v. State, 134 Wisconsin,
632; People v. Craig, 195 N. Y. 190, and State v. Gordon,
.35 Montana, 458.
The statute and sentence inflict cruel and unusual
punishment on the defendant. See The McDonald Case,
180.U, S. 311.; The Moore Case, 159 U. S. 673; Weems v.
United States, 217 U.' §. 347, 362; Stoutenburg.v. Frazier,
16 App. D. C. 229; Howard v. North Carolina, 191 U. S.
126, 136; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; McElvaine v.
Brush, 142 U. S. 155.
Mr. William G. Conley, Attorney General of the State
of West Virginia, for defendant in error.
MR., JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
In April, 1898, the plaintiff in error, James H. Graham,
then known as John. H. Ratliff, was indicted for grand
larceny in. Pocahontas County, West Virginia, pleaded
guilty, and was sentenced to the penitentiary for two
years. In April, 1901, under the name of Ratliff, he was
indicted for burglary in Pocahontas County, West Virginia, pleaded guilty and was sentenced to the penitentiary for ten years. In October, 1906, he was granted a
parole by the Governor of West Virginia upon condition
that he should pursue the course of a law abiding citizen.
In September, 1907, under the name of John H. Graham,

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

alias J. H. Gray, he was indicted in Wood County, West
Virginia, for grand larceny, pleaded guilty and was sentenced to the penitentiary for five years.
In February, 1908, the prosecuting attorney for Marshall County, in which the penitentiary was located, presented an information to the circuit court of that county
alleging that the convict Graham was the same man who
had twice before been convicted as above stated Graham
was brought before the court, and pleaded that he was not
the same person. Later he withdrew his plea, moved to
quash the information, and on denial of the motion renewed the plea. A jury was called, and after hearing
evidence for the prosecutor, the defendant offering none,
returned a verdict identifying him as the person previously convicted. Thereupon the defendant moved for
arrest of judgment upon the ground that the proceeding
was in violation of the constitution of the State, and also
contrary to the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the
Constitution of the United States. The motion was overruled and the court sentenced the prisoner to confinement
in the penitentiary for life. The judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia.
State v. Graham, 68 W. Va. 248. And the case comes here
on error.
The proceeding was taken under §§ 1 to 5 of chapter 165
of the Code of West Virginia, which are as follows:
"1. All criminal proceedings against convicts in the
penitentiary shall be in the circuit court of the county
of Marshall.
"2. When a prisoner convicted of an offense, and sentenced to confinement therefor in the penitentiary, is
received therein, if he was before sentenced to a like
punishment, and the record of his conviction does not
show that he has been sentenced under the twenty-third
or twenty-fourth section of chapter one hundred and fiftytwo, the superintendent of the penitentiary shall give

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

information thereof, without delay, to the said circuit
court of the county of Marshall, whether it be alleged
or not in the indictment on which he was so convicted,
that he had been before sentenced to a like punishment.
"3. The said court shall cause the convict to be brought
before it, and upon an information filed, setting forth
the several records of conviction, and alleging the identity
of the prisoner with the person named in each, shall
require the convict named to say whether he is the same
person or not.
"4. If he say he is not, or remain silent, his plea, or the
fact of his silence, shall be entered of record, and a jury
shall be empaneled to inquire whether the convict is the
same person mentioned in the several records.
"5. If the jury find that he is not the Same person,
he shall be remanded to the penitentiary; but if they find
that he is the same person, or if he acknowledge in open
court, after being duly cautioned, that he is the same
person, the court shall sentence him to such further confinement as is prescribed by chapter one hundred and
fifty-two, on a second or third conviction, as the case
may be.".
The provisions of § 23 and 24 of chapter 152, to which
the above statute refers, are:
"23. When any person is convicted of an offence and
sentenced to confinement therefor in the penitentiary, and
it is alleged in the indictment on which he is convicted,
and admitted, or by the jury found, that he had been
before sentenced in the United States to a like punishment, he shall be sentenced to be confined five years in
addition to the time to which he is or would be otherwise
sentenced.
"24. When any such convict shall have been twice
before sentenced in the United States to confinement in
a penitentiary, he shall be sentenced to be confined in
the penit.ntiary for life."

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA. ,
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

These statutes were derived from the laws which were
in force in Virginia before West Virginia was created and
formed part of the Code of Virginia of 1860, c. 199, which
in turn had been taken from the Code of 1849, c. 199.
The plaintiff in error challenges the validity of the
legislation and the proceedings which it authorized,
upon the grounds (1) that he has been deprived of his
liberty without due process of law; (2) that he has been
denied the equal protection of the laws; (3) that his
privileges and immunities as a citizen of the United States
have been abridged, and that he has been denied his
immunity from double jeopardy; and (4) that cruel and
unusual punishment has been inflicted.
1. The propriety of inflicting severer punishment upon
old offenders has long been recognized in this country and
in England. They are not punished the second time for
the earlier offense, but the repetition of criminal conduct
aggravates their guilt and justifies heavier penalties when
they are again convicted. Statutes providing for such
increased punishment were enacted in Virginia and New
York as early as 1796, and in Massachusetts in 1804;
and there have been numerous acts of similar import in
many States. This legislation has uniformly been sustained in the state courts (Ross's Case, 2 -Pick. 165, 170;
Plumbly v. Commonwealth, 2 Met. 413, 415; Commonwealth
v. Richardson, 175 Massachusetts, 202, ,205; Rand v.
Commonwealth, 9 Gratt. 738, 740, 741; King v. Lynn, 90
Virginia, 345, 347; People v. Stanley, 47 California, 113;
People v. Coleman, 145 California, 609; ingalls v. State,
48 Wisconsin, 647; McGuire v..State, 47 Maryland, 485;
State v. Austin, 113 Missouri, 538), and it has been held by
this court not to be repugnant to the Federl Constitution.
Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S. 673; McDonald v. Massachusetts, 180 U. S.311.
In the McDonald Case, the statute (Mass. St. 1887,
c. 435, § 1) provided that whenever one had been twice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

convicted of crime and committed to prison in Massachusetts, or in any other-State, he should, upon conviction of
a subsequent felony be deemed to be an "habitual criminal" and should.be punished by imprisonment for twentyfive years. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Gray said (p. 312):
"The fundamental mistake of the plaintiff in error
is his assumption that the judgment below imposes an
additional punishment on crimes for which he had already
been convicted and punished in Massachusetts and in
NewHampshire.
"But it does no such thing. ....
The punishment
is for the new crime only, but is the heavier if he is an
The allegation of previous
.
habitual criminal.
convictions is not a distinct charge of crimes, but is
necessary to bring the case within the statute, and goes
to the punishment only."
In the present case, it was not charged in the indictment
on which the prisoner was last: tried that he had previously
been, convicted of other offenses, but after judgment he
was brought before the court of another county, in a
separate proceeding instituted' by information, and on the
finding of the jury that he was the former convict he was
sentenced to the additional punishment which the statute
in such case prescribed.
By -this proceeding he was not held to answer for an
offense; the information did not allege crime. As was
said by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia:
"It (the information) alleges that he has been held to
answer for crime and that he stands convicted of it
through the indictment of the grand jury. It points him
out as a convict already held, upon whom rests the
general sentence of the law of life imprisonment. . .
The proceedings under the statute are for identification
only. They are clearly not for the establishment of guilt.
The question of guilt is not reopened," State v. Graham,

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

68 W. Va. 248, 251. Full opportunity was accorded to
the prisoner to meet the allegation of former conviction.
Plainly, the statute contemplated a valid conviction which.
had not been set aside or the consequences of which had
not been removed by absolute pardon. No question as
to this can be raised here, for the prisoner in no way
sought to contest the validity or unimpaired character
of the former judgments, but pleaded that he was not the
person who had thus been convicted. On this issue he
had due hearing before a jury.
It cannot be said that the prisoner was deprived of due
process of law because the question as to former conviction
was passed upon separately. While it is familiar practice'
to set forth in the indictment the fact of prior conviction
of another offense, and to submit to the jury the evidence
upon that issue together with that relating to the commission of the crime which the indictment charges, still
in its nature it is a distinct issue, and it may appropriately
be the subject of separate determination. Provision for
a separate, and subsequent, determination of his identity with the former convict has not been regarded as a
deprivation of any fundamental right. It was established
by statute in England that, although the fact was alleged
in the indictment, the evidence of the former conviction
should not be given to the jury until they had found their
verdict on the charge of crime. The act of 6 and 7 Will.
IV, c. 111, provided that it should "not be lawful on the
trial of any person for any such subsequent felony to charge
the jury to inquire concerning such previous conviction
until after they shall have inquired concerning such
subsequent felony, and shall have found such person
guilty of the same; and whenever in any indictment such
previous conviction shall be stated, the reading of such
statement to the jury as part of: the indictment shall
be deferred until after such finding as aforesaid." Exception was made in cases where the accused -gave evidence
voL. ccxxrv--40

OCTOBER TERM,. 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

of good character to meet the charge of crime, whereupon
the prosecutor might show the former conviction before
the verdict of guilty had been returned. And in Regina
v. Shutteworth, 3 C. & K. 375, 376, Lord Campbell thus
stated the practice under the statute: "It is the opinion
of all the judges-The prisoner is to be arraigned on the
whole indictment, and the jury are to have the new
charge only stated to them; and if no evidence is given
as to character, nothing is to be read to the jury of the
previous conviction till the jury have given a verdict
as to the new charge. The jury, without being resworn,
are then to have the previous convictions stated to them;
and the certificate of it is to be put in, and the prisoner's
identity proved." See 24 & 25 Vict., c. 96, § 116.
If a State adopts the policy of imposing heavier punishment for repeated offending, there is manifest propriety
in guarding against the escape from this penalty of those
whose previous conviction was not suitably made known
to the court at the time of theb trial Otherwise, criminals
who change their place of operation and successfuilly
conceal their identity would be punished simply as first
offenders, although on entering prison they would immediately be recognized as former convicts. It is to
prevent such a frustration of its policy that provision is
made for alternative methods; either by alleging the fact
of prior conviction in the indictment and showing it upon
the trial, or by a subsequent proceeding in which the
identity of the prisoner may be ascertained and he may
be sentenced to the full punishment fixed by law. Plumbly
v. Commonwealth, 2 Met. 413, 415, per Shaw, C. J. In
the latter proceeding, as well as in the former, the fundamental rights of the defendant with respect to the ascertainment of his liability to the increased penalty may be
fully protected.
Nor is there any reason why such a proceeding should
not be prosecuted upon an information presented by a

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

competent public officer on his oath of office. There is no
occasion for an indictment. To repeat, the inquiry is not
into the commission of an offense; as to this, indictment
has already been found and the accused convicted. There
remains simply the question as to the fact of previous
conviction. And it cannot be contended, that in proceeding by information instead of by indictment there is any
violation of the requirement of due process of law. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Brown v. New Jersey,
175 U. S. 172, 175; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581, 584.
The prinfciples governing a proceeding of this sort, to
inquire into the fact of prior conviction, were stated in
Ross's Case (1824), 2 Pick. 165, 169-171. The legislature
of Massachusetts (St. 1817, c. 176, approved February 23, 1818) had provided for increased punishment
upon second and third convictions. Reciting that the
previous conviction might not be known to the grand
jury or to the attorney for the commonwealth at the time
of the indictment and trial, the statute contained the
following provision closely resembling the one now under
consideration:
"That whenever it shall appear to the Warden of the
State Prison, . . . that any convict, received into
the same, pursuant to the sentence of any Court, shall
have before been sentenced, by competent authority of
this or any other state, to confinement to hard labor for
term of life or years, it shall be the duty of the said
Warden,
to make representation thereof, as
soon as may be, to the Attorney or Solicitor General; and
they or either of them shall, by information, or other legal
process, cause the same to be made known to the Justices
of the Supreme Judicial Court, . . . and the said
Justices shall cause the person or persons, so informed
against, to be brought before them, in order, that if he
deny the fact of a former conviction, it may be tried according to law, whether the charge contained in such

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

information be true. And if it appear by the confession
of the party, by verdict of the jury, or otherwise, according to law, that said information is true, the Court shall
forthwith proceed to award against such. convict, the
residue of the punishment provided in the foregoing
section; otherwise the said convict shall be remanded to
prison, there to be held on his former sentence." (Laws
of Mass., 1815-1818, pp. 602, 603.) Ross, then undergoing sentence for five years was brought before the court
pursuant to such an information, and his term of imprisonment was increased. In sustaining this sentence,
the court, by Parker, C. J., said (p. 171):
"In regard to the objection made to the process, this is
not an information of an offence for which a trial is to be
had, but of a fact, namely, that the prisoner has already
been convicted of an offence; and this fact must appear,
either by his own confession, or by verdict of a jury, or
otherwise according to law, before he can be sentenced
to the additional punishment. Is he to be sentenced for
an offence distinct from the one for which he has been
tried upon an indictment? We apprehend not; but the
only question is, whether he is such a person as ought to
have been sentenced, on his last conviction, to additional
punishment, if the fact of a former conviction had been
known to the court. There was no need of a presentment by a grand jury, for no offence was to be inquired
into. That had been already done. An indictment is
confined to the question whether an offence has been
committed. Here the question was simply whether the
party had been convicted of an offence.
"It is said, that at common law both offences should be
stated in the same count. The question upon this is,
whether the legislature had not a right to prescribe a
different mode; and we think they had."
In the case at bar, the record is silent upon the question whether the fact of the former convictions was known

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.'

at the time of the last indictment and trial. This, however, cannot be regarded as important from-the constitutional. standpoint. The indictment did not allege the
prior convictiqns; the issue was not involved in the trial
of the indictment-and the court could not have considered
these convictions in imposing sentence. State v. Davis,
68 W. Va. 142, 150, 151. They were not considered
until the subsequent proceeding was had. Doubtless,
as has been said, the object in providing the alternative
proceeding is to make sure that old offenders should not
be immund from the increased punishment because their
former conviction was not known when they-were last
tried. But this does not define the limit of state power.
Although the State may properly provide for the allegation of the former conviction in the indictment, for a finding by the jury on this point in connection with its verdict
as to guilt and thereupon for the imposition of the full
sentence. prescribed, there is no constitutional mandate
which requires the State to adopt this course even where
the former conviction is known. It may be convenient
practice, but it is not obligatory. This conclusion necessarily follows from the distinct nature of the issue and
from the fact, so frequently stated, that it does not relate
to the commission of the offense, but goes to the punishment only, and therefore it may be subsequently decided.
2. It is insisted that the plaintiff in error was denied the
equal protection of the laws, in that the statute arbitrarily
discriminates against the former convict-in a case like
the present one-by requiring an information, instead of
indictment, for the sole reason that he has been received
into the penitentiary; so that, as the plaintiff in errorputs
it, "if he be out of the penitentiary, the defendant must
be prosecuted by indictment in order to inflict the increased penalty, but if he be in the penitentiary, he is
denied the right to indictment and must be prosecuted by
information.".

OCTOBER. TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

The argument is without merit. The statute in question applies to- all those "convicted of an offense, and
sentenced to confinement therefor in the penitentiary,"
who previously have been sentenced to a l4ke punishment.
The tact of such sentence, indicating the gravity of the
offense, affords a reasonable basis for classification. Those
who have been so sentenced once before, and those who
have been so sentenced twice before, are subjected, respectively, to the same measure of increased punishment.
In all cases, before the increased punishment can be inflicted,- there must be conviction on the new charge; the
former conviction must be shown, and there must be a
finding by a jury, if the fact is contested, of the identity
of the defendant with the former convict. The distinc,ion, upon which the contention is based, has regard
simply to the difference in procedure between the case
where the fact of former conviction is alleged in the indictment, and determined by the jury on the trial of the
charge of crime, and the case where it is charged in the
information and determined by a jury in a proceeding
thereby instituted. This, in view of the 'nature of the
issue to be determined, cannot be said to give rise to a
substantial difference in right or to any inequality within
the meaning of the constitutional provision.
The Fourteenth Amendment is not to be construed
"as introducing a factitious equality without regard to
practical differences that are best met by corresponding
differences of treatment." Standard Oil Company v.
Tennessee, 217 U. S. 413, 420. A State may make different arrangements for trials under different circumstances
of even the same class of offenses (Brown v. New Jersey,
175 U. S. 172, 177; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31;
Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71; Lang v. New Jersey,
209,U. S. 467); and certainly it may suitably adapt to the
exigency the method of determining whether a person
found guilty of crime has previously been convicted of

GRAHAM v. WEST VIRGINIA.
224 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

other offenses. All who were in like case with the plaintiff in error were subject to the same procedure. He belonged to a class of persons convicted and sentenced to
the penitentiary whose identity as former convicts had
not been determined at the time of their trial. As to these,
it was competent for the State to provide appropriate
means for determining such identity.
3. What has been said, and the authorities which have
been cited, sufficiently show that there is no basis for the
contention that the plaintiff in error has beenput in double
jeopardy or that any of his privileges or immunities as a
citizen of the United States have been abridged. Nor can
it be maintained that cruel and unusual punishment has
been inflicted. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; Moore v.
Missouri, supra; McDonald v. Massachusetts, supra;
Howard v. North Carolina, 191 U. S. 126; Coffey v. Harlan
County, 204 U. S. 659; Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S. 86, 111.
The questions raised under the constitution of the State
are not open here, and in no aspect of the case does it
appear that any right of the plaintiff in error under the
Constitution of the United States has been infringed.
Judgment affirmed.

