OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

What has been said sufficiently demonstrates that no
effect Whatever was given to the act of 1902 and therefore
that the case presents no' question under the contract
clause of the Constitution; and, as there is no suggestion
of the presence of any other Federal question, the writ of
error is
Dismissed.

GRITTS v. FISHER, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, AND MACVEAGH, SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT 6F APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No.. 896.

Argued January 10, 11, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

Children born to enrolled members of the Cherokee tribe after September 1, 1902, and living on March 4, 1906, are entitled to enrollment
as members of the tribe and to participation in the allotment and
distribution of its lands and funds made under the act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat: 725, c. 1375, and subsequent acts relating to such
allotment and distribution.
Section 2 of'the act of April 26, 1906, as amended June 21, 1906, for
the enrollment of minor children living March 4, 1906, is not to be
construed as excluding those born after September 1, 1902.
Under the act of July 1, 1902, individual members of the Cherokee
tribe did not individually acquire any vested rights in the surplus
lands and funds of the tribe that disabled Congress from thereafter
making provision for admitting newly-born members of the tribe
to the allotment and distribution, as it did by the act of April 26,
1906.'
The'act of July 1, 1902, limiting the allottees and distributees of
Cherokee lands and funds, was not a contract but only an act of
Congress and can have no greater effect; it was but an exertion
of the governmental administrative control.over tribal property of
tribal Indians, and subject to change by Congress at any time before it was carried into effect and while tribal relations continued.
37 App. D. C. 473, affirmed.

GRITTS v. FISHER.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the construction and validity
of the statutes relating to allotment and distribution of
Cherokee lands and funds and the right of children born
after September 1, 1902, to participate therein, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. John J. Hemphill and Mr. W. H. Robeson, with
whom Mr. C. C. Calhoun and Mr. Daniel B. Henderson
were on the brief, for appellants.
The Solicitor General for appellees.
Mr. William W. Hastings, as amicus curio, filed a brief
for the Cherokee Nation.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
The question presented for decision in this case is,
whether children born to enrolled members of the Cherokee,
tribe of Indians after September 1, 1902, and living on
March 4, 1906, are entitled to enrollment as members of
the tribe and to participation in the allotment and distribution of its lands and funds now being made under the
legislation of Congress. The Secretary of the Interior and
the Secretary of the Treasury, who are respectively charged
with important duties in that connection, have taken the
position, and are proceeding upon the theory, that under
the acts of April 26, 1906, and June 21, 1906, infra, the
right of the controversy is with the children; and the purpose of this suit is to test the accuracy of that position,
and, if it be held untenable, to enjoin those officers from
giving effect to it. The suit was begun in the -Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in 1911, and the plaintiffs are three Indian members of the tribe, duly enrolled
as such as of September 1, 1902, under the act of July 1,
VOL. ccXxiv-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

1902, infra, who sue on behalf of themselves and all others
similarly situated. A demurrer to the bill was sustained
and a decree of dismissal entered, which was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. 37 App. D. C. 473; 39 Wash. Law
Rep. 754. An appeal brought the case here.
During the last twenty years Congress has enacted a
series of laws looking to the allotment and :distribution of
the lands and funds of the Five Civilized Tribes, of which
'the Cherokee tribeis one, among their respective members,
and to the dissolution of the tribal governments.. An extended statement of these laws, so fax as they concern the
Cherokees, as also of the title by which their lands and
funds have been held and of the relations of the tribe
and its members tb the United States, will be found in
Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Cherokee
Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294; Cherokee Intermarriage Cases, 203 U. S. 76; Lowe v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 95,
and Heckman v. United States, ante, p. 413.
Anterior to this legislation the lands and funds belonged
to the tribe as a community, and not to the members
severally or as tenants in common. The right of each individual to participate in the enjoyment of such property
depended -upon tribal membership, and when that was
terminated by death or otherwise the right was at an end.
It was not alienable or descendible. And when children
were born into the tribe they became thereby members
and entitled to all the rights incident to that relation.
Under treaties with the United States the tribe maintained
a government of its own, with legislative and other powers,
but this was a temporary expedient and in time proved
inefficient and unsatisfactory. As in the instance of other
tribal Indians, the members of this tribe were wards of the
United States, which was fully empowered, whenever it
seemed wise to do so, to assume full control over them
and their affairs, to determine who were such members,
to allot and distribute the tribal lands and funds among

GRITTS v. FISHER.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

them, and to terminate the .tribal government. This Congress undertook to do. The undertaking was a large one
and difficulties were encountered. The first legislation
was largely preliminary and experimental and need not
be specially noticed, because no material change in the
situation resulted therefrom.
The act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 725, c. 1375, which related only to the Cherokees and is spoken of as the Cherokee Agreement, was quite comprehensive'and is the,one
upon which the plaintiffs here rely. It made provision for
ascertaining who were members and permanently enrolling them (§§ 25-30), for reserving certain of the tribal
lands for public purposes (§ 24), for appraising the other
lands (§§ 9, 10), and for allotting in severalty to each enrolled member land equal in value to 110 acres of the
average allottable lands (§ 11). It declared that the enrollment should be made "as of September 1, 1902," and
should inchde "all persons then living" and entitled to
enrollment (§ 25); that ".no child born thereafter" should
be entitled to enrollment or "to participate in the distribution of the tribal property" (§ 26); that during the
months of September and October, 1902, applications
could be received for the enrollment of infant children
born to recognized and enrolled members on or before
September 1 of that year, but that the application of no
person whomsoever for enrollment should be received
after October 31, 1902 (§ 30); that no person not enrolled
should be entitled to "participate in the distribution of
the common property" of the tribe, and those who were
enrolled should "participate in the manner set forth" in
the act (§ 31); that the enrollment should be made in
partial lists, which, when approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, were to constitute parts of the final roll
"upon which allotment of. land and distribution of other
tribal property" should be made, and that when lists
embracing all persons lawfully entitled to enrollment were

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

made and approved the roll should "be deemed complete"
(Q28). There were proiisions, that "no allotmenit of
land or other tribal property" should be made on behalf
of any enrolled person dying prior to September 1,. 1902,
but that his right in the lands or other tribal property
should be deemed extinguished (§ 31), and that if any
enrolled person should die after September 1, 1902, and
before receiving his allotment, the lands to which he would
have been entitled if living should be allotted, in his name
and should, "with his proportionate share of other tribal
property," descend to his heirs (§ 20). The act declared
that the tribal government should not continue longer
than March 4, 1906 (§ 63), directed the payment in full,
out of the tribal funds, of the lawful indebtedness of the
tribe incurred up to the time of its dissolution, and authorized a pro rata distribution, among the enrolled members, of the tribal funds remaining after the dissolution of
the tribal government and the payment of its indebtedness (§§ 66, 67). But it made no specific provision for the
distribution or disposal of tribal lands remaining after the
prescribed reservations and allotments were made.
But the tribal government Was not dissolved on March 4,
1906. By joint resolution of March 2, 1906, Congress
provided that the tribal existence and the tribal government should continue until all property of the tribe, or
the proceeds thereof, should be distributed among .the individual members (34 Stat. 822); and by the act of
April 26, 1906, they were further continued until other'wise
provided by law (34 Stat. 137, 148, c. 1876). On those
dates the work contemplated by the act of July 1, 1902,
had not been completed. Some of the applications for
enrollment, received within the time prescribed in the
act, had not been acted upon; some of the enrolled members had not selected their allotments, and litigation was
pending which involved the rights of, some who had been
enrolled and of others whose applications were awaiting

GRITTS v. FISHER.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action. In addition to this, some who otherwise were
entitled to enrollment had filed applications therefor after
the time prescribed, and the tribal council of the Cherokees had requested that children born after September 1,
1902, and before March 4, 1906, who but for the limitation
in the act of July 1, 1902, would be entitled to participate
in the allotment and distribution of the tribal lands and
moneys equally with members born prior thereto, be admitted to such participation, if possible, and if that could
not be done, that each child born between those dates be
given a sum of money sufficient to place him, as far as
possible, on an equal footing with the others.
The act of April 26, 1906, unlike that of July 1, 1902,
was not limited to the Cherokees, but it did in express
terms include them. By its twenty-eighth section it
continued the tribal existence and the tribal government,
as just indicated; by its first section it authorized the enrollment of a class of persons whose applications therefor
were made prior to December 1, 1905, and were not allowed solely because not made in time; and by its second section, as amended June 21, 1906, 34 Stat. 325, 341,
c. 3504, it provided as follows:
"That for ninety days after approval hereof applications shall be received for enrollment of children who
were minors living March fourth, nineteen hundred and
six, whose parents have been enrolled as members of the
Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee, or Creek tribes, or have
applications for enrollment pending at the approval
hereof, and for the purpose of enrollment under this section illegitimate children shall take the status of the
mother, and allotments shall be made to children so enrolled. If any citizen of the Cherokee tribe shall fail to
receive the full quantity of land to which he is entitled
as an allotment, he shall be paid out of any of the funds
of such tribe a sum equal to twice the appraised value of
the amount of land thus deficient.

.

. .

Provided,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

That the rolls of the tribes affected by this Act shall be
fully completed on or before the fourth, day of March,
nineteen hundred and seven, and the Secretary of the
Interior shall have no jurisdiction to approve the enrollment of any person after said date: Provided, That no thing
herein shall be construed so as to hereafter permit any
person to file an application for enrollment or to be entitled to enrollment in any of said tribes, except for
minors the children of Indians by blood, or of freedmen
members of said tribes,
as herein otherwise provided..

.

By its sixteenth and seventeenth sections it further provided that after the making of the allotments provided for
in that and other acts, the residue of the lands, not reserved or otherwise disposed of, should be sold -by the
Secretary of the Interior and the proceeds deposited in the
United States Treasury to the credit of the tribe, together
with moneys arising from other sources, and that thereafter, and when all the just charges against the tribal funds
should be deducted therefrom, the remaining funds should
be distributed per capita to the members then living and
to the heirs of deceased members named in the finally
approved rolls.
The controversy here arises out of the provision in § 2
of the act of April 26, 1906, as amended June 21 following,
for the enrollment of "children who were minors living,
March 4, 1906," which the defendants regard as including
children born after September 1, 1902, and living on
March 4, 1906. The appellants contend, first, that it
does not include children born after September 1, 1902,
but only such as were born prior, to that date and for
whom no application for enrollment was made within the
time limited by the act of July 1, 1902, that is, on or before October 31, 1902; and, second, that if it does include
children born after September 1, 1902, it arbitrarily takes
from the appellants and others similarly situated property

GRITTS v. FISHER.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is theirs and gives it to others, and therefore is
violative of due process of law. The last contention rests
upon another, viz., that the act of July 1, 1902, vested in
the members living on September 1, 1902, who were enrolled under that act,, an absolute right to receive all lands
of the tribe not reserved or allotted thereunder and all
funds of the tribe not used in the payment of tribal debts.
We are unable to assent to the first contention. The
provision in question says "children who were minors
living March 4, 1906," and those words as naturally and
aptly embrace children born after as before September 1,
1902. Had it been intended, as is claimed, merely to extend the time for filing applications on behalf of children
living on September 1, 1902, and therefore born on or
before that date, it is reasonable to believe that other
words more appropriate to the occasion would have been
used. Why say "living March 4, 1906," if as to these
children the prior requirement expressed in the words
"living on September 1, 1902," was not to be affected?
Besides, the Cherokee tribal council, as also the Chickasaw
legislature (see H. R. Doc. No. 455, 59th Cong., 1st Sess.),
had asked that provision be made for the enrollment of
children born up to March 4, 1906, and that would shed
some light on the provision were its meaning uncertain.
But it does not seem to have been regarded as uncertain
by those charged with its enforcement, nor by the courts
below. On the contrary, they treated it as plainly including children born after September 1, 1902, and we think
that is the right view of it.
We come then to the second contention. It is, not proposed to disturb the individual allotments made to members living September 1, 1902, and enrolled under the act
of 1902, and therefore we are only concerned with whether
children born after September 1, 1902, and living on
March 4, 1906, should be excluded from the allotment
and distribution. The act of 1902 required that they be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

excluded, and the legislation in 1906, as we have seen,
provides for their inclusion. It is conceded, and properly
so, that the later legislation is valid and controlling unless
it impairs or destroys rights which the act of 1902 vested
in members living September 1, 1902, and enrolled under
that act. As has been indicated, their individual allotments are not affected. But it is said that the act of 1902
contemplated that they alone should receive allotments
and be the participants in the distribution of the remaining
lands, and also of the funds, of the tribe. No doubt such
was the purport of the act. But that, in our opinion, did
not confer upon them any vested right such as would
disable Congress from thereafter making provision for
admitting newly born members of the tribe to the allotment and distribution. The difficulty with the appellants' contention is that it treats the act of 1902 as a contract, when "it is only an act of Congress and can have
no greater effect." Cherokee Intermarriage Cases, 203
U. S. 76, 93. It was but an exertion of the administrative
control of the Government over the tribal property of
tribal Indians, and was subject to change by Congress at
any time before it was carried into effect and while the
tribal relations continued. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation,
174 U. S. 445, 488; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S.
294; Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415, 423. It is not to be
overlooked that those for whose benefit the change was
made in 1906 were not strangers to the tribe, but were
children born into it while it was still in existence and while
there was still tribal property whereby they could be put
on an equal, or approximately equal, plane with other
members. The council of the tribe asked that this be
done, and we entertain no doubt that Congress in acceding to the request was well within its power.
Decree affirmed.

