OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

doing a state and local business. This appears by the bill
and the finding of the Circuit Court, not disturbed above,
as to what actually was done. We are of opinion that
the city's interpretation was correct.
The result is that the appellee must be taken to have
a grant of the right to keep its main through lines in the
streets of Pomona, but not to maintain the posts and wires
by which it connects with subscribers. So far as appears
the city attacks only the latter, and therefore no present
ground is shown for the bill. But as the line of distinction may be delicate and questions may arise the bill will
be dismissed without prejudice.
Decree reversed.
Bill to be dismissed without prejudice.

TITLE

GUARANTY & SURETY COMPANY
NICHOLS.

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 102.

Argued December 13, 1911.-Decided April 8, 1912.

While liability under a surety bond for honesty of an employd would
be defeated if the loss was due to neglect of the employer to take
the precautions required by the bond, the condition is subsequent
and not precedent, and there is no occasion for an averment in respect
thereto; it is a matter of defense that must come from the other
side, upon whofn the onus rests.
Where the evidence, as in this case, shows that examinations were
made, it is for the jury to determine whether reasonable diligence
had been used in making them.
The certificate of correctness of employ6's accounts on obtaining renewals of surety bond for his honesty held in this case not to be a

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY CO. v. NICHOLS. 347
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

warranty but a certificate that his books had been examined and
found correct.
The mere fact that the examination, if made by a reasonably cometent person, failed to discover discrepancies covered by false entries
and bookkeeping devices would not defeat renewals of the policy.
On appeals from the courts of the Territories, questions of weight and
credibility of evidence are not for the consideration of this court.
12 Arizona, 405, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of a surety company on a fidelity bond given to protect a bank against
dishonesty of its cashier, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Philip Walker, with whom Mr. C. F. Ainsworth
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Through the failure of the plaintiff below to establish
a condition precedent to his right to recover on the bond,
that is, the monthly examination of the employ6's accounts, he did not establish any liability against the
plaintiff in error on the cause of action set out in the
complaint.
The burden remained on the plaintiff below -to establish that his assignor had performed its part of the contract, including that relating to monthly accounts and
audits, and this he did not attempt to do. InsuranceCo. v.
Ewing, 92 U..S. 377, distinguished.
The renewal statement was in law a warranty, and if
it were false, whether with or without knowledge, the
bond was void as to subsequent defalcations. American
Bonding Co. v. Burke, 36 Colorado, 49, 58; Livingston v.
Fidelity & Deposit Co., 76 Oh. St. 253; Winkler Brokerage Co. v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 119 Louisiana, 735;
Guar. Co. of N. A. v. First Nat. Bank of Lynchburg,
95 Virginia, 480;. Glidden v. Fidelity & Guar. Co., 198
Massachusetts, 109; Willoughby v. Fid. & Dep. Co., 16
Oklahoma, 546, affirmed, 205 U. S. 537; Frost on Guaranty, 241 et seq.; Walker on Fidelity Bonds, 49 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S.

Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. C. A. Severance,
Mr. Robert E. Olds, Mr. Thomas Armstrong, Jr., and
Mr. Ernest W. Lewis were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
The defense of noncompliance on the part of the bank
with the terms and conditions of the contract has not
been established.
The contract must be construed,- if possible, in favor
of the insured, rather than in favor of the insurer. National Bank v. Insurance Co., 95 U. S. 673; Thompson v.
Phoenix Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 287, 297; Imperial Fire Ins.
Co. v. Coos County, 151 U. S. 452, 462; Moulor v. American
Life Ins. Co., 111 U. S. 342, 343; American Surety Co. v.
Pauly, 170 U. S. 133, 144, 160; Etna Indemnity Co. v.
Crowe, 154 Fed. Rep. 545, 555.
The burden of proving the allegations of the answer
with respect to the falsity of specific declarations rested
with the surety company. Piedmont Life Ins. &c. Co. v.
Ewing, 92 U. S. 377; Redman v. The zEtna Ins. Co., 49
Wisconsin, 431..
The performance of conditions subsequent need not be
alleged and proved by the parties suing upon a contract.
Chambers v. Northwestern Mut. Life Ins. Co., 64 Minnesota, 495; Badenfield v. Mass. Mut. Accident Assn., 13 L.
R. A. (Mass.) 263, and cases cited in note; Jones on
Evidence, ยง 179.
On the subject of the burden of proof, a distinction
has been taken between express warranties contained in
a policy of insurance and declarations made in an application, even where such declarations are stipulated to be
warranties. Am. Credit Indemnity Co. v. Wood, 73 Fed.
Rep. 81.
The bank's duty under the contract was confined to
the observance of good faith and fair dealing; and the
evidence shows that this obligation was fully met. Guar-,
antee Co. v. Mechanics' Saving Bank, 80 Fed. Rep. 766, 774.

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY CO. v. NICHOLS 349
224 U. S.

Opbiion of the Court.

A total failure on the part of an employer to make
examination of accounts, pursuant to an agreement to
do so in the bond or application, will operate to defeat
recovery, as in Hunt v. Fidelity & Casualty Co., 99 Fed.
Rep. 242, and Carstairs v. American Bonding & Trust
Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 620, but these cases can be distinguished from this case, in which the insured did, with
the utmost good faith, make monthly examinations, the
books and records do not on their face, disclose any defalcation; in fact the embezzlements could not have been
detected at all through inspection of any of the data at
hand when the examinations were made.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
Action upon a bond executed by the plaintiff in error
to protect the Union Bank & Trust Company, of Phcenix,
Arizona, against the dishonesty of its cashier. There were
two or more renewals. Embezzlements by the cashier
occurred during the currency of the bond. After a right
of action had accrued, the bond was assigned to the defendant in error, who brought this action thereon.
The principal defense was that the loss was due to the
neglect of the employer to supervise the conduct of the
employ6 by making such monthly examinations of his
accounts as it agreed to make or have made. There was
a jury and verdict for the plaintiff, and a judgment against
the Surety Company, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court.
*A number of errors have been assigned which relate
to this defense, but the argument has turned upon those
which in different ways, raise the question as to whether,
after the defendant in error had made out a prima facie
case by proving the bond and its breach by a refusal to
indemnify him for losses sustained during its currency
through- the dishonesty of the employ6 guaranteed, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

onus devolved upon the Surety Company to plead and
prove that the loss had occurred through the fault of
the employer in not making the monthly examinations
which it had agreed to make. The trial judge ruled that
the onus was upon the defendant, and this ruling has
been affirmed by the Supreme Court.
Whether this ruling was right or wrong must depend
upon whether the requirement of the bond, that monthly
examinations of the books of the employ6 should be made,
constituted a condition precedent or a condition subsequent. The bond on its face requires the employer "to
take and use all reasonable steps and precautions to detect
and prevent any act upon the part of the employ6 which
would tend to render the company liable for any loss."
It also provides that if the statements by the employer in
the application "shall be untrue, the bond shall be void."
The obligation in respect to examinations of the employ6's
accounts is found in the application. The questions
propounded by the Surety Company and the employer's
answers, so far as relevant, were these:
"To whom and how frequently will he account for his
handlings of funds and securities? Monthly; to Board
of Directors.
"What means will you use to ascertain whether his
accounts are correct? Examination of books and count
of money and securities. How frequently will they be
examined? Monthly or oftener. By whom will they
be examined? Our Auditor.
"When were his accounts last examined? February 8th,
1905.
"Were they reported correct? Yes.
"Is there now or has there been any shortage due you
by applicant? No."
There was never any question but that liability under
the bond would be defeated if it appeared that the loss
attributable to the dishonesty of the employ6 was due

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY CO. v. NICHOLS. 351
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the neglect of the bank to make the monthly examinations required. And so the jury were instructed. The
question was whether this requirement was a condition
precedent to liability which the bank was required to aver
and prove or whether it was a defense to be made out by
the defendant. But a construction which makes the bond
inoperative until the employer shows that it had made
such examinations is not a fair and reasonable interpretation. The distinction between conditions precedent and
subsequent is plain enough. The condition here involved,
if properly a condition at all, is of the latter class.
The coming into effect of a contract may. be made to
depend upon the happening or performance of a condition.
But a condition subsequent presupposes a contract in
effect which may be defeated by the happening or performance of a condition. Where, therefore, an action is
upon a contract subject to a condition precedent, the performance of that condition must be averred and proved;
but if the contract sued upon is subject to a condition
subsequent, there is no occasion for any averment in
respect to the condition. It is a matter of defense wich
must come from the other side. Chitty on Pleading, vol. 1,
pp. 246, 255.
The plaintiff was plainly entitled to recover upon proving the bond, an embezzlement and a breach, by a refusal
to indemnify. It was not obliged to aver that it had made
the examinations which it agreed should be made. If it
had failed in that duty, it was for the Surety Company to
so plead and prove. Such, indeed, was the course of the
pleading . in .this case, and a breach of the agreement
to make such examinations was set up as a defense. There
was no error in the ruling of the court that the onus was
upon the Surety Company to prove a breach of the obligation to make examinations. Piedmont & A. L. Ins. Co.
v. Ewing, 92 U. S. 377; American Credit Indem, Co. v.
Wood, 73 Fed. Rep. 81; Redman v. Etna Ins. Co., 49 Wis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

consin, 431; Murray v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 85 N. Y. 236;
Freeman v. Travelers' Ins. Co., 144 Massachusetts, 572.
It has been argued that there was no evidence upon
which the case could go to the jury upon the question of
whether reasonably proper monthly examinations were in
fact made. This insistence has no foundation. The plaintiff in error brought out upon its own cross-examination
of McDowell, the defaulting cashier, that he made
monthly reports and that these reports were gone over
by the officers of the bank regularly, once a month. He
testified that his cash and securities were counted and
examined and his report verified from the book entries
made by the bank's bookkeeper. Indeed, he testified,
"that there never was a set of directors in any bank that
tried to watch things closer than that set of directors."
The cashier's embezzlements of money were covered by
false entries relating to remittances tothe bank's corre-.
spondents, whereby the balances in such banks were made
to appear much larger than they actually, were. The defendant's expert evidence tended to show that if the returned vouchers or the reconciliation reports of such
banks had been compared with the ledger accounts, thp
discrepancy would have appeared. But the cashier was
cunning, and he testified to the difficulties which he threw
in the way of any effort to verify the books in these particulars. He supported his report by his cash and his bills
receivable and a showing of the books kept by another
officer, who made the entries from "slips' made by himself (the cashier), purporting to show cash used to buy
exchange for remittances. These "slips," being* falsified
memoranda, were innocently used by the bookkeeper as
the basis for the ledger entries which misled, the officers
in their examinations. On this evidence the question
as to whether reasonable diligence had been used in making such examinations was one for the jury. - It was so
submitted under a fair charge, and they found for the

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY CO. v. NICHOLS. 353
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff below. Finally, it is said that the greater part
of the loss occurred during the currency of renewal bonds,
and that each such renewal was made upon a certificate
by the employer which stated that just prior thereto the
books and accounts of the employs "were examined and
found correct in every respect and all moneys accounted
for." It is said that this statment was untrue, inasmuch
as at the date of such renewals the books and accounts
were not correct and the cashier was short in his cash.
But the certificate is not to be taken as a warranty of the
correctness of the accounts. The statement is that his
books and accounts had been examined and found correct. The mere fact that the examination, if made by a
reasonably competent person, failed to discover discrepancies covered up by false entries, or other bookkeeping
devices, would riot defeat the renewal. The case upon
this point went to the jury upon the fact of reasonable
examinations and the good faith of the bank in making
the representation. The question of the weight or credibility of the evidence is not one for our consideration.
There was some evidence which the trial judge thought
sufficient to carry the case to the jury. The Supreme
Court of Arizona agreed with the trial court, and with
both courts we concur.
The assignments of error relating to admission of evidence have been examined so far as the state of the record
admits. The court below thought most of them insufficiently saved and none of them so material as to require
a reversal for new trial. In this we concur.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

VOL. ccxxiv-23

