PHILA., BALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT.
224 U.S.

603

Syllabus.

PHILADELPHIA, BALTIMORE AND WASHINGTON RAILROAD COMPANY v. SCHUBERT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 549.

Argued April 29, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

Congress has power to impose the liability on the employer defined
in the Employers' Liability Act of 1908. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
Where Congress possesses the power to impose a liability it also possesses the power to ensure its efficacy by prohibiting any contract,
rule, regulation, or device in evasion of it. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 52.
Congress has power to enforce the regulations, validly prescribed by
the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, by the provisions of § 5 of the
act providing that exemptions from liability shall be void, and that
the acceptance of benefits under a relief contract shall not be a bar
to recovery.
In framing the Employers' Liability Acts of 1906 and 1908 Congress
well understood the practice of maintaining relief departments, and
by the statute of 1908 Congress enlarged the scope of the clause defining contracts for immunity which should not prevail, and included stipulations which made acceptance of benefits from such
relief departments a release from liability.
Congress has power, in regulating interstate commerce and commerce
in the District of Columbia and in the Territories, to legislate unfettered by any existing arrangements or contracts in conflict with
its policy. Prior arrangements are necessarily subject to the paramount authority of Congress. Louisvile & Nashille R. R. Co. v.
Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
The provisions of § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act apply as well
to existing as to future contracts.
36 App. D. C. 565, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 5 of the
Employers' Liability Act of 1908, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Flannery and Mr. William Hitz were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
Section 3 of the Employers' Liability Act of 1906 differs
from the provisions of § 5 of the act of 1908, not only
substantially, but vitally.
The Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S.463, and the
cases of El Paso &c. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87, and McNamara v. Washington Terminal Co., 35 App. D. C. 230,
cited and relied upon by defendant in error, if pertinent
in any aspect to the pending cause, cannot be said to have
foreclosed it, for each of those cases involved provisions of
the law of 1906 only, while the pending cause has concern solely with the act of 1908.
Nor is the case foreclosed by C., B. & Q. R. Co. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S.549, for there the reserved and plenary
power of a State determined the judgment, while here
the applicability in the circumstances of the delegated
and restricted power of the Federal Government is a
disputed matter.
The act of 1908 is not applicable to the relief department contract pleaded in this case.
The act of 1906 is aimed at the contract, and says that
..neither the contract-no matter what its purpose or intent may be or how limited its scope-not any acceptance of benefits thereunder shall be a bar or defense.
But when Congress again had this matter before it the
criticisms of the former statute and the effect of that
statute upon perfectly innocent contracts caused an
awakening and Congress was brought to realize that all
relief department contracts were not objectionable; that
most of them were beneficial to the men, by furnishing to
those engaged in the hazardous business of railroading a
cheap and secure form of life, accident and disability
insurance, which they could not obtain otherwise except
by paying almost prohibitive rates to. the companies en-

PHILA., BALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT. 605
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

gaged in such business. So that § 3 of the act of 1906
was repealed, modified in many essential particulars,
and reenacted as § 5 of the subsequent act of 1908.
In the act of 1908 Congress indicates as plainly as
language can express it an intention to strike down not
all relief department contracts, but only two classes
thereof, namely, those contracts, rules, regulations or
devices the purpose or intent of which is to exempt the
carrier-not merely restrict, limit or modify the carrier's
common-law duties and obligations-and those contracts
of exemption the purpose or intent of which is to enable
the carrier to evade any liability created by that statute.
Contracts of exemption from liability, if the liability
arises otherwise than as a result of this act, do not come
within its prohibition.
For the distinction between contracts of the character
involved in this case and those which have heretofore
come under the ban of the courts, see Johnson v. Philadelphia & Reading R. R. Co., 163 Pa. St. 127; Atlantic Coast
Line v. Dunning, 166 Fed. Rep. 850; Day v. Atlantic Coast
Line Co., 179 Fed. Rep. 20.
It is apparent from the foregoing and many other cases
that might be cited that at the time the contract in this
case was entered into, in October, 1905, and when the
Employers' Liability Act of 1908 was passed, relief department contracts like the one pleaded in this case, by
the uniform trend of decision in the Federal and state
courts of this country, had been held not to be against
public policy, and not to be contracts exempting the employer from responsibility for his negligence.
If it had been the intention of Congress to strike down
all relief department contracts, whether made prior or
subsequent to the passage of the law, is it not reasonable
to suppose that the language employed would have been
"any contract the effect of which, etc.," instead of the
words "purpose or intent," which refer to the meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

in the minds of the parties at the inception of the contract.
Courts uniformly refuse to give to a statute a retrospective operation whereby existing contracts or rights
previously vested are injuriously affected, unless compelled to do so by language so clear and positive as to
leave no room to doubt that such was the intention of the
legislature. Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536;
Twenty Per Cent Cases, 20 Wall.. 179.
The contract in McNamara v. Washington Terminal Co.,
35 App. D. C. 230, was essentially different. That contract was compulsory and not voluntary as in this case.
See Hearings of Committee on the Judiciary on the Employers'. Liability Bill of 1908, pp. 195, 196.
Mr. John A. Kratz, Jr., with Whom Mr. M. J. Fulton
and Mr. Joseph W. Cox were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by Schubert, the defendant in
error, against the Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad Company to recover damages for personal
injuries. He received the injuries on May 13, 1908, while
in its service as a brakeman within the District, and they
were due to the negligence of a fellow-servant.
The company pleaded the general issue and in addition
filed a special plea that Schubert was at the time a member of its "Relief Fund" under a contract of membership
made in 1905, in which it was agreed that the company
should apply as a voluntary contribution from his wages
$2.10 a month for the purpose of securing the benefits
described in certain regulations. These contributions
continued from October 18, 1905, to May 13, 1908, the
date of the accident. Among the regulations, by which
he agrieed to be bound, was the following:

PHILA., BALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT. 607
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"58. Should a member or his legal representative make
claim, or bring suit, against the Company, or against any
other corporation which may be at the time associated
therewith in administration of the 'Relief Departments,
in accordance with the. terms set forth in Regulation.
No. 6, for damages on account of injury or death of such
member, payment of benefits from the Relief Fund on
account of the same, shall not be made, until such claim
shall be withdrawn or suit discontinued. Any compromise of such claim or suit, or judgment in such suit, shall
preclude any claim upon the Relief Fund for benefits on
account of such injury or death, and the acceptance of
benefits from the Relief Fund by a member or his beneficiary or beneficiaries, on account of injury or death,
shall operate as a release and satisfaction of all claims
against the Company and any and all of the corporations
associated therewith in the administration of their Relief
Departments, for damages arising from such injury or
death."
A stipulation that the acceptance of benefits should
constitute a release from all claims for damages was also
incorporated in the application for membership.
The plea further set forth that the relief, fund was
formed by voluntary contributions from the employ~s
of the defendant Company and other companies in association with it for the purpose, appropriations by the
Company whenever necessary to make up any deficit,
the income or profit derived from investments of the
moneys of the fund and such gifts or legacies as might be
made for its use. The companies took general charge of,
the department, guaranteed the fulfillment of its obligations, became responsible for the safekeeping of its funds,
supplied the necessary facilities for conducting the business of the department and paid all its operating expenses.
On December 31, 1908, the total number of employ~s of
the defendant Company was 8458, of which 6909 were

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

members of the "Relief Fund"; during the year 1908 the
Company contributed as the cost of administration the
sum of $21,557.02, and during the period of the plaintiff's
membership its total contribution for this purpose was
$57,610.51. In addition, the Company furnished the
facilities of its mail, express and telegraph departments
free of charge.
It was also alleged that after his injury Schubert (between June, 1908, and August, 1908) had voluntarily
accepted benefits amounting to $79; that he had subsequently presented his claim for damages, in view of which
no further payments were made, and that the acceptance
of the benefits above mentioned was a bar to his action.
The court sustained a demurrer to ,the special plea and
Schubert recovered judgment for $7,500, which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
The questions presented by the assignments of error relate to the validity of the Employers' Liability Act of
April 22, 1908, c. 149 (35 Stat. 65), under which the action
was maintained; and particularly, both to the applicability, and to the validity, if applicable, of § 5 of that act,
upon which the court below based its ruling as to the insufficiency of the special plea.
That Congress did not exceed its power, in imposing
the liability defined by the statute, .has been decided by
this court.. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.
1. Section 5 provides:
"That any contract, rule, regulation, or device whatsoever, the purpose or intent of which shall be to enable
any common carrier to exempt itself from any liability
created by this Act, shall to that extent be void: Provided, That in any action brought against any such common carrier under or by virtue of any of the provisions of
this Act, such common carrier may set off therein any
sum it has contributed or paid to any insurance, relief
benefit, or indemnity that may have been .paid to the

PHILA., BALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT.
224 U. S.

609

Opinion of the Court.

injured employ6 or the person entitled thereto on account
of the injury or death for which said action was brought."
With respect to this section, the court said in the case
cited: "Next in order is the objection that the provision
in § 5, declaring void any contract, rule, regulation or device, the purpose or intent of which is to enable a carrier
to exempt itself from the liability which the act creates,
is repugnant to the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution
as an unwarranted interference with the liberty of contract.' But of this it suffices to say, in view of our recent
decisions in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co.
v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, and Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S.
612, that if Congress possesses the power to impose that
liability, which we here hold that it does, it also possesses
the power to insure its efficacy by prohibiting any contract, rule, regulation or device in evasion of it." Second
Employers' Liability Cases, supra, p. 52.
In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v. McGuire, supra, the court had before it the amendment,
made in 1898 (March 8, 1898, Laws of 1898, c. 49, p. 33),
of § 2071 of the Code of Iowa. This section, in the cases
within its purview, abrogated the fellow-servant rule and
the amendment provided:
"Nor shall any contract of insurance, relief, benefit, or
indemnity in case of injury or death, entered into prior
to the injury, between the person so injured and such
corporation, or any other person or association acting for
such corporation, nor shall the acceptance of any such
insurance relief, benefit, or indemnity by the person
injured, his widow, heirs, or legal representatives after the
injury, from such corporation, person, or association, constitute any bar or defense to any cause of action brought
under the provisions of this section, but nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent or invalidate
VoL. ccxxiv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

any settlement for damages between the parties subsequent to the injuries received."
-It was held that the amendment was valid and hence
that the defense based upon the acceptance of benefits
could not be sustained. The court said, (pp. 564, 572):
"Neither the suggested excellence nor the alleged defects
of a particular scheme may be permitted to determine
the validity of the statute, which is general in its application. . . ; Its provision that contracts of insurance
relief, benefit or indemnity, and the acceptance of such
benefits, should not defeat recovery under the statute,
was incidental to the regulation it was intended to enforce.
Assuming the right of enforcement, the authority to enact
this inhibition cannot be denied. If the legislature had
the power to prohibit contracts limiting the liability imposed, it certainly could include in the prohibition stipulations of that sort in contracts of -insurance relief, benefit
or indemnity, as well as in other agreements..
It does not' aid the argument to describe the defense as
one of accord and satisfaction. The payment of benefits
is the performance of the promise to-pay contained in the
contract of membership. If the legislature may prohibit
the acceptance of the promise as a substitution for the
statutory liability, it should also be able to prevent the
like substitution of its performance."
Upon similar grounds, Congress had the power to' enforce the regulations validly prescribed by the act of 1908
by preventing the acceptance of benefits under such relief
contracts from operating as a bar to the recovery of damages and by avoiding any agreement to that effect. The
question is whether this power has been exerdised; that is,
whether the stipulation of the contract of membership
asserted in defense comes within the interdiction of § 5.
The former act of June 11, 1906, c. 3073 (34 Stat. 232),
-which was valid as to employ6s engaged in commerce
within the District of Columbia (Hyde v. Southern Ry.

PHILA., BALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT. 611
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 31 App. D. C. 466; El Pa-so & N. E. Ry. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87, 97, 98), contained explicit provision
that such a contract or the acceptance of benefits thereunder should not defeat the action. Section 3 of that act
was as follows:
"That no contract of employment, insurance, relief
benefit, or indemnity for injury or death entered into by
or on behalf of any employ6, nor the acceptance of any
such insurance, relief benefit, or indemnity by the person
entitled thereto, shall constitute any bar or defense to
any action brought to recover damages for personal injuries ,to or death of such employ6: Provided, however,
That upon the trial of such action against any common
carrier the defendant may set off therein any sum it has
contributed toward any such insurance, relief benefit, or
indemnity that may have been paid to the injured employ6, or, in case of his death, to his personal representative."
But it is urged that the substituted provision-of § 5
of the act of 1908-failed to embrace that which the
earlier act specifically described. We cannot assent to
this view. The evident purpose of Congress was to enlarge the scope of the section and to make it more comprehensive by a generic, rather than a specific, description. It thus brings within its purview "any contract,
rule, regulation, or device whatsoever, the purpose or
intent of which shall be to. enable any common carrier to
exempt itself from any liability created by this Act."
It includes every variety of agreement or arrangement of
this nature; and stipulations, contained in contracts of
membership in relief departments that the acceptance of
benefits thereunder shall bar recovery, are within its
terms. The statute provides that "every common carrier
by railroad in . . . the District of Columbia .
shall be liable in damages to any person suffering injury
while he is employed by such .carrier .
. resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

in whole or in part from the negligence of any of the
officers, agents, or employ6s of such carrier, or by reason
of any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its
cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed,
works, boats, wharves, or other equipment." That is the
liability which the act defines and which this action is
brought to enforce. It is to defeat that liability for the
damages sustained by Schubert which otherwise the
company would be bound under the statute to pay, that
it relies upon his contract of membership in the relief
fund and upon the regulation which was a part of it.
But for the stipulation in that contract, the company must
pay; and if the stipulation be upheld, the company is
discharged from liability. The conclusion cannot be escaped that such an agreement is one for immunity in the
described event, and as such it falls under the condemnation of the statute.
If there could be doubt upon this point, it would be
resolved by a consideration of the proviso of § 5, which
immediately follows the language condemning contracts,
rules, regulations or devices, the purpose of which is to
exempt the carrier from liability. It is: "Provided, That in
any action brought against any such common carrier under
or by virtue of any of the provisions of this Act, such common carrier may set off therein any sum it has contributed
or paid to any insurance, relief benefit, or indemnity that
may have been paid to the injured employ6 or the person
entitled thereto on account of the injury or death for
which said action was brought." The practice of maintaining relief departments, which had been extensively
adopted, and of including in the contract of membeiship
provision for release from liability to employ6s who accepted benefits, was well known to Congress, as is shown
by § 3 of the act of 1906. On specifically providing in
that section that neither such contracts, nor their performance, should be a bar to recovery, Congress inserted

PHILA., BALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT. 613
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a proviso permitting a set-off of any sum the company
had contributed toward any benefit paid to the employ6. When in the act of 1908 it enlarged the scope of
the clause defining the contracts and arrangements for
indemnity which should not prevail, Congress retained
the proviso in terms substantially the same. This clearly
indicates the intent to include within the statute stipulations which made the acceptance of benefits under contracts of membership in relief departments equivalent to
a release from liability. Unless the liability survived the
acceptance of benefits, there could be no recovery and
hence no occasion for set-off.
It is also insisted that the statute does not cover the
agreement in this case, as it was made before the statute
was enacted. But that the provisions of § 5 were intended to apply as well to existing, as to future, contracts and regulations of the described character cannot
be doubted. The Words, "the purpose or intent of which
shall be to enable any common carrier to exempt itself
from any liability created by this act," do not refer simply
to an actual intent of the parties to circumvent the statute.
The "purpose or intent" of the contracts and regulations,
within the meaning of the section, is to be found in their
necessary operation and effect in defeating the liability
which the statute was designed to enforce. Only by such
general application could the statute accomplish the object which it is plain that Congress had in view.
Nor can the further contention be sustained that, if so
construed, the section is invalid. The power of Congress,
in its regulation of interstate commerce, and of commerce
in the District of Columbia and in the Territories, to impose this liability, was not fettered by the necessity of
maintaining existing arrangements and stipulations which
would conflict with the execution of its policy. To subordinate the exercise of the Federal authority to the continuirfg operation of previous contracts, would be to place,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

to this extent, the regulation of interstate commerce in the
hands of private individuals and to withdraw from the control of Congress so much of the field as they might choose
by prophetic discernment to bring within the range of their
agreements. The Constitution recognizes no such limitation. It is of the essence of the delegated power of regulation that, within its sphere, Congress should be able to
establish uniform rules, immediately obligatory, Wihich as
to future action should transcend all inconsistent provisions. Prior arrangements were necessarily subject to
this paramount authority.
In speaking of the act in question, this court said that
"the natural tendency of the changes described is to impel
the carriers to avoid or prevent the negligent acts and
omissions which are made the bases of the rights'of recovery which the statute creates and defines; and, as whatever
makes for that end tends to. promote the safety of the
employ6s and to advance the commerce in which they are
engaged," there was no doubt that "'in making those
changes Congress acted within the limits of the discretion
confided to it by the Constitution." Second Employers'
Liability Cases, supra, p. 50. If Congress may compel the
use of safety appliances (Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co.,
196 U. S. 1), or fix the hours of service of employ6s (B. &
0. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 2?1 U. S.
612), its declared will, within its domain, is not. to be
thwarted by any previous stipulation to dispense with
the one or to extend the other. And so, when it decides
to protect the safety of employ6s by establishing rules of
liability of carriers for injuries sustained in the course of
their service, it may make the rules uniformly effective.
These principles, and the authorities which sustain them,
have been so lately reviewed by this court that extended
discussion is unnecessary. Louisville & Nashville Railroad
'Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
In that case it appeared that in 1871, in settlement of a

PHILA., 3ALT. & WASH. R. R. v. SCHUBERT. 615
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claim for damages for personal injuries, the plaintiffs had
entered into an agreement with the railroad company by
which the latter promised that during their lives they
should have free passes upon the railroad and its branches.
It was held that the company rightfully refused, after the
passage of the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591,
further to comply with the agreement, and that a decree
requiring the continued performance of its ,provisions was
erroneous. The ground for this conclusion was thus
stated (pp. 482-486): "The agreement between the railroad company and the Mottleys must necessarily be regarded as having been made subject to the possibility
that, at some future time, Congress might so exert its
whole constitutional power in regulating interstate commerce as to render that agreement unenforceable or to
impair its value. That the exercise of such power may be
hampered or restricted to any extent by contracts previously made between individuals or corporations, is inconceivable. The framers of the Constitution never intended any such state of things to exist. . . . After
the commerce act came into effect. no contract that was
inconsistent with the regulations established by the act
of Congress could be enforced in any court. The rule
upon this subject is thoroughly established. . . . If
that principle be not sound, the result would be that individuals and corporations could, by contracts between
themselves, in anticipation of legislation, render of no
avail the exercise by Congress, to the full
extent authorized by the Constitution, of its power to regulate commerce. No power of Congress can be thus restricted. The
mischiefs that would result from a different interpretation of the Constitution will be readily perceived." See
also Addyston Pipe & Steel Company v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, 228; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56; Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

We find no error in the rulings of which the plaintiff in
error complains, and the judgment of the court below is
therefore
Affirmed.

GRAHAM v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 721.

Argued April 17, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

The statute of West Virginia, providing that where a prisoner has
been convicted and sentenced to the penitentiary, the question of
his identity with one previously convicted one or morq times can be
tried on information, and if proved, imposing additional imprisonment in case of one prior conviction for five years, and in case of
two convictions, for life, is not unconstitutional, as to one twice previously convicted and on whom life imprisonment has been imposed,
either as depriving him of his liberty without due process of law,
denying him the equal protection of the law, placing him in second
jeopardy for the same offense, abridging his privileges and immunities as a citizen of the United States, or inflicting cruel and unusual punishment.
The propriety of inflicting severer punishment upon old offenders has
long been recognized in this country and in England-such increased
punishment is not a second punishment for the earlier crime but is
justified by the repetition of criminal conduct.
One who has been convicted before is not denied due process of law by
having the question of identity passed upon separately from the
question of guilt of the second offense.
A State which adopts the policy of heavier punishment for repeated
offending may provide for guarding against second offenders escaping
by reason of their identity not being known at the time of sentence.
Proceeding by information instead of indictment to ascertain the
identity of a convicted criminal with one previously convicted does
not deny due process of law or equal protection of the law; and
this even if other persons accused of crime are proceeded against by
indictment.

