SAN JUAN LIGHT CO. v. REQUENA.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

clearly fellow-servants as the section hand and engineer
in Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Bourman, 212 U. S. 536.
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349. It
may be that in the state court the question would be
left to the jury, Gathman v. Chicago, 236 Illinois, 9; Indiana, Illinois & Iowa R. R. Co. v. Otstot, 212 Illinois, 429,
but whether certain facts do or do not constitute a ground
of liability is in its nature a question of law. To leave
it uncertain is to leave the law uncertain. If the law is
bad the legislature, not juries, must make a change. We
answer the certificate, Yes.

SAN JUAN LIGHT & TRANSIT CO. v. REQUENA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
'FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 96.

Argued December 13, 1911.-Decided March 18, 1912.

Denial by the trial court of a motion to strike from the complaint allegations as to exemplary damages does not harm defendant if the
court instructs the jury that only compensatory, and not exemplary,
damages can be recovered.
Where the parties, with the assent of the court, unite in trying a case on
the theory that a particular matter is within the issues, that theory
cannot be rejected when the case is in the appellate court for review.
The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur is that when a thing which causes
injury, without fault of the person injured, is shown to be under
the exclusive control of defendant, and would not cause the damage
in ordinary course if the party in control used proper care, it affords
reasonable evidence, in absence of an explanation, that the injury
arose from defendant's want of care.
The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur was rightly applied against defendant
electric light company in the case of a person injured while adjusting
an electric light in his residence by an electric shock transmitted

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

from the outside wires of the defendant company entirely without
fault on his part and in manner which could not have happened had
such outside wires been in proper condition.
Although an instruction may be subject to criticism standing alone,
it may be unobjectionable if read in the light of what preceded and
what followed it.
4 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 356, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugo Kohlmann, with whom Mr. F. Kingsbury
Curtis, Mr. H. H. Scoville and Mr. H. P. Leake were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur was not applicable,
and the court below erred in applying it to this case.
This doctrine applies only where all the agencies which
might have been instrumental in bringing about the injury are under the exclusive control and management of
the defendant. There can be no presumption of negligence
on the part of the defendant where plaintiff's evidence
tends to show contributory negligence on his part as it
did in the case at bar; or that the accident would not
have happened had the defective installation owned by
the defendant or the owner of the house been in good
condition, or facts from which it could be inferred that
a third agency was the proximate cause of the accident,
or that it was a case of divided responsibility where an
unexplained accident may have been attributable to one
of several causes, for some of which the defendant is not
responsible. Peters v. Lynchburg Light Co., 108 Virginia,
333; Minneapolis Electric Co. v. Cronon, 166 Fed. Rep.
651; Memphis National Fire Ins. Co. v. Denver Electric
Co., 16 Colo. App. 86; Gas Co. v. Speers, 113 Tennessee, 83;
Harter v. Colfax Light Co., 124 Iowa, 500.
Moreover, the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur does not
apply at all where complainant relies on specific acts of
negligence. In such case, plaintiff must prove the negli-

SAN JUAN LIGHT CO. v. REQUENA.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

gence alleged. McGrath v. St. Louis Transit Co., 197
Missouri, 97.
The complaint specifically charged -negligence in connection with the wire inside the electric light globe which
the deceased was alleged to have touched, and plaintiff,
in order to recover, was obliged to prove the specific
negligence alleged. The fact of the death of the deceased
was no evidence at all of its having occurred by reason of
negligence on defendant's part as set forth in the complaint.
The testimony tended to show that defendant could not
have been guilty of the negligence alleged, as it did not
have any control over the wires to which the allegations
of the complaint referred.
The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, even if applicable,
was incorrectly applied by the court below.
The correct application of the doctrine of res ipsa
loquitur requires that the evidence of the happening of the
accident, even without other proof of negligence, should
be allowed to go to the jury as evidence from which negligence may be inferred by the jury.' It creates no presumption of negligence, and does not shift the burden of proof.
Lyles v. Carbonating Co., 140 Nor. Car. 25, 26; Ross v.
Cotton Mills, 140 Nor. Car. 115, 119, 120; Cherall v. Palmer
Brick Co., 117 Georgia, 106, 108; Buckland v. New York,
N. H. & H. R. Co., 181 Massachusetts, 3; De Glopper vi
Nashville Light Co., 134 S. W. Rep. 609; East End Oil Co.
v. Pennsylvania Torpedo Co., 190 Pa. St. 350, 353; Dean
v. Tarrytown &c. R. R. Co., 113 App. Div. 437.
An instruction telling the jury substantially that if
they believed certain facts, then the law raises the presumption of negligence, is misleading, unless it also tells
the jury that such presumption is rebuttable. Chicago
&c. Co. v. Crose, 113 Ill. App. 547; Chicago &c. Co. v.
Jamieson, 112 Ill. App. 69.
The rule, res ipsa loquitur, cannot be applied where the
evidence shows the conditions under which the accident

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

happened, and the, question is raised whether, under the
circumstances specified, the conduct of the defendant was
negligent. Dentzv. Penn. R. R. Co., 75 N. J. L. 893.
Plaintiff's cause of action being based upon alleged
negligence of defendant in respect to the interior wiring
of deceased's house, there could be no recovery in this
action if such wiring was not under the defendant's control.
If the injury was caused by matters other than the
defects in such wires the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, for the reason that the negligence upon which the
complaint is based is in reference to such inside wiring,
and clearly recovery could not be based upon negligent
acts or omissions other than those alleged in the complaint. McGrath v. St. Louis Transit Co., 197 Missouri,
97; Batterson v. Chicago & G. T. Ry., 49 Michigan, 184;
T. W. & W. Ry. Co. v. Foss, 88 Illinois, 551; Atlantic
Coast Line v. Capple, 110 Virginia, 514; Long v. Doxey,
50 Indiana, 385; Murphy v. North Jersey St. R. Co., 71
N. J. L. 5.
On the other hand,. if the defects in the house installation did cause the death of plaintiff's husband, plaintiff
is not entitled to recovery unless defendant was shown to
control and to be responsible for the condition of such
installation. Murphy v. North Jersey St. Ry. Co., 71
N. J. L. 5, 7.
The burden of showing that negligence, or other wrong,
was the proximate cause of the injury is upon the plaintiff.
The plaintiff must not only prove negligence, but he
must also prove that such negligence was the proximate
cause of the injury. Kelsey v. Jewett, 28 Hun, 51; Larson
v. St. Paul &c. Ry. Co., 43 Minnesota, 488.
Proximate cause was a question for the jury. Milwaukee & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469; St. Louis,
I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Needham, 69 Fed. Rep. 823; 1 Thomp.
on Negligence, § 161 and cases; Pittsburg Ry. Co. v. Carlson, 24 Ind. App. 559; Xtna Fire Ins. Co. v. Boon, 95

SAN JUAN LIGHT CO. v. REQUENA.
224 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

U. S. 130; and see a decision of the Supreme Court of
Spain, March 7, 1902, Vol. 93, Jurisprudencia Civil, referred to in Roman v. American Ry. Co., 10 Porto Rico
52. See also Little v. Hackett, 116 U. S. 366, 371.
The court erred in refusing to charge that if the cause
of deceased's death was an inevitable accident, plaintiff
could not recover herein. Clyde v. Richmond R. Co., 59
Fed. Rep. 394; Hodgson v. Dexter, 12 Fed. Rep. 283; Dryer
v. People, 188 Illinois, 40; Dyget v. Bradley (N. Y.), 8
Wend. 469.
The defendant exercised the degree of care in the inspection of its wires which the law requires to be exercised.
It could not anticipate -the fire in the bakery, nor did it
know the plaintiff's installation was defective. Texas
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Patton, 61 Fed. Rep. 259; Atlantic Coast
Line v. Capple, 110 Virginia, 514.
The court erred in refusing charge that if defendant
had made a proper inspection a short time before the
accident, and the inspection disclosed no defect, plaintiff
could not recover. Smith v. East End Elec. Co., 198 Pa. St.
19; Denver Cor. El. Co. v. Simpson, 31 L. R. A. 566; Cosgrove v. Kennebec Light & Heat Company, 98 Maine, 473.
Defendant's motion to strike from the complaint all
allegations as to exemplary damages should have been
granted. Milwaukee &c. R. Co. v. Arms, 91 U. S. 489;
W. U. Tel. Co. v. Eyser, 91 U. S. 495; Re CaliforniaNay. &
Imp. Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 670; Thomson v. Chicago, M. &
S. Paul R. R. Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 845; Bube v. B. R. L. &
P. Co., 140 Alabama, 276.
In Porto Rico there is no statute authorizing the recovery either by parent, widow, or any other person, of
exemplary damages in a case of negligence.
The court declined to hear further argument. Mr. Willis
Sweet and Mr. George H. Lamar submitted a brief for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.

The judgment here to be reviewed is one awarding
damages to a widow for the death of her husband, caused
by an electric shock received while he was adjusting an
incandescent light in his residence in San Juan, Porto
Rico. The case presented by the evidence produced upon
the trial, which was to the court and a jury, was this:
The defendant was supplying the inhabitants of San
Juan with electricity for lighting purposes, and had engaged to deliver at the deceased's residence a current
suitable for lighting it. The electricity was conveyed
along th6 street in front of his residence by a primary wire
carrying a current of 2,200 volts, and by means of parallel
or multiple converters the current was reduced to 110 volts
and then carried to his residence and those of his neighbors
by a secondary wire. These wires and converters were
owned and controlled by the defendant, and the wiring
and fixtures in the residence of the deceased were owned
and controlled by him. On the occasion in question the
current carried by the secondary wire, and by it communicated to the wiring in the residence of the deceased,
became in some way greatly and dangerously increased
in voltage, and it was because of this that he received the
fatal shock. Had this current been maintained at substantially its normal standard, as was contemplated, it
would not, in the circumstances, have done him any injury. He was not responsible for the increased voltage,
and neither did he have reason to expect it.
There were no outside electric wires in. that vicinity
save those of the defendant, and the increased and dangerous current could only have come from its primary
wire. About the time of the shock to the deceasedtwo
of his neighbors had trouble with a like current in their
houses. One received a shock which felled him to the

SAN JUAN LIGHT CO. v. REQUENA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

floor and rendered him unconscious, and the other found
the wires in his shop flashing, and on coming in contact
with one of them was made unconscious and burned so
that he was taken to a hospital for treatment. Shortly
thereafter it was found that the ground or protecting
wire leading from one of the converters to the earth was
broken or severed and that the other converter was heated
and out of order, the insulation being charred.
There was testimony tending to show that on the day
preceding these shocks the primary and secondary wires
and the converters had been examined by the defendant's
inspector and found in good condition, but this testimony
was greatly impaired upon the cross-examination of the
inspector, who then said: "My inspection consisted in
seeing that the poles and overhead trolley lines were in
good condition. I just walked along and examined each
pole, but did not climb them. When I came to the transformer [converter] I did not climb the pole and didn't look
at the fuses. . . . No, sir; on that day I didn't look
at the transformer any closer than I could see it from the
ground. . . . There is no way you can tell from looking at the outside of the transformer whether it is in good
condition or not."
There was also testimony tending to show that thewiring in the deceased's residence was not properly insulated or in good condition, but there was no claim that
the defendant was responsible for this, and neither was
there any evidence that the fatal shock resulted therefrom.
Much of the testimony was addressed to the questions,
whether, a current of unusual and dangerous voltage was
communicated from the defendant's wires to the wiring
in the residence of the deceased, and, if so, whether this
resulted from negligence of the defendant in failing to
exercise appropriate care in the maintenance and inspection of its wires and converters. This testimony was

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

admitted without objection, both parties tacitly treating
it as within the issues.
That the fatal shock resulted, without fault of the deceased, from an unusual and dangerous current carried
to his residence by the wires of the defendant was so
conclusively established by the evidence that that part
of the case might well have been covered by a peremptory
direction to the jury; leaving them to determine, under
*appropriate instructions, the question of the defendant's
negligence and the amount, if any, which the plaintiff was
entitled to recover.
With this statement of the case presented upon the trial,
we come to the rulings which are assigned as error.
1. A motion to strike from the complaint a paragraph
relating in part to exemplary damages was denied, because
not all of the paragraph was deemed objectionable, and
complaint is made of that ruling. But it is not necessary
to consider its propriety. Even if wrong, it did the defendant-no harm, because the court instructed the jury that
there could be no recovery of exemplary damages, but
only such as were compensatory.
2. It is urged that the negligence charged in the complaint related only to the condition of the wiring inside
the-residence of the deceased, and therefore that the court
erred in permitting a recovery on the theory that the defendant was negligent in respect of the maintenance and
care of the wires and converters outside. This contention
must fail. While the complaint was not drafted with
commendable precision, and, if critically examined, might
be regarded as leaving it uncertain whether the negligence
charged related to the wiring inside or to that .outside
whereby the current was supplied, there was no objection
to this uncertainty in the court below. On the contrary,
the trial proceeded, as we have seen, upon the theory
that the question whether the defendant had failed to
exercise appropriate care in the maintenance and inspec-

SAN JUAN LIGHT CO. v. REQUENA.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of its outside wires and converters was within the
issues. Each party, without objection from the other,
introduced evidence bearing upon that question; and
when it was submitted to the jury there was no exception
upon the ground of a variance. Effect must therefore be
given to the well-settled rule that where the parties, with
the assent of the court, unite in trying a case on the theory
that a particular matter is within the issues, that theory
cannot be rejected when the case comes before an appellate
court for review.
3. In its charge to the jury the court explained, in
substance, that a company supplying electricity for lighting purposes and engaging with individuals to deliver a
suitable current at their residences and places of business
over its own system of wires and appliances is bound to
exercise such control over the subtle and perilous agency
with which it is dealing and to take such precautions in
the maintenance and inspection of its wires and appliances
as are reasonably essential to prevent an excessive and
dangerous current from passing from its supply wires to
the service wires of its patrons, and then said:
"And you are further instructed that if you believe
:from a preponderance of the evidence that the deceased
came to hisdeath while innocently and without knowledge
of any danger using an ihcandescent light, the current for
which was furnished, or to which the electricity was
supplied, by the defendant company, the presumption is
that the electric company was negligent, and it devolves
upon it to show that the surplus and dangerous current
that came over the wires did not occur from any negligent
act on its part."
Exception to this instruction was taken upon the ground
that it erroneously applied the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur.
While recognizing.that that doctrine is of restricted scope,
and when misapplied is calculated to operate prejudicially,
we think there was no error in its application in 'this inVOL. ccxxiv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

stance. The deceased was without fault. The defendant's
primary wire was carrying a current of high and deadly
voltage. Its secondary wire conveyed to his residence an
excessive and dangerous current which could only have
come from its primary wire. Had its wires and converters been in proper condition, the excessive and dangerous current would not have been communicated to its
secondary wire and the injury would not have occurred.
These wires and converters were exclusively under its
control, and it was charged with the continuing duty of
taking reasonable precautions, proportioned to the danger
to be apprehended, to maintain them in proper condition.
In the ordinary or usual course of things, the injury would
not have occurred had that duty been performed. Not
only did the injury occur, but immediately thereafter
both converters were found to be out of order; one being
heated and its insulation charred, and the protecting
ground wire of the other being broken or severed. Besides, the defendant engaged to supply a current of low
voltage, reasonably safe and suitable for lighting, while
the current delivered on this occasion was of high voltage,
extremely dangerous and unsuitable for lighting purposes.
These circumstances pointed so persuasively to negligence
on its part that it was not too much to call upon it for an
explanation. Of course, if the cause of the injury was one
which it could not have foreseen and guarded against, it
was not culpable, but in the absence of that or some other
explanation therd was enough to justify the jury in finding
it culpable. This was all that was meant by the instruction, reasonably interpreted. It was not a model, and, if
it stood alone, might be subject to criticism. But, if read
in the light of what preceded and followed it and of the
case before the jury, it was unobjectionable. When so
read it rightly declared and applied the doctrine of res
ipsa loquitur, which is, when a thing which causes injury,
without fault of the injured person, is shown to be under

CAMPBELL v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

the exclusive control of the defendant, and the injury is
such as in the ordinary course of things does not occur if
the one having such control uses proper care, it affords
reasonable evidence, in the absence of an explanation, that
the injury arose from the defendant's want of care. Inland
and Seaboard Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551, 554;
East End Oil Co. v. Pennsylvania Torpedo Co., 190 Pa. St.
350; Alexander v. Nanticoke Light Co., 209 Pa. St. 571;
Trenton PassengerRailway Co. v. Cooper, 60 N. J. L. 219;
Newark Electric Co. v. Ruddy, 62 N. J. L. 505; 2 Cooley on
Torts, 3d ed., 1424; 4 Wigmore on Evidence, § 2509.
4. Complaint is made of the court's refusal to give
several instructions requested by the defendant. All have
been examined, and we find no error in their refusal.
Some were in substance incorporated in the charge, some
were inapplicable to the case before the jury, and others
did not correctly state the law.
Judgment affirmed.

CAMPBELL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 161.

Argued March 6, '1912.-Decided March 18, 1912.

As §§ 566, 649 and 700, Rev. Stat., do not make any provisions for such
a case, the trial of a case in the District Court of the United States
without a jury is in the nature of a submission to an arbitrator, and
the court's determination of issues of fact and questions of law supposed to arise on its special findings is not a judicial determination,
and, therefore, not subject to reexamination in an appellate court.
In such a case the Circuit Court of Appeals has no power to consider
the sufficiency of facts found to support the judgment, but is limited
to a consideration of such questions of law as are presented by the

