748

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Syllabus.

386 U. S.

ENTSMINGER v. IOWA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 252.

Argued March 15, 1967.-Decided May 8, 1967.

Petitioner, an indigent represented by court-appointed counsel, was
convicted of a felony in violation of Iowa law. As he requested,
a different attorney was appointed to prepare his motion for a new
trial, which was overruled. Representing petitioner on appeal,
that attorney filed a notice of appeal and later, having been
asked by petitioner to perfect a plenary appeal, gave notice therefor
but, apparently believing the appeal lacked merit (but not asking
to withdraw from the case), failed to file the entire trial record
though it had been prepared by the State and counsel had advised
petitioner that he would file it. Though the State Supreme Court
had ordered the case submitted on the full record, briefs and
argument of counsel, the court considered the case on the basis
of the "clerk's transcript," under an Iowa procedure for appellate
review as a matter of course on the basis of a modified transcript
submitted by the trial court clerk which contains the information
or indictment, the grand jury minutes, bailiff's oath, statement,
and instructions but not the transcript of evidence or briefs or
arguments of counsel which are also made available where appellant's counsel has requested plenary review. Shortly before the
State Supreme Court affirmed the conviction petitioner had requested that the court order the "certified records" transmitted
to it. Held: Petitioner, who was entitled to the assistance of
appointed counsel acting in the role of an advocate (see Anders v.
California, ante, p. 738), was precluded by his attorney's bare
election to use Iowa's "clerk's transcript procedure" from obtaining
complete and effective appellate review of his conviction. Pp.
751-752.
137 N. W. 2d 381, reversed and remanded.

David W. Belin, by appointment of the Court, 385
U. S. 804, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
Don R. Bennett, Assistant Attorney General of Iowa,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
was Lawrence F. Scalise, Attorney General.

ENTSMINGER v. IOWA.
748

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case, which was argued following Anders v. California, ante, p. 738, presents a similar problem in that we
are here also concerned with the constitutional requirements which are binding on a State in the administration of its appellate criminal procedures with respect
to convicted indigents seeking initial review of their
convictions. Petitioner, who was represented at trial
by a court-appointed attorney, was convicted of uttering
a forged instrument in violation of Iowa law. Shortly
after the verdict was rendered, he requested the trial
court to appoint different counsel to aid him in the
preparation of a motion for new trial. Counsel was
appointed, the motion was prepared and filed but the
trial court overruled it. Upon petitioner's application,
the same attorney was appointed to represent him on
appeal; counsel then prepared and filed a timely notice
of appeal.
Iowa law provides alternate methods of appealing
criminal convictions, the first method being an appeal
on a "clerk's transcript" which follows the notice of
appeal as a matter of course.' Under this procedure, the
clerk, of the trial court prepares and files a modified transcript of the proceedings below; such transcript contains
only the Information or Indictment, the Grand Jury
Minutes, the Bailiff's Oath, Statement and Instructions,
various orders and judgment entries of the court, but
does not contain the transcript of evidence nor the briefs
and argument of counsel. This. practice is used in the
absence of a request on the part of counsel for a plenary
review of the case. If such a request is made, the
appellant is provided an appeal on a complete record
of the trial, including not only those items included in
'Iowa

Code ยง793.6 (1962).

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Opinion of the Court.

386 U. S.

the clerk's transcript but in addition thereto, the briefs
and argument of counsel.2
Petitioner asked his appointed attorney to perfect a
plenary appeal and counsel gave notice therefor which,
though belatedly filed, was allowed by the Iowa Supreme
Court. However, counsel, apparently believing that the
appeal was without merit, failed to file the entire record
of petitioner's trial although it had been prepared by
the State and counsel had advised petitioner that he
would file same. It.is of note that counsel never moved
the court for leave to withdraw from the case. Despite
-the fact that the Supreme Court had ordered the case
submitted on the full record, briefs and arguments of
counsel-and the record here fails to reveal any rescission
of that order-the court took petitioner's case into consideration on the clerk's transcript alone as it was required
to do under Iowa law.' The conviction was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Iowa, State v. Entsminger, 137
N. W. 2d 381 (1965). This was done despite the request
of the petitioner a few days before the affirmance of his
conviction, that the court issue an order commanding the
trial court to "transmit the certified records" to the
Supreme Court for its review. We granted certiorari,
384 U. S. 1000.
The Attorney General of Iowa in the utmost candor
and with most commendable fairness concedes that petitioner has not received "adequate appellate review" and
is entitled to an appeal free of constitutional doubt. We
have examined the reicord carefully and agree that the
clerk's transcript procedure as applied here "can hardly
be labeled adequate and effective review of the merits of
2

Rules of the Supreme Court, Rule 16, Iowa Code, Vol. II, p. 2716

(1962).
8 d., Rule 15.

ENTSMINGER v. IOWA.
748

Opinion of the Court.

the proceedings culminating in a conviction."'
He
bases his conclusions in this regard upon the holding of
the Iowa Supreme Court in Weaver v. Herrick, 258
Iowa 796, 140 N. W. 2d 178 (1966), where the court
specifically stated:
"To afford an indigent defendant an adequate
appeal from his conviction, the furnishing of a transcript, printed record and necessary briefs is
required." At 801-802, 140 N. W. 2d, at 181.
As we have held again and again, an indigent defendant
is entitled to the appointment of counsel to assist him
on his first appeal, Douglas v. California,372 U. S. 353
(1963), and appointed counsel must function in the
active role of an advocate, as opposed to that of amicus
curiae, Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S. 674 (1958).
In Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S. 12 (1956), the Court
held that a State that provided transcripts on appeal only
to those who could afford them was constitutionally
required to provide a "means of affording adequate and
effective appellate review to indigent defendants."
At 20. Again in Burns v. Ohio, 360 U. S. 252 (1959),
the Court, in reaffirming the Griffin rule, held that "once
the State chooses to establish appellate review in criminal cases, it may not foreclose indigents from access
to any phase of that procedure because of their poverty."
At 257. In Smith v. Bennett, 365 U. S. 708 (1961),
the Court, once again considering the question, held
that such principles are not limited to direct appeals
but are also applicable to post-conviction proceedings.
'Indeed the Attorney General has moved the Supreme Court of
Iowa to change its rule with respect to the clerk's transcript system
and his suggested changes and the responsibility of appointed counsel
thereunder are now under advisement. We do not pass on the
validity of the suggested procedure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Opinion of the Court.

386 U. S.

In that case the Court held that "the Fourteenth Amendment weighs the interests of rich and poor criminals
in equal scale, and its hand extends as far to each." At
714. Here there is no question but that petitioner was
precluded from obtaining a complete and effective appellate review of his conviction by the operation of the
clerk's transcript procedure as embodied in Iowa law.
Such procedure automatically deprived him of a full record, briefs, and arguments on .the bare election of his
appointed counsel, without providing any notice to him
or to the reviewing court that he had chosen not to file
the complete record in the case. By such action "all
hope of any [adequate and effective] appeal at all,"
Lane v. Brown, 372 U. S. 477, 485 (1963), was taken
from the petitioner.
Since petitioner admittedly has not received the benefit
of a first appeal with a full printed abstract of the record,
briefs, and oral argument, as was his right under Iowa
law, we do not reach the merits of his conviction here.
We have discussed at some length the responsibility of
both the appellate court and appointed counsel representing indigents on appeal in Anders v. California,supra,
decided this day, and we need not repeat such here. The
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Ma. JusTICE STEWART, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN join, concurs in the judgment
and in the Court's opinion, except as it refers to Anders
v. California, a case which he thinks involves quite
different issues.

