OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Syllabus.

348 U. S.

FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION v. COLORADO
INTERSTATE GAS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 45. Argued January 31, 1955.-Decided March 28, 1955.
1. On a petition to review a natural gas rate reduction order of
the Federal Power Commission under the Natural Gas Act, a
Court of Appeals may not consider, sua sponte, an objection
which has not been urged before the Commission in the application
for rehearing prescribed by § 19 of the Act. Pp. 493-501.
, (a) Respondent's application for a rehearing by the Commission did not object to the validity of the condition which the
Commission had written into its certification of a merger between
respondent and another gas company; and respondent thus did
not meet the requirements of § 19 (b). Pp. 497-498.
(b) Respondent's application not having met the requirements
of § 19 (b) and respondent itself being barred from attacking the
validity of the merger condition in the Court of Appeals, that
Court is precluded, by the terms of § 19, from raising, considering
or sustaining the same objection sua sponte. Pp. 498-499.
(c) Section 10 (e) of the Administrative Procedure Act does not
require a different result. Pp. 499-500.

(d) The requirements of § 19 (b) cannot be disregarded under
a claim that to limit judicial review by the Court of Appeals to

objections previously urged specifically before the Commission
will prevent that Court from reviewing effectively the "end result"
of natural gas rate orders. P. 501.
2. On a petition to review a natural gas rate reduction order of the
Federal Power Commission under the Natural Gas Act, a Court
of Appeals may not invalidate, sua sponte, an existing order of
the Commission, which prohibits the inclusion of certain operating
expenses of the natural gas company in its cost of service, where
such order not only has been proposed and acquiesced in by the
company, but has been imposed on it by the Commission as a
condition of a merger under which the company is operating. Pp.
"493-494, 501-502.

F. P. C. v. COLORADO INTERSTATE GAS CO.
492

493

Opinion of the Court.

3. A contention of respondent that, under the Commission's allocation
of gasoline costs and the condition requiring the company to absorb
them, the rate of return is reduced from 5.75% to 5.01%, and is
therefore unreasonable and confiscatory, is not sustained. P. 502.
209 F. 2d 717, 732, reversed.

On respondent's petition to review an order of the Federal Power Commission under the Natural Gas Act, 95
P. U. R. (N. S.) 97, the Court of Appeals reversed the
Commission's order and remanded the cause for further
proceedings. 209 F. 2d 717, 732. This Court granted
the Commission's petition for certiorari. 347 U. S. 1009.
Reversed, p. 502.
Assistant Attorney General Burger argued the cause
for petitioner. With him on the brief were Solicitor
General Sobeloif, Melvin Richter, Willard W. Gatchell,
Lambert McAllister and Jacob Goldberg.
James Lawrence White argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were William A. Dougherty, John
P. Akolt, Sr., John R. Turnquist, Charles E. McGee and
Lewis M. Poe.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The principal question before us is whether, on a petition to review a natural gas rate reduction order of the
Federal Power Commission, a Court of Appeals may consider, sua sponte, an objection which has not been urged
before the Commission in the application for rehearing
prescribed by § 19 of the Natural Gas Act.' Alterna52 Stat. 831-832, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 717r. The material
provisions of § 19 (a) and (b) are set forth in the body of this opinion
at p. 497, infra. For related litigation not material to the issues
now presented, see Colorado Interstate Gas Co. v. Federal Power
Commission, and Canadian River Gas Co. v. Federal Power Commission, 324 U. S. 581, and Colorado-Wyoming Gas Co. v. Federal Power
Commission, 324 U. S. 626.

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

348 U. S.

tively, a question also is raised whether, in such a rate
proceeding, a Court of Appeals may invalidate, sua
sponte, an existing order of the Commission, which prohibits the inclusion of certain operating expenses of the
natural gas company in its cost of service, where such
order not only has been proposed and acquiesced in by
the company, but has been imposed on it by the Commission as a condition of a merger under which the company is operating. For the reasons hereafter stated, we
answer each of these questions in the negative.
In 1948, the Federal Power Commission, petitioner
herein, instituted a rate investigation against respondent,
the Colorado Interstate Gas Company, under § 5 (a) of
the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 823-824, 15 U. S. C.
§ 717d (a). While this was pending, respondent and the
Canadian River Gas dompany filed a joint application
under § 7 of the same Act, 52 Stat. 824-825, as amended,
15 U. S. C. § 717f. That application sought a certificate
of public convenience and necessity permitting respondent to merge with the latter company, acquire and operate
its properties, and construct additional facilities. Objection was made that consumers, receiving natural gas from
respondent, might be forced by this merger to share
respondent's loss if the costs of certain gasoline operations to be undertaken by it exceeded its revenues from
them. To meet this objection, respondent proposed that
the Commission, in any natural gas rate proceeding, exclude such loss from the company's cost of service. 2
March 1, 1951, the Commission wrote in the above proposal as a condition of its certification of the merger. 10
2 The proposal in respondetit's letter of June 8, 1950, to the Commission, was that "in order to keep a rate payer from meeting this
deficiency the Commission could condition the certificate of public
convenience and necessity so as in effect to provide that such -deficit
would not be considered in determining reasonable rates. In other
words, the stockholders of Colorado Interstate Gas Company would
take the risk as to whether or not gasoline prices. will go down."

F. P. C. v. COLORADO INTERSTATE GAS CO.
492

495

Opinion of the Court.

F. P. C. 105, 778.' No review was sought. The merger
was consummated and respondent has enjoyed its benefits
since December 31, 1951.
The rate investigation was resumed in 1951 and the
year 1952 became the test year. The usual intermediate
decision was omitted and, on August 8, 1952, the Commission issued its findings and rate order. 95 P. U. R.
(N. S.) 97. In that proceeding, respondent had argued
for a "volumetric" allocation of gasoline costs which, in
1952, would result in a showing of no loss suffered by it
from the gasoline operations in question. The Commission, however, had declined to adopt that method and had
applied a "relative market value method" of allocating
costs. This showed a loss of $421,537 from such operations and, pursuant to its merger order, the Commission
held that such loss "shall not be considered as a part of
the cost of service which we have heretofore determined."
On that basis, the Commission found respondent's total
cost of service, in 1952, to be $14,952,567, including federal
taxes of $185,599 and the proceeds of a 5.75% rate of
return ($3,280,317 on a rate base of $g7,048,988). De3 "(i) The authorization herein granted for effectuating the acquisition and operation of Canadian's properties and facilities is upon the
express understanding and condition that if, as a result of carrying
out the terms and conditions in the transaction proposed as a part
of the acquisition and merger of Canadian into Colorado whereby
rights to liquid hydrocarbons in place are granted to Southwestern
Development Co. and whereby Colorado is to receive 50 percent of
the gross proceeds from the sale of certain liquid hydrocarbons and
15 percent of the net revenue to be received by Colorado from the
hydrocarbons resulting from the operation of Fritsch Natural Gasoline Plant of Texoma Natural Gas Co., the costs properly allocable
to such hydrocarbons exceed the amounts payable to Colorado pursuant to such transaction, then and in that case in any proceeding in
which the effective or proposed rates of Colorado are under iiquiry
such excess shall not be considered as a cost of service to Colorado's
natural gas customers and consumers." (Emphasis supplied.) 10
F. P. C., at780.

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

348 U. S.

ducting that cost from its gas service revenues of $17,962,532 left respondent with excess revenues of over
$3,000,000. The Commission accordingly ordered a rate
reduction eliminating that excess. Id., at 127.
Respondent applied for a rehearing pursuant to § 19
(a) of the Natural Gas Act. The application stated
respondent's objections to the Commission's allocation of
the expense of the gasoline operations and a claim that,
if the costs were properly allocated, there would be no
resulting loss. Respondent complained further that the
Commission's computation, in effect, reduced the company's rate of return from 5.75% to 5.01%. At no point
did respondent contend that the Commission's order
excluding respondent's loss from gasoline operations from
its cost of service was invalid. Upon consideration of the
application, the Commission denied the rehearing and
modified the new rates only to a slight degree not material
here.
On respondent's petition for review by the Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, that court generally upheld
the Commission's findings and order. It accepted the
Commission's method of allocating respondent's gasoline
costs and the computation which fixed the resulting loss
at $421,537. However, the court held, sua sponte, that,
despite the action taken in the merger proceeding, this
loss must be added to respondent's cost of service. The
court therefore reversed the Commission's order and
remanded the cause for further proceedings. 209 F. 2d
717. After reargument, the court reaffirmed its position.
209 F. 2d 732. Recognizing the importance of such a
result in relation to the judicial review of administrative
orders, we granted the Commission's petition for certiorari
but denied respondent's cross-petition. 347 U. S. 1009;
348 U. S. 818, 884. 28 U. S. C. § 1254 (1); 52 Stat. 831832, 15 U. S. C. § 717r (b).

F. P. C. v. COLORADO INTERSTATE GAS CO.
492

497

Opinion of the Court.

The Natural Gas Act prescribes explicitly the procedure
to be followed by any person seeking judicial review of
an order of the Federal Power Commission, and limits the
scope of that review as follows:
'SEc. 19. (a) Any person . . . aggrieved by an
order issued by the (Federal Power] Commission in
a proceeding under this Act to which such person . . . is a party may apply for a rehearing within
thirty days after the issuance of such order. The
application for rehearing shall set forth specifically
the ground or grounds upon which such application
is based. . . . No proceeding to review any order
of the Commissionshall be brought by any person
unless such person shall have made application to
the Commission for a rehearing thereon.
"(b) . . . No objection to the order of the Commission shall be considered by the court [of Appeals]
unless such objection shall have been urged before
the Commission in the application for rehearing
unless there is reasonable ground for failure so to
do ...
"
(Emphasis supplied.) 52 Stat. 831-832,
15 U. S. C. § 717r (a) and (b).
Respondent first contends that its application for a
rehearing by the Commission did, in substance, object to
the validity of the merger condition and thus did meet
the requirements of § 19 (b). We find, however, that in
such application, respondent objected to the exclusion of
the loss of $421,537 from gasoline operations merely on the
ground that the Commission's certificate approving the
merger required a "proper allocation" of the costs, and
that the method of allocation chosen by the Commission
was not "proper." Respondent also unsuccessfully proposed an alternative method of allocation, which would
eliminate the loss. In passing upon these contentions, the
Commission assumed, as did respondent, that any properly

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

348 U. S.

computed loss resultihg from the gasoline operations was
to be excluded from the cost of service. Respondent's
objection thus gave no notice that respondent was
attacking the validity of the merger condition. The
same is true of respondent's objection to the Commission's treatment of its income taxes, and of respondent's claim that the ultimate effect of the Commission's
order was to reduce its net share of the proceeds of the
rate of return from one of 5.75% to one of 5.01%. These
were bids for a higher rate of return or for a recomputation
of the loss from the gasoline operations, not claims that
the merger condition was invalid.
Respondent's second and principal contention is that,
although its application did not meet the requirements of
§ 19 (b) and it therefore is barred from attacking the
validity of the merger condition in the Court of Appeals,
nothing precludes that court itself from raising, considering and sustaining the same objection, sua sponte. Respondent's error appears on the face of the statute. Section 19 (a) first precludes the bringing of any proceeding
in a Court of Appeals to review an order of the Commission, unless the person bringing it previously has applied
to the Commission for a rehearingon that order. Section
19 (b) then expressly precludes the consideration by the
court of 'any objection to an order of the Commission,
unless the objection shall have been urged before the
Commission in the application for rehearing. As the
court is thus expressly precluded from considering an
objection when, without prior application to the Commission, that objection is presented to the court by the
party directly aggrieved,' it cannot be assumed that Congress intended to permit the same court to consider the
41"...

Petitioner, moreover, failed to object in its application for

rehearing before the' Commission to the inclusion of its producing
properties and gathering facilities in the rate base. It is accordingly
precluded by § 19 (b) of the Act from attacking the order of the

F. P. C. v. COLORADO INTERSTATE GAS CO.
492

499

Opinion of the Court.

same objection, under the same circumstances, sua sponte,
merely because the objection was not presented to the
court by the party aggrieved. Section 19 (b) reflects the
policy that i. party must exhaust its administrative remedies before seeking judicial review. To allow a Court of
Appeals to intervene here on its own motion would
seriously undermine the purpose of the explicit requirements of § 19 (b) that objections must first come before
the Commission.
Section 10 (e) of the Administrative Procedure Act
does not require a different result.' That Act purports to
Commission on the ground that they are included." Panhandle Co.
v. Federal Power Commission, 324 U. S. 635, 649, and see 650-651.
See also, Labor Board v. Cheney Lumber Co., 327 U. S. 385, 388-389,
and Labor Board v. Seven-Up Co., 344 U. S. 344, where failure to
preserve the issue by objection before the agency was treated as a
bar to the judicial consideration of it.
5"Ssc. 10. Except so far as (1) statutes preclude judicial review
or (2) agency action is by law committed to agency discretion-

"(e)

SCOPE OF REVIEW.-So

far as necessary to decision and where

presented the reviewing court shall decide all relevant questions of
law, interpret constitutional and statutory provisions, and determine
the meaning or applicability of the terms of any agency action. It
shall (A) compel agency action unlawfully withheld or unreasonably
delayed; and (B) hold unlawful and set aside agency action, findings,
and conclusions found to be (1) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law; (2) contrary to
constitutional right, power, privilege, or impmunity; (3) in excess of
statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitations, or short of statutory
right; (4) without observance of procedure required by law; (5) unsupported by substantial evidence in any case subject to the requirements of sections 7 and 8 or otherwise reviewed on the record of an
agency hearing provided by statute; or (6) unwarranted by the facts
to the extent that the facts are subject to trial de novo by the reviewing court. In making the foregoing determinations the court shall
review the whole record or such portions thereof as may be cited by
any party, and due account shall be taken of the rule of prejudicial
error." (Emphasis supplied.) 60 Stat. 243-244, 5 U. S. C.

§ 1009 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

348 U. S.

strengthen, rather than to weaken, the principle requiring
the exhaustion of administrative remedies before permitting court review. The Senate Committee, recommending the bill for that Act, said:
"A party cannot wilfully fail to exhaust his administrative remedies and then, after the agency action
has become operative, either secure a suspension of
the agency action by a belated appeal to the agency,
or resort to court without having given the agency
an opportunity to determine the questions raised.
If he so fails he is precluded from judicial review by
the application of the time-honored doctrine of exhaustion of administrative remedies. . . ." (Emphasis supplied.) S. Doc. No. 248, 79th Cong., 2d
Sess. 289, n. 21.
Furthermore, § 10, by its own terms, is made inapplicable in "so far as (1) statutes [as here] preclude judicial
review," and § 10 (e) applies only to situations where the
question at issue has been properly "presented," as has
not been done here. It is not a reasonable interpretation
of the general terms of that Act to hold that they repeal
the administrative procedures specifically set forth in the
Natural Gas Act.
"We have recognized in more than a few decisions,
and Congress has recognized in more than a few
statutes, that orderly procedure and good administration require that objections to the proceedings of
an administrative agency be made while it has opportunity for correction in order to raise issues reviewable by the courts." United States v. Tucker Truck
Lines, 344 U. S. 33, 36-37. See also, Riss & Co. v.
United States, 341 U. S. 907; Wong Yang Sung v.
McGrath, 339 U. S. 33; United States v. Capital
Transit Co., 338 U. S. 286, 291; Unemployment Compensation Commission v. Aragon, 329 U. S. 143, 155.

F. P. C. v. COLORADO INTERSTATE GAS CO. 501
492

Opinion of the Court.

The necessity for prior administrative consideration of
an issue is apparent where, as here, its decision calls for
the application of technical knowledge and experience
not usually possessed by judges. The Federal Power
Commission is an administrative agency the decisions of
which involve those difficult problems of policy, accounting, economics and special knowledge that go into public
utility rate making. For reviewing a rate made by the
Federal Power Commission, the Court of Appeals has no
inherent suitability comparable to that which it has for
reviewing the judicial decisions made by a United States

District Court.
Respondent further suggests that to limit the judicial
review of the Court of Appeals to those objections which
have been urged specifically before the Commission prevents that court from reviewing effectively the "end
result" of the rate order. See FederalPower Commission
v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591. To accept that
argument would wipe out at a single stroke the expressly
prescribed policy of § 19 (b). Not only would such acceptance be contrary to the terms of the statute, but it
would fail to recognize the fundamental consideration
that it is not the function of a court itself to engage in
rate making.
Returning to the language of § 19, we hold that the
Court of Appeals does not here have authority, either
under § 19 or sua sponte, to reverse the Commission by
overruling its exclusion of $421,537 of gasoline production
expense from respondent's cost of service for rate purposes.
As an alternative ground for reversal, the Commission
also contends that the Court of Appeals is here precluded
from redetermining the validity of the merger condition
because of respondent's and the Commission's previous
conduct in approving it. Cf. United States v. Hancock
Truck Lines, 324 U. S. 774, 778-780. In. 1950, respondent proposed this condition in its merger proceeding.

OCTOBER .TERM, 1954.
Opinion of the Court.

348 U. S.

That merger had many facets and a difference of opinion
existed within the Commission on its merits. 10 F. P. C.
105, 119. In 1951, the condition before us became an
important factor in securing the Commission's finding
that the merger would be in the public interest. Id., at
780. After the merger was approved on that condition,
respondent sought no review of it. On the other hand,
respondent consummated the merger and has enjoyed its
benefits ever since. It cannot now be allowed to attack
an officially approved condition of the merger while
retaining at the same time all of its benefits. The impropriety of the attack is rendered twofold because it is not
made in the merger proceeding but is attempted in a
separate rate proceeding. While respondent also charges
that, under the Commission's allocation of gasoline costs
and the condition requiring the company to absorb them,
the rate of return is reduced from 5.75% to 5.01% and is
therefore unreasonable and confiscatory, we do not sustain
that charge.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals accordingly is
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE, HARLAN took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

