THE SYDNEY.
Syllabus.

the narrow construction we are compelled to give the Hoff
patent, it is evident this is no infringement. Whether the
result produced be or be not inferior to the Hoff hod, of course
is not involved in this case. It may be true that Reynolds
conceived the idea of his hod from an examination of the Hoff
M
device; but he is none the less entitled to claim that the Ho
'
patent bad been anticipated by prior devices, especially when
such prior devices appear to show a complete anticipation of
his own. Indeed, both of these 'parties seem to have been
gleaning in a field already open to the public.
It is clear that the second claim of the Hoff patent for
"a coal-hod formed of a single piece and having its bottom
crimped or folded to form a series of annular ribs or rings of
progressively-increasing diameter" is not infringed by the
Reynolds device, as no such rings or ribs or anything approximating to them is shown in the defendant's hod.'
The decree of the court below must be
Aflrmed.

THE SYDNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COU!RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 224. Argued March 17, 18,1891. -Decided

March 30, 1891.

On a libel in rem, against two canal boats, brought by two insurance companies, alleging that they had insured a cargo of wheat on board of one
of the boats, which was lost thkough the carelessness of those in charge
of the two boats, and that they had paid $9211.75 to the insured, who
owned the wheat, as its value, and received an abandonment of the
cargo, and were subrogated to the rights of the insured, the District
Court dismissed the libel, and, on appeal, the Circuit Court reversed the
decree and awarded to .the libellants a decree for $8252.47, condemning
both of the boats therefor. In the District Court one of the boats was
sold for $2100 and the proceeds were paid into court, and a stipulation
for value as to the other boat, in $1000, was given by consent. The
claimant, who owned both of the boats at the time of the loss, appealed
to this court; Beld, that this court had no jurisdiction of the appeal,,

OCTOBER TERM,- 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
because all that was involved was the $2100 and $1000, and the aggregate of those sums did not exceed $5000; and there was no decree in
;ersonam against the claimant.
'The cases of Elgi v. Jfa)-hall, 100 U. S. 578, and The Jessie Williamson, Jr.,
108 U. 8. 305, cited and applied.

IN AImALTY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

JM . J. A. Hyland for appellants.Xr. Edward D. JfoCarthy for appellees.
MR. JUSTIcE

BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

Thisis.a libel in admiralty, in rem, filed on the 23d of July,
1883, in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, by the Providence Washington
Insurance Company, of Providence, Rhode Island, and the
Security. Insurance Company, of New Haven, Connecticut,
against the steam canal-boat Sydney and the canal-boat
William Worden.
The libel alleged that on May 17; 1883, the Sydney and the
Worden, owned by the same persons and engaged in the business of common carriers to and from the cities of New York
:and Buffalo, by way of the Erie Canal and the Hudson River,
left Buffalo for New York, having on board, with other mer
•chandise, 7900 bushels of wheat, of the value of $9211.75,
consigned to Armour, Plankinton & Company, of- New York,
the -owners thereof; that on May 29, 1883, the boats ran
.aground on Esopus Island in the Hudson River, whereby the
Worden was so damaged that she sank and the wheat which
was on board of her became a total loss, through the carelessness of those in charge of the two boats; and that, on the 17th
-of i1fay, 1883, the libellants, by a policy of insurance, insured
Armour, Plankinton & Company on the said cargo of wiheat
.against the usual marine risks and perils of the voyage from
Buffalo to New York and, under the policy, on the occurrence
,of the said loss, accepted from the insured an abandonment of
the cargo as fpi' a total loss, and paid to them $921175, and
thereby became subrogated to all the rights of Armour, Plank-

THE SYDNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

inton & Company, for such loss, against the. Sydney and the
Worden.
The libel prayed for process against the two boats, for a
citation to all persons claiming any right, title or interest in
the same, for the payment of, the claim of the libellants, with
interest and costs, for the condemnation and sale of the said
vessels to pay the same and for such other and further relief
in the premises as in law and justice the libellants might be
entitled to receive.
On the 14th of August, 1883,. one Charles E. Wager put in
a claim to the two vessels as their owner. On the 15th of
August, 1883, the District Court made an order, on the consent of the proctors for the claimant, that the Sydney be
sold by the marshal. The marshal sold the Sydney for $2100,
and he paid that sum to the clerk of the court, after deducting
his costs and disbursements, amounting to $166.84. On the
28th of August, 1883, the proctors for the libellants and the
claimant agreed that the value of the Worden be fixed at $1000,
in lieu of an appraisement, and that a bond to the marshal be
given in that amount, which was accordingly done.
On the 7th of September, 1883, Wager put in an answer to
the libel, setting up -that at the times alleged in it he was the
owner of the Sydney and the Worden, admitting that the
wheat on board of the Worden was consigned to Armour,
Plankinton & Company, denying that the sinking of the Worden was caused through negligence; denying, also, that the
libellants insured Armour, Plankinton & Company, and averring that any payment made by the libellants for the loss of
the wheat was paid for the benefit and to the credit of Wager;
that he paid the premium for the insurance on. the wheat, to
insure him against his liability as a common carrier, and with
a distinct agreement with the shippers of' the wheat and the
libellants that, in case of any loss or damage to the wheat
while in transitu,the .payment of such loss or damage by the
insurance companies should accrue to his benefit and relieve
him from his liability as a common carrier for such damage
and loss; -and that he paid such premium with the knowledge
and consent of the libellants, and in accordance with the well-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

established custom existing at Buffalo, whereby common carriers insured themselves against losses under their liability as
such for damage and loss to the cargoes shipped on board of
their boats.
The case was tried before Judge Brown, in the District
Court, who dismissed the libel with costs, giving an opinion
which is reported in 23 Fed. Rep. 88.
The libellants appealed to the Circuit Court, where the case
was heard by Judge Wallace, who made a decree reversing
the decree of the District Court, awarding to the libellants a
recovery against both boats for $6175.89 and $1420.30 interest, and $656.28 costs in both courts, being an aggregate of
$8252.47, and decreeing that the two boats be condemned
therefor. The decree also recited that the Sydney had been
sold and the proceeds of the sale, to wit, $2100, had been paid
by the marshal into the registry of the court, and that the
value of the Worden was fixed by consent at $1000, for which
the usual stipulation for value was duly given, and directed
that the proceeds of the sale of the Sydney be paid over to
the proctor for the libellants, and that the stipulators for the
value of the Worden cause the engagement of their stipulation
to be performed. The opinion of Judge Wallace is reported
in 27 Fed. Rep. 119. He filed the proper findings of fact and
conclusions of law. Wager, the claimant, appealed to this
court.

The first question which arises is as to the jurisdiction of
this court, inasmuch as the proceeds of the sale of the Sydney
were only $2100, and the value of the Worden was only
$1000, the aggregate of these two sums not exceeding $5000.
There was no decree against any person intpersonam, for any
amount. The only decree was that the Sydney and the Worden be condemned for the $8252.47.
We are of opinion that this court has no jurisdiction of this
appeal. In Elgin v. XAarshall, 106 U. S. 578, a judgment had
been rendered by a Circuit Court for $1660.75 against a town.
on interest coupons detached from bonds which the town had
issued. The ibonds were for a larger sum than $5000. It was
held by this court that it had- no jurisdiction .to reexamine the

THE SYDNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment, on the ground that the statute limiting the appellate jurisdiction of this court to cases where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum or value of $5000,
had reference to the matter directly in dispute in the particular cause in which the judgment sought to be reviewed had
been rendered, and did n6t permit the court, for the purpose
of determining its sum or value, to estimate its collateral effect
in a subsequent suit between the same or other parties. It
was further said that the court could not add to thevalue of
the matter determined any estimate in money by reason of
the probative force of the judgment itself in some subsequent
proceeding.
The principle involved in Elgin v. Marshall was, on the
authority of that case, applied by this court in an admiralty
cause, T/he Jessie Williamson, Jr., 108 U. S. 305, the facts in
which were substantially like those in the present case. In the
case of Th7e Jessie Williamson, Jr., the counsel for the appellant invoked the authority of The Enterrise,2 Curtis, 317, as
taking the case out of the rule laid down in Elgin v. .arshall.
In The Jessie Williamson, Jr., the libellant in a suit in rem, in
admiralty, against a vessel, claimed in his libel to recover
$27,000 for damages growing out of a collision. A stipulation
in the sum of $2100, ap the appraised value of the vessel, was
given in the District Court. The libel having been, on appeal,
dismissed by the Circuit Court, the libellant appealed to this
court, which held that the matter in dispute did not exceed
the sum or value of $5000, exclusive of costs, and that it had
no jurisdiction of the appeal. In The Jessie Williamson, Jr.,
it was said by this court, that, although the libellant might
recover $27,000 against the vessel, it was plain that he could
not recover on the stipulation for value, which represented
her, more than $2100, and could not recover against the sureties.in the stipulation more than that amount; and that, the
suit being one in rem only, the value of the vessel, repres!ented
by the stipulation, was all that was in dispute, because that
was all that the libellant could obtain or the stipulators lose
in the suit. It was further shown, in the opinion in The Jessie
Williamson, Jr., that the facts in that case differed from the

OCTOBER TER,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

facts :n the case of The Enteqr1prse; so that, whatever was
said by this court in apparent recognition of the propriety of
the decision in the case of The Ehterprisemust be regarded as
obiter dictum, and the views set forth in the opinion' in the
last-mentioned case, so far as they. conflict with the actual rulings of this court in the cases of -Elgin v. .arshall and The
Jessie Williamson, J., must be regarded as not having had
the affirmative approval of this court.
The principle of the case of Elgin v. Marshall,that the sum
or value really in dispute between the parties in.the case before
this court, as shown by the whole record, is the test of its
appellate jurisdiction, without regard to the collateral effect
of the judgment in another suit between the same or other
parties, has since been repeatedly affirmed by this court, and
that. case cited and approved. Opelika City v. Daniel, 109
U. S. 108; Bruce v. Afanchester & Ileene Railroad,117 U. S.
514; Gilson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27; licksburg &c. Railroad
v. Smitk, 135 U. S. 195.
The case of The JessieWilliamson, Jr., has been cited with
approval by this court in Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern
Railway, 115 I. S. 611, and Gib~on v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27.
It is very clear that if the libel in the present case had been
dismissed by the Circuit Court, the libellants could not have
appealed. The right of appeal must be reciprocal, and the
statute does not give to one party an advantage over the other
party, under the same circumstances. Hilton v. Di kinson,
108 U. S. 165; The JessieWilliamson, Jr., 108 U. S. 305, 311.
The apjleaZ is d;igmissedfor want ofjurisdiction.

