OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

SANFORD v. SANFORD.
ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

STATE

OF

OREGON.

No. 275. Submitted March 30,1891.-Decided April 13,1891.

In May, 1871, one S settled upon unsurveyed public lands in Oregon, as an
intending preimptor. In September following he induced his brother to
remove from California and make like settlement on adjoining unsurveyed lands and assisted him in building and making other improvements
thereon. After official suryey and filing of plat thereof in the local land
office, each filed a preemption declaration for the land severally occupied by them. Shortly thereafter, and upon x parte affidavits falsely
averring his own residence and occupation thereon, S was. granted permission by the Commissioner of the General Land Office to change his
pregmption declaration so as to include the land claimed and occupied
by his brother, who, as shown by the findings, was a qualified prehmptor,
in actual occupation, with substantial improvements. After issue of
patent to S for the land embraced in his amended declaration, he brought
ejectment against his brother for possession., The latter thereupon invoked the aid of a court of equity to enjoin S from prosecuting his
action of ejectment; to declare the latter trustee of the property and to
compel transfer thereof to him. In such action, Held,
(1) That while the determination of the land department in a matter cognizable by it in the alienation of lands under the laws of the
United States cannot be collaterally impeached, when its enforcement is sought,- where. the matter determined is not properly
before the department, or its conclusion has been reached from a
misconstruction of the law applicable to the case, and it has thus
denied to a party rights which upon a correct construction
would have been conceded to him, or where misrepresentation
and fraud have been practised necessarily affecting its judgment,
a court of equity in a proper proceeding will interfere and control its determination so as to secure the just rights of the party
injuriously affected. The party acquiring the property under
the circumstances mentioned will be charged as a trustee of the
rightful owner and be compelled to transfer the property to
him.
(2) By section 2261 of the Revised Statutes, and in consonance with the
established practice of the land department thereunder, but one
preemption declaration is permitted. The statutory prohibition
against a second declaration is unqualified, and applies in all
cases, except where a prior claim has prevented the completion
of the original entry, or a mistake in the original declaration has
occurred withkout the knowledge or any fault of the claimant.

SANFORD v. SANFORD.

643

Statement of the Case.
(3) The tract applied for in the second declaration need not be an
entirely separate and distinct parcel to call into effect the prohibition; it is enough if there be such addition to the original land
applied for as to justify the designation of it with the' addition
as a different tract.
(4) The Commissioner of the General Land Office having no authority
to allow an amendment by a pre~mptioner of his original declaration so as to cover a different tract, the land department acquires
by such amendment no jurisdiction to award the additional tract
to the claimant. Its action upon such additional tract will not
defeat the rights of the occupant thereof.

THis is a suit in equity between two brothers, whose last
name is Sanford, and whose first names are not in the record,
but only their initials, C. W. of the plaintiff below and H. W.
of the defendant below.
The suit was brought to enjoin proceedings in an action of
ejectment commenced by the defendant below, the plaintiff in
error here, and to charge the latter as trustee of the property,
and compel its transfer to the plaintiff. In the nomenclature
of the Code of Oregon, regulating procedure in civil cases, it
is termed a cross-bill. It sets forth with much particularity
the several matters upon which relief is prayed, the averments
respecting which are met by a general and specific denial in
the answer of the defendant. A replication having been filed
to this answer, the case, by consent of parties, was tried by
the court. From its findings it appears, among other things,
that in M ay, 1871, the defendant settled upon unsurveyed
land of the United States in Coos County, Oregon, with the
intention of taking up 160 acres of it as a pre mlption claim,
so soon as the same was surveyed; and that in September following, at his solicitation, his brother, the plaintiff below,
moved from California, where he then resided, and settled
upon adjoining lands, then unsurveyed, also with the intention
of taking up the same as a preemption claim when surveyed.
Since then he has resided upon this adjoining land and cultivated and improved it. His settlement was made and the
land was cultivated with the knowledge and at the request of
the defendant, who pointed out the land to him and aided
him in erecting buildings upon it, and in improving it in vari-

OCTOBER TERTAf, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ous other ways. In 1819 the land thus settled upon by the
parties was surveyed by the United States, and an approved
plat thereof was filed in the local land office in July of that
year. On the 9th of Sepfember following the plaintiff filed a
declaratory statement for the parcels occupied by him, as a
pre~mption claim; and on the 27th of the same month the
defendant made a declaratory statement for those which he
occupied. Neither of these claims interfered with the other,
and except on one occasion, from the time of the settlement,
no pretence had been made by either that he had any superior
right to the land occupied by the other. Both recognized that
they were ultimately to secure the parcels which they severally
occupied as their respective preemption claims, and with that
understanding and knowledge the plaintiff had made valuable
and lasting improvements upon the land on which he had
settled.
On October 14, 1880, more than a year afterwards, the
defendant was granted permission by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office to amend his declaratory statement
so as to include within it the parcels occupied by the plaintiff,
which constitute the premises in controversy. This permission
was procured upon ew parte affidavits of the defendant and
two witnesses, without notice to the plaintiff of the proceeding.
When they were filed the plaintiff had been, and was then,
residing, as stated above, upon the land, which had never
been occupied by the defendant. Pursuant to the permission
the defendant amended his declaratory statement, and thus
brought the premises before the land department as part of
his preemption claim, and was enabled to include them in the
patent ultimately obtained by him, in fraud of the rights of
the plaintiff. The court also found that at the time of his
settlement upon the land in dispute the plaintiff was a qualified
pre~niptor; that he had made permanent improverhents upon
it, between" January, 1872, and January, 1883, with the knowledge of the defendant, of the value of eighteen hundred dollars;
that the affidavits upon which the defendant was allowed to
amend his declaratory statement did not show that the plain-,
tiff was in possession of the premises or had made any improve-

SANFORD v. SANFORID.
Opinion of the Court.

ments thereon, but, on the contrary, falsely alleged that the
house of the defendant and his improvements were situated
thereon; and that thereby the Commissioner of the General
land Office was imposed upon and deceived, and induced to
allow the defendant to amend his declaratory statement.
And, as a conclusion of law, the court held that the plaintiff
was entitled to a decree enjoining proceedings in the action of
ejectment, and adjudging that the defendant held the legal
title to the land in dispute in trust for him.
In conformity with this conclusion a decree was entered in
favor of the plaintiff, and the defendant was required to convey the premises to him. On appeal to the Supreme Court of
the State this decree was affirmed; and to review this decree
of affirmance the case is brought, on a writ of error, to this
court.
MJr. X. -D. Brainardfor plaintiff in error.
Xr. J N. Do ph for defendant in error.
Mn. JusTicE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
By the Code of Oregon the findings of the court in an
equity case of this kind are as conclusive as similar findings
would be in an action at law. Hill's Annotated Laws of
Oregon, sec. 397. They must therefore be taken as correct
in the disposition of the question before us, they not having
been set aside or qualified by any subsequent action of the
court below. And upon them it is contended that the amendment to the declaratory statement of the defendant made in
18S4, by 'which he was enabled to include within it the land
in controversy, never occupied or improved by him, but at the
time in the possession of the plaintiff, was in effect a second
declaration of a preemptive right to a different tract from the
one originally claimed by him, and was allowed in disregard
of the express prohibition of the statute, Rev. Stat. ยง 2261, or
upon a plain misconstruction of its provisions, and gave no
jurisdiction fo the land department, to treat the land thus in

OCTOBER TER-Af, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

eluded as part of his preemption claim, and that but for the
amendment the land would have been awarded to the plaintiff.
It is objected to this contention that the question as to the
defendant's right as a preemption claimant to the land in controversy was a matter to be determined by the land department, where it was considered. It is true the determination
of that department in matters cognizable by it, in the alienation of lands under the laws of the United States, cannot be
collaterally impeached, where its enforcement. is sought. In
ejectment the question always is. who has the legal title for
the demanded premises, not who ought to have it. In such
cases the patent of the government issued upon the direction
of the land department is 'Unassailable. But whilst the
patentee holds the legal title his equitable relations to other
parties are not thereby affected. That title, with. important
qualifications hereafter mentioned, is as much subject to control as the title to land held by him derived from private
sources. If one takes a title in his own name, whilst acting
as agent, trustee or guardian, or in any other fiduciary capacity, a court of equity will, upon a showing of the fact in an
appropriate proceeding, subject the lands to proper trusts in
his hands or compel him to transfer the title to the party
equitably entitled to it. Nor does it matter whether the party
takes the title in his own name in good faith, under the belief
that he can thereby better manage the property to the advantage of those for whom he is acting, or in compliance with
their wishes, or whethef from an intention to defraud them
of their rights therein. In either case a court of equity will
control the legal title so as to protect the just rights of the
true owner. Tlownsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326, 335; Estradca
v. Jf phy, 19 California, 248. All this is but common knowledge, and the doctrine is constantly invoked for'the protection
of the rights of parties against the mistake, accident or fraud
of agents or parties acting in a fiduciary capacity, and little
difficulty is experienced in enforcing it, where the property
held is not claimed under the adjudication of a court or other
tribunal affirming the title of the holder; as, for instance,
upon the determination of a department like that established

SANFORD v. SAN-FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

to supervise proceedings for the alienation of the public lands.
In these latter cases the action of a court of equity is limited
so as not to interfere with the rightful exercise of the powers
intrusted to the department. The conclusions of the department are not even then open to review for alleged errors in
passing upon the weight of evidence presented, for that would
be to make a court of equity a court of appeal from its decisions, which was never contemplated.
But where the matters determined are not properly before
the department, or its conclusions have been reached from a
misconstruction, by its officers, of the law applicable to the
cases before it, and it has thus denied to parties rights which,
upon a correct construction, would have been conceded to
them, or where misrepresentations and fraud have been practised, necessarily affecting its judgment, then the courts can,
in a proper proceeding, interfere and control its determination
so as to stcure the just rights of parties injuriously affected.
Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420, 426; Baldwin v. Stark, 107
U. S. 4163, 465. In such cases a court of equity only exercises
its ordinary jurisdiction to prevent injustice from a misconstruction of the law or the machinations of fraud.
The misconstruction referred to must be, as stated, of the
law applicable to the case as established. Of this misconstruction we have an instance in Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall. 219, where
it was held by the Commissioner of the General land Office
and the Secretary of the Interior that the donation act of Oregon did not allow an unmarried woman to take as a settler, on
the ground that she was not the head of a family. But this
court decided that in this determination the officers misconstrued the law, and upon a bill in equity, filed by her son
against subsequent patentees of the United States of the
lands, held that relief should be afforded by directing a transfer of the title to him from such patentees.
And the misrepresentations and fraud mentioned necessarily
affecting the judgment of the department, must be such as
have prevented the unsuccessful party from fully presenting
his case, or the officers of the government from fully considering it; such as have imposed upon its jurisdiction or turned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

its attention from the real controversy.

It must also appear

that but for such imposition and fraud the determination
would have"been in favor of the plaintiff, and have entitled
him to the patent for the land in dispute. Lee v. JoAnson, 116
iU. S. 49, 50; S4arks v. Pierce,115 U. S. 408, 413; Vance v.
.Bwrbank,101 U. S. 514, 519.'
'The case at bar, upon the facts found, is brought fully within
the law as thus declared. The defendant in his original declaratory statement did not include the premises in controversy as
part of his preemption claim. It covered only adjoining land.
Under the statute he could not make a second declaration for
different property. Section 2261 of the Revised Statutes provides
that "no person shall be entitled to more than one preemption
right by virtue of the provisions of section 2259 ; nor where a
party has filed his declaration of intention to claim the benefit
of such provisions for one tract of. land, shall he file, at any
future time, a second declaration for another tract." Section
2259 referred to designates who may be entitled to pregimption.
The inhibition of section 2261 is positive and unconditional.
The tract applied for in the second declaration need not be an
entirely separate and distinct parcel to call into effect the prohibition; it is enough if there 'be such addition to the original
land applied for as to justify the designation -of it, with the
addition, as a different tract. With the filing of the first declaration the applicant is limited to the land designated, whether
less or different from what he supposed he could claim, or
what he may subsequently desire to acquire. The prohibition
of the statute is without qualification or exception, and the
rights of the preemptor must be measured by it. Baldwin v.
Stark, 107 U. S.463, 466. Such has been the uniformi ruling
of the land department, except where a prior claim has prevented the completion of the original entry, or a mistake in
the first declaration has occurred without the knowledge or
any fault of the claimant.
In the 'ae of J.. B. Raymond, 2 Land Dec. 854, the claimant filed a declaratory statement in February, 1880, for a
quarter section of land in Kansas, and in April, 1883, he applied to the local land office for permission to make a second

SANFORD v. SANFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

filing for the same land, alleging as a reason therefor that he
had made valuable improvements on his claim, but, having
failed to raise any crops on account of the drought, was unable
to pay for the land within the time prescribed by law. He,
therefore, desired to file a second declaratory statement for the
same land, for the better protection of his rights in the premises. The local land office rejected the application, and the
Commissioner approved of the decision. Subsequently, the
claimant asked permission to file. another declaration for
the same or other land, but it met with a similar rejection, and
the case on both applications was brought before the Interior
Department, where the decision of the Commissioner in both
instances was affirmed.' Mr. Teller, then Secretary, held that
the claimant's application to file a new declaration for other
land was properly denied upon the second clause of the statute, and that his application to file for the same land was
properly denied upon the first clause, he having attempted
to exercise the one preemptive right which was alone permissible.
In Allen v. Baird, 6 Land Dec. 298, it appeared that Allen
had made a declaratory statement for a tract of land as a preemptor, in March, 1883, although he had made such declaration for another tract in August, 1880. It was sought to avoid
the former filing upon the ground that at the date thereof he
was not twenty-one years of age, and hence the filing was a
nullity and no bar to a second one. The Commissioner held
that the second filing was illegal, and upon appeal to the Interior Department his decision was affirmed. In disposing of
the case, Mr. Lamar, then Secretary, after observing that
Allen had stated in his first filing that be was over twentyone years of age, when he knew the statement was untrue,
and that, the land being subject to settlement and entry, he
could not be heard to allege that the first filing was illegal,
said: "The question of. second filing was carefully considered
by my predecessor, Secretary Teller, in the Case of J. B.
Raymond, 2 Land Dec. 851, wherein it was held, that under
the provision of section 22&1,.Revised Statutes, a preemptor
may file but one declaratory statement for land free to settle

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ment and entry. , This ruling has been uniformly followed
and the only exception is where the preemptor is unable tc
perfect his entry on account of some prior claim, and there is
no fault on his part." Reference is then made to other decisions of the department, and to the case of Baldwin v. &ark,
cited above, where the positive and unconditional character of
the inhibition of the statute is recognized by this court.
In allowing the defendant in this case to amend his declaratory statement, the commissioner of the General Land Office
assumed a power which was not vested in him. No circumstances existed which prevented the first declaration from
bringing into operation the express prohibition of the statute
against a second one. The claimant knew perfectly the character and extent of the land originally claimed by him. He
was at the time under no misapprehension on that subject.
The commissioner, in allowing the amendment to cover a
much larger tract than at first claimed, authorized a second
declaration for a different tract, which was not permissible.
If that officer was of the opinion that the statute did not
apply to an amendment, thus enlarging the original declaration, he misconstrued its provisions. Without such enlargement, the premises in controversy would not have been brought
before the land department as a part of the claim of the defendant, and no obstacle would have been presented to the
award of a patent to the plaintiff for the land. By the
amendment, therefore, the department acquired no more jurisdiction to award to the defendant the tract not embraced by
his original declaration than it had to award to him any other
tract never entered by him as a pre~mptioner in the local land
office. Its subsequent action upon the additional tract could
not defeat the rights of the plaintiff to the premises.
Besides the want of authority in the commissioner to allow
under the form of an amendment an enlargement of the pre6mption claim, the manner in which that officer was imposed
upon taints the transaction as one of fraud and misrepresentation on the part of the claimant, by which material facts were
concealed from the department. A court of equity has jurisdiction in such a case to compel the transfer to the plaintiff of

DAVIS v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

property which, but for such fraud and misrepresentation,
would have been awarded to him, and of which he was thereby
wrongfully deprived.
Decree afflrmed.
DAVIS v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1593. Submitted March 30, 1891.--Decided April 13,1891.

A writ of erro.r to review the judgment of the highest tribunal of a State
cannot be maintained in the absence of a Federal question giving this
court jurisdiction.
The questions sought to be presented in this case as Federal questions fall
entirely within the scope of the exercise of the powers of the State, and
this court has no jurisdiction over them.
This case distinguished from Calton v. Utah, 130 U. S. 83.

lOTiON to dismiss, affirm or advance. The supposed Federal questions are stated in the opinion.

.Mr. C. A. Culberson, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, .-. Henry 2f. urman and _21r. Charles 17. Arimes
for the motion.
Mr. &Samuel
Field -Phllipsand ..Mr. rederickD. 3fcJenney
opposing.
MR. CHrF JuSTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was indicted by the grand jury of Tarrant
County, Texas, for that, in that county, on July 6, A.D. 1889,
he "with force and arms, did, unlawfully and with his express
malice aforethought, kill and murder one B. 0. Evans with a
pistol, contrary to the form of the statute in such cases made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
State;" and, having been arraigned and pleaded not guilty,
was tried, found guilty of murder in the first degree, his pun-

