WORTHINGTON

v. ROBBINS.

Opinion of the Court.

WORTHINGTON v. ROBBINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THB

DISTRIar OF MASSACHUSE TS.
No. 230. Argued 'March 19, 1891.-Decided March 30, 1891.

"White hard enamel," imported in 1884, and used for various purposes whenJ
a smooth or enamelled surface was desired, including the making of faces
or surfaces of watch dials, the form or condition of it, as imported,
affording no indication of the use to which it was to be applied, and it
requiring to be ground or pulverized, and new processes of manufacture
to be applied before it could be made of any practical use, the article in
this case having been imported for use in making watch dials, and having
been in fact so used, was subject tb a ditty of 20 per cent ad valorem,
under ยง'2513 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by ยง 6 of the act of
March 3, 1883, c. 121, as an article manufactured in whole Qr in part, not
therein enumerated or provided for, and not to a duty of 25 per cent ad
valorem, as "watch materials," not specially enumerated or provided for
in the act, under schedule N of ยง 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted
by the same ยง 6.
In order to be dutiable as "watch materials," tLe article, when importe&,
must be in such form of manufacture as to show its adaptation to the
making of watches.
The case of Elgin Watch Co. v. Spalding, 19 Fed. Rep. 411, distinguished.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
XJtr. Assistant Attorney General Parker for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. J. P. Tucker for defendants in error.

MR. JUSTmcE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the District of Massachusetts by R. E. Robbins and
others, copartners as Robbins, Appleton & Co., against Roland
Worthington, collector of customs -for the revenue district of.
Boston and Charlestown, to recover an alleged excess of duties,
paid under protest, on importations into the port of Boston. in
VOL. cxxxx-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Mfarch and May, 1884, of an article known and described in
trade as "white tiard enamel."
The case was tried by the Circuit Court without a jury on
the following statement of agreed facts: "The plaintiffs imported from a foreign country into the United States, to wit,
into the port of Boston, in the District of Massachusetts, in the
months of March and May, 1884, two lots of white hard
enamel, in the steamships Marathon and Samaria, from Liverpool, and made entries of the same at the custom-house in said
Boston, for consumption. The defendant, as collector of customs at said port assessed, liquidated and exacted duties upon
this enamel at the rate of 25 per cent -ad valorem as 'watch
materials, not specially enumerated or provided for.' Plaintiffs duly protested to the defendant against the exaction of
such rate of duty, and claimed that the lawful duty due upon
this enamel was 20 per cent ad valorem, as an article ' manufactured' in whole or in part, not herein enumerated or provided for.' A copy of the protest is annexed and made a part
hereof. Plaintiffs duly appealed to the Secretary of the
Treasury, who sustained the defendant in his action. In due
time and form plaintiffs instituted this action for the recovery
of duties paid in excess of twenty per cent ad valorem. It is
agreed that the merchandise is and was in 1883 known and
described in trade as ' white hard enamel;' that it is used for
various purposes, including the making of faces or surfaces of
watch dials, scale columns of thermometers, faces or surfaces
of steam-gauge dials, and for other purposes when a smooth
or enamelled surface is desired. It is further agreed that the
form or condition of this merchandise, as imported, affords no
evidence or indication of the use to.which it is to be applied.
It is further agreed that this merchandise, in the form or condition as imported, cannot be used for any of the purposes
above described, nor for any purposes whatever of practical use
adapted or ever applied; that before it can be
to which it isapplied to any practical use its present form and condition
must be changed by grifiding or pulverizing, and new processes
of manufacture applied. It is further agreed, if it would be
competent tG prove the same, that the plaintiffs are, and have

WORTHINGTON

v. ROBBINS.

Opinion of the Court.

been for several years prior to said importations, manufacturers of watches; that the enamel in controversy was imported by them for use in making watch dials, and was in fact
so used. If the court shall be of the opinion that the duty.
lawfully chargeable upon this merchandise was 20 per cent advalorem, the judgment shall be for the plaintiffs for the excess
exacted, to be ascertained by an assessor, with interest and
costs. On the contrary, if the court shall be of the opinion
that the duty exacted was that lawfully due, then judgment
shall be for the defendant for costs."
The protest referred to in the statement of agreed facts was
as follows: "Boston, July 3d, 1884. Sir: We respectfully
protest. against your decision, assessment, liquidation and
exaction of duties at the rate of twenty-five per cent ad valorem upon our importation of three packages of white hard
enamel marked <

1822/4 in the steamship Samaria. from

Liverpool and entered for consumption on the 12th day of
May last, claiming that under the existing laws of the United
States this merchandise is liable only either to a duty of ten
per cent or twenty per cent ad valorem. This enamel is not
enumerated by name in the tariff; therefore must be classed
for duty purposes under some general term or description. It
bears no similitude to any named article in the tariff, within
the intent or provisions of section 2499 of the act of March 3,
1883, and cannot be classed under that section. It is a crude
article, only useful for any purpose by the destruction of its
present form and condition, and a cAnplete process of manufacture, and is provided for by section 2513 of said act of
March 3, at a duty of ten per cent ad valorem. Should it,
however, be held that, on account of its present condition, it is
a partially manufactured article, then it is provided for by
said section 2513, at a duty of twenty per cent ad valorem.
It is not a part of a watch or watch material, within the description and intent of the provisions of schedule N of said act
of M rch 3. It is adapted to, can be, and is used for various
purposes, and is not a part of any special artiqle nor a material
for any special article. We submit, under compulsion, to get
our goods, and shall hold you and the government responsible."

OCTOBER TERM:, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The court ordered judgment for the plaintiffs, and referred
the case to an assessor to assess the damages. On his report, a
judgment was entered for the plaintiffs for $53.14 and costs.
To review that judgment, the collector has brought a writ of
error.
The question for decision is, whether.the article imported
was liable to the duty assessed upon it by the collector, of 25
per cent ad valorem, under that clause of schedule N of secion, 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by section 6 of
the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 514, which read as
follows: "Watches, watch-cases, watch-movements, parts of
watches and watch materials, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act, twenty-five per centum. ad valorem;"
or whether it was liable to a duty of 20 per cent ad valorem,
under section 2513, of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the
same section 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, which read as
follows: "There shall be levied, collected and paid on the
importation of all raw or unmanufactured articles, not herein
enumerated or provided for, a duty of ten per centum ad valorem; and all articles manufactured, in whole or in part, not
herein enumerated or provided for, a duty of twenty per centun ad valorem."
It is contended for the government that the article in question fell under the head of "watch materials." But we are
of opinion that this contention is unsound, and that the article was dutiable at 20 per cent ad valorem, as an article manufactured in whole or in part, not otherwise enumerated or
provided for.
By the statement of agreed facts, the article was, when the
tariff act applying to it was enacted, known and described
in trade as "white hard, enamel," and "is used for various
purposes, including the making of faces or surfaces of watch
dials, scale columns of thermometers, faces or surfaces of
steam-gauge dials, and for other purposes when a smooth or
enamelled surface is desired." It thus appears that it is not
used exclusively for the "making of faces or surfaces of watch
dials; and, although it is stated in the statement of agreed
facts that the/ enaulel in controversy was- imported by the

WORTHINGTON v. ROBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs for use in making watch dials, and was in fact so
used, there was nothing to prevent them from selling it to
-persons who would use it for the other purposes for which it
is stated it is used.
It appears further, that the form or condition of the merchandise as imported affords no evidence or indication of the
use to which it is to be applied; that, in the form or condition
as imported, it cannot be used for any of the purposes mentioned, nor for any purposes whatever of practical use to
which it is adapted or ever applied ; and that, before it can
be applied to any practical use, its present form and condition
must be changed by grinding or pulverizing, and new processes
of manufacture be applied.
It is apparent, from the facts stated, that the customs officers
could not determine from an examination of the article to
which of the uses named it was to be applied, or that it was
to become the material of a watch. In order to produce uniformity in the imposition of duties, the dutiable classification
of articles imported must be ascertained by an examination of
the imported article itself, in the condition in which it is imported. In order to be dutiable as "watch materials," the
article, when imported, must be in such form of manufacture
as to show its adaptation to the making of watches.
The article in question was, to all intents and purposes, raw
material. If it were to be classed as "watch materials," it
would follow that any'metal which could ultimately be used,
and was ultiinately used, in the' manufacture of a watch, but
could be used for other purposes also, would be dutiable as
"watch materials."
In order to be " watch materials," the
article must in itself bear marks of its special adaptation for use
in making watches. The.fact that the article in question was
used in the manufacture of watches has no relation to the condition of the article as imported, but to what afterwards the
importer did with it.
The government relies upon the decision of Judge Blodgett'
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, in Elgin Watch Co. v. Spalding,19 Fed.
Rep. 411, in which the question involved was whether an

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

article known in trade as "watch enamel" was dutiable at 40
per cent ad valorem, under the last clause of schedule B of
section 2504 of the Revised Statutes, as "manufactures of
glass, or of which glass shall be a component material, not
otherwise provided for," or to a duty of 25 per cent ad valorem
as "watch materials," under schedule X of section 2504: and
it was held that the article was not a manufacture of glass,
but was dutiable as "watch materials." But in that case it is
stated that the article there in question .was known to the
trade as "watch enamel," and was used only, so far as was
disclosed by the evidence, for enamelling the faces or dials of
watches. It does not appear by the report of that ca~e
whether or not there was any earmark upon the imported
article to indicate its proposed use. That case was not, in its
facts, at all like the present one, and this case must be decided
upon the facts shown by the record.
Judgment afJrmed.

PEAKE v. NEW ORLEANS.
APPEAL

FROM THE OCRUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTEI
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 852. Argued October 27, 28, 29, 1890. -Decided

March 9,1891.

The judgment at law on which the bill in this case is based, absolved the
,defendant from any primary obligation of debtor to creditor, and left it
chargeable only as trustee of a fund out of which plaintiff's claim was to
be paid; and it was unquestionably correct.
To the extent that the city of New Orleans may be considered as such a
trustee, it is a compulsory trustee by force of the legislation of 1871,
and not a voluntary and contractual trustee, and its responsibility should
be restricted to the narrowest limits.
In failing to collect the uncollected assessments, the city was guilty of no
dereaction of duty as trustee.
The various assessment proceedings, taken in connection with the decision
of the Snpreme Court approving the homologation of the tableaux, may
have operated, if not to cast a specific lien upon the streets and other
-public grounds, at least to charge upon the city an obligation to the
drainage fund for a proportionate share of the total cost of the drainage;

