OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

CENTRAL TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v. PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 379. Argued January 28, 29, 1890.-becided March 2,1891.

A statute of a state, which authorizes the judge presiding at the trial to order
a judgment of nonsuit to bd entered, when in his opinion the evidence
introduced by the plaintiff is insufficient in matter of law to sustain a
verdict, may be followed, upder Rev. Stat. § 914, in the Circuit Court of
the United States held within that state; and a judgment of nonsuit
rendered accordingly, upon a ruling in matter of law duly excepted to,
may be reviewed by this court on writ of error.
A corporation, formed by articles of association, called a certificate or
charter, under the general laws of Pennsylvania concerning manufacturing companies, with a certain capital stock, for twenty years, for "the
transportation of passengers in railroad cars constructed and owned by
the said company" under certain patents, carried on the business of
manufacturing sleeping cars under its patents, and of hiring or letting
the cars to railroad companies by written contracts, receiving a revenue
from the sale of berths and accommodations to passengers. Seven years
afterwards, by a special act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, the charter
was extended for ninety-nine years, and the corporation was empowered
to double its capital stock, and" to enter into contracts with corporations
of this or any other state for the' leasing or hiring and transfer to
them, or any of them, of its railway cars and other personal property."
The corporation forthwith entered into an indenture with a corporation
of another state engaged in a similar business, by which it leased and
transferred to that corporation all its cars, railroad contracts, patent
rights and other personal property, moneys, credits and rights of action,
for the term of ninety-nine years, except so far as the contracts and
patents should expire sooner; and covenanted not to "engage in the
business of manufacturing, using or hiring sleeping cars" while the
indenture should remain in force; and the lessee covenanted to pay all
existing debts of the lessor, and to pay to the lessor annually the sum of
$264,000, during the entire term of ninety-nine years, unless the indenture should be sooner terminated as therein provided. Held, That this
contract was unlawful and void, because beyond the corporate powers of
the lessor, and involving an abandonment of its duty to the public; and
therefore no action could be maintained by the lessor upon the contract,
or to recover the suns thereby payable, even while the lessee had
enjoyed the benefits of the contract.

CENTRAL TRAlNSP. CO. v. PULLMAN'S CAR CO.

25

Statement of the Case.
Tnis was an action of covenant, brought September 21, 1SS6,
by the Central Transportation Company, a corporation of Pennsylvania, against Pullman's Palace Car Company, a corporation
of Illinois, to recover the sum of $198,000, due for the last
three quarters of the year ending July 1, 1886, according to
the terms of an indenture of lease from the plaintiff of all its
personal property to the defendant, dated February 17, 1870.
and set forth in full in the declaration.
The defendant filed several pleas, one of which was "that
said indenture of lease was void in law as between the parties
thereto, for the want of authority and corporate power on the
part of the parties thereto to make and enter into said indenture of lease; and for that the same was in excess and in violation of the charters conferring the corporate powers on said
plaintiff, and of the purpose of their incorporation."
The
plaintiff filed a replication, traversing the averments of this
plea.
The plaintiff was originally incorporated December 26, 1862,
by a certificate or charter, made, acknowledged, recorded and
filed in the office of the secretary of the commonwealth, as
required by the general laws of Pennsylvania., which authorized companies to incorporate themselves, by voluntary act of
the associates, "for the purpose of carrying on the manufacture of woollen, cotton, flax or silk goods, or of iron, paper,
lumber or salt," or "for the manufacture of articles from iron
and other metals, or out of wood, iron and other metals,"
within the State, for a term not exceeding twenty years; and
provided that every corporation so formed might by its corporate name purchase, hold and convey real or personal property,
"necessary or convenient to enable the said company to carry
on the business or operations named in such certificate;" and
that its stock, property and affairs should be managed by a
board of directors, a majority of whom in all cases should be
stockholders therein and citizens of the State; and authorized
the directors, subject to the revision and approval of the stockholders, to make such by-laws for the management and disposition of its stock and affairs, "and for carrying on all kinds
of business within the objects and purposes of such company;"

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and forbade the company to use any part of its capital stock
or other funds in the purchase of stock in any other corporation. Penn. Stats. April 7, 1849, c. 368, §§ 1, 3, 4, 8;' April 1,
1853, c. 186, § 2.
In accordance with the requirements of those statutes, the
plaintiff's certificate of incorporation, or charter, stated the
object for which it was formed, "the transportation of passengers in railroad cars constructed and to be owned by the said
company in accordance with the several letters patent," four
in all, described by numbers and dates; the place where, its
chief operations were to be carried on, Philadelphia; 'the
amount of its capital stock, $200,000; and its term of continuance, twenty years, the extreme limit allowed by the statutes.
By a special act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of February 9, 1870, c. 94, entitled "An act to extend the charter of
the Central Transportation Company, to empower them to
lease their property and increase their capital stock," the
plaintiff's charter was extended for ninety-nine years from its
expiration; and "said company are hereby empowered to
enter into contracts with corporations of this- or any other
State for the leasing or hiring and transfer to them, or any. of
them, of their railway cars and other personal property," as
well as "to increase their present capital stock two hundred
thousand dollars."
On February 17, 1870, eight days after the passage of that
act, the indenture sued on was made by and between the
plaintiff and the defendant, which had been incorporated three
years before, with a capital stock of $100,000, by a special act
of the legislature of Illinois of February 22, 1867, (declared
to be a public act,) " to manufacture, construct and purchase
railway cars, with all convenient appendages and supplies for
persons travelling therein, and the same" to "sell or use, or
permit to be used, in such manner and upon such terms as the
said company may think fit and proper."
The indenture, after the statement of the names of the parties, began with the following recitals:
"Whereas the parties hereto are engaged in the business of
manufacturing railway cars, generally known as sleeping cars,

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLMAN'S CAR CO.

27

Statement of the Case.

under certain patents belonging to them respectively, and of
hiring-the same to railroad companies under written contracts,
to be used and employed on and over the lines of the roads of
said railroad companies, and receiving therefor income and
revenue by the sale to passengers of the berths and accommodations therein; and
"Whereas the demands of the public for increased means
of personal comfort and convenience in travelling, of avoiding
repeated changes of cars over long routes of railroad,:the
necessity for affording, at fair and reasonable rates, these advantages, which cannot be extended by railroad companies
themselves, require that every possible means should be adopted
to meet such demands by avoiding the inconvenience and
curtailing the expenses incidental to the maintenance of the
business management and organization of two separate corporations."It further recited that the parties (professing to act under the
powers conferred upon them respectively by the special acts
of the legislatures of Pennsylvania and of Illinois, above mentioned,) had agreed that the plaintiff should demise, transfer
and set over to the defendant, and the defendant should take,
all the plaintiff's railway. cars, contracts, patent rights and
personal property.
By that indenture, accordingly, the plaintiff "granted, demised, transferred and set over" one hundred and nineteen.
railway sleeping cars with their equipment, its contracts with
sixteen railroad'companies, (copies of which were, annexed to
and made parts of the indenture,) all its patent rights, (an
assignment of which, including the four specified in its charter and thirteen others, was also annexed. to the indenture and
made part thereof,) and all its "personal property, rights,
credits, moneys and effects, rights of action, money due and
to become due from licenses heretofore granted," to the defendant, its successors and assigns, "to have and to hold the
above demised property, and all income, ravenue and profit to
be derived therefrom," for the term of ninety-nine years from
January 1, 1870, except so 'far as the contracts, patents and
licenses should expire sooner; and the plaintiff expressly cove-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

nanted that it would use its influence to obtain renewals or
new contracts in the defendant's name from the railroad coipanies; and that it "shall and will not engage in the business
of manufacturing, using or hiring sleeping cars, while this
contract remains in full force and effect."
The defendant, on its part, covenanted to pay to the plaintiff annually the sum of $261,000, in equal quarterly instalments, "during the entire term of ninety-nine years," unless,
upon a diminution of the revenue received from the railroad
companies, the indenture should be declared void by the
defendant, or the annual sums payable by the defendant be
reduced, as therein provided; also to pay all the plaintiff's
debts up to Tanuary 1, 1870, according to a schedule annexed,
by which they were not to exceed the sum of $63,998.69, that
being the amount of cash transferred by the plaintiff to the
defendant; to continue and carry on the business as authorized
by its charter, during the existence of the assigned contracts
or other like contracts with the same railroad companies; to
keep in repair the cars and their equipment, and to renew and
reconstruct them when needful; not to assign the indenture
without the plaintiff's assent, nor to create any lien or mortgage upon the property that should impair the plaintiff's
rights under the indenture; that, upon the defendant's failure
to make-any quarterly payment for thirty days after due, the
plaintiff might avoid the indenture, and thereupon the defendant should surrender the cars and equipment, assign to the
plaintiff the contracts with the railroad companies and any
unexpired patent rights, and cease to run or employ cars on
the same lines of railroad; and, at the end of the ninety-nine
years, to deliver to the plaintiff the cars and equipment in
good order, and assign to the plaintiff any unexpired contracts
with those railroad companies.
At the trial, in May, 1888, the plaintiff offered in evidence
its original charter, .the statute of Pennsylvania of February
9, 1870, and the indenture of February 17, 1870; as well as
evidence tending to show that the defendant, under that indenture, entered into possession of the plaintiff's property, and
continued in possession during the period covered by the declaration.

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. 1PULLMiAN'S CAr CO.

29

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

To the admission of all this evidence the defendant objected,
"on 'the ground that it was beyond the power of either corporation to make the contract; and also because it was null
and void by reason of its being in restraint of trade and
The court
against public policy as preventing competition."
sustained the objection, and excluded the evidence; and the
plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff then offered to prove, in addition to the above
evidence, that in pursuance of the indenture of February 17,
1870, the plaintiff's cars, contracts and patent rights were delivered to the defendant, and continued inits possession under
the indenture, and the defendant insisted on retaining them,
until July 1, 1886, and the defendant then for the first time
tendered them to the plaintiff and declared the indenture void,
in accordance with its provisions. The defendant objected to
this evidence; the court sustained the objection, and excluded
the evidence; and the plaintiff excepted.
The defendant thereupon moved for a nonsuit, and the
court granted the motion, and ordered a nonsuit, and refused
a motion of the plaintiff to take it off ; and the plaintiff again
excepted. A judgment of nonsuit was entered accordingly;
and the plaintiff tendered a bill of exceptions, which was
allowed by the court, and sued out this writ of error.
.Xr. John G. Johnson for plaintiff in error.
I. This contract was not ultra vires.
This case differs from Thomas v. Railroad Company, 101
U. S. 71 ; Pennsylvania Rail'oad Co. v. At. Louis, .Alton &.
Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 290, 307; and Oregon Railway Co.
v. Oregonian Railway Co., 130 U. S. 1, in that no privilege
was conferred upon the Central Transportation Company,
which required the performance of some duty as an equivalent. It never became a trustee for the public.to discharge
a duty because of a privilege conferred. It was vested wit'h
a franchise to be a corporatibn, to use a seal, and to act without its members becoming individually liable, saving to a certain extent, for its debts. It was permitted to do nothing
which could not be done by an individual. Its sole power

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was to manufacture cars under specified patents. It was in
precisely the same position as that of a limited liability company,which is only permitted to do what may be done by individuals ; which is not a corporation; but which, under the
laws of Pennsylvania, may use a common seal, and may act
without its members being liable for its debts.
It does not require an act of Assembly to permit a railroad
corporation to sell such of its real and personal property as is
not necessary for the exercise of its franchises. INone of the
property acquired by a manufacturing company is necessary
to the exercise of its power to manufacture; because it may
locate other property at any point which may please it, and
may there carry on its business. A railroad corporation, however, is only authorized to locate a road between certain termini. After it has located the same, its power further to
locate is at an end. Its right of way, therefore, becomes
absolutely necessary to the continuance of its railroad. There
is, therefore, a very obvious reason for requiring that such
property, so necessary to the exercise of the guasi public franchise, shall not be disposed of. There is no such reason in the
case of a manufacturing corporation, which may build, or buy,
as many mills as it may see fit.
The Central Transportation Company, though galled a
"transportation company," was, as we have said, a manufacturing corporation, with no right to transport, saving as -the
same resulted from its right to use the cars which it might
manufacture. In selling or leasing such cars it exercised a
right of ownership incidental to its right to manufacture, as
much as was that to transport, and it violated no duty to the
public such as it would have owed to it if it had acquired
property under the right of eminent domain, or had been
vested with a power to do some act for the public benefit, by
legislative grant, which it was not competent for individuals
to perforin.
At the time of the lease the whole capital of the company
had been invested in its cars, its patents and its contracts.
Even if it was uider an obligation to the State to manufacture, it had performed it by investing in such operation its

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLMA T'S CAR CO.

31

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

whole authorized capital. It was at liberty, after it had done
this to sell the property, and it was under no obligation to
reinvest the proceeds in further manufacturing.
Even if it had sold all its cars and patents, and had refused
to manufacture other cars, and even if such refusal would have
been cause for a forfeiture, it was only competent for the
Commonwealth, by writ of quo warranto,to work such forfeiture. It is not open to any person other than the Commonwealth, to complain that a private corporation deserves a
writ of ouster because of its non-exercise of its franchises. Of
course, the case is different with a quasi public corporation;
for there the public have a right to demand that the property
which it has acquired under the right of eminent domain, shall
be used for the benefit of those whose rights alone justified
its grant. This right the court will make efficacious whenever a perso. in interest asks it so to do.
The distinction between quasi public, and ordinary trading
corporations, is one that is much more than hinted at in
Thomas v. Railroad Company, supra, and is very clearly
stated in the text-books, and in many of the cases. Taylor
on Private Corporations, §§ 131, 132; Morawetz on Corporatiops, §§ 1025, 1129; Ardesco Oil Co. v. iortA American Mini-Ag Co., 66 Penn. St. 3M5, 381.
Further, the lease was not ultra vires in view of the act of
February, 1870. This act antedates the lease by but a few
days, and we may fairly infer that it was passed to set at rest
any doubt which might possibly be raised as to the validity of
what must then have been under contemplation. The Jease,
made within a few days after the passage of this act, has continned to be acted uon, without question as to its validity,
for sixte6n years. By virtue of this lease the Pullman Company has possessed itself of all the property and business of
the plaintiff. If the decision of the court below is sustained,
it will retain everything that is. valuable, and which it could
never have acquired but for this lease, and will be obliged to
return nothing but worthless cars.
It was thought by the court below that the legislature could
not have intended to permit this lease to be made, because it

OCTOBER TErM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

extended the charter of the company ,for ninety-nine years,
and permitted tho capital to be increased. It was necessary
to extend the charter, which would expire in some twelve
years, in order that the corporation might make a lease of
longer duration than would otherwise have been possible.
The extension of the charter was even more necessary than
was the giving of the power to lease and transfer. We can
hardly suppose that the authority to increase the capital was
conferred because the legislature intended to put upon the
company the duty of manufacturing more cars. In point of
fact, the capital stock was increased to permit 'the issue of
a stock dividend. Though there is no evidence of this before
this court, it can conceive of many reasons why the capital
was permitted to be increased without supposing that such
permission was meant as a denial of the expressly-conferred
right to lease and transfer.
By the act of February, 1870, the company is "empowered
to enter into contracts with corporations of this or any
other State for the leasing, or hiring and transfer to them,
or any of them, of their railway cars and other persona
property."
Under another act of the same legislature, passed eight days
later, to wit, on the seventeenth day of February, 1870, Pur(Ion's Dig. 1441, all the leases of railroads in Pennsylvania
have been made. The language of its grant was "to lease or
become lessees of any railroad." 'This is no broader than the
power conferred upon the Central Transportation Company.
For the construction of similar acts see Pennsylvania Railroad,
Company v. St. Louis, Alton &ec. Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 290,
318; Willamette .Af'g Co. v. Bank of British Columbia, 119
U. S.191.
It was not necessary to secure the passage of the act of
February, 1870, to enable the plaintiff to hire its cars to railroad corporations. The right to use, or to hire to others to
use, was incidental to that to manufacture. It had been hiring
its cars to railroad corporations, as is evidenced by the contracts which it assigned to the Pullman Company, ever since
it had been incorporated.

CENTRAL TRA-NSP. CO. v. PULLMNAN'S CAR CO.

3g

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The act of 1870 conferred power to lease or hire and transfer all the cars and personal property of the plaintiff. Is it
possible to confer in clearer language a more unlimited power
to lease? To lease not a part, but the whole, of the assets of
the company. Can we doubt that this act authorized the corporation to change its position from that of owner and possessor of its entire property into that of a lessor entitled to
receive from its lessee a rental?
We can hardly believe that the decision of this court in
-RailroadCo. v. Thomas would have been rendered if an act
of the legislature of New Jersey could have been found, approximating in liberality to the acts empowering the Central
Transportation Company.
II. It did not create a monopoly, which made it void.
The Legislature of Pennsylvania authorized a lease of all
the plaintiff's property to a single corporation, and, if, therefore, such a lease did create a monopoly, it was one which was
legal. We do not, however, mean to confine our discussion
under this head to saying this, although, as we think, it is conclusive.
It can hardly be said that a corporation having a power to
manufacture cars creates a monopoly by selling or leasing such
cars to another corporation, especially in a State like Pennsylvania, where it is open to any set of five persons in the Commonwealth, to file articles of association, and to become
clothed with the power to manufacture as many cars as they
may see fit.
In -Morrisonv. Barclay Coal Compdny, 68 Penn. St. 173, corporations which controlled, practically, all the output of coal
in a large region, entered into a contract to put up prices.
This did create a monopoly. It was impossible, however, for
the Central Transportation Company to monopolize the manufacture of cars.
An assignment by the Central Transportation Company of
the property which it possessed in 1870, created a monopoly
to no greater extent than results from any assignment of a
like character by a corporation or an individual. A monopoly
results from a contract between persons or corporations prac.
VOL. cxxx-X-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tically controlling the supply of an article to restrict or interfere with such supply. A monopoly can never result from an
agreement between two persons or corporations, having no
possible power to control a supply, to consolidate their property by a sale or lease from one to the other.
III. The lease was not void as contrary to public policy.
Leather Cloth Co. v. Lonsont, L. R. 9 Eq. 345; Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 409 ; Oregon Steam .Navigation
Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64, 68; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101
U. S. 71, 83; -Fowle v. Park, 131- U. S. 88; Leslie v. Lorillard,110 N. Y. 519; .Morse Drill Co. v. Morse, 103 Mass. 73;
.Davies v. Davies, 36 Oh. D. 359; Rousillon v. Rousillon, 14
Oh. D. 351, 363; Webster v. Buss, 61 N. Hl. 40; .. agg v. Darley, 47 Law Tournal (i. S.) Oh. 567; PrintingCo. v. Sampson,
L. R. 19 Eq. 462; .Aeoinnon Pen Co. v. Fountain ink Co.,
48 N. Y. Supreme Ot. 442; Baines v. Geary, 35 Oh. D. 154.
In most of the cases reported, the relief which was refused
was to specifically enforce, or to recover damages for the
breach of, contracts by the party who by his covenant agreed
to restrain his future exertions. In these, and in all other
cases, the court has struck down a covenant in unlimited restraint of trade without reason; because (1) -of the right of
the covenantor to earn his livelihood, and (2) of the right of
the public to the exercise of his industry.
It is not necessary to protect the covenantor in a case like
the present, where its livelihood is provided for by the payment
of a very large rental during the whole term, of the restriction.
Has the public a right inthe continued conduct of its busi-,
ness by a corporation, such as makes it illegal for it to agree
not to continue it? If it .has, the remedy is by ouster, not by
confiscation in favor of the covenantee.
Corporations consist of an association of individuals who
contribute their capital for the furtherance of a common purpose. So far as these members are concerned, no covenant by
the corporation restricts their use of their individual capital in
any way it may please them. The covenant by the corporation affects only the future use of the capital which has been
contributed to it. Under the laws of Pennsylvania it may

CENTRAL TRANISP. CO. v. PULLMAN'S CAR CO.

35

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

dissolve at any time upon application to the court, without
reason. If it may dissolve, why may it not agree not to continue- its business, where there is no duty upon it as the condition of a privilege of which it retains the benefit, without
incurring any other risk than the possible action of the court
upon a writ of _uo warranto? Certainly a corporation which
is authorized to turn over by way of lease, and transfer to
another corporation all its property, may agree that it will do
nothing inconsistent with the lease which it is authorized to
make, and thereafter it will remain under no obligation to the
Commonwealth to contribute to the welfare of the community
by a further investment of capital. A legislative power to
lease, all the property of a corporation carries with it the right
to do whatever will induce a person to become the lessee, especially to agree not to do what, if done, would render the lease
worthless.
IV. The contract was so executed on the first day of July,
1886, as to entitle the plaintiff to sue for the rent which fell
due up to that day, even if the contract was contrary to public
policy.
In Tomas v. Railroad Co., supra, it was said: "It remains
to consider the suggestion that the contract, having been executed, the doctrine of ultra vires is inapplicable to the case.
There can be no question that, in many instances, where an
invalid contract, which the party to it might have avoided or
refused to perform, has been fully performed on both sides,
whereby money has been paid or property changed hands, the
courts have refused to sustain an action for the recovery of the
property or the money so transferred.- In regard to corporations the rule has been well laid .down by Comstock, C. J.,
in Parrishv. Wheeler, 22 N. Y. 494, that the executed dealings
of corporations must be allowed to stand for and against bot .,
parties when the plainest rules of good faith require it. DuL
what is sought in the case before us is the enforcement of Cie
unexecutedl part of this agreement. So far as it has been
executed, namely, with four or five years of action under it,
the accounts have been adjusted and each party has received
what he was entitled to by its terms."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In Oregon Railway and Navigation Co. v. Oregonian ComTany, 130 U. S. 1, the suit was for a semi-annual rental, payable in advance, for a period which had only commenced to
run after the property had been surrendered.
We have numerous cases in which it has been held that, after
the contract has been executed, it is not competent for a corporation which has received the benefit of the execution to set
up the defence of publi& policy, especially where it is not ultra
vires for the corporation which sets up the defence to pay.
TWoodruff v. Erie Railway, 93 .N. Y. 609; Camden and Atlantic Railroadv.-Yay'sLanding Railroad,48 N. J. Law, 530;
Railway Co. v. McCarthy, 96 U. S. 258, 267; San Antonio v.
.- fekaffy, 96 U.,S. 312,315; Oil Creek Railroadv. Pennsylvania
Tran&portation Co., 83 Penn. St. 160; Whitney Ar2ms Co. v.
Barlow, 63 N. Y. 62.
In the present case the suit is not for damages for an unexecuted contract, but to recover the consideration agreed to
be paid for a lease of property which ended on the first day of
July, 1886. If the contention of the defendant that it had a
right then to terminate the lease was well founded, nothing
more remained to be done by either party. It is impossible to
see that the defendant lost anything by reason of the nonenforcible character, if it bad such a character, of the covenant
not to manufacture other cars; because after the first day of
July, 1886, the plaintiff was at liberty to do what it pleased.
Until that day the Pullman Company had retained possession
of all the plaintiff's property. Why was it not obliged to pay
what it had agreed to pay for a consideration which was thenfully performed? Why ought not that company which agreed
to pay a certain sum that it had the legal right to agree to
pay, be estopped from setting up against the plaintiff, which
may not have had the right to covenant that it would not
engage in the business of manufacturing cars, but which had
not engaged in that business, and whose property had been
used, the fact that it had made an illegal contract to do something which in fact it had not done? How will public policy
be promoted by permitting the defendant, which has received
the consideration for the contract, to ignore the compensation
it agreed to pay?

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLMINAN'S CAR CO.

37

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

'The contract, so far as concerned the covenant to pay rent
up to the first of July, 1886, had been fully executed by the
plaintiff. The learned judge below thought that because it
had no right to bind itself not to engage in the business of
manufacturing cars it ought not to'recover the full rental
stipulated for. To this we reply that up to the first day of
July, 1886, the defendant had received the full consideration
for the agreed-upon rental which it had bound itself to pay
quarterly.
If the learned judge, however, was right in his theory, he
forgot that on the first day of July, 1886, the defendant had
tendered to the plaintiff its property and had announced the
lease as ended. It was not entitled, after the termination of
,the lease, to object to their right because of the non-enforcibility. There should have been no allowance to it of a deduction because of this covenant, when it had never been broken
and when theright to insist upon it had terminated by expiration of time.
We urge, however, beyond this, that the rental was agreed
to be paid as a consideration for the delivery of certain patents,
contracts and cars. The duty to pay rent from quarter to
quarter resulted from the fact of such delivery. If the superadded and separate covenant by the plaintiff not to engage in
the business of manufacturing cars could not be enforced, it
was because of a matter of law which both parties were bound
to know. Did the fact that an additional covenant was
entered into, which was not legally enforcible, release the
defendant from its obligation to pay the rental it had agreed
to pay as a consideration for what it got ? Oregon N avigation Co. v. lFinsor, 20 Wall. 64; Wallace v. Day, 2 M. & W.
273.
In conclusion, we urge upon the court that the decision of
the court below leaves the plaintiff in a most deplorable condition. Its contracts, which were valuable, are gone. The
defendant under the lease is now in possession of all the contracts which were formerly owned by the plaintiff. It has
been denied a right to recover the sum agreed to be paid in
the lease be6ause of the contract being against public policy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

If it cannot recover upon the contract, how can it recover
upon a quantun meruit ? If it has no action at law, how can
it obtain any relief in equity?
.'.
Edward S. .sham and XrM. Wayne Mae'eagh for
defendant in error.
MR. TUSTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The principal defence in this case, duly made by the defendant, by formal plea, as well as by objection to the plaintiff's
evidence, and sustained by the Circuit Court, was that the
indenture of lease sued on was void in law, because beyond
the powers of each of the corporations by and between whom
it was made.
There-is a preliminary question of practice, arising out of
the manner in which the case was disposed of below, which is
deserving of notice, although not mentioned by counsel in
argument.
The Circuit Court; in ordering a nonsuit because in its
opinion the evidence offered by the plaintiff was insufficient
in law to maintain the action, acted in accordance with the
statute of Pennsylvania, which provides that "it shall be lawful for the judge presiding at the trial to order a judgment of
nonsuit to be entered, if in his opinion the plaintiff thall have
given no such evidence-as in law is sufficient to maintain the
action, with leave, nevertheless, to move the court in bano to
set aside such judgment of honsuit; and in case the said court,
in bano shall refuse to set aside the nonsuit, the plaintiff may
remove the record by writ of error into.the Supreme Court for
revision and review, in like manner and with like effect as he
might remove a judgment rendered against him upon a demurrer to evidence." Penn. Stats. March 11, 1836, c. 34, § ';
March 11, 1875, c. 8 ; 2 Purdon's Digest (llth ed.) 1362, 1363.
Under that statute, as expounded by Chief Justice Gibson,
the judge can order a nonsuit, only when all the evidence
introduced, with every inference f,.fact that. a jury mighi
draw from it in favor of the plaintiff, appears to be insufficient

CENTRAL TRANTSP. CO. v. PULLMAN'S CAR CO.

39

Opinion of the Court.

in matter of law to sustain a verdict; and the defendant's
motion for a nonsuit is equivalent to a demurrer to evidence,
differing only in the judgment thereon not being a final determination of the rights of the parties, for if it is in favor of
the plaintiff the ease must be submitted to the jury, and if in
favor of the defendant it is no bar to a new action. Smyth v.
Craig, 3 Watts & Sergeant, 14; Fleming v. Insurance Co.,
Brightly, 102; Bournonville v. Goodall, 10 Penn. St. 133. "
It is true that a plaintiff, who appears by the record to have
voluntarily become nonsuit, cannot sue out a writ of error.
United States v. Evans, 5 Cranch, 280; Evans v. Phillips,4
Wheat. 73; Cossar v. Reed, 17 Q. B. 540. But in the case of
a compulsory nonsuit it is otherwise; and a plaintiff, against
whom a judgment of nonsuit has been rendered without his
consent and against his objection, is entitled to relief by writ
of error. Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469; Strother v. Hutchinson, 4 Bing. N. C. 83; S. C. 5 Scott, 346; 6 Dowling, 238;
Voorhees v. Coombs, 4 Vroom, 482.
There are many cases in the books, in wlhich this court has
held that a court of the United States had no power to order
Elmore v.
a nonsuit without the plaintiff's acquiescence.
Grymes, above cited; Crane v. Mforris, 6 Pet. 598, 609; Silsby
v. Foote, 14 How. 218; lastle v. Bullard,23 How. 172, 183.
Yet, instead of overruling, upon that ground alone, exceptions
to a refusal to order a nonsuit, this court, more than once, has
considered and determined questions of law upon the decision of which the nonsuit was refused in the court below.
Crane v. Jforris and Castle v. Bullard, above cited.
The difference between a motion to order a nonsuit of the
plaintiff and a motion to direct a verdict for the defendant is,
as observed by.Mr. Justice Field, delivering a recent opinion
of this court, "rather a matter of form than of substance,
except [that] in the case of a nonsuit a new action may be
brought, whereas in the case of a verdict the action is ended,
unless a new trial be granted, either upon motion or upon
appeal." . Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261; 264.
Whetlier a defendant in an action at law may present in
the one form, or in the other, or by demurrer to the evidence,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the defence that the plaintiff, upon his own case, shows no
cause of action, is a question of "practice, pleadings, and
forms and, modes of proceeding," as to which the courts of the
United States are now required by the act of Congress of
June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5, (17 Stat. 197,) reenacted in § 914 of
the Revised Statutes, to conform, as near as may be, to those
existing in the courts of the State within which the trial is
had. Sawin v. Knny, 93 U. S. 289; Ex _parte Boyd, 105
U. S.647; Ohateaugy Co., .ptitioner,128 U.S. 544; Glenn v.
Sumner, 132 U. S.152, 156.
It is doubtless within the authority of the presiding judge,
and is often more convenient, in order to prevent the case
from being brought up in such a form that the judgment of
the court of last resort will not finally determine the rights of
the parties, to adopt the course of directing a verdict for the
defendant and entering judgment thereon.
But the judgment of nonsuit, being a final judgment dis:
posing of the particular case, and rendered upon a ruling in
matter of law duly excepted to by the plaintiff, is subject to
be reviewed in this court by writ of error.
It was therefore rightly assumed by the counsel of, both
parties at the argument that the only question to be determined is of the correctness of the ruling sustaining the defence of ultra vires, independently of the form in which that
question was presented and disposed of.
Upon the afthority and the duty of a corporation to exercise the powers granted to it by the legislature, and those only;
and upon the invalidity of any contract, made beyond those
powers, or providing for their disuse or alienation; the,- is no
occasion to refer to decisions of other courts, because the
judgments of this court, especially those delivered within the
last twelve years by the late Mr. Justice Miller, afford satisfactory guides and ample illustrations.
The earliest case in this court, which touches the subject, is
York & .Maryland R ailroad v. Winans, decided at December
term, 1854, in which a railroad corporation unsuccessfully tried
to escape liability for an unlicensed use of the plaintiff's patent
in cars run over its road, upon the ground that the cars were

CElTRAL TRA-TSP. CO. v. PULLMNAN'S CAR CO.

1

Opinion of the Court.

constructed, owned and used by another corporation under a
contract with the defendant. Mr. Justice Campbell delivering
judgment said: "Important franchises were conferred upon
the corporation to enable it to provide the facilities to communication and intercourse, required for the public convenience. Corporate management and control over these were
prescribed, and corporate responsibility for their insufficiency
provided, as a remuneration to the community for their gr1'nt.
The corporation cannot absolve itself from the performance
of its obligations, without the consent of the legislature." 17
How. 30, 39.
In Pearcev. Afadson & .IndianapolisRailroad,at December term, 1858, it was adjudged that two corporations, chartered by the State of Indiana to construct and manage distinct,
though connecting railroads, had no power to consolidate
thems6lves into one corporation, or to establish a connecting
steamboat line on the Ohio River, and therefore were not liable to be sued upon a promissory note which they had given
in payment for a steamboat. The same justice, in delivering
the opinion of the court, stated the reasons for the decision as
follows: "The rights, duties and obligations of the defendants
are defined in the -acts of the legislature of Indiana under
which they were organized, and reference must be had to these,
to ascertain the validity of their contracts. They empower
the defendants respectively to do all that was necessary to
construct and put in operation a railroad between the cities
which are named in the acts of incorporation. There was no
authority of law to consolidate these corporations, and to place
both under the same management, or to subject the capital of
the one to answer for the liabilities of the other; and so the
courts of Indiana have determined. But, in addition to that
act of illegality, the managers.of these corporations established
a steamboat line to run in connection with the railroads, and
thereby diverted their capital from the objects contemplated
by their charters, and exposed it to perils for which they
afforded no sanction. Now, persons dealing with the managers of 'a-corporation must take notice of the limitations inposed upon their authority by the act of incorporation. Their

OCTOBER TERle,

1890.

Opinion 'of the Court.

powers are conceded in consideration of the advantage the
public is to receive from their discreet and intelligent employment, and'the publib have an interest that neither the managers nor stockholders of the corporations shall transcend their
authority." 21 How. 441-443.
In Zabriski v. Cleveland &c. Railroad,at December term,
1859, this court, again speaking by the same justice, while
affirming and acting on the principle that a corporation may
be bound by the conduct and representations of its directors
in " those - cases in which a corporation acts within the range
of its general authority, but fails to comply with some formality or regulation which it should not have neglected, but
which it has chosen to disregard," took the precaution 'to observe: "This principle does not impugn the doctrine that a
corporation cannot vary from the object of its creation, and
that persons dealing with a company must, take notice of
whatever is contained in the law of their organization. This
doctrine has been constantly affirmed in this court." 23 How.
381, 398.
In Thomas v. Raillroad Co., 101 U. S. 71, decided at October
term, ISi9, it was adjudged that a lease for twenty years by a
railroad corporation of its railroad, rolling stock and franchises,
in consideration of being paid one half of the gross sums
collected from the operation of the road by the lessees during
the term, and xeserving to the lessor a right to terminate the
lease and retake possession of the road at any time, paying to
the lessees the value of the unexpired term, was void; and
that the corporation, upon terminating the lease and resuming
possession when the lessees had been in possession five years,
and the accounts of the' parties for those years having been
adjusted and paid, was not liable to an action by the lessees to
recover the value of the unexpired term; and Mr. Justice
Miller, in the course of delivering judgment, said:
"The authority to make this lease is placed by counsel primarily in the following language of the thirteenth section of
the company's charter: 'That it shall be lawful for the said
company, at any time during the continuance of its charter,
to make contracts and engagements with any other corpora-

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLNAN'S CAR CO. 43
Opinion of the Court.

tion, or with individuals, for the transporting or cowveying
any kinds of goods, produce, merchandise, freight or passengers, and to enforce the fulfilment of such contracts.' This
is no more than saying Iyou may do the business of carrying
goods and passengers, and may make contracts for doing that
business. Such contracts you may make with any other cor-'
poration or with individuals.' No doubt a contract by which
the goods, received from railroad or other carrying companies,
should be carried over the road of this company, or by which
goods or passengers from this road should be carried by other
railroads, whether connecting immediately with them or not,
are within this power, and are probably the main object of
the clause. But it is impossible, under any sound rule of construction, to find in the language used a permission to sell,
lease or transfer to others the entire road, and the rights and
franchises of the corporation. To do so is to deprive the
company of the power of making those contracts which this
clause confers, and of performing the duties which it implies."
101 U. S.80. "The authority to build a railroad and to contract for carrying passengers and goods over it and other roads
is no authority to lease it, and with the lease to part with all
its powers to another company or to individuals." 101 U. S. 81.
"The powers of corporations organized under legislative
statutes are such, and such only, as those statutes confer.
Conceding the rule applicable to all statutes, that what is
fairly implied is as much granted as what is expressed, it remains, that the charter of a corporation is the measure of its
powers, and that the enumeration of these powers implies the
exclusion of all others." 101 U. S.82.
"There is another principle of equal importanqe, and equally
conclusive against the validity of this contract, which, if not
coming exactly within the doctrine of ultra vires as w'e have
just discussed it, shows very clearly that the railroad company
was without the power to make such a contract. That principle is, that where a corporation, like a railroad company, has
granted to it by charter a franchise intended in large measure
to be exercised for the public-good, the due performance of
those functions being the consideration of the public grant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

any contract which disables the corporation from performing
those functions, which undertakes, without the consent of the
State, ,totransfer to others 'the rights and powers conferred by
the charter, and to relieve the grantees .ofthe burden which it
imposes, is a violation of the contract with the State, and is
void as against public policy." 101 U. S. 83.
It was also held in that case that the lease was not made
valid by a subsequent act of the legislature, regulating the
rates of fares and freights to be charged by "the directors,
lessees or agents of said railroad;" the court saying: "It is
not by such an incidental use of fhe word I lessees' in an effort
to make sure that all who collected fares should be bound by
the law, that a contract unauthorized by the charter, and forbidden by public policy, is to be made valid and ratified by
the State." 101 U. S. 85.
In Branch v. Jesip, Mr. Justice Bradley delivering judgment said: "Generally the power to sell and dispose has reference only to transactions in the ordinary course of business
incident to a railroad' company; and does not extend to the
sale of the railroad itself, or of the franchises connected therewith. Outlying lands, not needed for railroad uses, may be
sold. Machinery and other personal property may be sold.
But the road and franchises are generally inalienable; and
they are so, not only because they 'are acquired by legislative
grant, or in the exercise of special authority given, for the
specific purposes of the incorporating act, but because they
are essential to the fulfilment of those purposes; and it would
be a derelibtion of the duty owed by the corporation to the
State and to the public to part with' them." And a lease from
one railroad corporation , to another was upheld in that case,
only because the lessor had by its charter express authority,
not only to purchase, hold and convey property, real and personal, and to connect its road with any other road, but also to
incorporate its stock with that of any other company, which,
it was observed, "contemplates not only the possible transfer
of the railroad and its franchises to another company, but
even the extinguishment of the corporation itself, and its
-absorption into a different organization. The greater power

CENTRAL TRA1\SP. CO. v. IPULL2NAN'S CAR CO.

45

Opinion of the Court.

of alienating or extinguishing all its franchises, including its
own being and existence, contains the lesser power of alienating its road and the franchises incident thereto and necessary
to its operation. Its power of alienation and sale extends to
a class of subjects to which it does not ordinarily apply." 106
U. S. 468, 4T8, 4'79.
In Pennsylvania Railroad v. St. _ouis c&c. Railroad,the
same principles were reaffirmed; and the court, again speaking.by Mr. Justice Miller, after referring to some of the previous decisions on the subject in this and other courts, stated,
"as the just result of these.cases and on sound principle, that
unless specially authorized by its charter, or aided by some
other legislative action, a railroad company cannot, by lease
or any other contract, turn over to another company, for a
long period of time, its road and all its appurtenances, the use
of its franchises and the exercise of its powers; nor can any
other railroad company without similar authority make a contract to receive and operate such road, franchises and property
of the first corporation; and that such a contract is not among
the ordinary powers of a railroad company, and is not to be
presumed from the usual grant of powers in a railroad charter."
In that case it was held that a lease for ninety-nine years
of a railroad in Illinois and Indiana from a railroad corporation of Illinois to a railroad corporation of Indiana, whose
road connected with the road leased, was within the authority
conferred on the lessor by the statute of Illinois, which empowered all railroad corporations of that State to make "contracts and arrangements with each other, and with railroad
corporations of other States, for leasing or running their roads,
or any part thereof;" yet, was unlawful and void, because
beyond the authority conferred upon the lessee by the statute
of Indiana, empowering any railroad corporation of that State,
whose road connected with a railroad in an adjoining State,
"to make such contracts and agreements with any such road
constructed in an adjoining State, for the transportation of
freight and passengers, or for the use of its said road, as to
the boar'd- of directors may seem proper;" the court saying
that it could not "see in this provision any authority to make

OCTOBER TERAI , 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

contracts beyond those whidh relate to forwarding by one
company the passengers and freight of another, on terms to be
agreed on, and possibly for the use of the road of one company in running the cars of the other over it to its destination
without breaking bulk." 118 U. S. 290, 309, 312, 630.
In another case, decided about the same time, the same justice, in delivering an opinion by which a corporation was held
to be liable for a tort done by its agents in the course of its
business and of their employment, although in excess of its
powers, observed: "The question of the liability of corporations on contracts which the law does not authorize them to
make, and which are wholly beyond the scope of their powers,
is governed by a different principle. Here the party dealing
with the corporation is under no obligation to enter, into the
contract. No force, or restraint, or fraud is practised on him.
The powers of these corporations are matters of public law
open to his examination, and he may and must judge for himself as to the power of the corporation to bind itself by the
proposed agreement." Salt Lake City v. Hlollister, 118 U. S.
256, 263.
In Tillamette Co. v. Bank of Bitsk Columbia, 119 U. S.
191, cited for the plaintiff, a corporation chartered "for the
purpose of creating and improving water power and privileges," and authorized to bring water from a river, was also
expressly authorized by its charter to "use, rent or sell" "the
exclusive rightto the hydraulic power and priyileges created
by the water" so taken, and for that reason only was held by
this court, speaking by the same justice, to have the. power to
mortgage such right, power and privileges.
In Green Bay c .Afinnesota Railroad v. Union Steamboat
Co., 107 U. S. 98, and in Pittsbuigh &c. Railway v. Keokuk
& Hamilton Bridge, 131 U. S. 371, 384, the general doctrine
of ultra vires, as established by earlier decisions, was affirmed;
and a railroad corporation was held to have the power, for the
purpose of securing a continuous line of transportation of
which its road formed part, to make a contract with a steamboat- company, or with a company chartered to construct a
railway bridge or viaduct, because the charter. of the particular

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLIKAN'S CAR CO.

47

Opinion of the Court.

railroad corporation, read in connection with the general laws
applicable to it, clearly manifested the intention of the legislature to confer upon it that power.
In Oregon Railway v. OregonianRailway, 130 U. S. 1, it was
held that a general law of Oregon, authorizing companies to
organize themselves by written articles of association filed with
the Secretary of State for "any lawful enterprise, business, pursuit or occupation" specified in the articles, including "making
or constructing any railroad," and "to purchase, possess and
dispose of such real and personal property as may be necessary
and convenient to carry into effect the object of the incorporation," did not authorize a railroad corporation to be incorporated, either for leasing its railroad to another corporation,
or for taking leases from other corporations of their roads,
although these objects were included in its articles of association; and therefore that, without further and express authority from the legislature, a lease for ninety-six years from one
railroad corporation of its whole road and franchises to another
such corporation was utterly void, and would not sustain an
action by the lessor against the lessee to recover the rent
stipulated in the lease.
It was also held in that case, in accordance with the decision
in Thomas v. Railroad Co., that no authority to make such a
lease could be implied from a special act passed by the Oregon
legislature before the lease, granting to the plaintiff corporation rights, privileges and easements, for wharves, stations and
tracks, in certain public grounds and streets; with a proviso
that said corporation "or its assigns" should have no power
to sell, convey or assign the rights so granted to any person or
corporation, save only with and as part of its railway; and
the reasons for so holding appear in the following extracts
from the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Miller:
"One of the most important powers with which a corporation can be invested is the right to sell out its whole property
together with the franchises under which it is operated, or the
authority to lease its property for a long term of years. In
the case of a railroad company, these privileges, next to the
right to build and operate its railroad, would be the most

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

important which could be givenit, and this idea would impress
itself upon the legislature. Naturally, we would look for the
authority to do these things in some express provision of law.
We would suppose that if the legislature saw fit to confer
such rights, it would do so in terms which could not be misunderstood. To infer, on the contrary, that it either intended
to confer them or to recognize that they already existed, by
the simple use of the word ' assigns,' a very loose and indefinite
term, is a stretch of the power of the court in making implications which we do not feel to be justified." 130 U. S. 30.
"The object of the legislature in making the proviso to that
statute was to make sure that the grant given to the Oregonian Company of terminal facilities, as they are called, with
the right to wharves, depots and access to the river for the use
of the road, should never be separated by sale, assignment or
otherwise from the road itself, and that into whosesoever hands
the road went should also go the rights, powers and privileges
conveyed by the grant." 130 U. S. 32.
It was further held that a provision of the general laws of
Oregon, authorizing any corporation, by a vote of a majority
of its stockholders, to dissolve itself, and thereupon to settle its
business, dispose of its property and divide its capital stock,
did not confer upon it any authority, while continuing in
existence, to dispose of by conveyance or lease its road and its
corporate powers and franchises. 130 U. S. 34, 35.
The clear result of these decisions may be summed up thus:
The charter of a corporation, read in the light of any general
laws which are applicable, is the measure of its powers, and
the enumeration of those powers implies the exclusion of all
others not fairly incidental. All contracts made by a corporation beyond the scope of those powers are unlawful and
void, and no action can be maintained upon them in the courts,
and this upon three distinct grounds: the obligation of every
one contracting with a corporation, to take notice of the legal
limits of its powers; the interest of the stockholders, not to
be subjected to risks which they have never undertaken; and,
above all, the interest of the public, that the corporation shall
not transcend the powers conferred upon it by law. A cor-

CENTRAL TRAINSP. CO. v. FULLMIA 'S CAR CO.

49

Opinion of the Court.

poration cannot, without the assent of the legislature, transfer
its franchise to another corporation, and abnegate the per-

formance of the duties to the public, imposed upon it by its
charter as the consideration for the grant of its franchise.
Neither the grant of a franchise to transport passengers, nor
a general authority to sell and dispose of property, empowers
the grantee, while it continues to exist as a corporation, to sell
or to lease its entire property and franchise to another corporation. These principles apply equally to companies incorporated by special charter from the legislature, and to those
formed by articles of association under general laws.
By a familiar rule, every public grant of property, or of
privileges or franchises, if ambiguous, is to be construed
against the grantee and in favor of the public; because an
intention, on the part of the government, to grant to private
persons, or to a particular corporation, property or rights in
whic5h the whole public is interested, cannot be presumed,
unless unequivocally expressed or necessarily to be implied in
the terms of the grant; and because the grant is supposed to
be made at the solicitation of the grantee, and to be drawn up
by him or by his agents, and therefore the words used are to
be treated as those of the grantee; and this rule of construction is a wholesome safeguard of the interests of the public
against any attempt of the grantee, by the insertion of ambiguous language, to take what could not be obtained in clear
and express terms. Okarles River Bridqe v. Warren Bridge,
11 Pet. 420, 544-548; Dubuque & Pacik Railroad v. Litcjfeld, 23 How. 66, 88, 89; Slidell v. Grandjean, li U. S. 412,
437, 438. This rule applies with peculiar.force to articles of
association, which are framed under general laws, and which
are a substitute for a legislative charter, and assume and define
the powers of the corporation by the mere act of the associates,
without any supervision of the legislature or of any public
authority. Oregon Railway v. Oregonian Railway, 130 U. S.
26, 27.
In the case at bar, the plaintiff was originally incorporated
for twenty years from December 26, 1862, with a capital stock
of $200,000, by articles of association, called a certificate or
VOL. CXxxIx-4

OCTOBER TERMr,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

charter, under general laws of Pennsylvania. It is not without significance, that those laws required its stock, property
and affairs to be managed by a board of directors, a majority
of whom should be stockholders therein, and citizens of the
State; and forbade it to use any part of its capital stock in
the' purchase of stock in any other corporation. Those laws
related to manufacturing companies only. But the purpose of
its incorporation, as stated in that charter, was "the transportation of passengers in railroad cars constructed and to be
owned by the said company" under certain patents. And, as
appears by the recitals in the indenture sued on, the plaintiff
carried on the business of manufacturing sleeping cars under
its patents, and of hiring or letting those cars to railroad companies by written contracts, receiving a revenue from the sale
of berths and accommodations to passengers.
The validity of the plaintiff's incorporation, as well as its
-power to make that indenture, however, depends not solely
upon the original charter and the general laws under which
it came into existence, but mainly upon a special act of the
legislature of Pennsylvania of February 9, 1870. By this act,
the validity of the charter for the object therein named was
clearly recognized; the charter was extended for ninety-nine
years, nearly fivefold the period for which the corporation
was or could have been formed under general laws ; and the
corporation was expressly empowered to double its capital
stock, and "to enter into contracts with corporations of this
or any other State for the leasing or hiring and transfer to
them, or any of them," of its "railway cars and other personal property."
The plaintiff, therefore, was not an ordinary manufacturing
corporation, such as might, like a partnership or an individual
engaged' in manufactures, sell or lease all its property to
another corporation. Ardesco Oil Co. v. -Vorth, American
Oil Co., 66 Penn. St. 375; Treadwell v. Salisbury .Manuf.
Co., 7 Gray, 393. But the purpose of its incorporation, as
defined in its charter, and recognized and confirmed by the
legislature, being the transportation of passengers, the plaintiff
exercised a public employment, and was charged with the

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLMAN'S CAR' CO. 51
Opinion of the Court.

duty of accommodating the public in the line of that employment, exactly corresponding to the duty which a railroad corporation or a steamboat company, as a carrier of passengers,
owes to the public, independently of possessing any right of
eminent domain. The public nature of that duty was not
affected by the fact that it was to be performed by means of
cars constructed and of patent rights owned by the corporation, and over roads owned by others. The plaintiff was not
a strictly private, but a 9uasi public corporation * and it must
be so treated as regards the validity of any attempt on its
part to absolve itself from the performance of those duties to
the public, the performance of which by the corporation itself
was the remuneration that it was required: by law to make to
the public in return for the grant of its franchise. Pickard
v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 T. S. 34; York & Maryland Railroad v. linans, 1I How. 30, 39; Railroad Co. v.
Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Liverpool & Great TWestern Steam
Co. v. Phenix ns. Co., 129 U. S. 397.
The evidentpurpose of the legislature, in passing the statute
of 1870, was to enable the plaintiff the better to perform its
duties to the public, by prolonging its existence, doubling its
capital, and confirming, if not enlarging, its powers. An
intention that it should immediately abdicate those powers,
and cease to perform those duties, is so inconsistent with that
purpose, that it cannot be implied, without much clearer expressions of the legislative will looking towards that end, than
are to be found in this statute.
The provision of this statute, by which the plaintiff is empowered to contract with other corporations "for the leasing
or hiring and transfer to them, or any of them," of its "railway cars and other personal property," is fully satisfied by
construing it as confirming the plaintiff's right to do as it had
been doing, to "lease" ot "hire" (which are equivalent
words) to other corporations in the regular course of its business, and to "transfer" under such leasing or hiring, its "railway cars," and "other personal property," either connected
with the cars, or at least of the same general nature of
tangible property. It can hardly be stretched to warrant the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-

plaintiff in making to a single corporation an absolute transfer, or a long lease, of all that might be comprehended in the
personal property" in their widest sense, including
words ".
not only goods and chattels, but moneys, credits and rights of
action. In any view, it would be inconsistent alike with the
main purpose of the statute, and with the uniform course of
decision in this court, to construe these words as authorizing
.the plaintiff to deprive itself, either absolutely, or for a long
period of time, of the right to exercise the franchise granted
to it by the legislature for the accommodation of the public.
By the contract between these parties, as expressed-in the
indenture sued on, are transferred all cars already constructed,
all existing contracts with raihoad companies for running cars,
all existing patent rights under which other cars might be
constructed, and all other personal property, moneys, credits
and rights of action of the plaintiff. But after the cars and
the railroad contracts may have ceased to exist, and after all
those patent rights must have expired, the indenture is still to
continue in force for the full term of ninety-nine years, unless
sooner terminated as therein provided. In addition to all this;
the plaintiff covenants, in the most express and positive terms,
never to "engage in the business of manufacturing, using or
hiring sleeping cars" while the indenture remains in force. In
short, the plaintiff not only parts with all its means of carrying on the business, and of performing the duty, for which it
had been chartered, of transporting passengers and making
and letting cars to transport them in; but it undertakes to
transfer, for ninety-nine years, nearly coextensive with the
duration of its own corporate existence, the whole conduct of
its business, and the performance of all its public duties, to
another corporation; and to continue in existence, during that
period, for no other purpose than that of receiving, from time
to time, from the other corporation, the stipulated rent or compensation, and -of making dividends out -of the moneys so
received.
Considering the long *term of the indenture, the perishable
nature of the property transferred, the large sums to be paid
quarterly by the defendant by way of compensation, its as-

CENTRAL TRANSP. 00. v. PULLMAN'S CAR CO.

53

Opinion of the Court.

sumption of the plaintiff's debts, and the frank avowal, in the
indenture itself, of the intention of the two corporations to
prevent competition and to create a monopoly, there can be
no doubt that the chief consideration for the sums to be paid
by the defendant was the plaintiff's covenant not to engage in
the business of manufacturing, using or hiring sleeping cars;

and that the real purpose of the transaction was, under thle
guise of a lease of personal property, to transfer to the defendant nearly the whole corporate franchise of the plaintiff, and
to continue the plaintiff's existence for the single purpose of
receiving compensation for not performing its duties.
The necessary conclusion from these premises is, that the
contract sued on was unlawful and void, because it was beyond
the powers conferred upon the plaintiff by the legislature, and
because it involved an abandonment by the plaintiff of its
duty to the public.
There is strong ground, also, for holding that the contract
between the parties is void, because in unreasonable restraint
of trade, and therefore contrary to public policy. Of the cases
cited by the plaintiff upon this point, those which have most
resemblance to the present case are quite distinguishable.
A covenant by the assignor of letters patent for an invention, that he will not himself make, use or sell the patented
article, is undoubtedly valid, because the act of Congress which
creates the monopoly expressly authorizes it to be assigned as
a whole. Rev. Stat. §§ 48841, 4898; Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How.
477, 494; 2forse Co. v. forse, 103 Mtass. 73. But this plaintiff's transfer and covenant, as we have seen, cover much more
than patent rights, and are to continue in force long after the
patent rights assigned miist have expired.
Upon the sale of a secret process, a covenant, express or
implied, that the seller will not use the process himself or communicate it to any other person, is lawful, because the process
must be kept secret in order to be of any value, and the public has no interest in the question by whom it is used. Powle
v. Park, 131 U. S. 88, 97; Fickery v. Welch, 19 Pick. 523,
527; Peabody v. .No~folk, 98 Mlass. 452, 460.
A contract of a .carrier, whether an individual or a corpora.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, not to carry passengers or goods over a particular route,
may be reasonable and valid. Peiree v. Fuller, 8 Mass. 223;
Palmer v. Stebbins, 3 Pick. 188; -Lesliev. Lorillard,110 1N. Y.
519. But a contract by which a corporation, chartered to
perform the duties of a common carrier, or any other duties to
the public, agrees that it will not perform those duties at all,
anywhere, for ninety-nine years, is clearly unreasonable and
void. Oregon Steam N avigation Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64;
Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co. 130 U. S. 396, 408-410.
This case strikingly illustrates several of the obvious considerations for holding contracts in restraint of trade to be
unreasonable and void, as compactly and forcibly stated by
Mr. Justice Morton in the leading case of Alger v. Thacher:
"They tend to deprive the public of the services of men in the
employments and capacities in which they may be most useful
to the community as well as themselves." "They prevent
competition and enhance prices." "They expose the public
to all the evils of monopoly. And this especially is applicable
to wealthy corfpanies and large corporations, who have the
means, unless restrained by law, to exclude rivalry, monopolize
business and engross the market." 19 Pick. 51, 54.
But this objection, as applied to the facts of this case, so
closely connects itself with the objection more distinctly
pleaded, and already discussed at length, that it requires no.
further separate consideration.
The contract sued on being clearly beyond the powers of the
plaintiff corporation, it is unnecessary to determine whether it
is also ultra vires of the defendant, because, in order to bind
either party, it must be within the corporate powers of both.
Thomas v. Railroad Co., Pennsylvania Railroad v. St. Loui&c. Railroad, and Oregon Railway v. Oregonian Railway,
above cited.
It was argued in behalf of the plaintiff that, even if the contract sued on was void, because ultra 'vires and against public
policy, yet that, having been fully performed on the part of
the plaintiff, and the beiiefits of it received by the defendant,
for the period covered by the declaration, the defendant was
estopped to set up the invalidity of the contract as a defence

CENTRAL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLMNA-N'S CAR CO.

55

Opinion of the Court.

to this action to recover the compensation agreed on for that
period.
But this argument, though sustained by decisions in some
the states, finds no support in the judgments of this court.
of The
passages cited by the plaintiff from Railway Co. v.
.McCarthy, 96 U. S. 258, 267, and San Antonio v. Aekafy, 96
U. S. 312, 315, are no more than a passing remark Lthat "the
doctrine of ultravires, when invoked for or against a corporation, should not be allowed to prevail when it would defeat the
ends of justice or work a legal wrong," and a repetition, in
substance, of the same remark, adding "if such a result can be
avoided."
In Thwas v. Railroad Co., already cited, Mr. Justice
Miller, while admitting in general terms that "in many instances, where an invalid contract, which the party to it might
have avoided or refused to perform, has been fully performed
on both sides, whereby money has been paid or property
changed hands, the courts have refused to sustain an action
for the property or the money so transferred," and that "the
executed dealings of corporations must be allowed to stand for
and against both parties when the plainest rules of good faith
require it," yet in the same connection, and in the most emphatic words, said that in the case before the court, of a contract forbidden by public policy and beyond the powers of the
defendant corporation, it was its legal duty, a duty both to its
stockholders and to the public, to rescind and abandon the
contract at the earliest moment, and the performance of that
duty, though delayed for several years,. was a rightful act
when done, and could give the other party no right of action;
and that to hold otherwise would be "to hold that any act
performed in executing a void contract makes all its parts
valid, and that the more that is done under a contract forbidden by law, the stronger is the claim to its enforcement by
the courts." 101 U. S. 86.
In an earlier part of the same opinion, and again in Oregon
Railway v. Oregonian Railway, he referred with approval to
the decision of the House of Lords in AsAhubwy Railway Carriage & Iron Co. v. Riqhe, L. R. 7 H. L. 653, by which, as he

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Couit.

observed, "the broad doctrine was established that a contract
not within the scope of the powers conferred on the corporation cannot be made valid by the assent of every one of the
shareholders, nor can it by any partial performance become
the foundation of a right of action." 101 U. S. 83; 130 U. S.
22.
In Union Trust Co. v. illinois Yidland Co., 117 U. S. 43M
after one railroad corporation had purchased of two others their
connecting railroads and their franchises, a receiver had been
appointed of all its property, including the three railroads,
and, under the direction of the court, and without objection by any of the parties interested, had for years administered the whole as a unit, and incurred expenses and issued
certificates accordingly. It was held that the holders of bonds
secured by mortgage of one of the purchased railroads could
not, for want of affirmative legislative authority for the sale
and purchase of that road, claim a priority of lien upon it as
against the holders of certificates issued by- the receiver for
necessary and proper expenses of the whole line; and this
court, as declared in its opinion-delivered by Mr. Justice Blatchford, rested this conclusion "on the principle that nonaction
on the part of the bondholders and their trustee, which allowed
the court and the receivers to go on during the entire litigation, contracting debts in respect to the whole line operated as
a unit, and administering the property as one, under circumstances where, as shown, it was and is impossible to separate
the interests, as to expenditures and benefits, in respect to the
matters now questioned, and where important rights have
accrued on the faith of the unity of the interests, amounts to
such acquiescence as should operate as an estoppel." 117 U. S.
467-469. The court, in that case, in no way maintained any
suit on the contract supposed to be unlawful; but simply refused to set it aside at the demand of parties, by reason of
whose silence, and omission to seasonably interpose any objection, it had been acted upon as valid throughout a long course
of judicial proceedings.
The distinction is clearly brought out in Penn&ylvanio Railroad v. S. Iouis &e. Railroad,above cited, in which it was

CENTRAL TRAISP. CO. v. PTLL-MAI'S CAR CO.

7

Opinion of the Court.

argued, substantially as in the present case, that, although the
contract of lease might be void, so that no action could origilally have been maintained upon it, yet there had been for
years such performance of it, in the use, possession and control
by the defendants of the plaintiff's road and franchise, that
they could not now be permitted to. repudiate or abandon it;
and that the case came within that class in which it had been
held that, where a contract has been so far executed that
property has passed and rights have been acquired under it,
the courts will not dibturb the possession of such property, or
compel restitution of money received under such a contract.
In answering that objecti6n, Mr. Justice iMiller, speaking for
the court, said: "Undoubtedly there are such decisions in
courts of high authority, and there is such a principle, very
sound in its application to appropriate cases. But we understand the rule in such cases to stand upon the broad ground
that the contract itself is void, and that neither what has
been done under it, nor the action of the court, can infuse any
vitality into it. :Looking at the case as one where the parties
have so far acted -under such a contract that they cannot be
restored to their original condition, the court inquires if relief
can be given independently of the contract, or whether it will
refuse to interfere as the matter stands." And whether, in
the case then before the court, the lessee might be liable to
the lessor, as on a quantum meruit, for the use of its road, was
not decided, because not presented. 118 U. S. 316-318.
In Salt .a7e City v. Hollister, above cited, it was said that,
in cases of contracts upon which corporations could not be
sued because they were ultra vires, "the courts have gone a
long way to enable parties, who had parted with property or
money on the faith of such contracts, to obtain justice by
recovery of the property or the money specifically, or as
money had and received to the plaintiff's use." 118 U. S. 263.
The true ground of relief in such cases is clearly shown in
a line of opinions, two of which were cited by Mr. Justice
Miller in support of the proposition, just quoted, in which
municipal corporations, having received money or property
under contracts so far beyond their powers as not to be capa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ble of being enforced or sued on according to their terms, have
been held, while not liable to pay according to the contracts,
to be bound to account for the money or property which they
had received.
Thus, in .Hicheock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 34-1, 350, where a
city was sued for damages for putting an end to a contract
with the plaintiffs for the improvement of its sidewalks, the
only invalid part of which was its promise to pay in bonds,
which it was beyond its powers to issue, it was decided that
the invalidity of that promise was no reason why the city
should not pay for the benefits which it had received from the
plaintiff's performance of the contract, Mr. Justice Strong, in
behalf of the court, saying: "It matters not that the promise
was to pay in a manner not authorized by law. If payments
cannot be made in bonds, because their issue is ultra vires, it
would be sanctioning rank injustice to hold that payment need
notbe made at all."
So in Louisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S.294, 299, a city, which
had received money for bonds issued by it without authority
and at an illegal rate of interest and purchased by the plaintiff,
was held liable, not on any contract of purchase, nor on any
express contract whatever, but on a contract implied from its
receipt of the money, Chief Justice Waite saying: "There
was no actual sale of bonds, because there were no valid. bonds
to sell. There was no express contract of borrowing and lending, and consequently no express contract to pay any rate of
interest at all. The only contract actually entered into is the
one the law implies from what was done, to wit, that the city
would, on demand, return the money paid to it by mistake,
and, as the money was got under a form of obligation which
was apparently good, that interest should be paid at the legal
rate from the time the obligation was denied. That contract
the plaintiffs seek to enforce in this action, and no other."
Again, in Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487, 503, where
individuals, in consideration of bonds issued to them by a city
for a purpose beyond its powers, executed to the city a trust
deed, in the nature of a mortgage, to secure the payment of
the bonds and interest, it was held that the bonds could not

CENTRAL TEANSP. CO. v. PULLMA PS CAR CO.

59

Opinion of the Court.

be enforced against the city, but that the mortgagors had a,
right to reclaim the property and to demand an account of
the city; and Mr. Justice Blatchford, in delivering judgment,
said: "The enforcement of such right is not in affirmance of
the illegal contract, but is in disaffirmance of it, and seeks to
prevent the city from retaining the benefit which it has derived
from the unlawful act. There was no illegality in the mere
putting of the property by the O'Briens [the mortgagors] in
the hands of the city. To deny a remedy to reclaim it is to
give effect to the illegal contract. The illegality of that contract does not arise from any moral turpitude. The property
was transferred under a contract which was merely malum
prohibiturn, and where the city was the principal offender. In.
such a case, the party receiving may be made to refund to the
person from whom it h:,s received property for the unauthorized purpose, the value of that which it has actually received."
The case of Chapman v. Douglas County, in which the opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Matthews, is to the same
effect. 107 U. S. 348, 355 & seg.
In Pittsurgh&c. Railbway v. Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge,
it was stated, as the result of the previous cases in this court,
that " a contract made by a corporation, which is unlawful
and void because beyond the scope of its corporate powers,
does not, by being carried into execution, become lawful and
valid, but the proper remedy of the party aggrieved is by disaffirming the contract and suing to recover, as on a quantum,
meruit, the value of what the defendant has acttially received
the benefit of." 131 U. S. 371, 389.
The view which this court has taken of the question presented by this branch of the case, and the only view which
appears to us consistent with legal principles, is as follows:
A contract of a corporation, which is ultra vires, in the
proper sense, that is to say, outside the object of its creation as
defined in the law of its organization, and therefore beyond the
powers conferred upon it by the legislature, is not voidable
only, but wholly void, and of no legal effect. The objection to
the contract is, not merely that the corporation ought not to
have made it, but that it could not make it. The contract can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not be ratified by either party, because it could not have been
authorized by either. No performance on either side can give
the unlawful contract any validity, or be the foundation of
any right of action upon it.
When a corporation is acting within the general scope of.
the powers conferred upon it by the legislature, the corporation, as well as persons contracting with it, may be estopped
to -deny that it has complied with -the legal formalities which
are prerequisites to its existence or to its action, because such
requisites might in fact have been complied with. But when
tue contract is beyond the powers conferred upon it by ekisting laws, neither the corporation, nor the other party to the
contract, can be estopped, by assenting to it, or by acting upon
it, The
to show that it was prohibited by those laws.
doctrine of the common law, by which a tenant
of real
estate is estopped to deny his landlord's title, has never been
considered by this court as applicable to leases by railroad
,corporations of their roads and franchises. - It certainly has
no bearing upon the question whether this defendant may set
up that the lease sued on, which is not of real estate, but of
personal property, and which includes, as inseparable from the
other property, transferred, the inalienable franchise of the
plaintiff, is unlawful and void, for want of legal capacity in
the plaintiff to make it.
A contract ultra vires being unlawful and void, not because
it is in itself immoral, but because the corporation, by the law
of its creation, is incapable of making it, the courts, while
refusing to maintain any action upon the unlawful contract,
have always striven to do justice between the parties, so far
as could be done consistently with adherence to law, by permitting property or money, parted with on the faith of the
unlawful contract, to be recovered back, or compensation to
be made for it.
In such case, however, the action is not maintained upon
the unlawful contract, nor according to its terms; but on an
implied contract of the defendant to return, or, failing to do
that, to make compensation for, property or money which it
has no right to retain. To maintain such an action is not to
affirm, but to disaffirm, the unlawful contract.

CENTR AL TRANSP. CO. v. PULLMAN'S CAR CO.

61

Opinion of the Court.

The ground and the limits of the rule concerning the remedy,
in the case of a contract ultra vires, which has been partly
performed, and under which property has passed, can hardly
be summed up better than they were by Mr. Justice Miller in
a passage already quoted, where he said that the rule "stands
upon the broad ground that the contract itself is void, and
that nothing which has been done under it, nor the action of
the court, can infuse any vitality into it;" and that "where
the parties have so far acted under such a contract that they
cannot be restored to their original condition, the court inquires if relief can be given independently of the contract, or
whether it will refuse to interfere as the matter stands." Pennsylvanis Railroadv. &t. Louis &o. Railroad,118 U. S. 311.
Whether this plaintiff could maintain any action against this
defendant, in the nature of a quantum meruit, or otherwise,
independently of the contract, need not be considered, because
it is not presented by this record, and has not been argued.
This action, according to the declaration and the evidence, was
brought and prosecuted for the single purpose of recovering
sums which the defendant had agreed to pay by the unlawful
contract, and which, for the reasons and upon the authorities
above stated, the defendant is not liable for.
Judgment affirmed.
Mm. J sTcE B.Roww, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

