OCTOBER TERMT, 1890.
Syllabus.

Northern; and an instruction to the jury to that effect would
not have -been improper.
-7we jdgment is Teverseci and the cause remandedfor a new
tial in conformity with tkhis o},inion.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case or take any
part in its decision.

CLARK v. BEVER.
ERRiOR To THE CMUIT COUMT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERx DISTRICT OF IOWA.
.No. 116. Argued December 15, 16,1890.-Decided March 2,1891.

In 1872, an Iowa railroad corporation, being indebted to a construction
company in the sum of $70,000 which it was unable to pay in money, had
a settlement with the latter, whereby the debt was paid in shares of the
stock of the railroad company of the par value of $350,000. The stock
was taken at 20 cents on the dollar, but was not, at the time, worth anything in the market. Greene, a member of the construction company,
received 910 shares as his part. Subsequently, in 1876, the railroad and
its appurtenances were sold under a decree foreclosing a mortgage given
to secure the bonds of the railroad company. Clark, a holder of bonds
issued by the railroad company in 1874, obtained judgment for the
amount due him, tipon which execution was issued and returned'in 1880,
no property. Greene having died, Clark brought suit against his administrator in one of the circuit courts of Iowa, sitting in probate, to hold
his estate liable for the difference between what was paid for .the stock,
and its face value, upon the ground that the stock of the corporation'
was a trust fund for creditors, and that as between creditors and stockholders, the latter was bound to account for its face value. Upon the
petition of Clark, the case was removed to and tried in the Circuit Court
of the United States, where a verdict was returned by direction of the
court for the defendant. Held,
(1) That as the proceeding involved a judicial determination of the liability of Greene's estate for the claim in qluestion, with parties
before the court to contest all questions of law and fact, it was a.
"suit" within the meaning of the act of Congress providing for
the removal of suits from the state courts. It is not competent
for a State, by legislative enactment conferring upon its own
courts exclusive jurisdiction of proceedings or suits involving the

CLARK v. BEVELR.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.
settlement and distribution of the estates of deceased persons,
to exclude the jurisdiction in such matters of the courts of the
United States, where the constitutional requirement as to citizenship of the parties is met;
(2) That the value of the matter in dispute here is the amount of the
claim the plaintiff seeks to establish, and that amount being in
excess of $5000, without costs; this court has jurisdiction without
reference to any inquiry as to what might be ultimately realized
from Greene's estate, if the claim be established;
(3) That the estate of Greene is not liable for the face value of the stock
by reason of the statute of Iowa providing that nothing therein
contained " exempts the stockholders- of any corporation from
individual liability to the amount of the unpaid instalments on the
stock owned by them or transferred by them for the purpose of
defrauding creditors, and execution against the company may to
that extent be levied upon such private property of any individual." Revision of Iowa, 1860, see. 1172; Code of 1873, sec. 1082;
(4) That whether a stockholder in law or in fact, owed to the corporation any sum on the btock held by him, was left by the statute to
be determined in each case, upon its own circumstances, and in
accordance with the principles of general law touching the rights
and liabilities of creditors and stockholders.
While the 'capital stock of a corporation, especially its unpaid subscriptions, is a trust fund sub rnodo for the benefit of its general creditors, a.
corporation-no statute forbidding- may in good faith sell or dispose
of its stock to creditors in discharge of. their debts.
The principle reaffirmed that when the interest of the public or of a.
stranger is to be affected by any transaction between the stockholders
owning a corporation, and the corporation itself, such transaction is
subject to rigid scrutiny, and if found to be infected with anything unfair towards such third person, calculated to injure him, or designed
intentionally and inequitably to screen the stockholder from loss at the
expense of the general creditor, it will be disregarded or annulled so far
as it inequitably affects him. Therefore, when the interest of creditors
requires, those holding shares in a. corporation, purporting to be, but
which are shown not to have been, paid for to the extent of their face
value, should be held liable to pay for such shares unless it appears that
they acquired the stock under circumstances that did not give creditors.
and other stockholders just ground for complaint.
The doctrine reaffirmed that tei federal courts, sitting in any State, have
equal and cobrdinate jurisdiction with the state court in determining
questions of general law, although they will, in cases of doubt, lean to
an agreement of views with the state court.

The case is stated in the opinion.
.mr.P. Henry Snyth for plaintiff in error.
VOL. cxxxIx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1890,
Opinion of the Court.

_1. Charles A. Clark,for defendant in error.

.1R.JUSTICE

HARLA_

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the year 1872, the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company -of which at the .time the intestate
George Greene was president, as well as a stockholder, and of
which he continued to be president until February, 1875, - had
a settlement with the Northwestern Construction Company,
of which also Greene was a member, for work done in building a part of its road. This settlement showed*the sum of
$70,000 to be due the Construction Compan:?. The railway
company, being unable to pay this claim in money, delivered
to the Construction Company thirty-five hundred shares of its
stock, at twenty cents on the dollar, each share -being for
$100, and the same was accepted in full satisfaction of the
debt. The stock, which was not worth anything in the
market, was issued directly to the members of the Construction Company, the intestate Greene receiving 910 shares as
his portion.- No other payment than this twenty per cent
was made for or on account of the stock. The good faith of
the parties in making this arrangement is not impugned by
allegation or proof. The Construction Company was reluctant
to take the stock, and insisted upon payment in cash. What
the original stockholders paid for their shares does not appear.
Nor does the record show whether or not Greene exercised
any of the privileges of a stockholder.
Prior to the above settlement a resolution was adopted
February 7, 1871, by the executive committee of the railway
company to the effect that, in the adjustment or liquidation
of claims against the company, the treasurer be authorized to
use its stock, if not less than twenty per cent of its par value
could be realized for the purpose. At the time the stock
was issued to Greene, the financial condition of the company
was as follows: The bonded indebtedness of its main line was
$5,400,000; its floating debts over $1,000,000; its net earnings in 1871 and 1872 and subsequently were not sufficient to
meet the interest on its bonded debts; and in March, 1872,

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

when the settlement in question was made, it was without
means to pay its floating debt or the interest on its bonded
debt, except from net earnings and such money as could be
realized from its stock and bonds and by borrowing.
The railway company continued to operate the road until
May 19, 1875, on which day, in a suit brought in the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Iowa to foreclose
mortgages given by it to secure outstanding bonds, a receiver
of its property was appointed. At this time the general
condition of the company was this: Its bonded debt was
$10,400,000, upon which no interest had been paid since November 1, 1873, and its floating debt amounted to $1,250,000,
and it had no means with which to pay it. - In the above suit
a sale under a decree of foreclosure was made in July, 1876,
when the railroad and all its property were purchased and
have since been owned by the Burlington, Cedar- Rapids and
1Northern Rail'way Company. After the appointment of the
receiver, the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company ceased to do business or to exercise its franchises as a corporation.
It should be stated, in this connection, that Greene on the
10th of February, 1875, transferred the above 910 shares to
John I. Blair, a gentleman of large fortune and financially
responsible for the balance, if any, due on that stock. At the
instance of the Western managers of the Burlington, Cedar
Rapids and Minnesdta Railway Company, Mr. Blair undertook to save it from bankruptcy. But, ascertaining that the
company's overissue of bonds was so great and its liabilities
so large, that it was necessary to commence foreclosure proceedings.and to make application for the appointment of a
receiver, he returned to Greene and others all the stock received by him.
Clark, the plaintiff below, a, citizen of Ohio, being the
holder of fifty gold bonds of one thousand dollars each of the
Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company,
dated June 1, 1874, payable in the year 16i4, and bearing
interest at seven per cent per annum - which bonds were
part of a series of two thousand, each for one thousand dol-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opipion of the Court.

lars, secured by mortgage upon the company's net income,
rolling stock and additions, and convertible at the option of
the holder into capital stock-brought suit to recover the
amount due thereon, and on the 4th of June, 1878, recovered
judgment against the railroad company for the sum of $65,517,
to bear interest from that date. We infer, though the record
contains no distinct statement or proof on the subject, that
the bonds became due and payable prior to this suit, on account of default in the payment of interest. Execution was
issued upon the judgment and was returned August 10, 1880,
no property found.
The present suit was commenced July 5, 1881, by Clark
against the administrator of Greene, a citizen of Iowa, in the
Circuit Court for Linn County, in that State. The petition,
after setting out the foregoing judgment, the return of the
execution thereon' unsatisfied, and the ownership of the 910
shares of stock by Greene up to his death, and by his estate
since, alleged "that of the value of said shares of stock owned
by said decedent there has been paid only the sum of eighteen
thousand two hundred dollars, or about twenty per centum of
the full value of said stock, and there is still due upon said
shares a balance of eighty per centum of their full value,
.amounting to the sum of seventy-two thousand and eight hundred dollars; that the said balance due upon said shares was
a trust fund in the hands of said decedent for the payment
of said judgment and is still a trust fund for that purpose in
the hands of decedent's administrator; that the defendant
herein is the administrator of the estate of said George Greene,
deceased, duly appointed and qualified; that said decedent in
his lifetime failed and neglected to pay or cause to be paid
the said judgment, or any part thereof, and this defendant
has failed and neglected to pay or cause to be paid the same
or any part thereof, and the said judgment is still due and
wholly unpaid." The prayer of the petition was for a judgment against the defendant as administrator for the whole
amount of the plaintiff's claim, with interest and costs, and
that it be allowed by the court as a just claim against Greene's
estate.

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

The case was subsequefitly removed upon the petition of
Clark to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Iowa, and thereafter by consent was transferred to
the Eastern Division of the Southern District of that State.
The defendant, besides denying each alegation of the plaintiff's claim and petition, pleads, in bar of the action, the sfatute
of limitations of Iowa, and, also, a certain settlement and
compromise between the plaintiff and the railway company.
To this answer a replication was filed by the plaintiff.
After the evidence was concluded the plaintiff asked several
instructions based upon the general ground that the stock used
in discharging the debt of the Construction Company was a
trust fund for the benefit of creditors, and that, without reference to the necessities of the railroad company or the good
faith of the transaction, Greene was accountable to the creditors of the latter corporation for the par value of the stock
issued to him under the settlement or compromise of 1872,
whatever may have been its market value at the time he got
it or at the time this action was commenced.
The court below refused to so instruct the jury, and held, as
matter of law, that upon the evidence the intestate Greene, by
taking the 910 shares of stock upon which the twenty per cent
was paid, did not become liable to pay anything further on.
account thereof to creditors of the railway company; anid,
pursuant to its direction, the jury returned a verdict for the
defendant. Clark v; Bever, Adm'i, 31 Fed. Rep. 670.
The questions to be first considered relate to the jurisdiction
of the court below and of this court.
This proceeding was commended in one of the Circuit Courts
of Iowa, having general original jurisdiction in all civil actions
and special proceedings, and, original exclusive jurisdiction, in
the respective counties of the State, among other things, "of
the settlement of the estates of deceased persons." Of the
filing of a claim against the estate of a deceased person, the
executor or administrator is entitled to notice, to be served "in
the manner required for commencing ordinary proceedings,"
unless the claim be expressly admitted ii writing with the
approbation of the court, and when not so admitted "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

dourt may hear and allow the same, or may submit it to a
jury." On such hearing, unless otherwise declared, the court
is governed by the provisions of law applicable to an ordinary
proceeding. When a claim is allowed, it is "placed in the
catalogue of established claims, but shall not be a lien." Code
of Iowa, 1873, secs. 161, 2312, 2370, 2408,, 2409, 2410,.2411,
2416. No other court of the State, except a Circuit Court,
has jurisdiction to allow or disallow a claim against the estate
of a deceased person. Tillmau v. Bowman, 68 Iowa, 450;
iShropshirev. Long, 68 Iowa, 537. While an order allowing
such a claim is not an ordinary judgment ulon which an execution may issue, it is an "adjudication" establishing that
claim as one to be paid by the executor or administrator so far
as the estate in his hands is sufficient. Foteaux v. Lepage, 6
Iowa, 123; Voorhees v. Eubank, 6 Iowa, 274; Little.v. Sinnett,
7 Iowa, 324; Smitk v. Sawhan, 37 Iowa, 533; Dessaint v.
Foster, Adm'r, 72 Iowa, 639, 640. It is suggested that the
claim in suit here is a mere incident to the marshalling and
distribution of the estate of Greene; that such estate can only
be administered and distributed by the state court in accordance with the laws of the State; and that the Circuit Court
of the United States was without jurisdiction to d3termine
whether it was or not a valid claim against that estate. This
position is wholly untenable. As the proceeding involved a
judicial determination as to the liability of Greene's estate for
the amount of Clark's claim, with parties before the court to
contest all the questions of law and fact, it was clearly a
"suit," within the meaning'of the act of Congress providing.
for the removal of suits to the Circuit Courts of the United
States. The removal in this case was, therefore, proper, unless
it be competent for a State, by legislative enactment conferring upon its own courts exclusive jurisdiction of all proceedings or suits involving the settlement and distribution of the
estates of deceased persons, to exclude the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States even in cases where the constitutional requirement as to 5itizenship is met. But this court has
d'cided, upon full consideration, that no such result can be
constitutionally effected by state legislation. The case of

CLARIK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

Bess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73, 77, involved a disputed claim
originally filed in a probate court of Michigan, carried by
appeal to a Circuit Court of the same State, and subsequently
removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan. Substantially the same question of jurisdiction was raised in that case that is here presented. This
court said: "It may be convenient that all debts to be paid
out of the assets of a deceased man's estate, shall be establisried
in the court to which the law of the domicil has confided the
general administration of these assets. And the courts of the
United States will pay respect to this principle, in the execution of the process enforcing their judgments out of these
assets, so far as the demands of justice require. But neither
the principle of convenience, nor the statutes of a State, can
deprive them of jurisdiction to hear and determine a controversy between citizens of different States, when such a controversy is distinctly presented, because the judgment may affect
the administration or distribution in another forum of 'the
assets of the decedent's estate. The controverted question of
debt or no debt is one which, if the representative of the decedent is a citizen of a State different from that of the other
party, the party properly situated has a right, given by the
Constitution of the United States, to have tried originally, or
by removal, in a court of the United States, which cannot be
defeated by state statutes enacted for the more convenient
settlement of estates of decedents." See also Payne v. Hook,
7 Wall. 425; Boorm Company v. Patterson,98 U. S.403; Ellis
v. Davis, 109 U. S.485; Delaware County v. Diebold Safe Co.,
133 U. 5. 473, 487; rJoshur County v. 1?ieh, 135 U. S. 467,
477.
It is next'contended that, under the statutes of Iowa governing the settlement of the estates of deceased persons, the
plaintiff in error has only an interest in the "fund" arising
from Greene's estate; and as it does not appear, affirmatively,
that such interest exceeds, or can exceed, in value the sum of
five thousand dollars, this court is without jutisdiction and
the writ of error should be dismissed. This contention must
be overruled. The plaintiff seeks a judgment against the

104:

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

estate of Greene for the sum of $65,523.20, with interest. The
defendant disputes the whole of that claim. The sum sued for
- the entire claim having been rejected -is the value of the
matter in dispute here; and our jurisdiction to determine that
dispute cannot depend upon an inquiry as to whether the
estate of Greene, when fully distributed, may or may not
yield to the plaintiff, if successful here, something in excess of
five thousand dollars. Such an inquiry is as inadmissible, on
this writ of error, as it would be if the judgment had established the claim of the plaintiff against Greene's administrator
for the full amount, and a writ of error had been prosecuted
by him to reverse that judgment. The case is different from
.Miller v. Clark, 138 U. S. 223,. decided at the present term,
where the appeal was dismissed, because it appeared, affirmatively, that the appellant, who was the plaintiff below, did
not claim, and could .not possibly recover, for himseyf, a sum
in excess of $5000.
We come now to consider the principal questions in the
ease. They relate to the-liability of the defendant for the
difference between the face value of the stock issued to Greene
in 1872 and the value at which it was rated in the settlement
of that year with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway Company. The general proposition advanced
by the plaintiff is, that it was not competent for the railway
company to issue to Greene and his associates in discharge of
its debt to th6m, amounting to $70,000, thirty-five hundred
shares of stock of the par value of $350,000, although the
settlement upon that basis may have been demanded by the
best interests of the company, and was made in good faith
without intention to barm the corporation or to defraud its
creditors, existing or subsequent, and although the stock at
the time "was not worth anything in the market; " and that
Greene took the 910 shares issued to him for twenty per cent
of its face value, subject to the implied condition that he
should be liable for any unpaid debts of the corporation to the
extent of the difference between the face value of the stock
and the amount at which it was taken by him. It is not contended that such liability arises from the relations Greene held

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

to the two companies making the settlement of 1812, but from
the obligations the law imposed for the benefit of creditors
both upon the corporation issuing the stock and its stockholders. Of course, under this view, every one having claims
against the railway company -even laborers and employ~s who could get nothing except stock in payment of their demands, became bound, by accepting stock at its market value
in payment, to account to unsatisfied judgment creditors for
its full face value, although, at the time it was sought to make
them liable, the corporation had ceased to exist, or its stock
had remained, as it was when taken, absolutely worthless.
Such the plaintiff, in effect, insists is the law of Iowa.
The statutory provisions that are supposed by the plaintiff
to sustain his position, which were in force when the stock in
question was issued, are found in Title X, chapter 52 of the
Revision of the Statutes of Iowa of 1860, relating to the
creation of corporations for the transaction of any lawful business, including the establishment of ferries, the construction
of canals, railways, bridges or other works of internal improvement. (See. 1150.) Among the powers which such corporations may exercise are "to make contracts, acquire and
transfer property, possessing the same powers in such respects
as private individuals now enjoy," and "to establish by-laws,
and make all rules and regulations deemed expedient for the
management of their affairs in accordance with law and not
incompatible with an honest purpose." (Sec. 1151.) Articles of
incorporation were required to be recorded in the office of the
recorder and Secretary of State. (See. 1152.) A notice of
the incorporation must be published, containing the name of
the corporation and its principal place of transacting business; the general nature of such business; the amount of capital and stock authorized and -the terms and the conditions on
which it is to be paid in; the time of the commencement and
termination of the corporation; by what officers or persons
the affairs of the corporation are to be conducted, and the
times at which they will be elected; the highest amount of
indebtedness or liability to which the corporation is at any
time to subject itself; and whether private property is to be

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

exempt from corporate debts. (Sees. 1154, 1155.) A failure to
comply with the above and other provisions in relation to
organization and publicity, rendered the individual property
of all the stockholders liable for the corporate debts, except
that stoclkholders in railway companies were made liable only
for the amount of stock, held by them in such companies.
(Sees. 1166, 1338,)

Intentional fraud in failing to comply sub-

stantially with the articles of incorporation, or in deceiving
the public or individuals in relation to their means or their
liabilities, subjected those guilty thereof to flue and imprisonment, or both, at the discretion of the court. (See. 1163.)
The practice of fraud in the manner mentioned caused a for-

feiture of all the privileges conferred, and the courts could
proceed, upon information, to wind up the business of the
corporation. (See. 1167.) A copy of the by-laws of the corporation and a statement of the amount of capital stock subscribed, the amount actually paid in, and the amount of the
indebtedness in a general way, was required to be kept posted
up in the principal places of business, subject to public inspection, such statement to be corrected as often as any material
change took place in relation to any part of the subject matter
of the statement. (Sees. 1161, 1162.)
The provisions upon which the plaintiff particularly relies
are the following:
"SEc. 1169. The transfer of shares is not valid except as
between the parties thereto until it is regularly entered on the
books of the company so far as to show the name of the persons by and to whom transferred, the number or other designation of the shares, and the date of the transfer; but such
transfer shall not in any way exempt the person or persons
making such transfer from any liability or liabilities of said
corporation which were created prior to such transfer."
"SEC. 1172. Nothing herein contained exempts the stockholders of any corporation from individual liability to the
amount of the unpaid instalments on the stock owned by them
or transferred by them for the purpose of defrauding creditors,
and execution against the company may to that extent be
levied upon such private property of any individual.

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 1173. In none of the cases contemplated in this
chapter can the private property of the stockholders be levied
upon for the payment of corporate debts while corporate
property can be found with which to satisfy the same, but it
will be sufficient proof that no property can be found if an
execution has issued on a judgment against the corporation
and a demand thereon made of some one of the last acting
officers of the body for property on which to levy, and if he
neglects to point out any such property.
"SEC. 1174. The defendant in any stage of a cause may
point out corporate property subject to levy, and upon his
satisfying the court of the existence of such property by affidavit or otherwise the cause may be continued or execution
against him stayed until the property can be levied upon and
sold, and the court may subsequently render judgment and
order execution for any balance which there may be after disposing of the corporate property according to the stage of the
cause; but if a demand of property has been made, as-contemplated in the preceding section, the costs of such proceedings shall in any event be paid by the company or by the
defendant."
These provisions are substantially preserved in the Iowa
Code of 1873. §§ 1058, 1059, 1062, 1063, 1068, 1071, 1078,
1082, 1083, 1084.
The argument in behalf of the plaintiff assumes that, consistently with these statutory provisions, no one can, under
any circumstances whatever, become the owner of the stock
of an Iowa corporation, except subject to the condition that,
where property of the corporation cannot be found, the private property of the stockholder may be seized under execution in favor of a judgment creditor to the extent of the
difference between what he actually paid for the stock,
whether in money or in property, and its face value. And it
is further insisted that, independently of the statute, such is
the doctrine of general law relating to subscriptions to the
stock of corporations, as announced by this court in several
cases. W-e are of opinion that neither of these positions can
be maintained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
'Opinion of the Court.

The local itatute undoubtedly proceeds up6n the ground that
unpaid instalments of stock subscribed constitute -no other
rule being prescribed by legislative enactment - a trust fund
for the benefit of creditors. But it does not declare that a
.corporation is without power, under any circumstances whatever, to dispose of its stock at less than par, or that stock
purporting to be full paid shall, in all cases, and without reference to the circumstances under which it was acquired, be
deemed unpaid to the extent that the amount given for it by
the owner, whether in money or in property, was less than its
face value. On the contrary, the statute itself imposes no
express restriction upon the disposition by a corporation of its
stock except -suchas is imposed upon individuals, and prescribes
no rule in respect to the liability of a stockholder to -creditors
except that when corporate property cannot be found to pay
a judgment creditor, his private property may be seized under
the execution to the extent of any unpaid instalments on the
stock bwned by him. Whether any such indebtedness really
exists upon the part of a particular stockholder, and whether
he in law or in fact owes any sum on the stock held by him,
was left by the statute to be determined in each case, upon it:s
own circumstances, and in accordance with the principles of
general law touching the rights and liabilities of creditors
and stockholders. If the legislature had intended that the
acquisition of stock at less than its face value should be conclusive evidenc6 in every case that the stock, as between creditors and stockholders, is "-unpaid," it would have been easy to
so declare, as has been done in some of the States. If such
a rule be demanded by considerations of public policy, the
remedy is with the legislative department of the government
creating the corporation. A rule so explicit and unbending
could be enforced without injustice to any one, for all would
have notice from the statute of the will of the legislature. It
is not for the courts by mere interpretation of a statute, not
justified by its language, to accomplish objects that are within
the exclusive province of legislation. If, when receiving the
910 shares of stock in payment of his portion of the claim 6f
$7p0,000 against.the railroad company, Greene had supposed

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

that he would thereby become liable to account to creditors
for its full face value without regard to the real value of the
stock, and whether the corporation subsequently became bankrupt or not, he certainly would not have taken it. It is equally
certain that no such result was conte.mplated by the other
party to the settlement. It is also certain that the acceptance
by the members of the Construction Company of worthless
stock in full discharge of its claim was a benefit to both the
existing creditors and the holders of stock of the railroad
company not paid in full: to creditors, because it diniinished
the number of that class who would be entitled to share in
the assets of the company; to stockholders so situated, because
it lessened the number of creditors, to whom, in any contingency, they would be liable in their private property for the
debts of the corporation. Here was a corporation which, at
the time of the settlement of 1872 with Greene and his associates, was unable from its net earnings to pay the interest on
its bonded debt. It could not pay even its floating debt without borrowing money or making sale of stock. But its stock
could not be sold for money. It had no market value, and the
company could not get rid of the debt due for construction
except by borrowing money or selling stock. If it had borrowed money and secured its payment by mortgage upon its
real property or income, it would thereby have added to the
burdens of creditors and original stockholders. So far as the
record discloses, it did in good faith what was best for all then
concerned in the railroad company, namely, paid off a large
claim for construction with worthless stock, those to whom it
was issued taking their chances that it might at a future time
acquire some value, but with the certainty that if the railroad
company became bankrupt and ceased to do business all of its
assets would be appropriated by creditors, leaving nothing
whatever to stockholders.
Do the decisions of this court require us to hold, in such a
case, that -acreditor taking stock in payment of his claim is
bound to other creditors for the face value of the stock ? The
plaintiff' contends that our decisions are to that effect. Let
us see. In Saq/er v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610, 620, it was held.

OCTOBBR TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

that the capital stock of a corporation, especially its unpaid
subscriptions, is a trust fund sub modo for the benefit of its
general creditors. And this principle was reaffirmed in
Upton, Assignee, v. Tibilcoc, 91 U. S. 45 ; Sanger v. Upton,
Assignee; 91 U. S. 56; Webster v. Upton, Assignee, 91 U. S.
65; Pullman v. Upton, 96 U. S. 328; Chubb v. Upton, 95
U. S. 665; Morgan County v. Allen, 103 U. S. 498; Scovill
v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143; llawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319,
335; afid Richardson v. Green, 133 U. S. 30, 45. There is no
dispute here as to the soundness of this general principle. The
dispute is as to its application to a case like the present one.
We can be aided in solving this inquiry by ascertaining the
character of the particular cases in which it has been applied
by this court. In Sawyer v. Htoag, a subscription of $5000 to
the stock of an insurance company for which the subscriber
paid in full, but received in return the check of the corporation for $1250 under an agreement that the debt for the stock
should be extinguished, and the amount of the check should
be treated simply as a loan of money to the stockholder, was
held'to be a mere device to evade the rule that unpaid subscriptions of itock constitute a trust fund for the benefit of
the creditors of the corporation; consequently, that the stock
there in question was to be regarded, as between the corporation and creditors, to be unpaid to the extent of the amount
received back from the corporation under the pretence of a
loan. In Upto, Assignee, v. Tibileock, an actual subscriber
to the stock of an insurance company upon which he agreed
to pay 20 per cent, was held responsible for the balance, and
could not escape liability therefor because of representations
by the agent, at the time of the subscription, that he would
be only responsible for that amount, or by proving a subsequent arrangement with the company cancelling the subscription, and accepting, as in full payment, his note for the 20 per
cent agreed to be paid. Sanger v. Upton, Assignee, was
another case of the actual subscription of stock upon which
the subscriber was held to pay the full sum subscribed. In
Webster v. Upton, Assignee, a person holding certificates of
stock by transfer from the original subscriber, and standing

CLARK v. BEVER.

111

Opinion of the Court.

upon the books of the corporation as a stockholder, was held
liable for the balance due upon the stock, without proof of an
"express" promise upon his part to pay. In Chubb v. UPton,
the decision was that one receiving a certificate of stock for a
certain number of shares, at a given sum per share, thereby
became liable to pay the amount thereof when called upon
by the corporation or its assignee in bankruptcy; and in Pullman v. Ujpton, that a transferee of stock who caused the
transfer to be made to himself as collateral security for a debt
of the transferer, was liable for the balance due on such stock.
The doctrine of the latter case was approved in Hawkins v.
Glenn. In County of Morgan v. Allen, it was decided that
the subscription by a county to the capital stock of a railroad
company, together with the bonds given therefor, constituted
with other property of the company a trust fund, t6 which
all its creditors could rightfully look for satisfaction of their
claims; and that by no device or combination, to which particular creditors were -parties, could it withdraw its bonds
from that fund,, and thereby avoid liability to the general
creditors of the company. In Scovill v. Tha.yer, it was declared, among other things, that a contract between a corporation and its stockholders, that they should never be called
upon to pay any other assessment than that paid at the outset, while good as between the corporation and the stock-holders, was a fraud in law upon creditors, which they could
have set aside whenever their rights intervened, and their
claims were unsatisfied. In Richardson v. Green, it was held
that the issuing by a corporation of bonus stock was in violation of a statute of the State declaring it to be unlawful to
issue certificates of stock until the shares were fully paid, and
that one exercising the privileges and powers of a stockholder
in a corporation was not exempt from the liabilities attaching
to a bona
cde
stockholder who took shares purporting to be,
but which in fact were not, fully paid.
This detailed statement of the above cases has been made
because of the confident assertion that they rest upon doctrines
necessarily requiring the reversal of the judgrment. We do
not concur in this view. In all -of these cases, except one,

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

there was an actual subscription of a given amount. They
were cases of promises to pay the company the amount subscribed, not of sales by it. According to those cases, a stockholder, becoming such by formal subscription or by transfer
upon the books of the corporation, cannot be discharged to
the injury of creditors by any agreement, arrangement or
device to which creditors do not give their assent, and by
.which the stockholder is to pay less than the amount due
upon such stock; this, upon the ground stated in Wester v.
Ujptom, Assignee, that "neither the stockholders nor their
agents, the directors, can rightfully withhold any portion of
the stock from the reach of those who have lawful claims
against the company," and that "the stock thus held in trust
is the whole stock, not merely that percentage of it which has
been called in and paid." The present case presents features
that are not-to be found in the others. It is not the case of
an ordinary subscription of stock in a given amount. Nor is
it, strictly, one of an ordinary purchase of stock for purposes
of investment. It is the case of a creditor of an insolvent
railroad corporation which, in consequence of its inability to
pay creditors in money, was threatened with bankruptcy, and
which refused or was unable to pay except in stock\ that was
without market value. To say that a public corporation,
charged with public duties, may not relieve itself from embarrassment by paying its debt in stock at its real value there being no statute forbidding such a transaction - without subjecting the creditor, surrendering his debt, to the
liability attaching to stockholders who have agreed, expressly
or impliedly, to pay the face value of stock subscribed by
them, is, in effect, to compel them either to suspend operations the moment they become unable to pay their current
debts, or to borrow money secured by mortgage upon the
corporate property. We do not think the statute of Iowa can
be properly construed to capse such a result in respect to corporations organized under its laws.
We must not be understood as modifying in any respect the
principles laid down in the cases above cited, nor the salutary
rule laid down in Sawyer v. Iloag, that when the interest of

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

the public or of strangers is to be affected by any transaction
between the stockholders owning the corporation and the corporation itself, "such transaction should be subject to a rigid
scrutiny, and if found to be infected with anything unfair
toward -such third person calculated to injure him, or designed
intentionally and inequitably to screen the stockholder from
loss at the expense of the general creditor, it should be disregarded or annulled so far as it may inequitably affect him."
These principles were reaffirmed in Richardson v. Green, and
should not be relaxed in any case in which they may be applied consistently with justice. So, when the interest of creditors require, those who hold shares of stock in a corporation,
purporting to be, but which are shown not to have been, paid
for to the. extent of their face value, should be held liable
to pay for such shares in full, unless it appears that they
acquired the stock under circumstances that did not give
creditors and other stockholders just ground for complaint.
As said by this court in Peters v. Bcdin, 133 U. S. 670, 691,
"unpaid subscriptions to stocks are assets, and have frequently
been treated by courts of equity as if impressed with a trust
sub tado, in the sense that neither the stockholddrs nor the
corporation can misappropriate such subscriptions so far as
creditors are concerned." See also Graham v. Railroad Co.,
102 U. S. 148, 161; Wabash, St. Louis &c. Railway v. Ham,
114 U. S. 587, 594; Fogg v. Blair, 133 U. S. 534, 541.
The general grounds upon which we have proceeded are
supported by N/ew Albany v. Burke, 11 Wall. 96, 103, et seg.
In that case, a judgment creditor of an insolvent railroad corporation sought to hold the city of New Albany liable for the
balance alleged to be due by it on a subscription to the capital stock of that corporation. Under an ordinance of the city,
a subscription of $400,000, payable in city bonds, was made by
it to the stock of the corporation, the railroad company agreeing that not more than $250,000 of the bonds should be called
for until the road was completed to a certain place. Pursuant to the subscription, the city delivered to the company
$200,000 of its bonds, payable to bearer. In consequence of
its inability to obtain money on them, the company was unable
VOL. CX

X---8

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to carry on the works, and abandoned the enterprise, after
having pledged nearly all of the bonds received by it for
money borrowed to prosecute it. Under those circumstances
the company proposed to the city that if it would provide
means for the payment of the sums borrowed, the bonds so
pledged should be returned to the city and cancelled. If the
bonds had been sold by the pledgees they would not have
brought more than sufficient to pay the sums borrowed. The
city accepted the proposition made to it upon the condition to
which the railroad company acceded, that the latter would
cancel the city's subscription and consent to the repeal of all
ordinances relating thereto. The agreement was carried into
effect, the city ,paying the sums for which the bonds were
pledged, amounting to more than $36,000. All the bonds,
except seven that had been sold, were returned to the city and
cancelled, as was also the subscription of stock. One of the
contentions of the judgment creditor was that this arrangement or compromise was fraudulent in law, because the capital stock of the corporation was a trust fund irrevocably
pledged for the benefit of creditors, and that the corporation
could not, when insolvent, give away its assets, or release its
debtors without payment, or do any other act prejudicial to
creditors. This court said: "There was no restriction in the
contract upon the power of disposition, and none at law, or in
equity, unless it be that the company could not part with the
bonds in fraud of its stockholders or its creditors. And it had
the right, which all other debtors had at thc time, to make
preferences among its creditors - to pay one rather than
another. It is not to be disputed that, situated as the company was-at the time when the coz-tract of August and September, 1857, was made, with the debt of $36,000 pressing
upon it, and with no other means of relief, it might have sold
the entire lot of two hundred and forty-three bonds which it
held, or was entitled to call for, at the best price that could
have been obtained, and might have applied the entire proceeds, had they been needed, to pay that single debt. Of this,
neither the stockholders nor the other creditors could have
complained. . . . Time has revealed that the bonds we'e

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

worth more than they could have been sold for, but we are to
look at .the circumstances as they were when the transaction
took place, in considering what was its nature and whether
it was legal.

.

.

.

Certainly it [the compromise] did not

place the company in any worse position than it must have
held had it not been made.

.

.

.

Besides, as we have seen,

the arrangement assailed. by the complainants was not a modification of the subscription previously made, or a bonus given
for a release. It was rather a purchase of the city debt. We
think it was not beyond the power of the contracting parties."
Again, after observing that the arrangement made was binding upon the railroad company, through which, as well as
against which, the judgment creditors claimed, the court said:
"No doubt the subscribed capital stock of a corporation is a
fund held by it in trust for its creditors, as is also all its other
property, and had the railroad company released, without
equivalent consideration, or given it away, its action would
have been fraudulent, and might have been set aside by a
court of equity. But certainly it was in the power of the
directors to apply the subscription on bonds taken in payment
to the extinguishment of debts, and,.if thus applied in good
faith, all being obtained for it that it was worth, no one has
been wronged. It is, therefore, a question of fact to be determined by the evidence, whether the bonds and the balance of
the city's subscription were thus applied.

.

.

.

We may

add, the evidence is convincing that the contract between the
city and the company was made in the utmost good faith,
with no intention to wrong the creditors of the latter; that it
was at the time considered advantageous to the company, and
it is not proved that all was not paid for the bonds issued and
to be issued that they could have been sold for in themarket."
These principles have not been modified by any decision of
this court, and they fully sustain the judgment in this case.
And there is some support for the judgment in Gelpoke v.
Blake, 19 Iowa, 263, 268, decided in 1865, in which a creditor
of a railroad corporation sought to hold a stockholder liable
on his subscription, notwithstanding his release by it. The
court said: "Again, a release is a contract, and the articles of

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

incorporation give to this company all the powers described in
section 674 of the Code of 1851. The sixth clause of that section invests the company with power to make contracts, acquire and transfer property, possessing the same powers in
such respects as private individuals now enjoy. There was
no lack of power, therefore, in this company, nor'do we think
there would have been in the board of directors, to rescind
the contract with or without the consent of the stockholders
or others, when it was done in good faith, and under the peculiar and equitable circumstances of the case." The clause in
the Code of 1851, above 'referred to, was reproduced in the
Revision of 1860, § 1151, and in the Code of 1873, § 1059.
It is, however, contended that the judgment cannot be sustained without" disregarding later decisions of the Supreme
Court of Iowa, which, it is insisted, rest upon the statute of
that State, and are binding upon this court. Reliance is particularly placed by the plaintiff upon eTackson v. Traer, 64
Iowa, 469. All the cases in that learned court to which attention has been called were determined after Greene acquired
the stock in question, and all, with one exception, after this
litigation was commenced. The recognition in the Iowa stat-.
ute of the right of creditors of corporations to look to unpaid
instalments of stock subscriptions to obtain satisfaction of
their demands did not confer a new right, but is a recognition
of a right existing before the statute in virtue of the relations
between a corporation and its creditors and stockholders. The
new right given to the creditor by the statute is to have: his
execution- when corporate property cannot be found, levied
upon the private property of the stockholder who is indebted
on his subscription of stock; it being declared, out of abundant
caution, that nothing in the statute "exempts" stockholders
from individual liability to the amount of their unpaid instalments of stock. The decisions of the state court are not,
therefore, to be regarded as resting upon the local statute, but
only as expressing the views of that tribunal in respect to the
same principles of genefal law announced by this court, after
the fullest consideration, in the numerous cases to which we
have adverted. The leading case in the state court upon this

CLARK v. BEVER.
Opinion of the Court.

subject is Jackson v. Traer, above cited. It involved the liability of Greene's estate to another judgment creditor of the
railroad company for the difference between the face value of
his stock and the price at which it was received in payment of
his claim. Upon the first hearing in the Supreme Court of the
State, all its members except one held that the stock should
be treated as fully paid. Upon a rehearing, at the October
term, 188some time after this action was brought and had
been removed into the court below-three of the judges held
that Greene's estate was bound to account to creditors for
eighty per cent of the face value of the stock received by him.
Chief Justice Rothrock and Judge Seevers dissented. The two
cases since Jackson v. Traer - we allude to Boult,-n Carbon
Co. v. .ifills, 78 Iowa, 460, and Tama Water Power Co. v.
-Hopkins, 79 Iowa, 653- do not rest upon any ground that is
inconsistent with the views we have expressed. We cannot,
consistently with our deliberate judgment upon this question
of general law, accept the decision in Jaceson v. Traer as
controlling the determination of the present case. Upon questions of that character the federal courts administering justice
in Iowa have equal and cobrdinate jurisdiction with the courts
of that State, although they will lean "towards an agreement
of views with the state court if the question seems to them
balanced with doubt." Railroad Co. v. 1ockwood, 17 Wall. 357,
367; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Pana v. Bowler,
107 U. S. 529; ffougA v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 226;
Railroad Co. v. .ational Bank, 102 U. S.14, 30, 31; .Myriick
v. -Michigan Central Railroad, 107 U. S. 102, 109; Carroll
County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556; Bolles v. Brimfield, 120 U. S.
759. The judgment below, in our opinion, is in accordance
with the law as it was adjudged to be when Greene received
the stock in question and surrendered his claim upon the railroad company, and with the law as this court has since that
time frequently declared it to be; and our duty is to so declare
in the case before us.
Judgment ajfirmed.
MNR.

JUSTICE BRowN, not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, did not participate in its decision.

