INLAND & SEABOARD COASTING CO. v. TOLSON. 551
Statement of the Case.

IN-LAND AND

SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY
v. TOLSON.

ERROR TO THE SUjPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COTLUhBIA.
No. 229. Argued March 19, 1891.-Decided April 6,1891.
In an action by a wharfinger against a steamboat company for crushing his
foot between the timbers of a wharf by the violent striking of a steamboat against the wharf, while touching there to receive freight from him,
in calm weather, there was conflicting testimony from the plaintiff and
frop those on board the steamboat as to' the negligence of either party,
including evidence that the plaintiff, immediately after the injury, and
again the next morning, admitted that he was hurt by his own fault. Held,
that the defendant had no ground of exception to the following instructions:
(1) That the shock and pain might render the plaintiff incapable of telling exactly how the thing took place, and that his making different
statements at different times did not necessarily imply an intention
to mislead, and therefore the jury might look at any difference in
his statements in that point of view.
(2) That it would beprima facie evidence of the defendant's negligence,
if the steamboat was thrown with such force against a wharf
properly built as to tear up some of the planks; or if it was dangerous to make a stern landing, with neither captain nor pilot in
the pilot-house, and under the other circumstances proved.
(3) That any negligence of the plaintiff, directly contributing to the injury, would incapacitate him from recovering; and that if he
negligently placed his foot between timbers of the wharf, and
allowed it to remain there while the steamboat was departing,
and it was injured while so placed, it was for the jury to decide
whether there was such negligence as would disentitle him from
recovering.
(4) That the burden of proof was on the defendant to show that the
plaintiff was negligent and that his negligence contributed to the
injury.
(5) That contributory negligence of the plaintiff would not prevent him
from recovering, if the defendant might, by the exercise of reasonable care and prudence, have avoided the consequences of the
plaintiff's negligence.
Whether a particular position on a wharf is a safe place for the wharflnger
to stand, while a steamboat is approaching to take off freight or to make
a landing, is a question for the jury, and not for opinions of witnesses.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. Walter AD.Davidge and .Xr. ANathani4 Wilson for
.plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. C. C. CoMe and Xr. A. A. Bitey for defendant in
error.
M. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought March 11, 1884-, by Tolson
against the Inland and Seaboard Coasting Company to recover damages for the crushing of his foot by the negligent
management of a steamboat of the defendant. The plaintiff
recovered a verdict for $8000, judgment on which was
affirmed in general term. 6 Mackey, 39. The defendant
sued out this writ of error.
kt the trial it appeared that the plaintiff was the owner
and wharfinger of a wharf in the Potomac River, known as
Shamrock pier, built on piles, in a suitable and substantial
manner, early in 1883, and the front of which, twelve feet
long, was parallel with the channel of the river, and had
three heavy fender piles at each corner; that on September
15, 1883, the plaintiff, having a small basket of pears and an
empty demijohn to put on board the defendant's steamboat
for Washington, neglected to signal her as she came up the
river, and hailed her as she was passing the wharf, whereupon
she backed in to make a stern landing, and struck the piles
at the lower end of the wharf with considerable force; that
at that time the weather was calm and the tide just turned
flood, and neither the captain nor the pilot was in the pilothouse.
The plaintiff testified that, while he was standing near the
edge of the wharf by the capstan post, ready to catch a line
to be thrown from the steamboat, she struck the wharf with
such force as to start and break the plank flooring, and to
catch and crush his left foot between the planks and that
post; and that at that moment the mate of the steamboat
reached over and took the basket from his hand.
I The defendant called as witnesses the pilot and others on

INLA'ND & SEABOARD COASTING CO. v. TOLSON.

553

Opinion of the Court.

board the steamboat, who testified that the plaintiff, -as the
steamboat neared the wharf, called out that there was no
need to throw a line, and leaned over and handed the basket
and demijohn to the mate, and the mate gave the signal to
go ahead, and he and the plaintiff shook hands and joked
together, and the boat then struck the wharf, and jammed'
the plaintiff's foot between the wharf and one of the fender
piles; that the boat was then turned about and made a bow
landing at the wharf for the purpose of rendering the plaintiff
assistance, and the plaintiff was taken ashore, and then and
there, in the presence of the mate and others, said""that-he
was hurt by his own fault, that he was standing in a dangerous position." The defendant also introduced evidence thit
the plaintiff, the next morning, at his own house, explained
to two of his neighbors how the accident happened, and said
to them "that it was his own fault 'and nobody else's, that
he did not blame any of the boat people," and stated the
circumstances of the accident in the same way as the defend-,
ant's witnesses.
Upon the comparative weight to be given to the statements
made by the plaintiff shortly after the injury, and to his testimony at the trial, the judge instructed the jury as follows:
"It may, at first, seem surprising that a man who himself
wears the shoe should not be able to tell where it pinches;
that a man who has his foot crushed should not necessarily
know better than any' other party where it was hurt, and
how it was hurt; and yet it is not an uncommon thing for
other men who saw the thing done, to be able to tell better
than the man himself how the accident happened. The shock
and pain may have the effect of rendering the man quite incapable of telling just exactly how the thing took place, so if
you find the man at different times making somewhat different statements it does not at all follow that it was his intention
to mislead. You are, .therefore, to look at any difference of
statements that he may have made, if you believe he did
make different statements, in that point of view. He may
not be the best witness as to what did happen to himself or
the manner in which the thingmay have lhappened."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant excepted to this instruction, and contended
that it invaded the province of the jury to determine the
credit to be given to the plaintiff's various and contradictory
statements, by directing them to look at the evidence in a
particular point of view, and by treating the shock and pain
of the injury as affecting not only his statements made the
same'evening, but also those made to his neighbors the next
morning.
,But the instruction, fairly construed, after calling the attention of the jury to two distinct considerations, the one, the
effect of the shock and pain, (which could not have been understood.to apply to statements made after the shock and pain
had subsided,) and the other, that the making of different
statements at different times did not necessarily imply an intention to mislead, suggested to the jury to look at any difference
in the plaintiff's statements in that point of view. This was
clearly within the judge's authority and discretion in aiding the
jury to perform their duty.
The court gave the following instruction: "If the jury
believe froh. the evidence that the wharf in question was an
ordinarily strong and good one, and suitable for the purpose
for which it was constructed, and that in making the landing in. question the boat-was thrown against the wharf with
such force as to tear up some of the planks or boards of the
flooring, this would be "prim facie evidence of negligence on
the part of the agents of defendant under the circumstances
in making such landing, and would justify the jury in so finding, unless upon the whole evidence suchprimrnafacieevidence
is rebutted." The defendant excepted to this instruction.
The court did ,not, in thisor any other instruction, tell the
jury that the'burden of proof on the issue of the defendant's
negligence was shifted upon the defendant.- On the contrary.
the jury were afterwards expressly instructed: "The plaintiff's
whole ground- of recovery is that the defendant was guilty of
negligence. The burden of proof is on the plaintiff to sustain
this allegation." The whole effect of the instruction in question, as applied to the case before the jurty, was that if the
steamboat, on a calm day and in smooth water, was thrown

INLAND & SEABOARD COASTING CO. v. TOLSON. 556
Opinion of the Court.

with such force against a wharf properly built, as to tear up
some of the planks of the flooring, this would be primafacie
evidence of negligence on the part of the defendant's agents
in making the landing, unless upon the whole evidence in the
case this primafacie evidence was rebutted. As such damage
to a wharf is not ordinarily done by a steamboat under control of her officers and carefully managed by them, evidence
that such damage was done in this case was vrima facie, and
if unexplained, sufficient evidence of negligence on their part,
and the jury might properly be so instructed. Stokes v. Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181 ; Transportation Co. v. Downer, 11 Wall.
129, 1341; Railroad Co. v. Pollard,22 Wall. 341; Le Balrron
v. East Boston Ferry,11 Allen, 312, 317; _Feital v. lfiddlese
Railroad,109 A-lass. 398; Rose v. Stephens & Condit Co., 11
Fed. Rep. 43.
In the same connection, the jury were instructed as follows:
"In determining whether the defendant's agents were guilty
of negligence in making the landing in question, it would be
proper for the jury to consider with the other facts and circumstances shown in evidence whether, under all the circumstances, it was dangerous to make a rear landing with that
boat at that time at the wharf in question, and whether either
the pilot or captain should not have been in the pilot-house
during the making of said landing, and if they find from all
the evidence that it was dangerous to make such landing under
such circimstances this will be prima facie evidence of negligence on the part of defendant to justify them in so finding,
unless such evidence is rebutted by the whole evidence in the
cause."
The exception to this instruction is equally unfounded.
There can be .no doubt that approaching a wharf with a
steamboat in such a manner, and with such want of supervision, as to be dangerous, is, of itself, evidence of negligence on
the part of those in charge of her.
The court, at the defendant's own request, gave the following instructions to the jury:
- If the jury find from the whole evidence that the injuries
the neg
described in the plaintiff's declaration were caused by

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of'the dourt.

ligence or carelessness of plaintiff, the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover in this action, although they shall further find that
in landing at or departing from the pier called Shamrock at
the timae described in'the declaration the defendant's boat was
not managed by the defendant's servants with skill and care."
"If from the whole evidence the jury are unable to determin~e whether the injuries complained of in the plaintiff's declaration were caused by the negligence of plaintiff, or by the
negligence of' defendant's servants, the verdict'of the jury
must be for"the defendant."
The court also instructed the'jury as follows: "If you find
the defendant -was not guilty of negligence, that ends the
case. If you"find that the defendant was guilty of negligence,
then, a second point of inquiry arises, whether the plaintiff was
also guilty of negligence and whether his negligence contributed to the injury. If you find that the plaintiff was guilty of
negligence, and that such negligence directly contributed to
the injury, tlen itisnot mportant' to inquire how far -such
negligenc,contributed
to it; for if he contributed to it at all,
that would incapacitate the plaintiff from recovering."
The defendant requested the court to give this instruction:
"If the jury shall find from the whole evidence that, at the
time the defendant's boat was landing at the pier Shamrock,
the plaintiff- negligertlr or carelessly placed his left foot between the piles of said pier, or between the piles and the flooring of said &iei,or between one of the piles in front of said
pier and the flooring thereof, and allowed it to remain there
while the boat was departing from said pier, and the foot so
placed was injured while in that position, then the plaintiff is
not entitled to recover in this action."
The defendant also requested the court to give the same
instruction modified by omitting the words "negligently or
carelessly."
The court declined to do so, and gave the instruction with
those words, and added: "This is upon the hypothesis that
you shall first find the facts spoken of and then that the plaintiff negligently or carelessly placed his foot in the position
referred to. It, however, still leaves with _po? the qUestion,

INLAND & SEABOARD COASTING CO. v. TOLSON. 557
Opinion of the Court.

if you should ftnd he did vlace his foot in suck position,
whether or not his act in doing that was such negligence as
would disentitle hint from recovering. There is a principle
which you will bear in mind in regard to that. It is this:
That a person in the position of the plaintiff is to keep his
wits about him, to be on the alert so as not to be injured, and
to exercise such vigilance or care as is proportionate to the
hazard of the duty in which he is engaged. For instance, a
man should be more cautious if he is running a dangerous
engine than if he is sitting, as you are now, in a position of
safety and attending to his usual avocation. His care must
be in proportion to the hazard of his engagement. There is
no pvroof here to show that this was a dangerous vocation standing there attending to that wharf -and yet, nevertheless, there were certain hazards accompanying it, just as there
are in almost all positions."
To the refusal to give the modified instruction requested,
and to so much of the instructions as is above printed in italics,
the defendant excepted.
The court rightly refused to omit the words "negligently
or carelessly," as requested, because to do so would be to
assume that the plaintiff's placing his foot between timbers of
the wharf and keeping it there while the steamboat was leaving was necessarily negligence, as matter of law. The court
truly said there was no proof in the case that "standing there,
attending to that wharf, was a dangerous vocation;" ' and
properly submitted to the jury upon the whole evidence the
question whether the plaintiff exercised due care at the time
and place of the injury, and under the circumstances attending
it. The phrase, "such negligence as would disentitle him
from recovering," was evidently used as synonymous with
"such negligence as contributed to the injury."
Only two other instructions given by the judge and excepted to by the defendant require to be particularly noticed.
The one, "The burden of proof is, however, upon the defendant to show that the plaintiff was negligent, and that his
negligence contributed to the injury," was in accord with the
uniform course of decision in this court. R-ailroad Co. v.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401; Indianapolis & St. Louis Railroad
v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291; Iough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213;
-NorthernPacio Railroad v. Afares, 123 U. S. 710, 720, 721.
The other instruction was in these words: " There is another qualification of this rule of negligence, which it is
proper I should mention. Although the rule is *that,even if
the defendant be shown to have been guilty of negligence, the
plaintiff cannot recover if he himself be shown to have been
gfilty of contributor' negligence which may have had'something to do in causing the accident; yet the contributory
negligence on his part would not exonerate the defendant, and
disentitle the plaintiff from recovering, if it be shown thdt the
defendant might, by the exercise of reasonable care and prudence, have avoided- the consequences of the plaintiff's negligence."
The qualification of the general rule, as thus stated, is supported by decisions of high authority,'and was applicable to
the case on trial. Radley v. Londoiz .& ortlwestern Railway,
1 App. Gas. 154; Scott v. Dublin & Micklow Railway, 11
Irish Coi. Law; 37; Austin v. New Jersey Steamboat Co.,
43 N. Y. 75, 82; Luoas v. Taunton & Nfew Bedford Railroad,
6 Gray, 64, 72; Nrthern Central Railway v. Price, 29
Maryland, 420. See also Wiliamson v. Barrett, 13 How.
101, 109.
It was argued that this instruction was inapplicable, because
there was no evidence that the defendant knew the peril of the
plaintiff, or had either time or' opportunity, by the exercise of
any degree of care, to guard against it; that if his negligence
consisted in standing 'in. a 'dangerohs position too near the edge
of the wharf, the defendant was not bound to anticipate his
remaining in that position; but that his 'negligence in fact
consisted in'
placing his foot between the flooring and a fender
pile, which the defendant could not have been aware of or
guarded against.
It is true that the instruction could not apply, and therefore could not be uinderstood by the jury to apply, to the
litter alternative. ,But upon the question of the plaintiff's
position and attitude tle evidence was eonflicting; and it was

INLAND & SEABOARD COASTING CO. v. TOLSON. 559
Opinion of the Court.

indisputable that the steamboat was approaching the wharf at
his call, and for the purpose of receiving freight from his
hands, and that her pilot and officers saw him as he waited on
the wharf. The jury might well be of opinion that while
there was some negligence on his part in standing where and
as he did, yet that the officers of the boat knew just where and
how he stood, and might have avoided injuring him if they
had used reasonable care to prevent the steamboat from striking the wharf with unusual and unnecessary violence. If such
-were the facts, the defendant's negligence was the proximate,
direct and efficient cause of the injury.
Upon careful consideration of all the instructions given- to
the jury, we are of opinion that they were applicable to the
evidence introduced; that they fully covered the instructions
requested; and that they contained nothing of which the
defendant has a right to complain.
A single question of evidence remains to be considered. A
witness called by the defendant, testified that he had had
about twelve years' experience in navigating the Potomac
River, as wheelman, first mate, second mate, pilot and captain, but had never been at this wharf. He was asked "if, in
his judgment, a position within two or three feet from the fender piles of a wharf constructed like the Shamrock pier was a
reasonably safe place for a wharfinger to stand when a boat
was approaching in order to take off freight or to make a
landing?". Objection was taken to this question by the
plaintiff's counsel, and sustained by the court, because the witness had not shown himself to be a wharfinger; and the
defendant excepted.
The ground of the exclusion of the question appears to have
been that the judge was not satisfied- of the qualifications
of the witness as an expert upon the subject inquired of.
Whether a witness is shown to be qualified to testify to any
matter of opinion is always a prelininary question for the
judge presiding at the trial, and his decision thereon is conclusive unless clearly erroneous as matter of law. Spring Co. v.
Edgar, 99 U. S. 6415; Stillwdl & Bierce Co. v. Phelvs, 130
U. S. 520 ;. tontana -RailwayY. TWarren, 137 U. S. 348. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in this case, independently of any such consideration, the
question whether the place where the plaintiff stood on the
wharf was reasonably safe was one of the questions to be determined by the jury, depending on common knowledge and
observation, and requiring no special training or experience to
decide, and upon which therefore no opinions of witnesses
were admissible. .Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. KEdlogg,
94 U. S. 469; Tkite v. Ballou, 8 Allen, 408; Simmons v. l.ew
Bedford Steamboat Co., 97 Mass. 361.
Jdgment affirmed.

SELMA, ROME AND DALTON RAILROAD
PATY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT O
No. 12.

COM-

CLAIMS.

Argued March 25, 26, 1891.-Decided April 6, 1891.

In an action against the United States to recover for amounts due certain
mail contractors under the appropriation-in the sundry civil appropriation
act of March B, 1877, 19 Stat. 362, c. 105, which provided that " any such
claims which have been paid by the Confederate States government shall
not again be paid;" the burden of proof is on the plaintiff tO show that
his claim was not of the excepted class.
Whether, that appropriation having been covered into the Treasury, a
claimant can maintain suit under that act in the Court of Claims without
further lgislation, is a question which the court has not deemed it necessary to consider.

APPA.L

from

the Court of Claims where the judgment was

against the claimant. The case is stated in the opinion.
b'". George A. Zing for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cotton for appellee.
MR. JusTice

HARLAx

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff, the Selma, Rome and Dalton Railroad Company, seeks in this action to recover the sum of $5915.80, which

