OCTOBER TERM

1890.

$yllabus.

iana, as in States where the common law prevails, the regulation and control of markets for the sale of provisions, including the places and the distances from each other at which
they may be kept, are matters of municipal police, and may
be intrusted by the legislature to a city council, to be exercised
as in its discretion the public health and convenience may
require. .forano v. .Mayor, 2 La. 217; Pirst funicipality v.
Cutting, 4 La. Ann. 335 ; New Orleansv. Staford, 27 La. Ann.
417; Bush v. Seaury, 8 Johns. 419; Buffalo v. Webster, 10
Wend. 99; NSightingale's Case, 11 Pick. 168; Commonwealt
v. Rice, 9 Met. 253. The ordinance of the city of New Orleans
prohibiting the keeping of a private market within six squares
of any public market of the city, under penalty of a fine of
twenty-five dollars, and of imprisonment for not more than
thirty days if the fine is not paid, was within the authority
constitutionally conferred upon the city council by the legislature of the State. A breach of such an ordinance is one of
those petty offences against municipal regulations of police,
which in Louisiana, as elsewhere, may be punished by summary
proceedings before a magistrate, without trial by jury. Louisiana Constitution of 1852, arts. 103, 124; Constitution of 1868,
arts. 6, 94; State v. Gutierrez, 15 La. Ann. 190; 1ifayor &o.
of .lXonroe v. .Afeuer, 35 La. Ann. 1192; Callan v. Wilson, 127
U. S. 540, 553, 555.
Judgment affirmed.

MASON v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTHIOT OF NEW YORK.
No. 277. Argued April 1,1891. -Decided

April 13, 1891.

Under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, ยง 6, bichromate of soda is subject to
the duty of twenty-five per cent ad valorem, imposed by ScheduleA upon
"all chemical compounds and salts, by whatever name known;" and is
not subject, by virtue of the similitude clause, to the duty of three cents
per pound, imposed by that schedule on bichromate of potash.

MASON v. ROBERTSON.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action by importers against 'a former collector
of the port of New York to recover back duties of three cents
a pound, exacted by the defendant in 1885, and paid by the
plaintiffs under protest, on thirty casks of bichromate of soda,
weighing 1T,227 pounds, and valued at 3325 marks.
The provisions of the'act of Mlarch 3, 1883, c. 121, ยง 6, relied on by either party, were as follows:
"SEc. 2499. There shall be levied, collected and paid on
each and every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either in material, quality, texture, or the use to which
it may be applied, to any article enumerated in this title as
chargeable with duty, the same rate of duty which is levied
and charged on the enumerated article which it most resembles
in any of the particulars before mentioned; and if any nonenumerated article equally resembles two or more enumerated
articles n which different rates are chargeable, there shall be
levied, collected and paid on such non-enumerated article the
same rate of duty as is chargeable on the article which it resembles paying the highest duty; and on all articles manufactured from two or more materials the duty shall be assessed
at the highest rates at which the component material of chief
value may be chargeable."
"SEa. 2502. There shall be levied, collected and paid upon
all articles imported from foreign countries, and mentioned in
the schedules herein contained, the rates of duty which are by
the schedules respectively prescribed, namely:
"1SCHEDULEB A -

CHEIIcAL PRODUcTS."

"Bichromate of potash, three cents per pound."
"All preparations known as essential oils, expressed oils,
distilled oils, rendered oils, alkalies, alkaloids and all combinations of any of the foregoing, and all chemical compounds
and salts, by whatever name known, and not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, twenty-five per centum ad
valorem." 22 Stat. 491, 493, 494.
At the trial it appeared that bichromate of soda was a
chemical salt, composed of chromic acid and sodium, which,
though long known to chemists, had come into commercial use
VOL. cxxx-

40

OCTOBER TERMI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

since 1883; that it resembled in appearance bichromate of
potash, which was composed of chromic acid and potassium;
and that both were used to produce chrome yellow and other
colors, although bichromate of soda was less soluble, and less
valuable for producing some colors, than bichromate of potash.
The plaintiffs, in their protest, and at the trial, insisted that
bichromate of soda was a chemical compound and salt, "not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act," within the
meaning of Schedule A, and was therefore dutiable under that
schedule at twenty-five per cent ad valorem; and requested
the judge to direct a verdict in their favor.
But the judge ruled, in accordance with the decision of thu
collector, that bichromate of soda was subject to a duty of
three cents a pound under ยง 2499, as a "non-enumerated article," which bore a similitude, in the use to which it was applied, to bichromate of potash; declined to submit the question.
of similitude to the jury; and directed a verdict for the defendant. 29 Fed. Rep. 681. The plaintiff alleged exceptions, and
sued out this writ of error.
.Y. Edward Hartley (with whom was Mr&. Walter H. Coleman on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
MR. JUsTicE GRi.Y, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The ruling below was in accordance with decisions in other
circuits.. Biddle v. Hartranft, 29 Fed. Rep. 90; Iloyd v. .lcWilliams, 31 Fed. Rep. 261. But 't appears to us to have
proceeded upon an erroneous view of the statute, as applied to
the case before the court.
The general scope of the similitude clause in the customs
acts is defined in a recent. judgment of this court, delivered
by M[r. Justice Field, as follows: "To place articles among
those designated as enumerated, it is not necessary that they
should be specifically mentioned. It is sufficient that they are

MSON v. -ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

designated in any way to distinguish them from other articles.
Thus, the words ' manufactures of which steel is a component
part,' and Imanufactures of which glass is a component part,'
have been held a sufficient designation to render the goods
enumerated articles under the statute, and take them out of
the similitude clause. Arthur v. Sussield, 96 U. S. 128. Upon
the same principle, ' manufactures of hair' must be held a sufficient designation to place such manufactures among the enumerated articles." Arthur v. BvtterfleZd, 125 U. S. 70, '76, 77.
So the description, "manufactures composed wholly of cotton," or even "manufactures of cotton," has been held to be a
sufficient enumeration. Stuart v. -Maxwell, 16 flow. 150; Fisk
v. Arthur, 103 U. S. 431. See also Hartranftv. -Meyer, 135
U. S. 2:37.
In the customs act of 1883, Schedule A, entitled "Chemical
Products," besides defining the duties on more than a hundred
kinds of such products, makes the duty on "all chemical compounds and salts, by whatever name known, and not specially
enumerated or provided for in this act, twenty-five per centumn
ad valorem." The designation, "all chemical compounds and
salts, by whatever name known," includes all chemical compounds and chemical salts, used then or thereafter in any
science or art, as clearly as if the proper names of each and
all of them had beenr'given. Bichromate of soda, being undoubtedly a chemical compound and a chemical salt, is within
the very words of the schedule, and cannot therefore be treated
as a non-enumerated article, within the similitude clause. The
manifest intent of Congress was that every kind of chemical
compound and of chemical salt, by whatever name known,
should have a fixed rate of duty, to be ascertained quickly and
easily by the schedule of chemical products, without entering
upon a comparison, under the similitude clause, of "material,
quality, texture or the use to which it may be applied," which,
though affording a convenient and valuable test as applied to
many articles of manufacture, would often be found difficult
of application to chemical products, without such scientific
knowledge and investigation as could not be expected of custom-house officers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

It was argued for the United States that this conclusion
would be inconsistent with the decisions in Stuart v. Maxwell,

16 How. 150, and in Arthur v. Fox, 108 U. S. 125. But we
cannot perceive any such inconsistency. In neither of those
cases was there any question between the similitude clause and
a clause specially enumerating, describing or designating a particular class of goods. In Stuart v. .- axwell, the question was
between the similitude clause and a general clause covering
"all goods, wares and merchandise, "imported from foreign
countries, and not specially provided for in this act." Act of
July 30, 1846, c. 74, ยง 3; 9 Stat. 43. In: Arthur v. Fox, the
question was between successive sentences of the similitude
clause itself, as applied to an article admitted not to be enumerated.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded with directions to set
aside the verdict, and to take furtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion.

BOOK v. PERKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 285. Argued April 2, 3,1891. -Decided

April 13,1891.

A marshal of the United States, or his deputies, being sued in trespass for
seizing particular property under an attachment, to him directed, and
defending upon the ground that the property, so seized, belonged to the
defendant named in the writ of attachment, may have the case-the
amount in dispute being sufficient -removed to the proper Circuit Court
of the United States, as one arising under the laws of the United States.
A deed of assignment for the benefit of creditors, recited the indebtedness
of the assignor, his inability to pay his debts with punctuality or in full,
and his desire to make "a fair and equitable distribution of his property
among all his creditors," and provided that the assignor "has bargained,
sold and assigned, and does hereby grant, convey and assign," unto the
assignee "all the lands and all the personal property of every name and
nature whatsoever of the said party of the first part, more particularly
enumerated and described in the schedule hereto annexed, marked Sched-

