OCTOBER TERf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

UNDERWOOD v. DUGAN.
APPEAL

THE) CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
OFRO3
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 223. Submitted March 17, 1891.-Decided March 30. 891.

Forty-three years after the ancestor of the plaintiffs acquired title, more
than twenty years after that ancestor had positive information of the
,wrong upon which the claims Set up in this bill in equity are grounded,
twenty-five years after the purchase by the defendant in good faith and
with no knowledge of the wrong, this suit was commenced, without any
assertion of the right now set up having been made during all that time.
Held, that these facts disclosed Inches which forbade the interference of
a'court of equity.

IN EQUITY.

pealed.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Complainants ap-

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. Hallett Phillipsfor appellants.
Mi'. Sawnie Roberson and 21&. 17. 0. Davis for appellees.
MR .

JuSTiCE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts in this case are these:
On March 1, 1838, one Fines Y. Roberson, whose name
seems to have been spelled in different ways, sometimes as
above stated, sometimes. as "1P hineas Robertson," again as
"Phiness Y. Robinson," still again as "Phiness Robinson,"
received from the proper authorities of the State of Texas the
following land certificate, entitling him as therein provided,
and on the conditions therein named, to one league and labor
of land:
"No. 127.
"This is to certify that Fines Y. Roberson has appeared
before the board of land commissioners for the county of
Houston and proved, according to law, that he arrived in this
Republic, Jan'y-, eighteen and thirty-five, and that he is a

UNDERWOOD v. DUGAN.
Qpinion of the Court.

married man and entitled to one league and labor of land upon
the conditions of paying at the rate of three dollars and fifty
cents for each labor of irrigable lands, two dollars and fifty
cents for each labor of temporal or arable land, and one dollar
and twenty cents for each labor of pasture land which may be
contained in the -secured to him by this certificate.
"Given under our hands the 1st day of March, 1838.
"E. GA SET, President.
'f Joa

WORT'HAM,

.Ass. Comr'rs."

"Attest: StI'L G. WELLS, Clerk.

On the 5th day of March, 1838, he transferred a one-half
interest to Warner L. Underwood. The evidences of this
transfer were an assignment on the back of the certificate, as
follows:
"For value received, I assign and convey unto Warner L.
Underwood the within certificate, as by deed also of this date.
M arch 5th, 1838.
OSCAR. ENGLEDOW.
"H. B. DAIcE.

"FNES Y.

ROERSON."

and a deed of the same date, to the same party, which disClosed that only one-half interest was conveyed, the other onehalf being reserved for the benefit of Joshua Robbins, to

whom Roberson had already transferred such interest. :No
land was ever located by Underwood or Robbins under this
certificate. Soon after this Underwood returned-to Kentucky
and remained there until his death. Thereafter, and on the
12th of May, 1855, a written assignment of this certificate was
made by Roberson to Dennis Trammell. On the back of the
certificate was pasted a thin brown paper, apparently for the
purpose of protecting the certificate against wear and tear,
but at the same time effectually concealing from observation
the assignment to Underwood, written thereon. This certificate, thus on its face the property of Roberson, together with
the accompanying written assignment to Trammell, were
offered for sale to S. W. March, who, ignorant of any pre-

OCTOBER TER-AT, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

vious transactions, purchased the same in good faith, paying
one thousand dollars, and receiving an .assignment and transfer from Trammell. This was on June 23, 1855' -Aarch
located this certificate, and on August 8, 1855, received from
the State of Texas a patent for the lands located thereunder.
On May 15, 1860, by letter from one James Jeffries, Underwood was notified of the location of the land by March, and
of the patent to him, together with-the fact of the concealment
of the transfer from Roberson to himself, by means of the
paper pasted on the back of the certificate. No action was
taken by Underwood during his lifetime. He lived nearly
twelve years after the receipt of this information, dying in
February, 1872. During the last three or four years of his life,
by reason of disease, he was incapacitated for attention to
business. March, the purchaser of the certificate, the locator
of the lands, and the patentee from the State, died on. the 29th
of July, 1878. This suit was commenced on June 13, 1881.
The plaintiffs claim as heirs of Underwood, or purchasers from
the heirs of Underwood and iRobbins, and represent all the
rights of Underwood and Robbins, except an undivided interest of one-sixteenth, belonging to A. N. IRobbins, one of the
heirs of Joshua Robbins, who was made a defendant, and who
submitted to an order pro confesso. The other defendants
claim under the patentee, March.- The principal defence is
laches, which in the judgment of the Circuit Court was sufficient, and the bill was ordered dismissed. 24 Fed. Rep. 74.
In that conclusion we concur.
From the facts above stated, it appears that the bill was not
filed until forty-three years had passed since the ancestors of
plaintiffs acquired title to the certificate. During all these
years no assertion of right was made by either Underwood or
IRobbius, or those claiming under them. Twenty-five years
before the filing of the bill, ,March purchased the certificate in
good faith, paying a large consideration, located it and obtained a patent for the lands from the State. He entered into
possession and improved the lands. The original purchasers,
Underwood and IRobbins, are dead, the subsequent purchaser
and patentee is also dead, and with their death the main wit-

UNDERWO0D v. DUGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

nesses to this transaction have all passed away. The property
has become of value, and now, after a lapse of nearly half a
century, plaintiffs assert a claim which the owners have
ignored for all these years. It appears that Underwood,
when he returned to Kentucky, soon after the purchase, returned in.
consequence of the death of his father, who left a
large estate, somewhat complicated. Probably he considered
attention to such estate, and its large interests, of more importance than this float of doubtful value, in a distant country of
large area and. small population. But whatever may have
been the reason, surely this long delay discloses laches, and
such laches as forbid the present interference of a court of
equity. We have had before us this present term a somewhat
similar case coming from the same State and the same district,
Hanner v. 3foulton) 138 U. S. 486. There, as here, the controversy arose in respect to land taken under a land certificate.
issued in 1838. There, as here, the plaintiffs claimed title by
succession from the original purchaser, who had died prior to
the commencement of the suit. There, the adverse title under
which defendants claimed did not arise until 1869, and knowledge of the adverse title did not come to plaintiffs until 1876.
The bill was filed in 1882, a few months after the bill in the
present case. We held on full review of the rulings of the
Supreme Court of Texas, as well as the decisions of this court,
that laches was a complete bar to the suit. Summing up at
the close of the opinion, Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for
the court, said: "An interval of nearly thirteen years elapsed
between the sale of the certificate and the filing of the bill in
this suit. The value of the property -has largely increased.
Parties interested and witnesses have died, and the memory of
those who survive has decayed. Not a person who is now interested in any of the land is implicated in the fraud charged
in the bill. Under the facts above stated, the plaintiffs have
been guilty of such laches that they cannot have any relief in
a court of equity. 8peidel v. Henrici, 120 D. S.377, 387, and
cases there cited; Richards v. .fackall, 124 U. S. 183, 187,
188." See also Ianclsdale v. Smith, 106 U. S.391.
Much stronger than that is this case. Not thirteen, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of theCourt.

twenty-five years, intervened between the sale of the certificate, the patent of the land, an the commencement of this
suit. More than twenty years before its coiniencement.,
Underwood, under who m plaintiffs principally claim, had
positive information as to the wrong which had beei done,
and the manner in which it was done. All the parties to the
originaltransaction are dead. The property.has increased in
value, and now these plaintiffs are invoking the aid of a court
of equity to dispossess those who personally have acted in
good faith, who were not parties to, or cognizant of, any
wrong, and who have occupied and improved the- property in
full reliance upon the sufficiency of the title they possessed.
Surely if laches is ever recognized as a complete bar, it ought
to be in this case. And this doctrine of laches rests on no
arbitrary or technical,rule. It is founded on the plainest principles of substantial justice. Ownership of property implies
two things: First, attention to it; second, a discharge of all
obligations, of taxation or otherwise, to the State which protects it. When it appears that one who now asserts a title to
property, arising more than the lifetime of a generation ago,
has during all these years neglected the property ard made no
claim of title thereto, a reasonable presumption is that, whatever may be apparent on the face of the instrument supposed
to create the title, were the full facts known, facts which cannot; now be known by reason of the death of the parties to the
transaction, it would be disclosed that no title was in fact
obtained; or, if that be not true, that he considered the property of such little value that be abandoned it to the State
which was protecting it. So, if, the title being beyond challenge, during these years he pays no taxes thereon, makes no
effort to improve or increase its value, and, by the labor and
efforts of others, under the protecting power of the State,
large value has been given to it, the State may properly say
to him, as, may also the individuals who have thus wrought
this change in value: You abandoned the property when it
was comparatively valueless; you have taken no share in the
burdens of taxation or the support of the State; others have
toiled, paid, taxes, and made the property valuable; therefore,

DOLA'X v. JIEINGS.
Syllabus.

because of your shirking of duties and obligations, you shall

not, whatever may have been the nature of your title in the
first instance, be permitted to appropriate the value thus produced by others.
Looking. back through the fifty years which now hatve
passed since Underwood purchased an interest in this certificate, general history discloses a marvellous change in the condition of things in the State of Texas. Then an enormous
territory, a scanty population, real estate of comparatively
trifling value, sold by the league and not by the acre; now, a,
State of large area it is true, but with a vast and growing
population, whose industries have made its real estate of value.
Surely a court of equity may look with jealous eye upon the
claims of any one to a share in that value, based upon a title
ncquired half a century ago, a title which he has ignored all
these years, and a value in the accomplishment of which he
has had absolutely no part.
We see no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and its
decree is

.A4fimetL

DOLAN v. JENNINGS.
KIBI3E v. JENNINGS.
APPEALS FROr TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE SOUTHERN

DIsTIer

STATES FOIZ

OF 2INEW YORK.

Nos. 265, 260. Argued March 26, 1891.-Decided Marcb 30,1891.

A decree was entered in the Circuit Court in favor of two complainants
against a defendant for the infrngcmcnt of letters patent, from which
the defcndant appealed. After the (decree, and before the appeal was
taken, one of the complainants bhlow died. It did not appear that the
cause of action survived, or that there was a severance between the surviving and the representatives of the deceased plaintiff. The death of
the deceased party was not suggested on the record, his representativesldid not appear voluntarily, nor were they cited to appear.
l.1d,
that the proper course of proceeding to enable this court to obtain jurisdiction had Icen wholly disregarded, and that it was too late to cure, the
defect, pnore than four years having elapsed since the Anal decree was
entered.
VOL. cxxxix-- 25

