CALLAN v. BRANSFORD.
Syllabus.

gation and the record no proof of any injury having been sustained by the plaintiff, in consequence of the informalities
alleged; and no offer on the part of the plaintiff to warrant
that the property, if resold, would bring a higher price than
it did before. Under the rule which we have found it necessary to adopt, those omissions would prevent us from disturbing the judgment, even if the informalities were much more
material than they actually are.", So, also, in .Akllen v. iarding, 12 La. Ann. 271-2: "Unless the plaintiffs can show that
they have suffered injury by the informalities complained of,
they ought not to be permitted to attack the validity of the
proceedings." Barret v. Emnerson, 8 La. Ann. 503, 504;
Stockton v. Downey, 6 La. Ann. 581, 585; Coiron v. XLillaudon,
3 La. Ann. 664; Des'pate v. St. Xartin, 17 La. Ann. 91, 92;
eaweZl v. Payne, 5 La. Ann. 255' 260.

.Decree qffrmed.

CALLAN v. BRANSFORD.
JONES v. VIRGINIA.
GREGORY v. BRANSFORD.
MALLAN v. BRANSFORD.
LAWSON v. BRANSFORD.
LITOHFORD v. DAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COI.T OF APPEALS OF VIRGIIA.

DILLARD

.

OORMAN.

ERROR TO THE CORPORATION COURT OF LYNCHBURG,
Nos. 1271, 1594,1595,1596,1597,1598,1638.

VIRGINIA.

Submitted March 2,1891.-Decided March 9,1891.

When the highest court of a State dismisses a case upon the ground that
the matters involved were purely pecuniary, and that the amount in
controversy was less than sufficient to give the court. jurisdiction under
the constitution of the State, no federal question arises.
When the court cannot pass upon a motion to dismiss without referring to
the transcripts on file, it will deny the motion without prejudice.

OCTOBER TER.T, 1890.
Op-nion of the Court.

Monox to advance, and motion to. dismiss.
stated in the opinion.

The case is

-Y. IF.A. -fcEenney and fr. W. W. Larkin for the motion
to advance, and against the motion to dismiss.
Mr. 1. Taylor Scott for the motion to dismiss and against
the motion to advance.
MRI. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are brought here by writ of drror to the
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia, except
Dillard v. 3oorman, No. 1638, which is a writ of error to
the Corporation Court for the city of Lynchburg. A motion
is now made by plaintiff in error to advance, and a motion to
dismiss on behalf of defendant in error. It appears from the
motion papers that Callan v. Branqford, Preasurer,No. 1271,
was carried to the Court of Appeals on writ of error to the
Corporation Court of the city of Lynchburg, and that Geregory
v. Bransford,Treasurer,No. 1595, Litc4ford v. Day,Sergeant
c., No. 1598 and Lawson v. Bransford,Treasurer,No. 1597,
were taken to that court by appeal.
The writ of error in the one case, and the appeals in the
three others, were dismissed by the Court of Appeals upon the
grdund that the matters involved were purely pecuniary, and
that the amount in cohtroversy in each case was less than
sufficient to give the court jurisdiction under the constitution
of the State. This being so, we are of opinion that the writs'
of error to that court must be dismissed, and it will be
So ordered.
The-motion papers in Jones v. The Commonwealth, No. 1594,
.Afallan Bros. v. Bransford,Treasurer, No. 1596, and Dillard
v. Mhoorman, Treasurer, No. 1638, are not such that we can
pass upon the motions to dismiss without referring to the
transcripts on file, which we ought not to be obliged to do.
These motions and the motions to advance will be
Denied, but without prejudice.

