DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Syllabus.

valid; and there is no ground on which this court can hold
that sentence, or the imprisonment under it, to be a violation
of the Constitution of the United States. Norton v. Sitlby
County, 118 U. S. 425; In re Graham, 138 U. S. 461; In

re

.Duncan, Potitioner,139 U. S. 449.
Judgment affirmed.

DAVIS'S ADMN=ISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
AIPRA

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
MONTANA.
No. 219. Submitted March 3, 1891.-Decided April 6, 1891.

The provisions of the public town-site laws prohibiting acquisition of title
thereunder to mines of the precious metals, and protecting therefrom
possessory claims under the mining laws, must be construed in accord
with the uniform exception in Federal legislation of mineral lands from
grant or sale, and held merely to prohibit passage of title thereunder to
mines of gold, silver, cinnabar or copper which are known to exist on the
issue of the town-site patent, and to mining claims and possessions then
lawfully existing. Such exceptions include only those lands which at
the date of the grant are of known sufficient mineral value and extent
to justify expenditures for the extraction of the mineral.
Town-site patent of earlier date covering same premises embraced in junior
mining patent carries the title in absence of proof establishing the known
existence of the mine at date of such town-site patent. The claimant
under the town-site patent may offer evidence to prove that the premises
were not known to be valuable for minerals at date thereof to .rebut the
presumption contra indulged, without proof, solely from the fact of issue
of such mineral patent.
Exception from the mineral patent of town-site occupancy and improvements, within recited limitations, is unimportant. A mineral patent carries with it all rights which the law confers, and officers of the Land
Department cannot enlarge or diminish those Tights by any reservation
beyond or differing from those contained in the law.
The mining laws provide for exploration and purchase of the mineral lands
of the United States, and where prior to town-site patent proceedings
thereunder to acquire title are initiated, th same may be prosecpted to
completion afterwards. But in absence thereof, on issue of town-site
patent and conveyance to individuals thereunder, the premises become
private property, and jurisdiction to grant patents of them under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
mining laws no longer exists.. While the patent of the government is
exempt from collateral attack in actions at law, such exemption obtains
only where jurisdiction of the Land Department over the landand power
to determine the facts necessary to such issue, exist.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This is an action for the possession of a parcel of mining
land in Silver Bow County, formerly Deer Lodge County, of
the Territory, now State, of M{ontana. It is designated in the
complaint as a quartz lode, known As the Gold Hill lode mining
claim, in the Summit Valley mining district in that county,
and is described by metes and bounds. It is alleged to contain
seven acres andI a fraction of an acre of land, and to embrace.
1460 linear feet of the Gold Hill lode. The complaint avers
that in January, 1881, the plaintiff was the owner and entitled
to the possession of the property; that afterwards, in June,
1881, while he was still owner and entitled to its possession,
the defendants wrongfully and unlawfully entered thereon and
withhold the same from him, to his damage of $5000; and
that its rents and profits during that time amount to $10,000.
The plaintiff therefore prays to be adjudged its owner and to
be entitled to its possession, and for his damages in the sum of

$15,000.
One of the defendants, Andrew J. Davis, the appellant here,
appeared to the action and filed a separate, answer to the complaint, denying the ownership by the plaintiff, or his right, to
the possession of portions of the quartz lode mining claim
described in the complaint, which portions are designated as
certain lots 'in block thirteen, in Butte City, Silver Bow
County, according to the official survey of the town site in the
recorder's office of the county; and as to the residue of the
premises, described in the complaint, disclaiming any right or
interest therein. He further denied that ha ever entered upon
the lots described without right or title and ejected the plaintiff therefrom, and also the alleged value of the rents and
profits since such supposed entry.
Davis, as a separate defence, also set up, in bar of the action,
the statute of limitations of Montana, and that he and those

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Statement of the Case.

under whom he derived his interest had been in possession of
the lots described more than five years, under a claim of title
founded upon a written conveyance thereof, exclusive of any
other right.
It is not disclosed by the record that any other of the defendants appeared in the action. *To the answer filed the
plaintiff replied traversing the averments of the separate
defence.
On the trial, which followed, the plaintiff relied upon' the
patent of the United States for the mining claim described in
the complaint, issued to him, bearing date January 15, 1880.
It recites that in pursuance of the provisions of the Revised
Statutes of the United States-chapter 6, Title 32-there
had been deposited in the General Land Office of the United
States the plat and field-notes of survey of the claim of Heinrich 0. Wiebbold (the plaintiff herein) upon the Gold Hill
lode, accompanied by the certificate of the register of the land
office at Helena, in the Territory of Montana, whereby it
appeared that in pursuance of the iRevised Statutes, Wiebbold
did, on the 19th of September, 1878, enter and pay for said
mining claim or premises, being mineral entry No. 438, in the
series of said office, designated by the surveyor-general as lot
No. 65, in the district of lands subject to sale at Helena, containing seven acres and sixty-hundredths of an acre of land,
more or less; and which is fully described by metes and bounds.
The following is the granting clause of the patent, with the
conditions and stipulations annexed:
"Now, know ye, that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises and in conformity with the said Revised Statutes of the United States, have given and granted,
and by these presents do give and grant, unto the said Heinrich C. Wiebbold and to his heirs and assigns the said mining
premises hereinbefore described as lot No. 65, embracing a portion of township three (3), north of range eight (8), west of the
principal meridian, with the exclusive ight of possession and
enjoyment of all the land included within the exterior lines of
said survey not herein expressly excepted from these presents

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and of fourteen hundred and sixty (1460) linear feet in the
said Gold Hill vein, lode, ledge or deposit for the length hereinbefore described throughout its entire depth, although it
may enter the land adjoining, and also all other veins, lodes,
ledges or deposits throughout their entire depth, the tops or
apexes of which lie inside the exterior lines of said survey at
the surface, extended downward vertically, although such
veins, lodes, ledges or deposits in their downward course may
so far depart from a perpendicular as to extend outside the
vertical side lines of said survey: Provided,That the right of
possession hereby granted to such outside parts of said veins,
lodes, ledges or de-posits shall be confined to such, portions
thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downward
through the end lines of said survey at the surface, so continued
in their own direction that such vertical planes will intersect
such exterior parts of said veins, lodes, ledges or deposits, excepting and excluding, however, from these presents all town
property rights upon the surface,and there are expressly excepted
and excluded from the same all houses, buildings, structures,
lots, blocks, streets, alleys or other municipal improvements
on the surface of the above-described premises not belonging to the grantee herein, and all rights necessary or proper to
the occupation, possession and enjoyment of the same: And
providedfurther,That nothing in this conveyance shall authorize the grantee herein; his heirs or assigns, to enter upon the
surface of a mining claim owned or possessed by another; to
have and to hold said mining premises, together with all the
rights, privileges, immunities and appurtenances of whatsoever
nature thereunto belonging, unto said Heinrich 0. Wiebbold
and to his heirs and assigns forever, subject, nevertheless, to
the following conditions, and stipulations.
' First. That the grant hereby made is restricted to the
land hereinbefore described as lot No. 65, with fourteen hundred and sixty- (1460) linear feet of the Gold Hill, throughout
its entire depth as aforesaid, together with all other veins,
lodes, ledges or deposit§ throughout their entire depth as
aforesaid, the tops or apexes of which lie inside the exterior
lines of said survey.

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Statement of the Case.

"Second. That the premises hereby conveyed, with the exception of the surface, may be entered by the proprietor of
any other vein, lode, ledge or deposit, the top or apex of
which lies outside the exterior limits of said survey, should the
same in its downward course be found to penetrate, intersect,
extend into or underlie the premises hereby granted, for the
purpose of extracting and removing the ore from such other
vein, lode, ledge or deposit.
"Third. That the premises hereby conveyed shall be held
subject to any vested and accrued water rights for mining,
agricultural, manufacturing or other purposes, rights to ditches
and reservoirs used in connection with such water rights as
may be recognized and acknowledged by the local laws, customs and decisions of courts.
":Fourth. That in the absence of necessary legislation by
Congress the legislature of Montana may provide rules for
working the mining claim or premises hereby granted, involving easements, drainage and other necessary means to its complete development.
"In testimony whereof, I, Rutherford B. Hayes, President
of the United States of America, have caused these letters to
be made patent and the seal of the General Land Office to be
hereto affixed.
"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the fifteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and eighty, and of the independence of the
United States the one hundred and fourth.
"By the President:
R. B. HAYEs,
"By Wmr.-IL CooK, Secretary.
"S. W. CLAic, Recorder of Gen, ,and Oflfce."
To the introduction of this patent the defendant objected,
on the ground that the exception contained in it excluded all
town lots from the grant, and .that it was necessary for the
plaintiff to show that the property in controversy did not consist of lots thus excepted. But the court overruled the objection, and allowed the patent to be introduced; and to the
ruling the difendant excepted.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant, to maintain the issue on his part, introduced
a patent of the United States, bearing date September 26,
1877, issued to Orville B. O'Bannon, probate judge of Deer
Lodge County, Montana Territory, in trust for the use and
benefit of the 'occupants of the town site of Butte, in that
county. It recites that the probate judge, by virtue of the
act of Congress of March, 2, 1867, entitled "An act for the
relief of the inhabitants of cities and towns upon the public
lands," had deposited in the General-Land Office of the United
States a certificate of the register of the land office at Helena,
Montana Territory, whereby it appeared that full payment
had been made by the. probate judge in trust as aforesaid,.
according to the provisions of the act of Congress of April 24"
1820, entitled "An act making further provisions for the sale
of public lands;" for the tract of land constituting the town
site of Butte, embracing one hundred and eighty-three acres
and a fraction of an acre, and of which a full description is
given by metes and bounds. The following is its granting
clause:
"Now, know ye, that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises and in conformity with the several
acts of Congress in such case made and provided, have given.
and granted, and by these presents do give and grant, unto,
the said Orville B. O'Bannon, probate judge as aforesaid, in
trust as aforesaid, and to his successors the said tract above.
described; to have and to 'hold the same, together with all the
rights, privileges, immunities and appurtenances of whatsoever,
nature thereunto belonging, unto the said Orville B. O'Bannon, probate judge as aforesaid, in trust as aforesaid, and to
his successors and assigns in trust as aforesaid. NWo title shall
be hereby acquired to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabaror co per, or to any valid mining claim o- _possession held unde6
existing laws of Congress.

"In testimony whereof I, Rutherford B. Hayes, President
of the United States of America, have caused these letters to
be made patent and the seal of the General Land Office to be
hereunto affixed.

DAVIS'S AD MLNISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Statement of the Case.

"Given under my hand, at the city of -Washington, the twenty-sixth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, and of the independence
of the United States the one hundred and second.
"[SEAL.]
By the President:
R. B. HAYEs,
"By B., LAoG, Secretary,
"S. W. CLAMK, Reco'der of General Land Olfice."
The defendant also introduced a deed from the probate
judge to himself, dated March 21, 1877, of the lots claimed by
him in his answer. This deed recites that the site of the town
of Butte had been duly entered by the probate judge, pursuant.
to the act of Congress; that a portion of the lots in such town
site were regularly preempted and conveyed by the probate
judge to the parties entitled thereto; that there remained a
portion- of the town lots unclaimed after the expiration of
sixty days; that in pursuance of the act of the legislature of
Montana Territory relating to the preemption of town site.
and the disposal of lots therein, the probate judge bad given
notice more than ten days that he would sell, on a day designated, at public sale, certain of the lots remaining unclaimed;
that in pursuance of the notice the property described in the
deed was, on the 12th of March, 187[, offered for public sale,
and no bid having been received therefor, and the property
offered being thereby rendered subject to private entry, the
party of the second part, the defendant herein, had filed with
-the probate judge an application to enter the same; and therefore, in consideration thereof, and of the sum of $220 paid,
the probate. judge, by virtue of the authority vested in him
by the acts of Congress and the. legislature of MIontana,
thereby remised, released and quit-claimed unto the said party
of the second part the property described in his answer, withthe exception of three lots,.to have and to hold the premises,.
together with all the rights, privileges and appurtenances
thereunto belonging, to himself and to his heirs and assigns,
as fully as by virtue of the acts of Congress and of the legislature of Montana, and the proceedings -thereunder, the said
party of the lirst part could convey the same.
vOL. cxxxix-33

OCTOBER TERMW, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant then offered himself as a witness to prove
that, for the five years preceding the commencement of the
action, he had been in the exclusive possession of the premises,
with the excqption of three lots, as set forth in his answer,
under the patent to the probate judge, and the latter's deed to
him, under a claim of title exclusive of other rights, founding
his claim upon those conveyances; but the plaintiff objected
that the patent, to the Gold Hill lode was issued June 5, 1880,
and the action was commenced on the 8th day of August,
1884, showing that five years had not elapsed between the
issuing of the patent and the commencement of the action,
which objection the court sustained, and to the ruling an
exception was taken.
The defendant also offered to prove by sundry witnesses
that at the time the patent of the Butte town site-to the probate judge was issued in trust for its occupants, the premises
embraced by the Gold Hill lode were not known to be valuable for minerals of any kind. To this evidence objection
was taken, on the ground that the patent to the plaintiff
proved that the premises contained valuable minerals, and as
such could not be granted by the patent for the town site,
which objection the court sustained, and to the ruling an exception was taken. Evidence was also introduced by both
parties as to the value of the rents and profits of the property.
No other evidence was given or offered than as above stated.
The court gave judgment that the plaintiff recover possession
of certain portions of the premises claimed, which portions are
designated by lots in block thirteen of Butte City, arid that a
writ of restitution issue. therefor; and also that the plaintiff
recover $900 as damages for the detention of the property.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory the judgment was affirmed, and to review this latter judgment the
case was brought to this court by appeal, the statute providing that mode of bringing up the case for review here
instead of by a writ of error. Pending this appeal the
appellant died, and the case was, by order of the court,
continued in the name of his special administrator, James
A. Talbott.

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Tame8 T. Forbisfor appellant.

AXr. S. .X. Stockslager for appellee.
]NhR. JUSTiCE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The record in stating the judgment below does not show any
findings of fact by the court, which tried the case without the
intervention of a jury. The order for the judgment neces-sarily implies that the facts were found by the court upon
which the order was made, but, like a verdict of a jury, the
findings should properly appear in the record. The omission,
it is true, was not noticed by counsel in the Supreme Court of
the Territory, nor has it been called to our attention. It was
probably a mistake of the copyist in making the transcript,
for the argument has proceeded upon the theory that sucl
findings were made. The plaintiff assigns as one of the errors
committed that the court erred "in finding for plaintiff on all
of the issues presented in the pleadings." We have, therefore, passed by this omission, and permit the party who defends the ruling below to supply the defect.
In Deeback v. H-awke, which was before us at October
term, 1885, (115 U. S. 392,) we examined at some length the
legislation of Congress excepting lands containing minerals
from sale or other disposition under laws providing for the
.alienation of portions of the public domain either for settlement or in aid of public institutions or works of internal improvement. It appeared upon such examination that until
the act of July 26, 1866, such exception- was general, but by
that act 'the policy of reserving mineral lands from sale or
grant was changed. Such lands of the public domain, both
surveyed and unsurveyed, were thereby declared to be free
and open to exploration and occupation by all citizens of the
United States and those who had declared their intention
to become citizens, subject to such regulations hs might be
prescribed by, law, and to the local customs or rules of
miners in mining districts, so far as they were not in conflict

OCTOBER TERMN,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

with the laws of the United States. 14 Stat. c. 262, see. 1,
p. 251.
By the act of May 10, 1812, to promote the development of
the mining resources of the United States, (17 Stat. p. 94,
c. 152, § 9,) the first section of the act of 1866, declaring
the mineral lands of the United States free and open to exploration and occupation, was repealed, and in place of it a
provision was adopted declaring that "all valuable mineral
deposits," in lands belonging to the United States, both surveyed and unsurveyed, were free and open to exploration
and purchase, subject to conditions similar to those in the
original act. The Revised Statutes, which embody the law of
the United States in force on the first of December, 1873, in
its treatment of mineral lands, provided that "in all cases
lands valuable for minerals" should be reserved'-from sale,
except as otherwise expressly directed by law, (§ 2318;) but
at the same time repeated the declaration, that all valuable
mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United States
should be free and open to exploration and purchase. § 2319.
After that date title to mineral lands, known at the time to
be valuable, could only be acquired under provisions specially
authorizing their sale, except in certain States, which exception does not affect the question now before us.
Chapter eight, Title thirty-two, of the Revised Statutes,
coitains the law for the reservation and sale of town sites on
the public lands. Among other things it provides for the
entry, at the local land office, of any portion of the public
lands occupied as a town site by its corporate authorities, or,
if the town be unincorporated, by the judge of the county
court of the county in which the town is situated; the entry
to be "in trust for the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their respective interests;" and
the execution of the trust and the disposal of the lots in the
town to be conducted under such regulations as may be prescribed by the legislative authority of the State or Territory
in which the town is situated. It also provides that the entry
shall include only such land as is actually occupied by the
town, and the title to which is in the United States; and

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

declares that "where mineral veins are possessed, which possession is recognized by local authority, and to the extent so
possessed and recognized, the title to town lots to be acquired
shall be subject to such recognized possession and the necessary use thereof ;" with the reservation, however, that nothing in the section shall be so construed as to recognize any
color of title in possessors for mining purposes as against the
United States. By another section of the chapter, and near
its close, it is enacted that "no title shall be acquired" under
its provisions "to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar or copper; or to any valid mining claim or possession held under
existing laws." Sec. 2392.
In Deffeback v. Hawke, we said of this statement of the
legislation of Congress, that it was plain that no title from
the United States to land known at the time of sale to be
valuable for its minerals of gold, silver, cinnabar or copper,
could be obtained under the predmption or homestead laws,
or the town-site laws, or in any other way than as prescribed
by the laws specially authorizing the sale of such lands,except in certain States, not affecting the question before us,
commenting particularly upon the terms known and valuable
used in connection with the minerals in public lands, implying that they must be of that character to bring the lands
within the exception of mineral lands from sale or grant by
the United States.
In that case there was no dispute as to the mineral character of the land claimed by the plaintiff under his mining
patent, when the town site was entered by the probate judge
at the local land office. Proceedings .for the acquisition of
the mining claim had been previously initiated, the entry of
the same" had been had, and payment of the price made to the
government; and when the patent subsequently issued it took
effect by relation at the date of the entry, that being the earliest evidence of any movement for the acquisition of the
title of the government. Here the case is different; here the
Butte town site had been entered at the local land office by
the probate judge of the county and the patent of the United
States in due form issued to him in trust fof the occupants of

OCTOBER TERM\,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

the town, before the date of the mining patent, or the entry
of the, mining claim at the local land office. And before that
time a deed had been made by the probate, judge to the
defendant of the premises occupied by him, to recover which
the present action is brought.
When the entry of the town site was had, and the patent
issued, and the sale was made to, the defendant of the lots held
by him, it was not known -at least it does not appear that it
was known- that there were any valuable mineral lands
within the town site, and the important question is whether in
the absence of this knowledge the defendant can be deprived
under the laws of the United States of the premises purchased
and occupied by him because of a subsequent discovery of
minerals in them and the issue of a patent to the discoverer.
After much consideration we have come to the .conclusion
that this question must be answered in the negative. It is
true the language of the Revised Statutes touching the
acquisition of title to mineral lands within the limits of town
sites is very broad. The declaration that "no title shall
be acquired" under the provisions relating to such town sites,
and the sale of lands therein "to any mine of gold, silver,
cinnabar or copper; or to any valid mining claim 'or possession held under existing laws," would seem on first impression
to constitute a reservation of such mines in the land sold, and
of mining claims on them, to the United States; but such
is not the necessary meaning of the terms used; in strictness
'they import only that the provisions by which the title to the
land in such town sites is transferred shall not be the means.
of passing a title also to mines of gold, silver, cinnabar or
copper in the land, or to valid mining claims or possessions
thereon. They are to be read in connection with the clause protecting existing rights to mineral veins; and with the qualification uniformly accompanying exceptions in acts of Congress
of mineral lands from grant or sale. Thus read they must be
held, we think, merely to prohibit the passage of title under
the provisions of the town site laws to mines of gold, silver,
cinnabar or copper, which are known to exist, on the issue of
the town-site patent. and to mining claims and mining pos-

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

sessions, in respect to which such proceedings have been taken
under the law or the custom of miners, as to render them

valid, creating a property right in the holder, and not to prohibit the acquisition for all time of mines which then lay
buried unknown' in the depths of the earth. The exceptions
of mineral lands from preemption and settlement and from
grants to States for universities and schools, for the construction of public buildings, and in aid of railroads and other
works of internal improvement, are not held to exclude all
lands in which minerals may be found, but only those where
the mineral is in sufficient quantity to add to their richness and
to justify expenditure for its extraction, and known to be so
at the date of the grant. There are vast tracts of country in
the mining States which contain precious metals in small
quantities, but not to a sufficient extent to justify the expense
of their exploitation. It is not to such lands that the term
mineral in the sense of this statute is applicable.
On this subject there has been great uniformity of decision
by those courts of the States and of the United States which
have had the most frequent occasion to consider the subject,
and by the Land Department.
In Alford v. Barnum,45 California, 482, before the Supreme
Court of California in January, 1873, the question arose as to
the meaning of the term mineral lands in the acts of Congress
of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864, excepting such lands from
the grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of a
railroad and telegraph line across the continent. In the act
of 1862 thi language is that all mineral land shall be excepted
from the operation of the act. 12 Stat. p. 492, c. 120, sec. 3.
In the act of 1864, amending the act of 1862, it is declared
that the term mineral land, whenever it occurs in the act, and
the act to which that was an amendment, shall not be construed to include coal and iron lands. 13 Stat. p. 358, c. 216,
sec. 4. The action in that case was to abaee a ditch as a
nuisance. The complaint alleged that the plaintiff was the
owner of a section of land in California, and that the defendants were- digging a ditch across the same, which was to be
used for mining purposes. The defendantA answered that the

I 20

,OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

land was public mineral land of the United, States, and that
they were mining thereon for gold.. The plaintiff at the time
was in possession of the land under a contract of purchase
fror the railroad company, which had a patent from the
United States under the acts of 1862 and 1864, and it was
contended that the land was mineral land, excepted both by
the acts of Congress and by the patent, which contained similar provisions. The plaintiff having recovered in the court
below, the case was taken to the Supreme Court, where the
court, in considering the question, said: "The mere fact that
portions of the land contained particles of gold, or veins of
gold-bearing quartz rock, would not necessarily impress it with
the character of mineral land, within the meaning of the acts
referred to. It must at least be shown that the land contains
metals in quantities sufficient to render it available and valuable for mining purposes. Any narrower construction would
operate to reserve from the uses of agriculture large tracts of
land which are practically useless for any other purp6se, and
we cannot think this was the intention of Congress."
In -errill v. Dixon, 15 Nevada, 401, the Supreme Court
of Nevada held that in excluding mineral lands from the
grant to the Pacific Railroad Company, Congress only intended to reserve lands valuable for mining purposes; citing
the California case.
In' Cowell v. Lammers, 10 Sawyer, 246, 257, the question
came before the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Qalifornia, as to the meaning of mineral lands in
the grant to the Pacific Railroad Company. That company
having completed its road in accordance with the provisions
of those acts, a patent was issued to it, the granting clause of
which excepted and excluded all mineral lands, should any be
found to exist in the tracts described. Judge Sawyer, in deciding the case, said: "The Land Department in this very case,
as in case of patents to pregmptioners, homestead claimants
and other purchasers of the public lands, have acted, and, I
think, correctly, upon the idea that patents to lands not known
to be mineral lands at the time the patent issued, carry the
title to all mines subsequently discovered in the lands, not-

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

withstanding the reservation from sale of mineral lands in the
acts of Congress. By the words Imineral lands' must be understood lands known to be such, or which there is satisfactory
reason to believe are such, at the time of the grant or patent.
And the United 'States courts, which have had occasion to act
upon this subject, so far as I am aware, have adopted that idea.
Pacific Coast _3lining & 2illing Co. v. 8.pargo, 8 Sawyer, 645.
There must be some point of time, when the character of the
land must be finally determined, and, for the interest of all concerned, there can be no better point to determine this question,
than at the time of issuing the patent. The Supreme Court
has not yet had occasion to decide the point as to the effect
on a patent cf a discovery of a valuable mine in lands subsequently to the issue of a patent. Any other construction
would be disastrous in the extreme to the holders of lands in
California under United States patents. If land, which a
party has actually occupied, possessed and peacefully enjoyed
for a long series of years, claiming title under a patent of the
United States fifteen years old, can be entered upon and prospected for a mine by any trespasser who chooses to do so, and
a mine being found, the mine can be located, and taken out of
the patent on the vague and uncertain exception in the patent
in question, it can be done fifty, or a hundred years hence,
and the patent instead of being a muniment of title upon
which the patentee, or his grantees can rest in security, would
be but a delusion, and a snare."
In United States v. Reed, 12 Sawyer, 99, 104, before the
Circuit Court for the District of Oregon, a bill was filed by
the United States to set aside a patent issued upon a homestead entry on the ground that the land was mineral and not
agricultural, and was at the date of entry more valuable for
mining than for agricultural purposes, and was so to the knowledge of the patentee. Judge Deady, in disposing of the question, said: "The nature and extent of the deposit of precious
metals which will make a'tract of land 'mineral,' or constitute
a 'mine' thereon, within the meaning of the statute, has not
been judicially determined. Attention is called to the question in XeLaughlin v. United States, 107 U. S. 526, but no

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-

opinion is expressed. The Land Department appears to have
adopted a rule, that if the land is worth more for agriculture
than mining, it is not mineral land, although it may, contain
some measure of gold or silver; and the bill in this case is
drawn on that theory of the law. In my judgment, this is
the only practicable rule of decision that can be applied to the
subject. Nor can account be taken in the application of this
rule, of profits that would or might result from mining under
other and more favorable conditions and circumstances than
those which 'actually exist or may be produced or expected in
the ordinary course of such a pursuit or adventure on the land
in question."
In Du i v. Harkins, 2 Lana Dec. 721, which was before
the Interior Department in November, 1883, there was a contest between mineral and agricultural claimants, the land having been returned as agricultural by the surveyor general. In
disposing of it the Secretary, Mr. Teller, in a communication
to the commissioner of the General Land Office, said: "The
burden of proof is therefore upon the mineral claimant, and he
must show, not that neighboring or adjoining lands are mineral
in character, or that that in dispute may hereafter by possibility
develop minerals in such quantity as will establish its mineral
rather than its agricultural character, but that, as a present
fact, it is mineral in character; and this must appear from
actual production of mineral, and not from any theory that
it may produce it; in other words, it is fact and not theory
Which must control your office in deciding upon the character
of this class of lands. Kor is it sufficient that the mineral
claimant shows that the land is of little agricultural value. He
must show affirmatively, in order to establish his claim, that
the mineral value of the land is greater than its agricultural
value."

In the Case of Samuel IF 8,pong, 5 Land Dec. 193, which
was before the Department of the Interior in October, 1886,
similar views were expressed. An application had been made
by Spong to the local land officers for the Marble Valley
quartz mine, in the Sacramento district, in California, which
,was refused by them, for the reason that the section of land

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

containing the mine had been previously patented to the Central Pacific Railroad Company. On appeal, the Commissioner
of the General Land Office affirmed the ruling, upon the
ground that "the exception in the grant to said company and
in said patent is construed to mean lands known to contain
valuable minerals prior to the issuing of the patent, and that
subsequent discoveries would not affect the title of the company to the lands and mines subsequently discovered." The
case being taken to the Interior Department this decision was
affirmed. In his opinion Mr. Lamar, who had succeeded Mr.
Teller as Secretary of the Interior, said: "It is strenuously
insisted by counsel for the appellant, that Congress did not
grant mineral lands to said company; that said patent, although
including said section in terms, did not operate as a conveyance
of the title to any land that may at any time be found to be
mineral. It is not denied that said section was returned as
agricultural by the United States surveyor; that it was regularly patented to said company, without fraud or mistake on
the part of the land officers or said company, so far as is shown
by the record. The issue of said patent was a determination
by the proper tribunal that the lands covered by the patent
were granted to said company, and hence, under the proviso
of said act, were not mineral at the date of the issuance of said
patent."
In Cleghorn v. Bird,4 Land Dec. 478, and in Commissioners
of JZings Co. v. ALxander, 5 Id. 126, Mr. Secretary Lamar
followed the decision of Secretary Teller in .Dughi v. llarkins,
and in repeated cases afterwards it was not only referred to by
him with approval, but also by his successor in the department,
Mr. Secretary Vilas.
Rulings to the same effect upon applications for mineral
patents are found in decisions of the department for many
years. They are that such applications should not be granted
unless the existence of mineral in such quantities as would justify expenditure in the effort to obtain it is established as a
present fact. If mineral patents will not be issued unless the
mineral exist in sufficient quantity to render the land more valuable for mining than for other purposes, which can only be

•52d:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

kno~vn by development or exploration, it should follow that
the land may be patented for other purposes if that fact does
not appear.
See to this purport the following decisions of the Interior
Department : .AMagalia Gold .Mining Co. v. Ferguson, 6 Land
Dec. 218, Nficholas Abercrombie, 6 Id. 393; John -Downs, 7
Id. 71; Cutting v. leininghaus, 7- Id. 265 ; Creswell Mining
Co. v. Johnson, 8 Id. 140 ; Thoma . Zaney, 9 Id. 83.
It would seem from this uniform construction of that department of the government specially intrusted -with supervisib of proceedings required for the alienation of the public
lands, including those that embrace minerals, and also of the
courts of the mining States, federal and state, whose attention
has been called to the subject, that the exception of minefal
lands from grant in the acts of Congress should be considered
to apply only to such lands as were at the time of the grant
known to be so valuable for their- minerals as to justify expenditure for theif extraction. The grant or patent, when issued,
would thus be held to carry with it the determination of the
proper authorities that the land patented was not subject to
the exception stated. There has been no direct adjudication
upon this point by this court, but this conclusion is a legitimate inference from several of its decisions. It was implied
in the opinion in -Deffebaokv. llawke, already referred to, and
in the cases of the Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v. United States,
123 U. S. 307,'328, and United States v. Iron Bilver Mining
Co., 128 U. S. 673, 683.
In Colorado Coal & Iron Company v. United States,a bill was
filed to set aside patents issued for agricultural lands, on the
ground that it was known at the time of their issue that the
lands contained mines of coal. But the court said: "To constitute the' exemption contemplated by the predmption act
under the'head of 'known mines,' there should be upon the
land ascertained coal deposits of such an extent and value as to
make tle land more valuable to be worked as a coal mine, under
'the ,Q(dition§ existing at the time, than for merely agricultural
purposes.. The circumstance that there are surface indibations
of the existence of veins of coal does not constitute a mine.

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

It does not even prove that the land will ever be under any
conditions sufficiently valuable on account of its coal deposits
to be worked as a mine. A change in the conditions occurring
subsequently to the sale, Whereby new discoveries are made,
or by means whereof it may become profitable to work the
veins as mines, cannot affect the title as it passed at the time
of the sale. The question must be determined according to
the facts in existence at the time of the sale. If upon the
premises at that time there were not actual 'known mines,'
capable of being profitably worked for their product, so as to
make the land more valuable for mining than for agriculture,
a title to them acquired under the preemption act cannot be
successfully assailed."
In United States v. Thon Silver Mining Co. a bill was filed
to set aside certain patents on the ground that they were issued
upon false representations that the land patented embraced
only placer mining claims, and not any mineral veins or lodes;
and the court said with reference to the uncertain proof on the
subject: "It is not enough that there may have been some
indications by outcroppings on the surface, of the existence of
lodes or veins-of rock in place bearing gold or silver or other
metal, to justify their designation as ' known' veins or lodes.
To meet that designation the lodes or veins must be clearly
ascertained, and be of such extent as to render the land more
valuable on -that account, and justify their exploitation."
In connection with these views it is to be borne in mind also,
that the object of the town-site act was to afford relief to the
inhabitants of cities and towns upon the public lands, by giving
title to the lands occupied by them, and thus induce them to
erect suitable buildings for residence and business. Under such
protection many towns have grown up on lands which, previously to .the patent, were part of the public domain of the
United States, with buildings of great value for residence, trade
and manufactures. Itwould in many instances be a great impediment to the progress of such towns if the titles to the lots
occupied by their inhabitants were subject to be overthrown
by a subsequent discovery of mineral deposits under their surface. If their title would not protect them against a discovery

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of mines in them, neither would it protect them against the
invasion of their property for the purpose of exploring for
mines. The temptation to such exploration would be according to the suspected extent of the minerals, and being thus
subject to indiscriminate invasion, the land would be to one
having the title poor and valueless, just in proportion to the
supposed richness and abundance of its products. We do not
think that any such results were contemplated by the act of
Congress, or that any construction should be given to the provision in question which could lead to such results. Our conelusion, as already substantially stated, is, that Congress only
intended to preserve existing rights to known mines of gold,
silver, cinnabar or copper, and to known mining claims and
possessions, against any assertion of title to them by. virtue of
the conveyances received under the town-site act, and not to
leave the titles of purchasers on the. town sites to be disturbed
by future discoveries.
In Defeback v. Hawke, the mining patentee's rights antedated those of the occupants under the town-site law, and
wherever such is the case his rights will be enforced against
the pretensions of the town-site holder; but where the latter
has acquired his rights in advance of the discovery of any
mines and the initiation of proceedings for the acquisition of
their title or possession, his rights will be deemed superior to
those of the mining claimant.
It is not necessary in this case to state in what manner it
must be shown that the existence of mines was known at the
time the patent for the town site was issued. If the minihing
patent states any initiatory steps in acquiring title which antedate the title of the town site, that may suffice in an action at
law. In the absence of such statement, the development and
working of a mine would be a controlling fact; so also perhaps
would be the location of the claim patented, and notice thereof
required by law, or the custom of miners. But in this case the
patent does not show any such initiatory steps; it merely refers
to the entry of'the mining claim,'and that was after the patent
was issued to the town site. AiTo proof was offered to show
when the mining claim was originally located; and it does'not

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

appear that the want of it was made an objection to the plaintiff's recovery, except as that may be implied from the defendant's offer to prove that at the time the patent to the Butte
town site was issued to the probate judge the premises embraced by the Gold Hill lode were not known to be valuable
for minerals of any kind. That proof was excluded on the
ground that the -mining patent to the plaintiff established
that the premises contained valuable minerals. Such was the
effect of the patent, if there were any jurisdiction in the Land
Department to issue a mining patent at all under the circumstances of this case. Assuming for the present that there was
jurisdiction, the question was not whether there were valuable
minerals at the time that patent was issued, but whether such
minerals were known to exist within the premises at the date
of the town-site patent to the probate judge. The plaintiff
not having offered any proof upon this point, but having
relied upon the fact as a matter of presumption merely, the
defendant should have been permitted to establish the negative of it. The absence of any proceedings required by law or
the custom of the mining district to initiate a right to a mining claim, which he might perhaps have shown, would have
been very persuasive that no mine was then known to exist.
We think the court erred in excluding the proof of the
defendant.
When the patent to the mining company was offered in
evidence an objection was taken on the ground that the exception contained in it excluded all town lots from the grant, and
it was necessary for the plaintiff to show that the property in
controversy did not consist of lots thus excepted. The exception in the patent weht only to the exclusion of the lots from
interfering with the surface of the land granted with the
mining lode. But we do not attach any importance to the
exception, for the officers of the Land Department, being
merely agents of the government, have no authority to insert
in a patent any other terms than those of conveyance, with
recitals showing compliance with the conditions which the
law prescribes. Could'they insert clauses in patents at their
own discretion they could limit or enlarge their effect without

OCTOBER TERI:, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

warrant of law. The patent of a mining claim carries with it
such rights to the land which includes the claim as the law
confers,. and no others, and these rights can heither be enlarged nor diminished by any reservations of the officers of
the Land Department, resting for their fitness only upon the
k 115 U. S.
judgment of those officers. .Defebat v. Hwe,
392, 406.
If after the introduction of the town-site patent and the
deed to the defendant the objection had been raised to the
jurisdiction of the Land Department to issue the patent in
question for minerals in lands which had been previously conveyed to the defendant, a much more serious question would
have been presented. The laws of. Congress provide that
valuable mineral deposits in lands of the United States shall
be open to exploration aud purchase. They do not provide,
and never have provided, that such mineral deposits in lands
which have ceased to be public, and become the property of
private individuals, can be patented under any proceedings
before the Land Department, or otherwise. Proceedings for
the acquisition of title ,to a mining claim within a town site,
commenced .before the issue of a town-site patent, could undoubtedly be prosecuted to completion afterwards. The right
initiated by the location of the mining claim would not be
defeated by a subsequent conveyance of the title to the land
in which the mining claim was situated. But it is not perceived Where the jurisdiction exists under the laws of the
United States to grant a patent for a mine on lands owned by
private individuals- which was the case here- if the lots
for which the defendant received a deed were included within
the town-site patent and the location of the mining claim was
subsequently made.
Tor is there in this statement anything
at all inconsistent with the decision of this court in Steel v.
Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 441. We stated there that land embraced
within a town site on the public domain, when unoccupied, was
not exempt from location and sale for mining purposes, and
referred to the fact that some of the most valuable mines in
the country were within the limits of incorporated cities, which
had grown up on what was on its first settlement a part of the

DAVIS'S ADi MISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

public domain. We were speaking at that'time of town sites
for which no patent had been issued, and of mines in public
lands; for, immediately after using these expressions, we said:
"Whenever, therefore, mines are found in lands belonging to
the United States, whether within or without town sites, they
may be claimed and worked, provided existing rights of
others, from prior occupation, are not interfered with."
It must be borne in mind also that town sites on the public
domain in many instances, and probably in the greater part
of them, embrace a much larger tract of country than is included in a patent for such town sites. The United States
laws limit the quantity that shall be included within the
patent of such a town site to the number of its inhabitants. Where there are over 100 and less than 200 inhabitants the patent can only embrace lands not exceeding 320
acres; where the inhabitants number more than 200 and less
than 1000 it cannot embrace more than 640 acres; and, where
the inhabitants are 1000 or more it cannot exceed 1280 acres.
For each additional thousand inhabitants, not exceeding 5000,
a further grant of only 320 acres is allowed. Valuable mineral deposits in such lands outside of the patent are equally
open to exploration and purchase as those in lands outside of
the town site. It was in reference to mines in unoccupied
public lands in unpatented town sites that the language in
Steel v. Smelting Co. was used, and .to them and. to mines in
public lands in patented town sites outside of the limits of
the patent it is only applicable.
We agree to all that is urged by counsel as to the conclusiveness of the patents of the land department when assailed
collaterally in actions at law. We have had occasion to assert their unassailability in such cases in the strongest terms,
both in Smelting Co. v. Remp, 104 U. S. 636, 640-646, and in
Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447, 451, 452. They are conclusive in such actions of all matters of fact necessary to their
issue, where the department had jurisdiction to act upon such
matters, and to determine them; but if the lands patented
were not at the time public property, having been previously
disposed of, or no provision had been made for their sale, or
VOL. cxxxrv- 34-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

other disposition, or they had been reserved from sale, the
department' had no jurisdiction to transfer the land, and their
attempted conveyance by patent is inoperative and void, no
matter with what seeming regularity the forms of law have
been observed.
In the several cases to which we have been referred in the
fifth and sixth Montana Reports, Silver Bow Xfining & 1Milling Co. v. Clark, 5 Montana, 378 ; Talbott v. -King,6 Montana,
76 ; Butte City Smoke-house Zode Cases, 6 Montana, 397; which
involved contests between parties claiming under mining patents
and others claiming under town-site patents, and in which very
able and learned opinions were given by the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Montana, the mining claim patented had been
located and the rights of the mining claimant had thus attached
before the town-site patent was issued. The patent which subsequently followed was a mere perfection of the right originated
by the location, and to which it took effect by relation. "It was
held, in accordance with this opinion, that the prior mining location was not affected by the town-site entry.
It follows from the views expressed that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana must be
Reversed, and the cause reman&ed to the Supreme Court of
the State, with directions to order a.new trial in the proper
trial court; and it is so ordered.

UNION EDGE SETTER COMPANY v. KEITH.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 283.

Argued March 20, 23,1891.-Declded'April 6,1891.

The first claim under letters patent No. 173,284, dated February 8, 1876,
granted to Charles H. Helms for an improvement in sole-edge burnishing machines, namely, "in combination with the burnishing tool, and the
rest for the face of the sole, the finger-rest D, substantially as described"
falls within the many rulings of this court, holding that a mere aggregation of old elements in a new relation is not the subject of a patent.

