OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR C0OPANYv . CENTRAL
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
NTo.20. Argued January 28, 29,1890.-Decided March 2, 1891.

Under an indenture in the nature of a lease which includes railway sleeping
cars and written contracts for letting them to certain railroad companies,
and which provides that if the revenue derived from such contracts shall,
by reason of the refusal of any of the railroad companies to' permit the
cars to be run over their lines of road, fall below the sum agreed in the
indenture to be paid quarterly by way of annual rent, the lessee" shall
have the right either to declare this contract null and void and surrender" to the lessor the property leased, "or shall and -ill pay in like
manner, in lieu of said sum, such sum or share of the net revenue from
the remaining lines of the roads as the parties hereto may at that time
agree upon," the lessee, if he makes no election, in ease of the revenue,
by reason of such refusal of the railroad companies, falling below the
sum first mentioned, is no longer liable for that sum, but only for such
share of the net revenue from remaining railroads as the parties may at
that time agree upon, and, if they do not agree, for a sum'to be assessed
by the jury in the nature of a quantum merit, not exceeding the whole of
such net revenue.

TEm case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr.Edward S. _ksam and XM.
tiff, inerror.

W ayne Zol leagl, for plain-

-Y. John G. Johnson for defend-ant in error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the cQurt.

This was an action of covenant, brought July 30, 1885, by
the Central Transportation Company against Pullman's Palace
Car Company to recover the rent or sum of $132,000, due for
the first two quarters of the year 1885, under the indenture of
lease of February 17,-1870,counted on in the other case between
the same parties, argued at the same time, and just decided,

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. CENTRAL TRAKNSP. CO.

63

Opiniou of the Court.

ante, 24. The plaintiff obtained a verdict and judgment for
$119,729.13; and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
In the present action, which was tried before the other was
brought, the objection that the contract sued on was ultra
ires was not pleaded, nor in any way brought to the notice
not entitled
of the court below. The defendant, therefore, i.s
to avail itself of it upon this writ of error. Bell v. Bruen,
1 How. 69; .Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252;
Klein v. Russell, 19 Wall. 4"33; Badger v. Ranlett, 106 U. S.
255; Union Trust Co. v. illinois Midland Co., 117 U. S.434,
468. Whether, under these circumstances, this court, of its
own motion, might take this objection need not be considered,
because upon another ground the verdict must be set aside and
a new trial ordered.
The defendant pleaded only two pleas, the first of which
was simply "icovenants performed, absque hoc," (according to
the form used in Pennsylvania,) which put in issue the performance of the defendant's covenants, as well as the performance of the plaintiff's covenants, as alleged in the declaration,
but not the execution or the validity of the contract sued on.
Wilkinson v. PittsburgTurnpike Co., 6 Penn. St. 398 ; Farmers'
& Mechanics' Turnpike Co. v. XfcCullough, 25 Penn. St. 303.
The other plea set up an agreement between the parties,
dated February 27, 1885, which recited the eighth covenant
in the original indenture of lease, in these words:
"8th. In the event that any of the railroad companies
mentioned in the assigned contracts shall at any time during
this agreement refuse to permit the cars of the second party
to be run on and over their respective lines of roads, so that,
by reason of such prevention or refusal, the profits, income
and revenue derived from and under any other remaining contracts with other and remaining railroad companies mentioned
in the assigned contracts shall fall below the sum of two hundred and sixty-four thousand dollars, then, and in .that event,
said second party shall have the right either to declare this
contract null and void and surrender to said- first party the
said hereinbefore demised property, or shall and will pay, in
like manner, in lieu of the said sum of two hundred and sixty-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

four thousand dollars, such sum or share of the net revenue
from the remaining lines of the roads as the parties hereto
may at that time agree upon."
The agreement pleaded also recited the refusal of some of
the railroad companies therein mentioned to permit the leased
cars to run over their roads, leaving only, certain lines over
which the defendant was still running cars under a contract
with the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, which expired January 27, 1885; and that the defendant was negotiating a new
contract with that company, the. annual income and revenue
to be derived from and under which, applicable' to the payment of rent under the indenture of lease, would fall much
below the sum of $264,000, the rent agreed on in that indenture ; and that it had become necessary to modify that indenture in respect to the rent and otherwise.
By this agreement, in consideration of the premises, it was
agreed that an -annual rent of $66,000, in equally quarterly
payments, together with one-fourth of the taxes to be paid
by the plaintiff to the State of Pennsylvania, should be paid
by the defendant to the plaintiff, in lieu and in stead of the
aforesaid sum of $264,000; and other stipulations were made
in modification of the original indenture.
The plaintiff filed a replication, denying the making of the
agreement pleaded.
At the trial, in June, 1886, the plaintiff gave in evidence its
charter and'the indenture counted on, and proved that it had
received only $33,000 for rent during the six months ending
July 1, 1885.
The defendant gave in evidence the agreement pleaded,
which was admitted to be under the seals of the two corporations, and signed by the president and secretary of each in its
behalf, and to have been executed pursuant to a vote of the
plaintiff's board of directors.
The defendant offered other evidence tending to show that
the contracts with all the railroad companies had expired, and
that those companies had refused to renew them, except on
terms less favorable to the defendant, and that by reason
thereof the annual income and revenue derived from and

PULL TAN'S OAR CO. v. CENTRAL TRANSP. CO.

65

Opinion of the Court.

under the contracts remaining in force fell much below the
sum of $264,000. This evidence was offered, in connection
with the recitals in the agreement of February 27, 1885, for
the purpose of supporting one branch of. the defence, namely,
that if that agreement did'not govern the extent of the defendant's liability, yet the plaintiff could recover only a sum
equal to the net revenue derived from such contracts. Upon
the plaintiff's objection this evidence was excluded, and the
defendant excepted to the ruling.
The ground of that ruling appears to have been that there
was no evidence to justify the jury in finding "an election,
prior to the commencement of this suit, either to return the
property rented and held, or to pay over the net earnings
referred to in the contract, in case a new contract was not
agreed upon by the parties."
The court -afterwards submitted the case to the jury upon
two questions, (concerning which much evidence had been 'introduced by both parties,) whether the plaintiff's directors had
authority from the stockholders to make on its behalf the
agreement of February 27, 1885; and whether the delivery of
that agreement was on the understanding that it should take
effect immediately, 'or that it should be conditional upon the
approval of the stockholders; and instructed the jury that to.
warrant, a verdict for the defendant both these questions must
be answered in the defendant's favor.
But that agreement was admitted to have been executed
-and. delivered in behalf of the plaintiff corporation, in due
form, by the proper officers, and under a vote of the board of
directors. Even if, for want' of"assent *of the stockholders, it
did not bind the corporation as fixing a new rate of compensation, if'was competent evidence against the corporation that
the contracts with the railroad companies bad been terminated,
and the revenue derived from such contracts thereby diminished. The rulings and instructions'which denied it that effect,
and excluded from the consideration of the jury other evidence of those facts, rest upon a misconception of the true
scope and meaning of the eighth covenant in the original indenture of lase, above quoted.
VOL. CXXXiX--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The manifest purpose and meaning of this covenant are
that, in the event supposed, of any of the railroad companies
refusing to permit the defendant's cars to be run over their
roads, and of the defendant's income and revenue thereby,
falling below the annual sum or rent of $264,000, the defendant shall not continue to be liable to pay. that rent or sum,
but may elect to declare the lease void and to surrender to the
plaintiff the leased property, or, if it does not elect to annul
the lease, shall pay, in like manner as, and in lieu of, the said
sum of $264,000, such sum or share of the net revenue from
the remaining lines of road as the parties may at that time
agree upon. The alternative required of the defendant is not
that the defendant shall elect to avoid the lease, or shall elect
to pay a share of the net revenue; but the alternative is to
declare the lease void, or to pay a share of the net revenue.
The only affirmative election contemplated, as affecting the
extent of the defendant's liability, is an ele ction to declare the
lease void. If the defendant, in the event supposed, elects to
,declare the lease void, it is no longer liable for any rent whatever. If it does not elect to declare the lease void, it is no
longer liable for the original rent, but, by the express terms of
the covenant, and without any further act or election on its
part, it is bound to pay such sum or share of the net revenue
from remaining railroads as the parties may at that time agree
upon. If the parties do not agree upon that sum or share,
the sum which the defendant shall pay must, of course, as in
all like cases, be assessed by the jury, in the nature of a quantum
neruit,depending upon the benefits received by the defendant,"
and cannot possibly exceed the whole of the net revenue
received by the defendant from the remaining railroad
contracts.
The erroneous exclusion of the evidence offered by the defendant, and above stated, directly affecting the amount which
the plaintiff by the terms of the original lease was entitled to
recover, requires the verdict to be set aside and a new trial
ordered; and there is no occasion to consider whether there
was any error in the rulings and instructions of the court concerning the questions afterwards submitted to the jury, because

LOGAN COUNTY BASK v. TOWNSEND.
Syllabus.

upon another trial the case may be presented in a different
aspect.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded, with directions to
set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
MvR. JUSTICE

BRowN, not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

LOGAN COUNTY NATIONAL BANK v. TOWNSEND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 170.

Submitted January 22, 1891.-

Decided March 2, 1891.

T. sold to a national bank, for sixty-eight cents on the dollar, $12,800.of the
bonds of a municipal corporation issued in aid of a railroad under an
.agreement that the bank would, upon demand, replace them to him at
the same or a less price. Subsequently, he demanded compliance with
this agreement, but the bank refused. In an action brought against the
bank in a state court to recover the difference between the amount it
paid for the bonds, and their value at the time they were demanded, the
defence in part was that the bank had no authority, under its charter and
the national banking act, to make the alleged agreement and purchase,
and, by reason of such want of authority, could not be held liable to the
plaintiff in any amount or upon any ground whatever. This defence
was overruled in the state courts of original and appellate jurisdiction.
Held,
(1) That this court had jurisdiction to review the judgment, so far as it
involved the question whether the bank was exempted by the act
of Congress or by its charter, from liability to account to the
plaintiff for the value of the bonds vwhich the jury found were
purchased by it from the plaintiff, to be returned to him on demand at the same or a less price;
(2) The national banking act is an enabling act for associations organized under it, and one cannot rightfully exercise any powers exc,.r
those expressly granted, or such incidental powers as are necessary
to carry on the business for which it was established;
(3) But that act does not give a national bank an absolute right to retain
bonds coming into its possession, by purchase, under a contract
which it was without legal authority to make. Although the bank
is not bound to surrender possession of them, until reimbursed the
full amount due to it, and may hold. them as security for the return

