SHELTON

v. PLATT.

Statement of the Case.

SHELTON v. PLATT.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 1155. Argued March 13, 16, 1891.-Decided April 6,1891.

While an unconstitutional tax may confer no right, impose no duty and
support no obligation, the trespass resulting from proceedings to collect such void tax cannot be restrained by injunction, where irreparable
injury or other ground for equitable interposition is not shown to exist.

THmo As
. PLATr filed his bill (subsequently amended)
against J. W. Allen, comptroller of the State of Tennessee,

and A. Shelton, sheriff, and S. D. Cate, deputy sheriff, of
Hamilton County, Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, as president of the United States Express Company, a joint stock company of the State of New York, and as one of the members
thereof, on. behalf of himself and his associates, who were too
numerous to be joined as parties, to restrain the collection of a
license tax from the said company for the years 1887, 1888
and 1889, under certain acts of the State of Tennessee of 1887
and 1889, in that behalf, alleged by him to be un-ecpstitutional.
Complainant averred that the comptroller had issued a distress
warrant to the sheriff of Hamilton County, who had placed it
in the hands of his deputy to execute, for the collection of the
license taxes of 1887 and 1888, which warrant the said sheriff
"has levied on or is about to levy on the property of the
United States Express Company," and that the comptroller
threatened to issue -another distress warrant to collect the
license tax for the year 1889.
And the bill then proceeded: "Your orator further shows
that the property of the said United States Ekpress Company
in Tennessee is employed in interstate commerce in the said
express business and is necessary to the conduct of it; that if
seized by the said sheriff it will greatly embarrass the company
in the conduct of such business and subject it to heavy loss and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

damage, and the public served by it to great loss and inconvenience.

'Your orator further says that your orator and the

United States Express Company are without adequate remedy
at law in the premises."
The prayer '-Ws for an injunction against the collection of
the taxes imposed by the acts' of Tennessee referred to, or
either of them, and from interfering or attempting to interfere
in the operation of the company's business by reason of the
non-payment of said taxes or either of them, and for general
relief, process and answer.
Defendants filed a plea in abatement, setting up an act of
the legislature of Tennessee entitled "An act to facilitate the
collection of revenues," approved March 21, 1873, and insisting
that, in accordance with its terms, "complainant's only remedy
is to pay under protest the taxes complained of, and then sue
within thirty days thereafter for a recovery of the amount so
paid; and no injunction or other restraining order or writ to
prevent the collection of said tax will lie." And also a motion
to quash the writ and dismiss the bill, as amended, for the reasons, among others, that the suit tas brought in a district
other than that of which the defendant Allen was an inhabitant, and other than that in which he was found at the time
the writ was served on him; that, under the public laws of
the State of Tennessee, (namely, the act above mentioned,)
complainant's only remedy is to pay under protest the taxes
complained of and then sue to recover the same, and no restraining order will lie .against the collecting officer; and that
no irreparable injury or other ground of equitable jurisdiction
is shown in the bill.
The motion to dismiss was sustained as to the defendant
Allen, and judgment entered in his favor, but the motion was
overruled as to the other defendants, they excepting; the plea
was heard and stricken from the files, and exceptions taken;
and defendants were granted leave to rely upon the matter
of the plea and the several grounds of the motion in their
answer. Defendants Shelton and Cate thereupon answered,
restating the grounds of the plea and motion.
Replication was filed and the cause came on to be heard

SHELTON v. PLATT.
Statement of the Case.

upon bill, answer and- replication, and a decree was rendered
perpetually enjoining defendants as prayed, and for costs,
from which decree the defendants Shelton and Cate prayed
an appeal to this court. The opinion of the Circuit Court will
be found reported in 39 Fed. Rep. 712.
Sections 1 and 2 of the act 'of the legislature of Tennessee
of 1873, entitled "An act to facilitate the collection of revenues," (Laws Tenn. 1873, c. 44, p. 71,) are as follows:
"SECTio N 1. That in all cases in which an officer charged
by law with the collection of revenue due the State, shall
institute any proceeding, or take any steps for the collection
of the same, alleged or claimed to be due by said officer, from
any citizens, the party against whom the proceeding, or step,
is taken shall, if he conceives the same to be unjust, or illegal,
or against any statute, or clause of the constitution of the
State, pay the same under protest, and upon his making such
payment the officer or collector shall pay such revenue into
the state treasury, giving notice at the time of payment to
the comptroller, that the same was paid under protest; and the
party paying said revenue may, at any time within thirty
days after making said payment and not longer thereafter, sue
the said officer having collected said sum, for the recovery
thereof, and the same may be tried in any court having jurisdiction of the amount and parties, and if it be determined
that the same was wrongfully collected as not being due from
the said party to the State for any reason going to the merits
of the same, then the court trying the case may certify of
record that the same was wrongfylly paid, and ought to be
refunded, and thereupon the comptroller shall issue, his warrant for the same, which shall be paid in preference to other
claims on the treasury.
"SEc. 2. That there shall be no other remedy in any case
of the collection of revenue, or attempt to -collect revenue
illegally, or attempt to collect revenue in funds only receivable by said officer under the law, the .same being other; or
different funds, than such as the taxpayer may tender, or
claim the right to pay, than that above provided, and no writ
for the prevention of the collection of any revenue claimed,
VOL. CXxxMX-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

or to hinder and delay the collection of the same, shall in anywise issue "either injunction, supersedeas, prohibition or any
other Writ or process whatever, but in all cases in which for
any reason any person shall claim that the tax so collected
was wrongfully or illegally collected, the remedy for said
party shall'be as above provided, and in no other manner."
.A&. G. TV. Pickle, Attorney General for the State of Tennessee, and Nr. T. G. f. Thomas for appellants.
Ab'. W. IF McFarlandfor appellee.
was with him on the brief.
IM.
court.

CHIEF JusTIcE

. FWilliam Parkin

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

The question whether, even if the act under which the tax
in question was imposed were unconstitutional and the tax
void, complainant on behalf of the express company was
entitled to the relief accorded, meets us on the threshold.
It was ruled in Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, 112, that a
suit in equity will not lie to restrain the collection of a tax on
the sole ground that the tax is illegal, but that there must
exist, in addition, special circumstances bringing the case
under some i'ecognized head of equity jurisdiction, such as
that the enforcement of the tax would lead to a multiplicity
of suits, or produce irreparable injury, or, where the property
is real estate, throw a cloud upon tlie title of the complainant.
And Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said: "The
equitable powers of the court can only be invoked by the
presentation of a case of equitable c cgnizance. There can be
no such case, at least in the Federal courts, where there is a
plain and adequate remedy at law. And except where the
special circumstances which we have mentioned exist, the
party of whom an illegal tax is collected has ordinarily ample
,remedy, either by action against the officer making the collection or the body to wh6m the tax .is paid. Here such remedy
existed. If the tax was illegal, the plaintiff protesting against
its enforcement might have had his. action, after it was paid,

SHELTON v. PLATT.
Opinion of the Court.

against the officer or the city to recover back the money, or
he might have prosecuted either for his damages. No irreparable injury- would have followed to him from its, collection.
Nor would he have been compelled to resort to a multiplicity
of suits to determine his rights. His entire claim might have
been embraced in a single action. We see no ground for the
interposition of a court of equity which would not equally
justify such interference in any case of threatened invasion of
real or personal property."
In Union ]acift Railway Co. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516,
525, Mr. Justice Bradley declared that it was "well settled
that there ought to be some equitable ground for relief besides
the mere illegality of the tax; for it must be presumed that
the law furnishes a remedy for illegal -taxation." And he
quoted, with approval, the language of Judge Cooley on this
subject: " To entitle a party to relief in equity against an
illegal tax, he must by his bill bring his case under some
acknowledged head of equity jurisdiction. The illegality of
the tax alone, or the threat to sell property for its satisfaction,
cannot, of themselves, furnish any ground for equitable interposition. In ordinary cases a party must find his remedy in
the courts of law, and it is not to be supposed he would fail to
find one adequate to his proper relief. Cases of fraud, accident or mistake, cases of cloud upon the title to one's property
and cases where one is threatened with irremediable mischief,
may demand other remedies than those the common law can
give, and these, in proper cases, may be afforded in the courts
of. equity."' Cooley on Taxation, p. 536. The same learned
author says, (p. 538:) "When a tax is assessed as a personal
charge against the party taxed, or against his personal property, it is difficult to suggest any ground of equitable jurisdiction. Presumptively the remedy at law is adequate. If the
tax is illegal and the party makes payment, he is entitled to
recover back the amount. The case does not differ in this
regard from any other case in which a party is compelled to
pay an illegal demand; the illegality alone affords no ground
for equitable interference, and the proceedings to enforce the
tax by distress and sale can give none, as these only constitute

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Op!nion of the Court.

an ordinary trespass. To this point-the decisions are numerous,
The exceptions to this rule, if any, must be of cases which are
to be classed under the head of irreparable injury."
Irreparable injury is the sole ground upon which jurisdiction
in equity can bd regarded as invoked in this case. The jurisdictional averments are: "That the property of said United
States Express Company in Tennessee is employed in interstate commerce in the said express business, and necessary to,
the conduct of it; that if seized by the said sheriff' it will
greatly embarrass the company, in the conduct of such business and subject it to heavy loss and damage, and the public.
served by it to great loss and inconvenience."
And "thatyour orator and the United States Express Company are,
without adequate remedy at law in the premises."
The latter allegation is a mere matter of inference, and it is
necessary that, by facts averred or proven the conclusion should
be made out. The answer denied, in the language of the previous motion, that any irreparable injury or other ground of
equitable jurisdiction was shown in the bill, and asserted that.
the plaintiff had full, adequate and complete remedy at law
under the act of 1873. As the case was tried on bill, answerand replication, it is taking the most favorable course for complainant to determine whether the decree must stand or fall
by the averments of the bill alone. But testing, it in that
way, we do not see how it can be sustained. The trespass
involved in the levy of the distress warrants was not shown
to be continuous, destructive, inflictive of injury incapable of
being measured in money, or committed by irresponsible persons. So far as appeared, complete compensation, for the
resulting injury could have been had by recovery of damages
in an action at law. There Was no allegation of inability on
the part of the express company to pay the amount of tle
taxes claimed, nor any averments showing that the seizure
and sale of the particular property which might be levied on,
would subject it to loss, damage and inconvenience which
would be in their natuie, irremediable. The bill showed the
company to be doing a vast business, and it was an unreasonable inference that it must submit to the sale of its Wagons

SHELTON v. PLATT.
Opinion of the Court.

and horses, or that such sale would work that kind of mischief
which justifies the interference of equity in the application of
a preventive remedy. Nor did the mere fact that its property
might be used in the conduct of interstate commerce give
jurisdiction. But in addition to all- this, since 1873 there has
been a statute in existence in Tennessee, providing a remedy
at law, which has been pronounced by this court simple and
-effective. Tennessee v. Sneed, 96 U. S. 69. Under that act,
where an officer charged by law with the collection of revenue
-due the State takes any steps for the collection of the same,
-a party conceiving the tax to be unjust or illegal may pay it
under protest, and sue the officer to recover the money back,
.and if the court determines that it was wrongfully collected,
then, upon its certificate to that effect, the comptroller "shall
issue his warrant for the same, which shall be paid in preference to other claims on the treasury." And the act further
provides that there shall be no other' remedy in any case of
the collection of revenue, and no writ for the prevention of
such collection or to hinder and delay it shall in any wise issue,
either injunction, supersedeas, prohibition or any other writ or
process what.ever.
This act has been sanctioned and applied by the courts of
Tennessee. Nashville v. Smith, 86 Tennessee, 213; Railroadv.
State, 8 Heiskell, 663, 804. It is, as counsel observe, similar to
the act of Congress forbidding suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of taxes under the internal
revenue laws, in respect to which this court held that the
remedy by suit to recover back the tax after payment, proided for by the statute, was exclusive. Snyder v. Markes,
109 U. S.189; 14 Stat. 152, 475. Legislation of this character
has been called for by the embarrassments resulting from the
improvident employment of the Writ of injunction in arresting
the collection of the public revenue; and, even in its absence,
the strong arm of the Court of Chancery ought not to be interposed in that direction except where resort to that court is
grounded upon the settled principles which govern its juris-.
liction.
It is asserted by counsel that a court of equity has jurisdic-

OCTOBER TER1,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

tion to restrain the collection of a tax when the tax is wholly
illegal and void, and that such jurisdiction has been uniformly
exercised in the Federal courts. Allen v. Bat. & Ohio Rail'oad, 114 U. S. 311 ; Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9,
Wheat. 738; Cammings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153;
and Dodge v. loolsey, 18 How. 331, are cited; but the jurisdiction will be found to have rested on other grounds than
merely the unconstitutionality of the taxes involved.
In Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, Allen was auditor
of public accounts of Virginia, and Hamilton, treasurer of
Augusta County, in that State. The auditor had assessed certain railroads upon their real estate, nob having any rolling
stock, as being in default for non-payment of taxes assessed by
the board of public works, and had placed copies of the assessment in the hands of the defendant Hamilton, as treasurer of
Augusta County, for collection, in pursuance of which he had
levied upon certain cars and locomotives belonging to complainant, and used by it in operating said railroads as lessee,
for part of the taxes, and threatened to make further levy
upon other cars and engines and sell them for payment of
said taxes; and the bill prayed for an injunction on the several grounds of irreparable damage, avoidance of multiplicity
of suits, removal of cloud upon title, etc. It was admitted in
the case that if the property of the complainant levied on
should be sold, great sacrifice and loss must result therefrom,
and that the withdrawal of the rolling stock and machinery
proposed to be sold would cause serious and prolonged embarrassment to complainant's business; that much delay must,
accrue before said rolling stock and machinery, if sold, could
be replaced; and that it would be difficult, if not impracticable, to ascertain and estimate with even proximate certainty
the losses and damages which would result to complainant
from the sale, so that although the estate of Hamilton might
be sufficient to meet any *verdictfor damages if the sale should
be adjudged to be illegal, the pecuniary value of complainant's
losses and damages could not be properly and adequately ascertained and fixed by the verdict of a jury. This admission
made a case of irreparable injury.

SHELTON v. PLATT.
Opinion of the Court.

In Osborn v. Bank of the United States, the court held that
the effect of the law of Ohio in question would be the expulsion of the bank from the State; that the injury done thereby
would be in its nature irreparable; and further that as by the
amended and supplemental bill it appeared that the money
and notes of the bank were in the possession of one of the
defendants and kept separate and apart from all other money
and notes, the principle of preventing the transfer of a specific
article, which if transierred might be lost to the owner; applied.
In Cummings v. N'ational Bank, the jurisdiction was mantained upon the ground of preventing multiplicity of suits, as
well as that the remedy by injunction against an illegal tax
was expressly granted by a statute of the State whose levy of
taxes was drawn in question.
The ground upon which Dodge v. Woolsey proceeded was
that a stockholder had a remedy in chancery against the directors of his corporation to restrain them from doing acts
which would amount to a violation of the charter, or to prevent
any misapplication of their capital or profits, which might
lessen the value of the shares, if the acts intended to be done
amounted to a breach of trust or duty, and that the refusal of
the directors to resist the collection of a tax, which they themselves believed to have been imposed upon them in violation
of their charter, was in legal effect a breach of trust.The Circuit Court held the act of 1873 inapplicable to an unconstitutional tax, upon the authority of Poindexterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270. That was an action of detinue brought
by jPoindexter, a taxpayer, against Greenhow, treasurer of
Richmond, Virginia, for a desk belonging to plaintiff, seized
and taken by Greenhow for the purpose of raising the tax
claimed to be due from plaintiff after he had tendered coupons in payment thereof in pursuance of the Virginia act of
1871, making the coupons receivable for taxes. In 1882, Virginia passed an act providing that, in case of proceedings
instituted against a taxpayer for the cdllection of his tax, notwithstanding his tender of coupons in payment thereof, he
should pay the tax under protest in lawful money, and then

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

sue the officer for the amount, and if it should be determined
that it was wrongfully collected, the amount should be returnedr and that no writ of injunction, supersedeas, mandaiMUs, prohibition or other writ whatever should be issued to
hinder or delay the collection of the- tax. At the same time
several other acts were passed calculated to impede the operation of the act of 1871. This court held that the tender was
equivalent to payment; that the taxpayer had the right to
stand upon such payment once 'made; and that the acts of
1882 were unconstitutional so far as they had the effect of
depriving the taxpayer of his remedy by detinue, or trespass, or case, or other proper action, for unlawful seizure of
his goods rafter tendering tax-receivable coupons in payment
of his taxes. 2WeGahey v. V-irginia, 135 U. S. 662, 675, 676.
But this was far from deciding that the remedy for recovery
back would not have been sufficient if the validity of the tax
had alone been in issue. The question related to the previous
contract that the coupons should be receivable for taxes,
which contract the subsequent legislation impaired, and its
disposition did not involve the application of the act of 1882,
under the circumstances existing here. And while an unconstitutional tax may, in the language of the learned judge holding the Circuit Court, confer no right, impose no duty and
support no obligation, it will be perceived that, in our view,
the trespass resulting from proceedings to collect such void
tax cannot be restrained by injunction where irreparable injury or other ground for equitable interposition is not shown
to exist.
We are constrained to hold upon this record that the decree
cannot be sustained, and it is therefore
Reversed and the cause remanded to the court below witk a
direction to dismiss the bill.
Mm. JusTIcE ' HARLA.

dissented.

