DELAWARE &c. RAILROAD v. CONVERSE.
1

Opinion of the Court.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. CONVERSE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 22S. Argued March 18, 19, 1891.-Decided March 30, 1891.

The court may withdraw a case from the jury, and direct a verdict for
plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be, when the undisputed evidence
is so conclusive that the court would be compelled to set aside a verdict
returned in opposition to it.
The severing of a train of cars in motion on a railroad in the night time,
leaving a part, uncontrolled except by ordinary brakes, to run across a
public highway at grade, without warning by either flagman, bell, whistle
or in some other effective way, that they were approaching, is a disregard
of the rights of persons using the highway, and it justified the court in
saying, as matter of law, that it constituted negligence on the part of the
railroad company, for which the plaintiff could recover unless he had been
guilty of contributory negligence.
The instructions of the court properly submitted to the jury the question
whether the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence; and, the
jury having passed upon that issue, this court cannot review their finding.
The rulings of the court admitting or refusing to admit evidence on sundry
points were no error, having rightly held the defendant guilty of negligence, leaving the jury to determine whether the plaintiff was guilty of
contributory negligence.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.a&. J. -D. Be'lle for plaintiff in error.
.Ar. ,ames B. I7 ',edenburgh for defendant in error.
AR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of this action is to recover damages for injuries,
in person and property, alleged to have been sustained by the
defendant in error (who was the phdintiff below) in consequence
of the negligent manner in which the cars of the plaintiff in
error were operated on the occasion when such injuries were

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

received. The jury returned a verdict against the railroad
company for $14,000. That amount being regarded by the
court as excessive, the plaintiff remitted all of it except seven
thousand five hundred dollars; and judgment was entered for
the latter sum.
While there was some conflict in the evidence relating to
certain matters, the following facts were clearly established:
The plaintiff at the time of the injuries in question, and for
ten years previous thereto, was the county physician of Hudson
County, New Jersey. In the discharge of his duties, he went
daily from Jersey City to the County Farm on which were
located a penitentiary, insane 'asylum, and alnshouse belonging
to the county, and which were reached by a public road crossing the Boonton Branch of the Delaware, Lackawanna and
Western Railroad at Secaucus station in the vicinity of the
County Farm. That road, commonly called the county road,
is built through meadow lands which are unoccupied, except
as they have been appropriated and used for the purposes of
the railroad company. There is, substantially, no travel upon
it except by those going to and from the County Farm. About
a half-dozen wagons or vehicles on an average pass over the
crossing every night. The road is from twenty-five to thirty
feet in width and macadamized, and without a fence upon
either side of it. At the crossing in question there are twG
main tracks of the railroad, one called the east-bound and the
other the west-bound track, and five other tracks, two on the
south side of the east-bound track, and three on the north side
of the west-bound track.
The plaintiff, on the 13th day of March, 1886, went from
Jersey City to the County Farm, over this county road, in a
four-wheel buggy or phaeton, having a top or hood that could
be let down or raised. He reached the County Farm, crossing
the railroad tracks at Secaucus station, between 6 and 7 o'clock
in the evening of that day, and started back to Jersey City
about 8 o'clock. * As he approached the station, on his return,
sitting in his buggy, with the top up, and moving at an easy
gait, he observed, about fifteen minutes after 8 o'clock, at a
distance of one hundred feet or less, a train of freight cars,

DEL.WOARE &c. RAILROAD v. CONVERSE.
Opinion of the Court.

drawn by a locomotive engine, coming on the defendant's road
from the west. The train, just before reaching the point where
the county road crossed the railroad tracks, was severed by the
direction of those in charge of it, the engine, with the twelve
cars next to it, going ahead over a switch into the railroad
yard, while the other cars, twelve in number, with a caboose
attached to them, making what is called a "running switch,"
were left to follow, by their own momentmn, without being
controlled otherwise than by ordinary brakes. When the
engine and cars constituting the first section of the train passed
the county road, there was a gap between the two sections
of the severed train, the rear section being about ninety feet
behind the other and passing across the county road at the
rate of about ten miles an hour. The plaintiff attempted to.
cross the railroad tracks as soon as the engine and the cars
attached to it had cleared the county road. There were
neither gates, lights, nor flagman at the crossing. There was
no light on the front car of the rear section of thirteen cars
when they reached the crossing. The only light upon the
cars of that section when they reached the crossing was in the
caboose. Before reaching the crossing, a brakeman on the rear
section had a lantern that was placed on the platform at the
rear end of the first car of that section, which platform was,
hovever, two feet below the roof of the car. This light was
extinguished by the wind before the rear section of the train
reached the crossing. After the plaintiff got on the railroad
tracks with his buggy, but before reaching the east-bound
main track, he discovered the cars constituting the rear section
of the train, distant but a few feet, coming down upon him
and too close to be avoided. The train hit ,his buggy, entirely
destroying it and seriously, if not permanently, injuring him.
Upon, substantially, these facts, about which there could
not be any dispute, the court instructed the. jury, as matter
of law, that the railroad company was negligent in respect to
its duty to persons travelling upon the public road in question; and that the plaintiff was entitled to recover damages
for any injuries sustained by him as the result of such negligence, unless it appeared that he contributed to such injuries
by his own carelessness.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

it is contended that the court erred in not submitting to
the jury the issue as to defendant's negligence. Undoubtedly,
questions of negligence, in actions like the present one, are
ordinarily for the jury, under proper directions as to the
principles of law by which they should be controlled. But it
is well settled that the court may withdraw a case from them
altogether and direct a verdict for the plaintiff or the defendant, as the one 'or the other may-be proper, where the evidence is undisputed or is of such conclusive character that the
court, in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, would be
compelled to set aside a verdict returned in opposition to it.
Phonix Ins. Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S. 30, 32; Griggs v.
louston, 104 U. S. 553; Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railr-oad, 109 U. S. 478, 482; Anderson County Commissioners v.
Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 241; Schofield v. Chicago & St. Paul
Railway go., 114 U. S. 615, 618. "It would be an idle proceeding," this court said in NYorth Penn. Railroad v. Commercial Bank, 123 U. S. 727, 733, "to submit the evidence
to the jury when they could justly find only in one way."
In the present case, it was incumbent on the plaintiff, as a
condition of his right to recover, to prove that the defendant
was guilty of negligence, resulting in his being injured, and,
that issue being in his favor, he was entitled to a verdict
unless it appeared that his own negligence substantially contributed to his injury. If the evidence was so conclusive
against the defendant, upon the question of its negligence,
that the jury could not reasonably find to the contrary, it was
competent for the court, within the doctrines of the cases
above cited, to so instruct them, leaving the jury to determine
the question of the plaintiff's negligence, in respect to which
tire evidence was conflicting.
The inquiry, therefore, is, whether the court erred in holding, as matter of law under the evidence, that the defendant
was guilty of .negligence. Upon this question we entertain
no doubt. While those using a public highway are under a
duty to keep out of the way of railroad cars crossing it, and
to exercise to that end such care as the circumstances make
necessary, the railroad company, in moving cars upon its road,

DELAWARE &c. RAILROAD v. CONVERSE.
Opinion of the Court.

is bound to observe like care towards those who, while travelling upon such highways, whether on foot or in vehicles,
are obliged to pass over its tracks. The right of a railroad
company to the use of its tracks for the movement of engines
and cars is no greater in the eye of the law than the right of
an individual to travel over a highway extending across such
tracks. The former is granted, subject to the condition, iecessarily implied, that it shall be so used as not unreasonably
to interfere with or abridge the latter. The obligation to use
one's property in such a manner as not to injure that of
others rests equally upon corporations and individuals. The
duty of railroad companies whose tracks cross public highways at grade to give warning to those travelling upon then
has been under consideration in many adjudged cases. When
the subject is regulated by statute it may not be difficult, in
a particular case, to determine whether the railroad company
has performed its duty in that regard to the public. If there
be no statute prescribing in what mode the necessary warning
shall be given when a train of cars approaches a public highway that crosses a railroad track, at grade, the question of
negligence must be determined by the special circumstances
of each case. In some localities, in thickly settled communities, greater vigilance and more safeguards are required upon
the part of the railroad company than would be necessary in
other localities. What would be due care in one locality
might be negligence in another. A very high degree of caution and circumspection is required under some circumstances.
Without attempting to formulate a general rule applicable in
every case of injury to person or property, it is sufficient here
to say that the severing of defendant's train of cars in the
night time, leaving a part of them, uncontrolled otherwise
than by ordinary brakes, to run across a public highway, at
grade, without some warning, by a flagman or by bell or
whistle, or in some other effective mode, that they were approaching, was in such obvious disregard of the rights of
persons using that highway, that the court was justified in
saying, as matter of law, not simply that such facts were evi-dence of negligence, but that they constituted negligence, upon

OCTOBER TERMif 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the part of the company. It was justified in so instructing the
jury, because every one knows, and therefore the court below
knew, that such use of the defendant's tracks, where they
crossed the county road, unnecessarily endangered the safety of
any one who, at the time, crossed the railroad tracks while
travelling on that highway. The county road upon which the

plaintiff was travelling was not, it is true,-much used by the
general public. But that fact only affects the degree of care
the defendant was bound to observe, and does not establish

a right to have its cars approach the crossing, where the
plaintiff was hurt, and over which the public were entitled to
pass, as if there were no highway there at all.- The court,
in our judgment, did not err in holding, as matter of law,
upon the undisputed facts in the case, that the defendant
was guilty of negligence in the particulars to which we have
adverted.
The next 'question is as to the instructions relating to the
alleged contributory negligence upon the part of the plaintiff.
In Railroad Co. v. Jones, 95 U. S. 439, 442, it was said that,
where the damage was occasioned entirely by the negligence
or improper conduct of the company, the plaintiff is entitled
to recover; but that, where "the plaintiff himself so far contributed to the'misfortune, by his own negligence or want of
ordinary care and caution, that, but for such negligence or
want of care and caution on his part, the misfortune would
not have happened," he could not recover. So, in Railroad
Co. v. Houston, 95 U. S. 697, 702, which was an action for
damages against a railroad company, upon the ground of
negligence, it was said: "The failure of the engineer to sound
the whistle or ring the bell, if such were the fact, did not
relieve the deceased from the necessity of taking ordinary
precautions for her safety. Negligence of the employ~s in
those particulars was no excuse for negligence on her part.
She was bound to. listen and to look, before attempting to
cross the railroad track, in order to avoid an approaching
train, and not to walk carelessly into the place of possible
danger. Had she used her senses, she could not have failed
both to hear and to see the train which was coming. If she

DELAWARE &c. RAILROAD v. CONVEMSE.
Opinion of the Court.

omitted to use them, and walked thoughtlessly upon the
track, she was guilty of culpable negligence, and so far contributed to her injuries as to deprive her of any right to complain of others." Again in Zane v. .Northern Central Railway Co., 128 U. S. 91, 94,- which was an action by an
employ6 of a railway company to recover damages for
personal injuries alleged to result from its negligence, -this
court said "that an employ6 is guilty of contributory negligence, which will defeat his right to recover for injuries-sustained in the course of his employment, where such injuries
substantially resulted from dangers so obvious and threatening that a reasonably prudent man, under similar circumstances, would have avoided them if in his power to do so."
See also District of Columbia v. oElligott, 117 U. S. 621,
633. These principles are applicable to the issue in this case
as to contributory negligence.
The jury were told, that, while it was the duty of the railroad company to exercise great care to warn tkavellers on a
public highway of approaching trains, it was an equally imperative duty in travellers to exercise the same degree of care
to avoid and keep off the railroad tracks when trains are
approaching and crossing; that if the plaintiff advanced to
and upon the tracks of the railroad without the exercise of
su6h care to discover the approach of trains, or attempted
intentionally to pars in front of a train within dangerous proximity, he was guilty of negligence; that when at a safe distance from the tracks, where the opportunity of seeing was
best, it was his duty, especially in view of the dangerous character of this crossing, to stop, look up and down the road, and
listen for trains; and that if he did not so stop, look and listen,
he was guilty of carelessness; that if, after crossing the first
or second track, the plaintiff, by the exercise of such care,
could have discovered the approach of the train which struck
him, he was guilty of carelessness in not discovering it and
stopping short of the east-bound track; that the jury must
judge of the plaintiff's opportunity of seeing whether standing
cars were in the way, and, if they were, whether he could
have seen over them by standing up in his carriage; that if he

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

could, he should have stood up; that of all this the jury must
judge; and that if they found fromr the evidence that the
plaintiff was guilty of such negligence, lie couhl not recover.
Whatever objections the plaintiff might have urged against
these instructions, surely the defendant, upon the issue as to
his negligence, was not prejudiced by wliat was thus said by
the court to the jury. The jury have found that the plaintiff
was -not guilty of contributory negligence. That question was
properly submitted to them upon all the evidence, which was
contradictory, and as no error of law, in reference thereto, was
committed to the prejudice of the defendant, we have no
author:ity to review their finding in that respect. - Pa 9ons v.
Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 447; Railroad Co. v. .Fralof,100 U. S.

24,31.
It is assigned for error that the court allowed the plaintiff,
against the objection of the defendant, to prove that the high-way in question was established before the railroad was constructed. We do not presume that this fact was at all important in the case. When the witness was asked whether the
public highway was there before the railroad, the court properly observed that the responsibility of the defendant was not
increased or diminished, whether the fact was one way or the
other. But it permitted the witness to be asked whether the
county road was an old and well-established highiway. The
question was then changed into an. inquiry simply as to how
long that highway had been established. The witness answered
that he went over it in 1857. The object of this proof was, as
we suppose, to show that the defendant could not be ignorant
of the fact that at the crossing in question there was a public
highway. In that view the evidence, though not important,
was not incompetent. There was no dispute as to the existence of the county road as a public highway, andiwhat the
witness said, even if incompetent as evidence, could not possibly
have affected the result.
Another error assigned is the refusal of the court to allow
proof by the defendant of the fact that the manner in which
the plaintiff crossed the railroad tracks, between six and seven
o'clock in the evening, on his -way from Jersey City to the

DELAWARE &c. RAILROAD v. CONVERSE.
Opinion of the Court.

County Farm, showed negligence upon his part. Plainly,
this evidence was irrelevant. It did not, in anywise, illustrate
the issue as to whether the defendant was guilty of negligence,
or whether the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence
two hours" later in the evening, when the plaintiff, returning
from the County Farm, attempted to cross the railroad tracks.
At the trial below the plaintiff recalled a witness, Stewart,
in rebuttal, and was permitted, against the objection of the
defendant, to propound this question: "Did Mr. O'Brien.: tell
you that night what speed, in his judgment, the train that hit
the Doctor was moving at the time it hit him?" The answer
was: "Yes; he said about sixteen miles an hour, positively."
The action of the court in permitting this question and answer
is assigned for error. O'Brien was the defendant's night yardmaster at the station, and had testified in chief for defendant
that the rear section of the train, when it crossed the county
road, was going about ten miles an hour. He denied, upon
cross-examination, that he said to Stewart, the night of the
accident, that the rear section of the train was moving at the
rate of fifteen miles an hour, or that he used words to that
effect. The object of the evidence to which the defendant
objected was to impeach the credibility of O'Brien. It was
competent for that purpose. But if it was not, the admission
of it is not ground '.r reversal. Whether the train when it
struck the plaintiffs buggy, was going at the rate of ten or
sixteen miles an hour, -the court rightly held the defendant
guilty of negligence, leaving the jury to determine, upon the
evidence, the question of plaintiff's contributory negligence.
We perceive no error in the judgment and it is
Afflrmed.

