OCTOBER TER.-M, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

made,'not simply without due care, but in actual bad faith.
As such knowledge or notice was not shown, and could not be
reasonably inferred from the evidence, the direction to the
jury to find for the plaintiff was proper.

Judgment aft .ned.

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
APIEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 143. Argued and submitted January 12,1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.
An averment in a bill, filed by the curator of an interdict in Louisiana to,
have a contract declared null and void, that at the time of making it the
interdict was losing, and to a great extent had lost, his capacity to
attend to business and to manage his affairs, and that his mind was seliously impaired so as to affect his understanding and judgment, and so
continued until he was judicially interdicted, does not meet the requirements of the Civil Code of that State, and does not entitle the plaintiff to.
relief upon the ground that the interdict was then incapable in law of
making a binding agreement.
In Louisiana a judgment debtor can waive or renounce the right to have
property, which is taken on execution to satisfy the judgment, appraised.
The right of appraisement of property taken on execution is given in Louisiana to the owner, and, if waived- by him, his creditors cannot complain
unless the waiver was made fraudulently and to defeat their debts.
When a mortgage in Louisiana stipulates for a sale, on forfeiture, without
appraisement, and the petition for executory process prays for such &
sale, and the order is "let executory process issue herein as prayed for
and according to law," it imports a sale without appraisement.
When a plantation in Louisiana and its fixtures are to be sold under a mortgage, the sale must be made at the seat of justice, unless the debtor,
within the time after the seizure prescribed by law, requires it to be
made on the plantation.
In Louisiana, when a plantation and the personal property upon it are mortgaged together by one mortgage, they may be sold together as an entirety.
In Louisiana mere informalities or irregularities in a judicial sale do not
constitute a sufficient ground for setting it aside.
THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This suit was instituted January 27, 1886, in the name of
Edward F. Stockineyer, an interdict, and a subject of the Ger-

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIIN
Statement of the Case.

man Empire, residing in New Orleans, by his curator Carl
Stockmeyer, a subject of the same empire, residing in that city,
against Charles P. McCan, Henry Godberry, George Godberry,
Laura Godberry, loelie Godberry and Edward F. LeBourgeois,
citizens of Louisiana. Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed
with costs.
Its principal object is to obtain a decree setting aside and
declaring of no effect a sale and adjudication in the year 1885
to Charles 1P. McCan of a certain plantation in Louisiana, with
all the buildings, improvements, and houses thereon, and sundry articles of personal property used in its cultivation, and
establishing the rights and interests secured to Edward F.
Stockmeyer by certain pledges made by public acts in the
years 1881 and 1884. A further object is a decree declaring
McCan a trustee in respect to the moneys realized by him from
the sale of property taken possession of under the above adjudication.
The grounds upon which the above relief is sought will
appear from the following summary of the pleadings and
evidence:
On the 7th of February, 1881, by public act before a notary,
the defendants Laura Godberry and Noelie Godberry pledged
to Stockmeyer, his heirs and assigns, two promissory notes
made by Henry Godberry and George Godberry to their own
order and by them endorsed, dated February 20, 1880, each
for the sum of 88750, payable one year after date, with interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from date until paid,
with privilege to the makers of extending the notes from year
to year upon payment of interest. These notes were secured
by mortgage and vendor's privilege, given February 20, 1880,
on a sugar plantation known as the Angelina plantation in
the parish of St. John the Baptist, State of Louisiana, about
forty-eight miles above the city of New Orleans on the Mississippi River.
On the 25th of January, 1884, Laura Godberry and Noelie
Godberry, by public act, and for the purpose of securing an
indebtedness from Henry and George Godberry in the sum of
$32,000, with interest at 8 per cent per annum from February
voL. cxx-xix-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

24, 1884, until paid, and attorney's fees at 5 per cent on the
amount sued for, pledged to said Stockmeyer the above two
-promissory notes. By this act it was agreed between Laura
and :Noelie Godberry and'Stockmeyer that, in the event Henry
and George Godberry failed to pay this indebtedness, with
interest and costs, on or before January 25, 1885, Stockmeyer,
his heirs and assigns, might take such legal proceedings as
were deemed necessary to enforce the payment of the notes
pledged; and appropriate the proceeds of sale to the payment
of any amount due him on account of the Angelina plantation.
The interest was paid to- February 21, 1884, and payment of
the notes was postponed to January 25, 1885. The land and
property embraced in this special mortgage and vendor's privilege was the Angelina plantation, with the buildings, improvements, machinery, engines, apparatus, carts, wagons, tools,
implements of husbandry, mules and other live stock, corn,
fodder, growing crops, and everything, without exception or
reservation, belonging or appertaining to that plantation.
On the same day of the last-named act, January 25, 1884,
by public act, to which Henry Godberry, George Godberry,
Laura Godberry, Noelie Godberry, Edward F. Stockmeyer
and Charles P. McOan were parties, certain notes for $25,000,
made in solido by Henry Godberry and George Godberry
to their own order and by them endorsed, divided into sums of
$5000 each, and payable at the New Orleans National Bank on
the 15th, 20th and 27th days of December, 1884, and on the
5th and 15th days of January, 1885, respectively, with interest
at six per cent per annum after maturity, were secured by special
mortgage and crop lien on the Angelina plantation and the
personal property belonging thereto, as an entirety, in favor of
McCan. This mortgage, by its terms, was made superior to
the one of the same date securing the indebtedness of Henry
and George Godberry to Stockmeyer, as well as to that of February 20, 1880, securing the two notes of $8750 each, held by
the Misses Godberry.
Subsequently, by a debree passed November 11, 1884, in the
Civil District Court of the parish of New Orleans, Stockmeyer was adjudged to be incompetent to perform validly any

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
Statement of the Case.

act that could be performed by a person of sane mind. He
was, accordingly, interdicted and Carl Stockmeyer was appointed and qualified as his curator.
Upon default in the payment of one or more of these notes,
McCan, the holder and owner of them, proceeded, February
25, 1886, by executory process, in the Twenty-sixth Judicial
District Court, parish of St. John the Baptist, in suit No. 197
on the docket of'that court, in which Henry Godcberry and
George Godberry were sole. defendants, to seize the tract of
land or plantation, together with all the' personal property
covered by the special mortgage'to him and attached to and
used in the cultivation of such plantation. At the sale ordered
in that suit -which took place on the 7th of -March, 1885, at
the seat of justice of the parish ' the plantation, with the
personal property covered by the special mortgage and crop
lien, and used in its cultivation, was adjudicated to Charles
P. M,cCan for the price of $15,000 cash, and a deed was made
to him by the sheriff. Under that deed, he entered into possession and sold the mules and machinery in the sugar house
on the plantation for a sum approximating $10,000. He,
subsequently, leased the plantation for the year 1885 to Edward
Le Bourgeois for the sum of $5000, which sum he collected.
He again leased it to Le Bourgeois for two years from January 1, 1886, for $10,000, and the latter, at the beginning of
this suit, was in possession as lessee and tenant under McCan,
whose title rested entirely on the above adjudication and deed
to him.
Before the sale to McCan was made, the defendants in suit
No. 197 presented to the judge of the Twenty-second Judicial
District of Louisiana a petition protesting against the sale of
the personal property in block or in lump at the court-house,
and demanding that it be appraised and sold, separately, on
the plantation. This petition was accompanied by an affidavit
of counsel stating that the office of judge of the Twenty-sixth
Judicial District Court of Louisiana was vacant; that there
was no judge in that district or parish to act in said office, and
that the judge of the adjoining district- the Twenty-second
- was authorized in that event to act. Thereupon, the latter

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

judge made at chambers, on the 4th of March, 1885, the following order: "Upon reading the foregoing petition and considering articles 666 and 676 of the Code of Practice, let the
sheriff of the parish of St. John the :Baptist be, and he is
hereby, directed and instructed to sell the property described
in the foregoing petition in the order and manner therein set
forth; and let the same be sold separately and appraised
separately, as above set forth and prayed in said petition; the
plantation to be sold first at the court-house, and the other
articles on the plantation, as above prayed for." This petition with the accompanying affidavit, and the above order,
were filed in the suit, and of the order the sheriff was notified
on the 5thof 'March, 1885. In addition, the curator of Stockmeyer, by a writing, filed March 6, 1885, in said suit No. 197,
protested against the sale of the property without the benefit.
of appraisement, as prescribed by law, and in the mode claimed
by Henry and George Godberry. Nevertheless, the property
was sold at the court-house door, in block, without appraisement; by reason whereof, it is alleged, the sale did not realize
a fair value, persons who would have been present and bid for
the property being prevented from attending on account of
the mode in which the sale was conducted. The act of special mortgage and crop lien of*January 25, 1884-, by Henry
Godberry and George Godberry for the benefit of IvicCan, contained, among others, provisions dispensing with the appraisement of the property enumerated in the event of seizure and
sale; waiving all delays, appeals, writs of error and right of
appeal; authorizing the holder of the notes to enter judgment
in any court of competent jurisdiction, without citation or
previous notice, on a production of an authentic copy of the
act, for the whole or part of said debts, attorneys' fees, costs,
charges, expenses, etc., provided execution was stayed until
the maturity of the notes sued on; in case a forced sale became necessary from any cause, waiving and acknowledging
legal service of notice to pay, notice of seizure and notice to
appoint an appraiser and to subdivide, as well as all legal
delays; consenting to the immediate execution of any judgment entered; promising that no injunction or process of law

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
Statement of the Case.

tending to delay a sale should be resorted to by them, or by
any one holding under them, such right or privilege being
expressly renounced; consenting that all laws of the State
pertaining to privileges for supplies furnished or money advanced and used in the purchase of necessary supplies, and in
the payment of necessary expenses, laborers, etc., to carry on
a farm or plantation, should have full force and effect; and
obligating themselves to ship and consign to the mortgagee
the entire crop of sugar and molasses made and gathered on
the Angelina plantation during the year 1881, or his representative and assigns could at once sequester the crops or the
proceeds thereof, in whosesoever hands the same might be,
regardless of any sale or transfer thereof, and ship the same,
if in kind, to McCan, who was empowered to sell them at the
current market prices and hold the net proceeds in lieu of the
property sequestered.
These stipulations, in the special act of mortgage and crop
lien, were alleged to be illegal and not binding upon Henry
and George Godberry, or through them upon any creditor or
junior mortgagee, particularly the plaintiff or said interdict,
even if the latter was adjudged to .have lawfully signed it,
which the plaintiff denied.
The bill avers that the defendants Laura and Noelie Godberry, at the date of the above act, January 25, 1884, were not
the holders and owners of the two promissory notes for $8750
each, but that they had been pledged to Stockmeyer, first by
the act of February 7, 1881, and again byV the act of January
25, 1884, and that he held a special property in them to secure
his debt; that the special act of mortgage and crop lien of the
latter date was not intended to subordinate the pledge of
Stockmeyer to the claim and notes of McCan, and could not
properly be so interpreted; that there was no consideration
for Stockmeyer to subordinate his right of pledge to the special mortgage and crop lien of McCan; that at that time, January. 25, 1884, Stockmeyer "was losing and, to a large extent,
had lost his capacity to attend to business and to manage his
affairs; that his mind was seriously impaired so as to affect
his understanding and judgment, and he so continued until in.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

the mouth of November, 1884:," on the 11th day of which
month he was judicially interdicted, but on or about the 20th
day of February, 1884, previous thereto, was placed in an
asylum ;" that "said act was not the expression of a sound
mind and is illegal and void and not binding on Stockmeyer,
his heirs or assigns, and that the proceeding to seize and sell
the property therein enumerated was illegal, void and of no
effect" as to his rights or the rights of his curator; that if the
special mortgage be illegal and void as against him, the
pledges, one or both, made by Laura Godberry and Noelie
Godberry 'on the 7th of February, :1881, and January 25,
1884, were subsisting pledges and first mortgages and privileges on said property; and that the debts due to Stockmeyer
should be first paid from the proceeds of the sale of the
property pledged.
The prayer of the bill is that 'the sale and adjudication of
the Angelina plantation, as well as said act of special mortgage and crop lien in favor of vfcCan, be cancelled and declared null and void; that the pledges by the act of February
7, 1881, and January 25, 1884, be recognized and established,
and -the property so pledged be sold; that the debts due
Stockmeyer from Henry and George Godberry be ascertained;
that McCan be adjudged to be a trustee for the moneys
realized by him from the sale and adjudication of March 7,
1885; and that such further relief be granted as the nature of
the case requires.
The answer of IMcCan proceeds upon these grounds': That
the two acts of January 25,,1884, were executed at the same
time and for a common purpose; that prior to that date,
Stockmeyer made advances to the amount of $32,000 to
Henry and George Godberry to enable them to carry on the
Angelina plantation; that said debtors, being unable to repay
said sum, and there being no prospect of their being able to
do so unless the sum necessary was made out of future crops,
applied to defendant some days before January 25, 1884:, for
a loan of $25,000 to be'used in purchasing supplies for that
year, and to be secured by a first mortgage; that Stocknaeyer
knew of and approved of that application, for he intervened

STOCK-?EYER v. TOBIN.
Statement of the Case.

in the act of special mortgage and crop lien, without solicitation from the defendant, and bound himself to the stipulations
contained in it; that defendant refused to make the loan
unless the holders and owners of the two notes of $8750 each,.
which were outstanding and secured by first mortgage on the
plantation, would consent to give his mortgage priority over
them; that by said stipulation the plaintiff postponed his
rights of mortgage in favor of the defendant; that the protest
anct petition filed by tif 3 curator in case No. 191 shows that
Stockmeyer became a party to the act of mortgage and crop
lien for the purpose of waiving his claim as holder of said two
notes; that prior to, as well as on, the 25th of January, 1884,
he was engaged in and transacted business in New Orleans,
apparently in the full enjoyment and use of all his mental
faculties, and defendant, had no reason to believe that they
were, in any degree, impaired by insanity, or from any other
cause; that the defendAnt has no knowledge or information
as to his having lost his capacity to attend to business and
manage his affairs, or as to whether his mind was seriously
impaired so as to affect his understanding and judgment; that.
defendant was not intimate with him, having had only casual
intercourse with him, but, from the fact of his attending to
business, he believed him to be in his right mind when the
mortgage and crop lien were executed.; that on or about September 27,*1884, his curator agreed and consented to defend.ant's making further advances to the plantation over and
above the $25,000 secured by the special mortgage of January
25, 1884; that no infirmity of intellect upon the part of Stockmeyer was suggested by the curator in the petition and protest filed to prevent the sale of the mortgaged property; and
that if the curator had given notice of his purpose to repudiate
the stipulation in the act of special mortgage on the grounds
now urged, the defendant would not have made the advances
-he did, nor would he have sold the property in dispute, if the
claims now put forward had been made known to him.
The answer also alleges that the sale of the mortgaged
property by the sheriff, under executory process, was in all
respects legal and valid; that it was competent for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

mortgagors to make the waivers embodied in the mortgage,
and the mortgage having been signed, he consented to its
terms and conditions, and is bound by them; that the mules
and other personal property covered by the special mortgage,
and not sold on the plantation, were used in the cultivation of
the plantation, were attached thereto, and were immovable by
destination ; that the sheriff had advertised the same, together
with the plantation of which the y formed a part, for sale,
according to law, at the seat of justice of the parish; that the
petition and protest of the plaintiff, who was joined therein by
Laura Godberry and Noelie Godberry, were filed long after the
seizure and date of the first publication of the notices of sale,
and was not a demand for a sale of the seized property, or any
part thereof on the premises, but if it be so construed, it was
made after the right to the same had expired, and not by the
defendants in the writ, and the sheriff was not bound to comply with any such notices; that it would have been irregular
and illegal to have sold a part of the property at a place different from that named in the notice of sale; that the protest
was presented to the defendant on the day, and only a few
minutes before the time advertised for the sale; that, as the
plantation was on the opposite side of the river, ten miles from
the seat of justice, the plaintiff knew that compliance with the
protest was impossible; that the judge who granted the order
directing the sheriff to sell according to the terms of the protest,
had no power to grant ihe same; that the petition upon which
it was granted did not pray for process against the sheriff or
the defendant, nor has any been issued or served, and the suit
has not been prosecuted in any manner to final judgment;
that such order decided nothing between the defendant and
the complainant that ought to affect the sale; that the plantation, mules, machinery and implements thereon constituted an
estate complete for the purpose of cultivating sugar cane and
manufacturing' its products, and it was more valuable as a
whole than it would have been if sold separately in the manner set forth in the protest; that the amount'due him, on the
day of sale, for advances, was $20,707.39, with legal interest
from January 10, 1885; but that the property was sold for

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
Opinion of the Court.

only $15,000, leaving a large balance due him, which remains
unpaid, together with accrued interest.
The defendant admits that he received from Le Bourgeois
$4000 for the rent of the property for the year 1885; that he
has rented for two years from January 1, 1886, at $5000 per
annum; and that he has given Le Bourgeois the privilege of
purchasing at the expiration of his lease for $15,000, payable in instalments. After the answer was filed both Edward
F. Stockmeyer and McCan died, and the suit was revived in
the name of C. Stockmeyer, testamentary executor of E. F.
Stockmeyer, against t'.e appellees, the widow and children of
McCan. Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed with
costs.
.A'.Ayered Goldthwaite for appellant submitted on his brief.
X.. J. D. Rovse for appellee.
with him on the brief.
MR. JusTicE

-Mr. Wiliam Grant was

EHARL&x, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The case will be considered in the two aspects in which it
is presented in behalf of the appellant. The first one is, that
at the time Edward F. Stockmeyer entered into the agreement of the 25th day of January, 1884, before the notary, he
was in a condition of great mental weakness; that there was
gross inadequacy of consideration for the mortgage; and that
from these circumstances imposition or undue influence ought
to be inferred.
The bill does not allege that Stockmeyer was incapable, in
law, of executing the agreement in question. The averment
that at the time of making it he was losing, and to a great
extent had lost, his capacity to attend to business and to
manage his affairs, and that his mind was seriously impaired
so as to affect his understanding and judgment, and so continued until he was judicially interdicted by a judgment rendered November 11, 1884, does not meet the requirements of
the Civil Code of Louisiana. By that Code it is provided:

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"Art. 401. All acts done by the persons interdicted from the
date of the filing of the petition for interdiction until the day
when the same is pronounced are null. Art. 402. No act
anterior to the petition for interdiction shall be annulled,
except where it shall be proved that the cause of such interdiction notoriously existed at the time when the acts, the validity
of which is contested, were made or done, or that the party
who contracted with the interdicted person could not have
been deceived as to the situation of his mind. Notoriously, in
this article, means that the cause of the interdiction was generally known by the persons who saw and conversed with' the
party. Art. 403. After the death of a person, the validity of
acts done. by him cannot be contested for cause of insanity,
unless his interdiction was pronounced or petitioned for previous to the death of such person, except in cases in which the
mental alienation manifested itself within ten days previous
to the decease, or in-which the proof of want of reason results
from the act itself which is contested."
Other articles of the Code are as follows- "Art. 1782. All persons have the capacity to contract except those whose incapacity is specially declared by law. These are persons of insane
mind, those who are interdicted, minors and married women.
Art. 1783. All cases of incapacity are subject to the following
modifications and exceptions. Art. 1784. Persons interdicted
can, in no case whatever, make a valid contract after the petition has been presented for their interdiction until it be legally
removed. Art. 1788. The contract, entered into by a person
of insane mind, is void

.

.

.

for want of/ consent.

It is

not the judgment of interdiction, therefore, that creates the
incapacity, it is evidence only of its existence,

.

.

.

and

from these principles result the following rules: 1. That, after
the interdiction, no other evidence than the interdiction itself
-is necessary to prove the incapacity of the person, and to
invalidate any contract he may have made after the day
the petition for interdiction was presented

.

.

.

2. As to

contracts made prior to- the application for interdiction they
can be invalidated by proving the incapacity to have existed
at the time the contracts were made. 3. But in order to pre-

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
Opinion of the Court.

vent imposition, it is not enough to make the proof mentioned
in thb last rule; it must also, in that case, be shown that the
person interdicted was known by those who generally saw and
c6nversed with him, to be in a state of mental derangement,
or
the person who contracted with him, from that or
other circumstances, was acquainted with his incapacity.
4. That, except in the case of death, hereafter provided for,
no suit can be brought . . . to invalidate a contract on
account of inpanity,' unless judgment of interdiction be [pronounced before bringing the suit. . . . 5. That if the
party die within thirty days after making the act or contract,
the insanity may be shown by evidence, without having
applied for the interdiction; but if more than. that time elapse,
the insanity cannot be shown tq invalidate the act or contract,
unless the interdiction shall have been applied for, except in
the case provided for in the. following rule: 6. That if an
instrument or other act of a person deceased contain in itself
evidence of insanity in the party, then it shall be declared
void, although more than thirty days have elapsed between
the 'time of making the act and the death of the party, and
although no petition shall have been presented for his interdiction. -7.In the case mentioned in the preceding rule,
other proofs of insanity may be offered, etc. 8. That where
insanity is alleged to avoid a donation or other gratuitous
contract, it is not necessary to show that the insanity was generally known; it will be sufficient to show that it existed, and
if the party be dead, without having been interdicted, it is not
necessary to show in this case that interdiction had been
applied for."
It is apparent from these provisions that the allegations of
the bill as to the condition of Stockmeyer's mind on the 25th
of January, 1884, do not entitle the plaintiff to relief upon the
ground that be was incapable in law of making a binding
agreement. And the proof fails to show that the persons Nho
at that time generally saw and conversed with him, knew or
even believed him to be in a state of mental derangement, or
that NMcCan had any ground whatever to doubt his capacity
to contract. EouisianaBank v. Dubreuil, 5 Martin, 416,425;
-that

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Phepos v. Reinach, 38 La. Ann. 547. On the contrary, the
evidence shows that when he intervened in the McCan mortgage, he was, although of peculiar and at times eccentric
manners, not incompetent for the transaction of business.
He recognized the fact that Henry and George Godberry
needed more money to carry on their plantation, and that,
unless they obtained it, his interests under the prior pledge
would be put in .peril. He was -not himself, able to make
further advances, and approved, if he did not suggest, that
application be made for that purpose to McCan. The latter agreed to make advances for the current year only upon
the condition, among others, that his mortgage and crop lien
should take precedence of all others. This Stockmeyer- perfectly understood and distinctly assented to with full apprehension of what he was doing. And that condition was plainly
expressed in the contract; for it is therein stipulated that the
mortgage and privilege then existing for the two notes for
$8750 each, as well as for the indebtedness to Stockmeyer of
$32,000 for and on account of advances to the Angelina plantation, were "subordinate" to the McCan notes and mortgage.
The testimony of the notary before Whom. the McCan mortgage was executed is positive to the effect that, at ,that time,
there was nothing peculiar in Stockmeyer's conversation, and
that he presented the same appearance as on several previous
occasions when transacting business with that officer. The
truth is, that Stockmeyer's mind did not commence to give
way, so far as his friends could perceive, until within a few
days - not more than a week or ten days - prior to February

20, 1884, when he was transferred to the Louisiana IRetreat
for the Insane. The physician who examined him on that day,
and by whose advice he was removed to that. institution, testified that he was engaged in the transaction of his business all
the time until about a week before being committed to the
asylum. Undoubtedly he was, on and after that date, incapable
of making a binding contract. But we are not to infer incapacity to have existed oir the 25th of January, 1884, from the
mere fact that he became insane within a few days before his
removal to the asylum for treatment.

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
Opinion of the Court.

The suggestion that there was gross inadequacy of consideration is without force. Stockmeyer consented that his mortgage be subordinated to icCan's, because, in his judgment,
further advances to the plantation could not be otherwise
obtained, and without such advances he supposed, and reasonably, that it would run to waste, destroying all chance to save
his debt. Besides, the advance by McCan, in consideration of
his mortgage being accorded priority, was enough to sustain
the agreement to that effect.
After a close scrutiny of all the evidence we are of opinion
that nothing is disclosed to support the contention, that the
McCan mortgage and crop lien were obtained by imposition
or undue influence. No such inference is justified by the
evidence.
The other aspect in which the case is presented by the appellant involves the validity of the sale by the sheriff under the
proceedings for executory process. The first point made in
support of this general contention is that the clause in the
McCan mortgage, dispensing with appraisement, was not valid
or binding under the laws of Louisiana; that, without appraisement, a legal sale could not occur. 'Under the Louisiana law,
Code of Practice, 1870, art. 745, "when the Sheriff sells property which he has seized conformably to the provisions contained in this chapter [relating to executory process], he must
cause the same appraisements to be made, and observe the
same delays and formalities, as are prescribed for the sale of
property seized in execution." The latter sales are provided for
in Article 663 to '04 inclusive of the Code. In Levicks, Barrett
& Kuem v. Walker, 15 La. Ann. 245, - a case much relied upon
by the appellant -the suit was upon a note executed in Pennsylvania, the maker describing himself as residing in Louisiana,
and promising to pay, without defalcation, and "without any
relief whatever from appraisement or valuation laws." Judgment, in that form, was refused, and the plaintiff appealed.
Chief Justice Merrick, in affirmance of the judgment, said:
"We think the stipulation in a contract that the property of
the debtor shall be sold without appraisement in the event of
non-payment at maturity, one of those pacts which ought not

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to be recognized by our courts in the decree rendered upon
such contract. The law has, by express provisions, ordained
the mode in which its own officers shall enforce the jidgments
of the courts." Justices Land and Buchanan held that the
right of the debtor to appraisement in case of the forced alienation of his property might be waived by him, and his property
sold at the first offer for cash for whatever price it would bring.
But they concurred in the judgment of affirmance because
"the waiver in such a case must be in a more solemn and
authentic form than that of a promissory note, otherwise the
waiver would become a mereformula in such instrument, and
the entire policy of the law would thereby be defeated, to the
injury of both debtors and creditors."
The subject was elaborately considered by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in Broadwell v. lodrigues, 18 La. Ann.
68, where the question was whether the clause inserted in the
act of mortgage there in suit, dispensing with the appraisement required by Arts. 673 and 745 of the Code of Practice,
was valid in law. The case turned upon the construction to
be given to Article 11 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, providing that, "individuals cannot by their conventions .derogate
from the force of laws made for the preservation of public
order or good morals. But, in all cases in which it is not
expressly or impliedly prohibited, they can renounce what the
law has established in their favor, when the renunciation does
not affect the rights of others and is not contrary to the public good." It was contended on one side, that the law requiring the property of a judgment debtor to be appraised before
it could be sold by the sheriff in execution of a judgment, is
a public law, and that an agreement to waive or dispense with
the appraisement is absolutely void; and on the other, that
the necessity for appraisement in judicial sales is established
exclusively for the benefit of the defendant, and that he may,
therefore, validly renounce it under the second paragraph of
Article 11 of the Civil Code. The court said: "From the
general tenor of our own jurisprudence, we could hardly have
deemed this question an open one, for it has been uniformly
held that the legal formalities attending final process are

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
Opiniou of the Court.

established by law in favor of debtors in execution, which they
can renounce, without in any manner running counter to the
proviso in the second paragraph of Art. 11, C. C. The cases
to which our attention has been called view the question in
all its phases, and seem to consider the progressive steps 4n the
execution of judgment as mere formalities; less a matter of
public policy than of private concern, and hence they deem
the renunciation or waiver of those rights as permissible under
ยง 2 of Art. 11 of the Civil Code." The prior cases referred to
in the opinion as sustaining these views were Kullen v. Harding, 12 La. Ann. 271; LeBlanc v. -Dubroca,6 La. Ann. 360;
McDonough v. Garland,7 La. Ann. 143 ; Desplate v. St. Martin,
17 La. Ann. 91, 92, and others. To the same effect are Jouet
v. Mortimer, 29 La. Ann. 206; and Soniat v. Xiles, 32 La.
Ann. 164. So, that the objection that the sale was illegal for
want of an. appraisement is without any foundation upon
which to rest.
But it is said that the Godberrys could not by their agreement with McCan waive appraisement so as to affect Stockmeyer or the vendor's mortgage and privilege securing the
notes that had been pledged to him. This contention, it is
supposed, finds support in Article 2078 of the Revised Civil
Code, providing that "several obligations are produced, when
what is promised by one of the obligors is not promised by
the other, but each one promises separately for himself to do
a distinct act; such. obligations, although they may be contained in the same contract, are considered as much individual
and distinct as if they had been in different contracts and
made at different times." To this suggestion it is sufficient to
answer that the right of appraisement is given 'by the statute
to the ofner, and .its waiver by the Mlessrs. Godberry was not
a matter of which creditors could complain, unless such waiver
was made fraudulently or to defeat their debts, as in Lawrence,
Syndic v. Young, 1 La. Ann. 297,299; certainly not one of
which any dreditor could complain who intervened and became
a party to the mortgage dispensing with appraisement.
It is also said, that in the writ commanding the. sheriff to
seize and sell, he was required "to seize, and, after the legal

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

delays, to advertise and sell, according to Zaw;" and that as
he was not directed to sell without appraisement he could
only sell in the mode prescribed by the statute, that is, upon
appraisement. Union Bank v. Bradford, 2 La. Ann. 4:16, is
cited in support of that proposition. That was an action to
annul a sale of land under execution by the.sheriff. The mortgage, given by the defendants, contained a clause authorizing
a sale "for cash, without appraisement." In the petition
praying for the order of seizure and sale, no reference was
made to this clause, and the right, to sell without appraisement
was not claimed. The prayer was for an order that the property be seized and sold "as the law directs," etc. An order of
seizure and sale was directed to be issued, "as prayed for,"
and that the property be sold "as the law directs."' Under
this order, the clerk issued the writ, directing the- sheriff to
seize aid sell for cash, without appraisement; and the sale
was so advertised. The court said: "It is manifest that the
sale was not made in conformity with the order of the judge.
The stipulation in the act of mortgage was one made for the
benefit of the plaintiffs, which it was discretionary with the
bank to have enforced or to renounce. It was virtually waived
by claiming a seizure and sale according to law, the true intendment of which is, that the proceedings were to be in conformity with the rules which govern seizures and sales under
executory process. The order was in accordance with the
prayer of the petition, and no sale could have been legally
effected under it, without observing the formalities required
in ordinary cases under executory proceedings, one of which
is, that the property shall be previously appraised. The clerk
was not authorized, under the order granted by the judge, to
direct that the sale be made without appraisement. His act
was null, and conferred no authority on the sheriff to dispense
with the observance of a formality which was so essential, as
the result proves, to the protection of the plaintiffs' rights."
The facts here are entirely different from those in the above
case. The petition of McCan for executory process asks that
the mortgaged property be seized and sold for cash to the
highest bidder, "without appraisement and according to law."

STOCKI-EYERI

v. TOBINq.

Opinion of the Court.

The order upon the petition was, "Let executory process issue
herein as prayed for and according to law." The writ of seizure and sale directed the sheriff "to seize, and, after the legal
delays, to advertise and sell, according to law,

.

.

.

to pay

and satisfy in cash the clairuh of the plaintiff," etc. The writ,
it is true, did not in terms require the sale to be made without
appraisement. But the omission was not one of which Stockmeyer could complain after intervening in the special mortgage to McCan; certainly not unless he showed special injury
to his rights. Besides, we think, in view of the petition and
order for executory process, the words "according to law" in
the writ imported a sale in accordance with the stipulations of
the mortgage and the prayer in the petition, namely, without
appraisement. There is no ground.to say, as in the case in 2
La. Ann., that the mortgagee, by his petition, or in any other
mode, waived his right to a sale without appraisement and
asked a sale under the statute with appraisement.
Another question is, whether the sale was invalid by reason
of the entire property having been sold, in block, at the seat
of justice, and not, as to any portion of it, on the plantation.
By Article 664: of the Code of Practice it is provided that .the
sale of the property under a writ of fieri facias "must be
made by the sheriff at the seat of justice for the parish where
the seizure is made, and he shall choose for the place of sale the
spot where it may have the greatest degree of publicity, except
in the cases enumerated in the following articles." Art. 665:
-"In the country, the sale may be made on the plantations
which are to be sold if the debtor require it; but in this case
notice must be given of the fact in the advertisement of sale."
Art. 666: "Animals and utensils attached to plantations and
manufactures, and such articles as cannot be easily removed,
must be sold on the spot where they are taken, on the day
and hour appointed for this purpose by the sheriff." Art.
676 : "The effects seized must be appraised with such minuteness that they may be sold together or separately, to the best
advantage of the debtor, as he may direct."
Now, the objection as to the place of sale is fully met by
Walker v. F'illavasso, 26 La. Ann. 42, 44, (decided in 1S4)
VOL. cxxx-rx-13

OCTOBER TERf, 1890:
Opinion of the Court.

where the court, after quoting Article 666, said: "The two
preceding articles [664, 665] provide that sale of the property
must be made at the seat of justice, but in the country it may
be made on the .plantations which are to be sold, if the
debtor require it, of which notice must be given in the advertisement. These articles must all be construed together so
as to give effect to each. Where a plantation and its fixtures
are to be sold under a mortgage, as in this case, the sale must
be made at the seat of justice, unless the debtor require it to
be made on the plantation. It is not intended that the articles attached to the plantation and which are niortgageable
shall be sold in one place and the land in another. Under the
writ of seizure and sale all are seized and sold at one time and
place." And, perhaps, that the privilege given to the debtor
might not be abused, the general assembly, by the act of
iMarch 2; 1876, relating to sales by sheriffs and coroners, Laws
of La. 1876, p. 50, declared that nothing therein contained
"shall deprive the defendant-of the privilege now enjoyed by
him of having his property, when it is under seizure, offered
for sale at his domicil upon his giving notice to the proper
officer within three days after seizure." The necessity for
this limitation as to the time within which the defendant must
.indicate his wishes as to the place of sale is shown by the
occurrences in this case. The petition of McCan was filed and
executory process directed to be issued on the 15th of January,
1885. Notice of demand and service of copy of petition Were
waived by the debtors January 19, 1885; the seizure was made
January 27, 1885; the sale was advertised January 81, 1885,
to take place March 7, 1885, the advertisement stating that
the plantation and the personal property attached to it, and
used -inits cultivation, would be sold for cash at the courthouse of the parish; and a copy of the petition of protest by
debtors, with the accompanying affidavit, and the order of the
judge of the 22d Judicial District, requiring the plantation to
be sold at the court-house, and the other articles at the plantation, was n6t served on the sheriff until March 5, 1885, three
days only before the ctay on which thb sale was to occur accbrding to the advertisement. It thus appears that, in any

STOCKKEYER. v. TOB1N.
Opinion of the Court.

view of the statute, the demand for the sale of the personal
property on the plantation, apart from the plantation, was
out of time.
As to the effect upon the sale of the order made at chambers
by the judge of the Twenty-second Judicial District, directing
that the personal property covered by the _McCan mortgage
be appraised and sold separately on the plantation, but little
need be said. Touching this order it may be observed that
the counsel for the appellant does not refer to any statute of
Louisiana conferring upon the judge who made it the power
to act in any case pending in another district, in which there
is an actual vacancy in the office of judge ; while the counsel
for the appellees say that if any authority exists for the exercise of such a power they have been finable to find it in the
laws of that State. It does not seem to us that this order,
made without citation or prayer for citation against the party
to be affected by it, can have the force of a judgment, nor did
it authorize the sheriff to depart from the terms of the advertisement of sale, in respect either to the place of sale or the
mode of conducting it. In view of the terms of the advertisement, a sale in conformity with the above order, without
readvertisement, would have been irregular, if not invalid.
This order is liable to the same objection as the one before,
this court in Freeman v. Dawson, 110 U. S. 264, 270, of which
it was said.: "The action of the circuit judge in directing the
recall of the executions in vacation, out of court, without
notice to the judgment creditor, was irregular and unauthorized, and of no legal validity."
It is contended with much earnestness that the sale of the
personal property in a lump, along.with the plantation, was
unauthorized by the statute and void. We are not satisfied
of the soundness of this view. In .orris v. Womble, SIe'j,
30 La. Ann. 1312, 1314, the question was, whether the debtor,
who had specially mortgaged his plantation, with all the buildings and improvements thereon, was entitled, of right, to have
the plantation sold in lots. The court, after bbserving that,
in the case of afl.fa. on an ordinary judgment, the d btor las
the right to Point out the property he desires sold, pi ,vided it

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be available and sufficient, says : "But the case we conceive t,
be very different where the debt for which the sale is made
bears special mortgage on the thing to be sold, and where the
thing has been mortgaged as an entirety, a unit, and thus made
by contrast and in contemplation of the parties indivisible,
whether so by nature or not." "Thus," the court proceeds,
"where a plantation, with its accessories, has been specially
mortgaged, the stock, implements, etc., thereto attached by
the owner, and therefore made immovable by accession, cannot be sold separately from the plantation itself, no more than
can a house or other building on it. When the law gives the
mortgage creditor the right to seize the whole thing mortgaged, it gives him the right to sell the whole thing, if it be
indivisible by nature or only so by the agreement and contract
of the parties."
But if it be assumed that the personal property used in the
cultivation of the plantation, and embraced in the special mortgage, ought not to have been sold in block with the plantation,
but each article separately, the failure to do so did not render
the sale void. The utmost that could be said is that the sale
was informal and irregular. But in Louisiana mere informalities or irregularities in a judicial sale do not alone constitute a sufficient ground for setting it aside. The bill
alleges that the property did not bring a fair value, and
that, by reason of the mode of sale, persons who would have
bid did not attend, and were prevented from bidding. These
allegations, if material, are not sustained by proof. Nor is
there sufficient proof that the property, if resold, would bring
any larger price than McCan bid for it, or would be sufficient
to discharge his claim in full; The plaintiff does not propose
that he, or any one else, will, at a resale, bid any larger sum
than McCan paid. Nor have the Godberry brothers, since the
sale, made complaint of unfairness in it. Under such circumstances, it not appearing that any real injury has been done
to the plaintiff, the sale should not be disturbed because of
omissions or informalities that did not affect the substantial
rights of the party complaining.

In CoJMeh,,ad Y. f,dwtu, 41

La. Ann. 61, the court said: "The petition contains no alle-

CALLAN v. BRANSFORD.
Syllabus.

gation and the record no proof of any injury having been sustained by the plaintiff, in consequence of the informalities
alleged; and no offer on the part of the plaintiff to warrant
that the property, if resold, would bring a higher price than
it did before. Under the rule which we have found it necessary to adopt, those omissions would prevent us from disturbing the judgment, even if the informalities were much more
material than they actually are.", So, also, in .Akllen v. iarding, 12 La. Ann. 271-2: "Unless the plaintiffs can show that
they have suffered injury by the informalities complained of,
they ought not to be permitted to attack the validity of the
proceedings." Barret v. Emnerson, 8 La. Ann. 503, 504;
Stockton v. Downey, 6 La. Ann. 581, 585; Coiron v. XLillaudon,
3 La. Ann. 664; Des'pate v. St. Xartin, 17 La. Ann. 91, 92;
eaweZl v. Payne, 5 La. Ann. 255' 260.

.Decree qffrmed.

CALLAN v. BRANSFORD.
JONES v. VIRGINIA.
GREGORY v. BRANSFORD.
MALLAN v. BRANSFORD.
LAWSON v. BRANSFORD.
LITOHFORD v. DAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COI.T OF APPEALS OF VIRGIIA.

DILLARD

.

OORMAN.

ERROR TO THE CORPORATION COURT OF LYNCHBURG,
Nos. 1271, 1594,1595,1596,1597,1598,1638.

VIRGINIA.

Submitted March 2,1891.-Decided March 9,1891.

When the highest court of a State dismisses a case upon the ground that
the matters involved were purely pecuniary, and that the amount in
controversy was less than sufficient to give the court. jurisdiction under
the constitution of the State, no federal question arises.
When the court cannot pass upon a motion to dismiss without referring to
the transcripts on file, it will deny the motion without prejudice.

