OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

this would be a useless and expensive formality; and we think
the rule that forbids a tenant from disputing his landlord's
title without first surrendering his possession has no application to a case like this. It may be said in general that the
doctrine of estoppel exists only where there is an obligation
to restore the possession of the land, upon certain contingencies, such, for instance, as exist between landlord and
tenant, or mortgagor and mortgagee. In such cases the occupant is considered to have pledged his faith to return the
possession of the land which he occupies, and will not be permitted to do anything to impair the title of him from whom
he has received it. 3 Wash. Real 'Property, 98; Gardner v.
Greene, 5 R. I. 101; Osterlout v. Shoemaker, 3 Hill, 513.
In this case the defendant not only did not agree -to resurrender possession to the plaintiff, but it hccepted the deed with
this covenant'or condition, for which it received no consideration, and we do not consider it a breach of good faith upon
the part of the defendant to set up this fact, nor ought it to
be put in a worse position by having accepted this deed and
paid $250 therefor, than it would have occupied had it refused
altogether to treat with the plaintiff. The deed was evidently
delivered and received by these parties under a misapprehension of their legal rights, and it would be manifestly unjust to
hold the defendant forever estopped from asserting the invalidity of the covenant into which it had inadvertently entered.
The judgment of the court below must be
4ffirmed.

BOONE COUNTY v. BURLINGTON AND MISSOURI
RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEA-

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF, THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 297.

Argued April 9,1891.

Decided April 20, 1891.

The statute of limitations of Nebraska, of four years, as to an action for
relietfjon the ground of fraud, and the doctrine of laches, apply to a suit
.by a county in Nebraska, brought in the Circuit Court of the United

BOONE CO. v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILROAD.

685

Opinion of the Court.
States for the District of Nebraska, to set aside a decree of the same
court for fraud.
Facts stated which supported the defences of the statute of limitations and
of laches.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr.J. C. Cowin for appellant.
Mr. T. .M. akrquett for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity, filed on the 9th of June, 1883, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
by the county of Boone, a municipal corporation of the State
of Nebraska, against the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company in Nebraska, a Nebraska corporation, and
Horatio H. Hunnewell, a citizen of Massachusetts.
The bill avers that during the years from 1873 to 1877,
both inclusive, the railroad company owned certain lands, of
which a schedule is annexed to the bill; that for those years
taxes were assessed upon those lands, by the proper authorities
of Boone County, amounting in all to $68,666, which, with
legal interest, costs and penalties, amount now to more than
$90,000; that on the 4th of March, 1878, said Hunnewell filed
a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Nebraska, against the railroad company, and the board of
county commissioners of Boone County, and one P 3llman,
treasurer of the county, to compel the cancellation of said
taxes and procure a decree declaring them to be illegal and
void; that on the same day, without the issue of process, the
then board of county commissioners of Boone, County, by M. H.
Sessions, a solicitor of the court, pretended to appear and
file a stipulation consenting to the taking of the bill pro confesso, and to the entry of a decree in favor of Hunnewell for
the relief prayed, granting a perpetual injunction against the
collection of any of the taxes, declaring the same to be illegal
and void, and relieving the lands from the lien thereof, which
decree was entered on the 8th of March, 1878. A copy of
the bill filed by Hunnewell is annexed. It set forth that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff and all the stockholders of the company, who numbered over one thousand, were citizens of the United States
other than Nebraska, and that the defendants were citizens of
Nebraska. Its prayer was for a decree that the taxes were
illegal and void, for an injunction restraining the treasurer
from enforcing them and from selling any of the land, and
restraining the company from paying the taxes, for a decree
ordering the treasurer and the board to cancel the taxes and
the record thereof on the books of the county, and for general
relief. The gravamen of the Hunnewell bill was that the
taxes were all of them illegal and void, for reasons set forth
in the bill, and that the plaintiff was, and had been for more
than four years, the owner and holder of 2316 shares of the
stock of the company, and had requested its board of directors
to take efficient measures to protect it from said illegal taxes,
which request the board of directors refused, and the company
was about to pay the taxes.
The decree of March 8, 1878, was as follows: "And now
comes as well the said plaintiff, by his attorney, as the said
defendants, by. their attorneys, and thereupon this action
comes on for trial before the court upon the issues joined
between the parties; on consideration whereof, the court doth
find the issue in favor of the plaintiff, and doth find that the
taxes set forth in said petition of plaintiff are void, as in said
petition the said plaintiff has alleged. It is therefore ordered
and adjudged that an injunction be, and the same is hereby,
allowed as prayed for in said petition of plaintiff, and the
same is hereby made perpetual; and that the said defendants,
the county commissioners-and the treasurer of said county, or
their successors, are hereby perpetually enjoined from collecting, or in any way attempting to collect, or in any way intermeddling with, the taxes, set forth in said petition, and that
the successors in office of the said defendants be, and the same
are hereby, perpetually enjoined from collecting or in any way
intermeddling with said taxes; and it is further considered
that the said plaintiff recover against the said defendants his
costs in and about this suit in this behalf expended, taxed to
be - dollars."

BOONE O0. v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill filed June 9, 1883, further sets forth that the taxes
were legal and valid, and had not any of them been paid, and
were subsisting liens upon the lands. It further avers, that
in January, 1878, the then county commissioners of Boone
County and the county clerk thereof went from that county to
the city of Lincoln, in Lancaster County, Nebraska, at the
special instance and request of the railroad company; that at
Lincoln, on January 30, 1878, the then county commissioners,
pretending to act as the board of commissioners for Boone
County, met with certain agents, attorneys and officers of the
railroad company and with one Adam Smith, of Chicago, and
th6se parties, confederating for the purpose of defrauding the
county, undertook, fraudulently and without any authority of
law, to enter into a stipulation or agreement, which the commissioners signed and delivered to the company. It is dated
at Lincoln, January 30, 1878, and is signed by Thomas T.
Wilkinson, chairman of the board of commissioners, by the
other two commissioners, Edwin Broadbent and T. H. Bowman, and by A.lH. Sessions as attorney for Boone County,
and reads as follows: "]Memorandum of an agreement made
by and between the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
Company in Nebraska; first party, and the County of Boone,
Nebraska, by its commissioners, of the second part, and the
Nebraska Land and Live Stock Company, of the third part.
Whereas parties of the- first and third parts have this day
entered into an agreement and bonds for the performance of
certain obligations conditional on the absolute release by the
second party of all illegal taxes levied upon the lands of the
first and third parties in the county of Boone for the years
1873 and 1877, inclusive: Now, therefore, the party of the
second part hereby agrees, by its commissioners and by its
authorized attorney, M. I*. Sessions, to enter into the necessary
stipulation and to have decree of. court entered up in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
eradicating the whole of the taxes now charged against the
lands of the first and third parties for the above years, all of
said taxes having been examined and agreed upon as being
illegal and .void."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill avers that there was no consideration for the agreement; that the commissioners acted as individuals and not as
a board; that their action had no binding or valid effect; and
that the pretended consideration for the agreement was the
executing at the same time of tWo documents, for whose execution there was no warrant in law, and the commissioners
had no authority to become parties thereto. One of these
documents was dated January 30, 1878, and recited a contract
'made July 17, 1871, between the county of Boone, through
its commissioners, and Adam Smith, wherein Smith agreed to
purchase certain lands of the railroad company and pay all
legal taxes thereon for the year 1878 and thereafter, and to
make certain improvements in the county, in consideration of
which the commissioners agreed, at some future day, to take the
necessary legal steps for the wiping out of all the illegal taxes
claimed to be due upon the lands of the company for the
years from 1873 to 1877, both inclusive. It further recited
that Smith was prepared to enter into the necessary obligations for the payment promptly thereafter of the legal taxes;
that the commissioners'had that day taken the necessary legal
action to wipe out all the illegal taxes claimed to be due for
those five years; and that Smith had transferred his rights to
the Nebraska Land and Live Stock Company, which had assumed all his duties and obligations. By that document, the
latter company bound itself to pay all legal taxes for the years
1878 to 1882 inclusive, which might be levied upon the lands
purchased by it from the railroad company in Boone County,
and bound itself also to pay all taxes which might be levied
upon the lands of the railroad company in Nebraska for the
years 1878 to 1882 inclusive, if thu railroad company failed to
pay them. By the other document, the railroad company
bound itself to pay all legal taxes for the years 1878 to 1882
inclusive, upon all its lands in Boone County which had not
been absolutely sold and deeded to the Nebraska Land and Live
Stock Company, or to other parties.
The bill further avers; that at the same time and place, the
commissioners, pretending to act for the county and as officers
thereof, and intending to defraud the county out of said taxes,

BOONE 00.

v.

BURLINGTON &c. RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

signed a writing purporting to be an employment of Sessions
as attorney for the county. Such writing was dated January
30, 1878, and signed by Wilkinson, as chairman of the board,
and by Broadbent and Bowman, the other two commissioners,
and read as follows: "That whereas the taxes on the lands of
the B. & M. R. R. Co. in Nebraska, in Boone County, both
State and county and school taxes, are unpaid for the years
1873, 1874, 1875, 1876 and 1877; and whereas the said company dispute the legality of said taxes, and it is necessary to
test their legality: Therefore, be it resolved, that the board
employ M. IH.Sessions as its attorney, to defend any suit that
may be brought against the county, or to bring any suit he
may deem best, to test the legality of said taxes, and if he
deem that any of said taxes are illegal he may make such compromise in the matter with the said company as he may deem
best for the interest of the county in the premises; and the
said M. H. Sessions is hereby authorized to enter an appearance for the county of Boone, Nebraska, in any suit which may
be brought by the said Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
in Nebraska, or by any stockholder thereof, and to take action
as directed by said commissioners, and to waive issuance and
service of a subpcena in the case."
The bill avers, that, in signing such writing, the commissioners acted as individuals -and not as officers of the county;
that they had no authority to execute the writing or to confer
upon Sessions the power pretended to be conferred upon him;
that, to induce the commissioners to enter into such an arrangement, the railroad company and Smith agreed to pay and did
pay all the expenses of the commissioners in going from Boone
County to Lincoln and returning, and all their expenses at
Lincoln; that the railroad company and Smith fraudulently
induced the commissioners to pretend to employ Sessions as
attorney for the county, on an agreement that the company
and Smith would pay for his services; that Sessions was so
employed by the railroad company and Smith as an attorney
to act in their interest and against the interest of the county,
while pretending to act as the attorney of the county; that
his fees and expenses for so doing were agreed by the company
VOL. cxxxI-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and Smith to be paid by them; 'that in all he did, pretending
to act as attorney and counsel for the county, he had acted for
the company and its interests, in pursuance of such arrangement; that Hunnewell was a party to such fraudulent arrangements, and in pursuance thereof the suit was commenced in a
collusive and fraudulent manner; "that Sessions brought the
bill to Omaha with the stipulation and a decree all prepared
for entry, and filed the same, paying the fees therefor on
behalf of the railroad company and Hunnewell; that the
decree was null and void; and that the railroad company was
the real plaintiff, and, fraudulently conspiring with the then
board of county commissioners and with Sessions, caused the
bill to be brought in the name of Hunnewell, for the sole purpose of obtaining jurisdiction for the bill in the court in which
it was filed, all the other parties thereto being citizens of
Nebraska.
The bill waives an answer on oath, and prays that the decree
of March 8, 1878, be set aside as fraudulent and void, and that
the taxes be declared valid and subsisting liens on the real
estate, and for general relief.
The railroad company and Ilunnewell, put in an answer to
the bill, taking issue on its material allegations. The answer
also set up that, after the entry of the decree of March 8, 1878,
the railroad company and the Nebraska Land and Live Stock
Company expended large sums of money in getting persons to
settle upon the lands, and commenced at once to sell them, the
purchasers buying on the faith that the taxes were perpetually
enjoined and not a lien upon any of the lands; that, since the
decree was entered, and prior to the commencement of this
suit, the railroad company, without any knowledge that Boone
County intended to litigate or reopen the decree, had. sold all
of the lands, largely to actual settlers, who had moved in and
taken possession of them, and had made valuable improvements on them, relying on the fact that the taxes were not a
lien upon the lands; that the railroad company now owned
none of the lands, but all of them had been deeded to other
parties; that Adam Smith died some two years ago; that
since the decree the railroad company has deeded 60,000 acres

BOONE CO. v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

of the land to the Nebraska Land and Live Stock Company,
and the latter company had sold the greater part of the land
to actual settlers, who had settled upon the same in good faith,
relying upon the fact that the taxes for the years 1873 to 1877,
both inclusive, were not a lien upon it, and had put on it a
large amount of improvements; that, as the county of Boone
had allowed them to buy the land and settle upon it, and had
taken no steps for a period of over five years after the decree'
was entered, it ought to be estopped, and its laches had been
so great that it would be inequitable to set aside the decree,
which would have the effect to create a lien upon all of said
land so sold to, and settled upon by, the persons who had
bought in good faith and knew nothing about any effort that
would be made to set aside the decree; that, in June, 1880,
the railroad company sold to the Chicago; ]3urlington and
Quincy Railroad Company 77,229 acres of the land, the latter
company having no knowledge that any effort would ever be
made to set aside the decree, but purchasing in good faith,
believing that the taxes in question were no liens upon the
land; that it would not have purchased had it known that
there would be any attempt to open up the decree; that, prior
to the bringing of this suit, the last-menti6ned company had
sold 75,000 acres of the 'land, largely to actual settlers, mostly
in tracts of 160 acres to each, and at much expense had induced
persons to buy, relying on the fact that the taxes in question
had been declared null and void, a large part of the lands sold
by both of the railroad companies having been sold in 1879
and 1880; that, under the circumstances Boone County ought
to be estopped, and its laches had been so great that it could
not now disturb the settlers who had bought in good faith;
that it ought not to maintain this suit, because it had failed to
bring the same within four years from the time it discovered
the pretended fraud set up in the bill; that it allowed over
five years to elapse after it had fall knowledge of the transaction as to the entry of the decree complained of, before ittook
any steps to annul the same; that it was barred of any relief
by the statute of limitations of Nebraska, as well as by laches
in not commencing this suit until the lands had been sold to

OCTOBER TERA]I, 1890.
Opinion of the. Court.

parties who knew nothing about the circumstances under
which the decree was entered; and that the board of county
commissioners, and each one of them, and the officers and
taxTayers of the county, had full knowledge of all the circumstances under which the decree of March 8, 1878, was
entered, more than four years before this suit was brought
There was a replication to the answer, proofs were taken,
and the Circuit Court, on a hearing, dismissed the bill for
want of equity, on the ground of lachds on the part of the
plaintiff. From that decree the plaintiff has appealed to this
court.
The appellant contends (1) that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction in the Hunnewell case; (2) that the taxes in question were valid; (3) that the proceedings to secure the decree
cancelling the taxes were a fraud on the appellant and an imposition on the court; (4) that, if those proceedings were not
void for fraud, they were void for want of legal authority in
the board of county commissioners to stipulate that the decree be entered cancelling the taxes; and (5) that this suit is
not barred by the statute of limitations or by laches.
We are of opinion that this suit was barred by the statute of
limitations of the State of Nebraska and by laches, and that
the bill was properly dismissed.
By section 12, of title 2, of chapter 57, of the General
Statutes of Nebraska, of 1873, it is provided that an action
for relief on the ground of fraud can only be commenced
within four years after the cause of action shall have accrued,
but the cause of action in such case shall not be deemed to
have accrued until the discovery of the fraud. There is no
allegation in the bill in this case that the county or its officers
were, at any time after the entry of the decree of March 8,
1878, ignorant of the facts and circumstances connected with
and attending its entry. The board of county commissioners
consisted of three persons, of whom two were a controlling
quorum. It appears from the evidence that the personnel of
the board was changed on the 1st of January, 1879, more than
four years and five months before this bill was filed, Wilkinson
and Bowman having gone out of office by or before January

BOONE CO. v. BURLINGTON &c. RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

1, 1879. There is no allegation in the bill, nor is there any
proof, that the board of county commissioners was under hostile control down to a period within four years of the filing of
the bill; nor is there any averment in the bill as to the time
when the alleged fraud was discovered. The decree was a
matter of public record. It decreed that tke taxes generally
were void, meaning all of them, as alleged in the bill filed by
Hunnewell, and it granted a perpetual injunction against the
collection of all the taxes. The parties who took part in the
proceedings were accessible; Smith was then alive, and Sessions, who was examined as a witness in this case, could have
been inquired of. Starns v. Page, 7 How. 819; -Moore v.
Greene, 19 How. 69; Beau'ien v. Beaubien, 23 Row. 190;
Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95; Case of Broderick's Will,
21 Wall. 503, 518; Brown v. County of Buena Vista, 95 U. S.
157; Wood v. Carpenter,101 U. S.135; Graham v. Boston,
llarford &c. Railroad,118 U. S. 161; Kirby v. Lake Shore
&c.Railroad,120 U. S. 130 ; Socijt6 Fonci~re &c.v. -Milliken,
135 U. S.3041; Yorris v. Ilaggin, 136 U. S.386, 392; .Mackall
v. Casilear, 137 U. S.556, 566.
The appellant seeks to apply to the county and its officers
in this case the established rule that laches will not be imputed
to a government for a failure on the part of its officers to perform their duty. United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720;
United States v. Van Zandt, 11 Wheat. 184; United States v.
]Aficholl, 12 Wheat. 505; ]Dox v. Postmaster General, 1 Pet.
325; Gaussen v. United States, 97 U. S.584. But this -doctrine
is not extended to such a municipal corporation as the county
of Boone. -Metropolitan Railroad v. District qf Columbia,
132 U. S.1, 11, 12. The principle of ratification by laches or
delay is as applicable to such a municipal corporation* as it *s
to a private corporation or to an individual person. 1 Dillon on Municipal Corporations, 4th ed. ยง 548; Clark v. City of
Washington, 12 Wheat. 40; School -Directors v. Georges, 50
Nlissouri, 194; City of Cincinnati v. Evans, 5 Ohio St. 194.
The statute of limitations of Nebraska makes no exception in
favor of such a municipal corporation as the county of Boone,
and the doctrine of laches applies to it and'to its board of county
commissioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

By the General Statutes of Nebraska, of 1873, chapter 13,
section 1, the county was made a body corporate, and it was
provided by section 4 that suits by or against it should be
brought by or against the board of county commissioners of
the county, and, by other provisions, power was conferred
upon the board to levy and collect taxes. It, therefore, had
authority to act 'or the county in respect to the collection of
taxes. Indeed, that is its only authority for the bringing of
the present suit, coupled with the provision found in section
93, of chapter 13, of the General Statutes of Nebraska, of
1873, that the county commissioners are authorized to employ
attorneys in any case, either civil or criminal, in which their
county is interested, when the cause is taken to the Supreme
Court of the State, or before any United States court, and are
authorized to pay a reasonable compensation for such services.

.Decree a-ffi med.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuImaR

did not sit in this case, or take

any part in its decision.

REDFIELD v. BARTELS.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOB THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 269. Argued March 30,1891.-Decided April 20,1891.
On the 16th of November, 1863, plaintiffs brought suit to recover customs
duties illegally exacted, laying the ad damnum at $1500. On the 8th of
January, 1881, they amended their claim, increasing the ad damnum to
$20,000. There was no interest count in the declaration, and It was
doubtful whether interest was at first specially declared for in any way.
No account was rendered or demand made prior to the commencement6
of the suit, nor was any bill of particulars furnished at that time. On
the l1th of 'May, 1882, a bill of particulars was for the first time served.
The court below gave judgment for $14,394.95, with interest from the
date of the several payments. Held, on the facts set forth at length in
the opinion, showing laches on the part of plaintiffs, that they were only
entitled to judgment for $1500 with interest from November 16, 1863, and
$12,894,95, with interest from January 8, 1881.

