OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

conduct of his duties, any law, custom, or usage of any State
to the contrary notwithstanding." This enactment may not
improperly be construed as suggesting that, as against the
law of a State, the Fish Commissioner might not otherwise
have the right to take fish in places covered by the state law.
The pertinent observation may.be made that, as Congress
does not assert, by legislation, a right to control pilots in the
bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United States,
but leaves the regulation of that matter to the States, Cooley
v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, so, -if it does not assert
by affirmative legislation its right or will to assume the control of menhaden fisheries in such bays, the right to control
such fisheries must remain with the State which contains such
bays.
We do not consider the question whether or not Congress
would have-the right to control the menhaden fisheries which
the statute of Massachusetts assumes to control; but we mean
to say only that, as the right of control exists in the State in
the absence of the affirmative action of Congress taking such
control, the fact that Congress has never assumed the control
of such fisheries is persuasive evidence that the right to control them still remains in the State.
Judgment afirmed.

ETHERIDGE v. SPERRY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 186. Submitted March 2, 1891. - Decided March 23,1891.

Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334, affirined on the point that a suit prosecuted in
the state courts to the highest court of such State against a marshal
of the United States for trespass, who defends himself on the ground
that the'acts complained of were performed by him under a writ of attachment from the proper federal court, presents a case for a writ of
error to this court, when the final decision of that court is against the
validity of the authority thus set up by the marshal.
Following the Supreme Court of Iowa in its construction of the local law
of that State this court holds that a mortgage of a stock of goods in a

ETHERIDGE v. SPERRY.
Opinion of the Court.
store in that State, otherwise valid, is not invalidated by reason of a
parol understanding at the time of its execution, that the mortgagor may
retain possession, and sell the gpods, and apply the proceeds to his own
support, and to keep up the stock, applying only the surplus to the payment of the mortgage debt.
There is so much of a local nature entering into chattel mortgages that this
court will accept the settled law of each State as decisive in respect to
any case arising therein.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.F. T. Lehmann and Xr..N. TV
wBliss for plaintiff in
error.
-Mb'. Henry S. Wilcox for defendants in error.
Iffi. JusTiCE BREwER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was deputy United States marshal for
the Southern District of Iowa. Into his hands was placed a
writ of attachment, issued out of the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district, in the case of Mklarshall, Field
& Co.v. George IM.Hamilton. Under that writ he levied upon
the major portion of a stock of goods in the possession of the
defendant Hamilton, the owner of a country store in the town
of Knoxville, Iowa. The goods thus levied upon were subsequently sold by order of the court. The defendants in error
were creditors of George W. Hamilton, secured by two chattel
mortgages on the goods levied upon. After demand they
commenced their action in the state court to recover so much
of the value of the goods levied upon by the plaintiff in error
as would satisfy their debts, with interest. The trial in that
court resulted in a judgment in their favor. The judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, and from
such judgment of affirmance the case comes here on error. As
to the jurisdiction of this court, see Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.
334.
It appears that the value of the goods taken on the attachment was .considerably in excess of the amount of the mortgare debts; so that if these mortgagees were entitled to recover

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

anything, they were entitled to recover the full amount of
their debts. It also appears that Hamilton had no property
in the State of Iowa, subject to execution, other than this
stock of goods; and that the portion of the stock not taken
on the attachment was appropriated in satisfaction of a prior
mortgage. These mortgagees had no other security. The
case, therefore, narrows itself to the question whether these
chattel mortgages were valid. They were executed respectively July 4 and July 5, 1882, and were filed for .record on
those days. The first (and the two were similar) was in the
usual form of chattel mortgages, and, for the consideration of
$346.62, conveyed to plaintiffs "all my stock of dry goods and
groceries, notions, boots and shoes, book accounts, notes and
merchandise of every description, now iri my store in Knoxville, Marion County, Iowa, and to include all goods and merchandise which may hereafter be brought into said store,"
with the usual warranty of title, and to be void on condition
that Hamilton should pay the plaintiffs three notes, dated
July 4 1882; one for $100, due September 4, 1882; one for
$100, due October 4, 1882; and one for $104.62, due November 4, 1SS2, with interest. The -mortgage further stipulated:
"And I, the said George W. Hamilton, do hereby covenant
and agree to and with the said Sperry, Watt & Garver that,
in case of default made in the payment of the above promissory notes, or in case of my attempting to dispose of or remove
from said county of Marion, the aforesaid goods and chattels,
or any part thereof, or whenever the said mortgagee or his
assigns shall choose' so to do, then and inthat case it shall be
lawful for the said mortgagee or his assigns, by himself or
agent, to take immediate possession of said goods or chattels
wherever found." Then followed the usual power of sale, a
provision for attorney's fees in case the mortgage should be
foreclosed by suit, and that if anything remained after paying
plaintiffs' claim it should be returned to Hamilton. The other
mortgage, executed the next day, was for $89.54, as evidenced
by a promissory note for that amount, dated July 5 and due
July 28, 1882, with interest. These claims of the mortgagees
were for goods sold during the six months prior to the execu-

ETHERIDGE v. SPERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

tiQn of the mortgages. It appears that in the fore part of
that year Hamilton had had a partner named Douglas, and
the first mortgage was for goods bought by that firm; and
the second for goods bought by Hamilton alone, after he had
purchased Douglas's interest in the partnership. It is contended that these mortgages should be considered as executed'
simultaneously, and parts of one transaction, and as equivalent
to a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, and that,
having preferences in them, they are void under the state law
respecting assignments. But this contention is clearly untenable. The instruments, on their faces, are mortgages given
to secure debts not yet due. The mortgagor had no thought
of closing out his business. He expected to continue in it, and
hoped out of the profits thereof to pay this indebtedness coming due in the future. He had, on June 26, given a prior
mortgage to secure another creditor; and on July 6, the day
after the execution of the last mortgage in controversy, when
another creditor demanded security, he declined to give it
without including in the mortgage all his other creditors, and
did execute such a mortgage. So that if we could ignore the
form of the several instruments, the only one which by any
pretence could be called an assignment for the benefit of creditors was the one executed on the 6th day of July, an instrument not contemplated at the time these mortgages were
given, and one forced upon him by the subsequent demands of
another creditor. Obviously these instruments were, in the
intent of the parties, what upon their face they appear to be,
simply conveyances for security - chattel mortgages.
The other contention is, that the court erred in refusing to
give this instruction:
"1. If the jury find from the evidence that the mortgagor in the chattel mortgages in evidence in this case was left
in possession of the stock of goods mortgaged, with no provision for the application of the entire proceed of sales to
the payment of debts secured by the mortgages. but with the
privilege, express or implied, of continuing the business of
buying and selling as before the making of the mortgages and
applying a portion of the proceeds of sale t'o his own use, then

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

such mortgages are fraudulent and void in law as to creditors."
In its charge the court thus stated the, question:
"The issue submitted to you is this: Were the mortgages
of plaintiffs -xecuted in good faith and for the purposes of
securing a .bonkflde indebtedness due to them from George
W. Hamilton at the time, or were the same executed by Ramilton and received by the plaintiffs for the purpose of defrauding creditors of George W. Hamilton."
It further instructed the jury that the insolvency of Hamilton, if proved, would not of itself avoid the mortgages ; and
that he had the right to prefer any of his creditors. And
upon the question of fraud it gave this instruction:.
"In determining the question of fraud in the execution of
mortgages you should take into consideration all the evidence
that has been introduced bearing upon that question. .Fraud
is never presumed, but must be proved by the party alleging
the same, and in determining whether or not there was fraud
in any transaction you should consider all the circumstances
of the case, and while the debtor retaining posession or the
fact of the insolvency, of the mortgagor do not, as a matter of
law, determine the. transaction to be fraudulent, yet in determining the question of fact you may consider the insolvency
of the mortgagor, if he was insolvent, the fact of his retaining
possession of the goods .mortgaged, if he did so retain them,
and what agreement, if any, was, made between the parties
with reference to the disposition that should be made of the
goods so in bis possession; and from all the evidence and circumstances in the case you will determine whether the transactions between the plaintiffs and Hamilton were ifgood faith,
or whether they were designed and intended by the parties to
defraud the other creditors of Hamilton."
,On the face of the instruments there is clearly no foundation for the instruction which was refused. There is no reservation of interest to the mortgagor. On the contrary, the
express provision is that if he defaults in payment, if he'
attempts to dispose of or.remove from the county the mortgaged property, or any part of it; and whenever the mortgagee

ETHERIDGE v. SPERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

shall see fit, the latter may take immediate possession. While
from the fact that the property mortgaged is a stock of goods
in a store, possession of which is left with the mortgagor,
there may be an implication that sales at retail by him were
contemplated; yet express authority is given to the mortgagee
to take possession at the first sale, and before the maturity of
any one of the secured notes. So that upon the face of the
mortgages there is nothing to suggest or justify the instruction.
The mortgagor was put upon the stand as a witness for the
plaintiffs in error, and testified as follows: "At the time 'I
executed the first mortgage to Sperry, Watt & Garver it was
understood between Mr. Ayers" (he being the attorney of the
mortgagees) "and me that I was to go on selling goods in the
ordinary way, and that I would be able to pay out. I was to
use the money received from the sale of goods and use some
of the money to buy goods, and I was to pay odt of the proceeds the running expenses of the establishment and to take
out whatever was needed for the support of myself and family,
and to use the money in buying goods as I saw proper in
carrying on the business, filling up the stock, and all that, and
the money deposited in the bank that I did not need for the
other purpose was to be applied on the payment of the debt."
This testimony was repeated by him in different words, but
disclosing no additional facts; and it is upon this statement of
the understanding between him and the attorney of the mortgagees that this instruction was bused. He did not in fact use
any of the proceeds of the sales made by him for his own support, although his possession was not disturbed by the attachment until after the 13th of August, 1882, but used the entire
proceeds in buying some additional goods for the store and in
paying his debts. Perhaps this is only material on the question of good faith, and does not detract from the damaging
effect, if any there be, of the understanding, between the parties at the time of the.execution of the mortgage. So the
question is presented, whether, as a matter of law, a mortgage
given by a merchant on his stock of goods to secure debts not
yet due, which upon its-face has no imperfections, contains no
reservations for the benefit of the mortgagor, and is appar-

OCTOBER TER.M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ently only for the security of the mortgagee, and gives him
full power to take possession on default in payment, or on any
misconduct of the mortgdgor, or whenever he pleases, is in
validated by the fact of a parol understanding, at the time of
its execution, that the mortgagor may use the proceeds .of hi.
daily sales to support himself, and to keep up the stock by
purchases, applying only the surplus, but all of that, to the
payment of the mortgage debt; or whether such an understanding is simply to be taken into consideration, together
with the other circumstances, as bearing upon the question of
the good faith of the paities. The contention of the plaintiff
in error i, in support of the first alternative of. this question,
and he relies mainly on' the cases of Bank of Leavenworth v.
.Hunt, 11 Wall. 391; Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall. 513, and
.X1eans v. Dowd, 128 U. S. 273. While there are some points
of similarity between each of *those cases and this, and while
there are observations in the opinions filed in them pertinent
and correct with reference to the special facts which, if disconnected from those facts and applied here, might seenm
authoritative, yet there are clear and sufficient reasons why
neither the decisions nor the opinions should control this case.
In Bank-of Leavenworth v. Hunt, the validity of a chattel
mortgage was in question. But it had not been filed in the
office of the register of -deeds, as required by the statutes of
Kansas, and under those statutes was, therefore, void as against
creditors. It was said in the opinion that it was void for another reason, and that was, that the mortgagors were permitted
to remain in possession and to continue to sell the goods as
before the mortgage. But as appeairs from the statement of
facts, these sales were not made with a view of appropriating
the surplus proceeds to the payment of the mortgage debt,
but for the sole benefit of the mortgagors.
In Robinson v. Elliott, a -case coming from Indiana, the
objectioh to the chattel mortgage appeared on the face of the
instrument, in that it permitted the mortgagor not only to
retain possession, but t6 sell and buy as theretofore, with no,
stipulation for the application of the surplus proceeds to the
payment of the mortgage debt, the only stipulation being that

ETHERIDGE v. SPERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

the purchased goods should come within the lien of the mortgage. Apparently this retained power of sale by the mortgagor was in .no respect for the bdnefit of the mortgagee, but
to enable the mortgagor to continue in business in defiahce of
his unsecured creditors, protected by the lien of this mortgage.
The conduct of the parties after the mortgage was in harmony
with this apparent intent, and removed any uncertainty as to
the scope and purpose of the instrument. It was not intended
by that decision to hold that a chattel mortgage was void
because it provided for a retention of possession by the mortgagor, and a sale by him. On the contrary, Mr. Justice Davis,
delivering the opinion of the court, carefully used this language: " We are not prepared to say that a mortgage under
the Indiana statute would not be sustained which allows a
stock of goods to be retained by the mortgagor, and sold by
him at retail for the express purpose of applying the proceeds
to the payment of the mortgage debt. Indeed, it would seem
that such an arrangement, if honestly carried out, would be
for the mutual advantage of the mortgagee and the unpreferred creditors. But there are features engrafted on this
mortgage which are not only to the prejudice of creditors, but
which show that other considerations than the security of the
mortgagees, or their accommodation even, entered into the
contract. Both the possession and right of disposition remain
with the mortgagors. They are to deal with the property as
their own, sell at retail, and use the money thus obtained to
replenish their stock. There is no -covenant to account with
the mortgagees, nor any recognition that the property is sold
for their benefit."
The instrument considered in Xeans v. Dowd was regarded
by this court more in the nature of an assignment for the
benefit of creditors than as a chattel mortgage ;'and the same
elements were discovered in that instrument, and in the subsequent conduct of the parties, as appeared in the case in. 22
Wall. - In neither of those cases is it affirmed that a chattel
mortgage on a stock of goods is necessarily invalidated by the
fact that either in the mortgage, or by parol agreement between the parties, the mortgagor is to retain possession, with
VOL. cxxxIx- 18

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the right to sell the goods at retail. On the contrary, it is
clearly recognized in them that such an instrument is valid,
notwithstanding these stipulations, if it appears that the sales
were to 'be for the benefit of the mortgagee. What was meant
was, that shch an instrument should not be used to enable the
mortgagor to continue in business as theretofore, with full
control of the property and business, and appropriating to
himself the benefits thereof, and all the while holding the instrument as a shield against the attacks of unsecured creditors.
Neither was it suggested in either of those cases that this court,
in determining the validity of a chattel mortgage, would ignore
the settled law of the State in which the transaction took
place, as established by the decisions of its highest court. On
the contrary, there was an intimation that this court would
respect such decisions. In the opinion in Robinson v. Elliott,
this court said there had been no decision of the question by
the Supreme Court of the State.- though as to the present
state of the law see Morris v. Stern, 80 Indiana, 227; foFa6.
den v. Fritz, 90 Indiana, 590; Fisher v. Syfers, 109 Indiana,
514; .lfuncie HYational Bank v. Brown, 112 'Indiana, 474;
.Yew v. Sailors, 114 Indiana, 407, and 3ayer v. Feig, 114 Indiana, 577, - bit noticed some intimations and citations in
one of its opinions which it was thought tended to-support the
conclusion reached. And the. opinion in Means v. Dowd, not
only noticed this intimation in the former case, but expressly
referred to the law as established in North Carolina, that being
the State in which the transaction took place. Further, in the
case of Peoples Savings Bank v. Bates, 120 U. S. 556, 561, a
case coming from the State of Michigan, and involving the
question of the ,validity of a chattel mortgage, Mr. Justice
Harlan, delivering the opinion of the court, referred to the
law of the, State as controlling. -He said: "In behalf of'the
bank it is contended that the mortgage to Bates, Reed, &
Cooley was fraudulent as against subsequent creditors and
mortgagees in good faith, in that the mortgagees contemplated
that the mortgagors shohld remain in possession and prosecute
the business in the ordinary mode..
.
If the mortgage
had, in terms, made provision for such a course upon the part

ETHERIDGE v. SIPERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the mortgagors, as the bank contends was in the contemplation of the mortgagees, it would not be held, as a matter
of law, to be absolutely void or fraudulent as to other creditors.
Oliver v. Eaton, 7 Michigan, 108, 112; Gay v. Bidwell, 7
Michigan, 519, 523; leople v. Bristol, 35 XLichigan, 28, 32;
IFingler v. Sibley, 35 Michigan, 231; Robinson v. Elliott, 22
Wall. 513, 523. The good faith of such transactions, where
they are not void upon their face, is, under the statutes of
Mlichigan, a question of fact for the determination of the jury.
Oliver v. Eaton and Ga6y v. Bidwell." See also Allen v. Xassey, 17 Wall. 351. While in the foregoing quotation reference is made only to the statutes of the State, the law is as
fully established by repeated decisions of its Supreme Court
as by the express language of its statutes. This decision not
only gives countenance to the ruling of the trial court in this
case, but also warrants an examination of the settled law of
the State, as evidenced by the decisions of its highest court.
In respect to the latter there can be no doubt. Independently
of the ruling in this case, see Torbert v. H2ayden, 11 Iowa, 435;
Hughes v. Cory, 20 Iowa, 399; .3feyer v. Gage, 65 Towa, 606;
and Meyer v. Evans, 66 Iowa, 179. In the first of those cases,
it appeared that the mortgagors, with the knowledge of the
mortgagee, remained in possession, and sold in the ordinary
course of business about a thousand dollars' worth of goods,
the proceeds of which- were applied to their support and the
rent and expenses of the store; and the transaction, having
been found to have been in good faith, was sustained, and the
mortgage adjudged valid. This decision was in 1861.
In the second case, decided in 1866, the mortgage on its face
reserved the right to sell, in the usual course of business, and
to add to the stock by the purchase of other goods, with the
stipulation that thirty-three per cent of the sale should be
applied on the mortgage debt; and in an elaborate opinion by
Judge Dillon, the mortgage was sustained.
In the third case, decided in 1885, there was simply a reservation of possession, with the right to sell at retail, and in
respect thereto the court'summed up the law of the State in
these words: "And the uniform holding of this court has

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

been that the reservation by the mortgagor of the right to
retain possession of the property, and sell it in the ordinary
course of business, does not render the mortgage fraudulent
in law. See Torbert v. Hayden, 11 Iowa, 435; Hughes v.
Cory, 20 Iowa, 399; Olark v. Hyman, 55 Iowa, 14; Sperry v.
Dheridge, 63 Iowa, 543; ,affray v. Greenbaum,64 Iowa, 492.
This holding is based upon the construction given to certain
statutes of the State, and it has been adhered to for more than
twenty years, and has become a rule of property in the State,
and we see no occasion now for departing from the rule that
has been thus established."
And in the last case, by the terms of. the instrument, there
was reserved a right to sell at retail,-in the ordinary course of
trade; and there was, besides, a parol understanding that the
mortgagor should keep up the stock and pay the expenses out
of the proceeds of the business; and there was no provision
in the mortgage, and- no agreement, that the surplus proceeds
should'be applied on the debt, but by the terms of the mortgage the mortgagee had the right at any time to take possession of the property, and sell the same for the satisfaction of
his debt. And it was held that the mortgage was not invalidated thereby, but that its validity depended on the good faith
of the parties to the transaction.
From these decisions and others running through a period
of thirty years, there can be no doubt as to the settled law of
the State; and as to the law established, as was said by the
Supreme Court, in .Meyer v. Gage, szira,mainly at least from
a construction of the state statutes. Can such a settled construction be ignored by this court, and the judgment of the
highest court of the State be reversed on error in a matter
depending partially at least upon the construction of state
statutes? It would be strange, indeed, if this court should
adjudge that there was error on the part of the Supreme Court
of a State in following its own rulings, uniform and undisturbed for a quarter of a century. The matter is not one of
purely general commercial law. While chattel mortgages are
instruments of general use, each State has a right to determine for itself under what circumstances they may be executed,

ETHtERIDGE v. SPITRltY.
Opinion of the Court.

the extent of the rights conferred thereby, and the conditions
of their validity. They are instruments for the transfer of
property, and the rules concerning the transfer of property
are primarily, at least, a matter of state regulation. We are
aware that there is great diversity in the rulings on this question by the courts of the several States; but whatever may be
our individual views as to what the law ought to be in respect
thereto, there is so much of a local nature entering into chattel mortgages that this court will accept the settled law of
each State as decisive in respect to any case arising therein.
Chicago Union Bank v. Kansas City Bank, 136 U. S. 223.
Indeed, if this were an open question, we could not be blind
to the fact that the tendency of this commercial age is towards
increased facilities in the transfer of property, and to uphold
such transfers so far as they are made in good faith; and it is
at least worthy of thought, whether the rulings made by the
Supreme Court of Iowa do not tend to make chattel mortgages
more valuable for commercial purposes, without endangering
the rights of unsecured creditors. The law now generally
requires a record of all such instruments, and that, like the
recording of a real estate mortgage, gives notice to all parties
interested of the fact and extent of incumbrances. Why
should a transaction like this be condemned, if made in good
faith and to secure an honest debt? The owner of a stock of
goods may make an absolute sale of them to his creditor, in
pkyment of a debt. If an absolute, why not a conditional,
sale, with such conditions as he and his creditor may agree
upon? As between the parties no court iould question this
right, or refuse to enforce the conditions. The interests of the
general public are not. prejudiced by any such transaction
between debtor and creditor. Indeed, they are rather promoted by any arrangement under which the mortgagor can
continue in business, for in ninety-nihe cases out of a hundred
the taking of possession by a creditor results in closing the
business, and turning the debtor out of employment. The
only parties who can claim to be injuriously affected are
unsecured creditors. But they are notified -by the record of
the exact relations between the mortgagor and mortgagee;

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

and surely subsequent creditors have no right to complain if
they deal with the mortgagor with full knowledge of such
relations. Existing creditors may of course challenge the
good faith of the transaction, but if they cannot disturb an
absolute sale when made in good faith, why should they be
permitted to challenge a conditional sale if made in like good
faith? The fact that fraudulent relations are possible, is
.l1ardly a sufficient reason for denouncing transactions which
are not fraudulent. So, if the question were open, or a new
one, unaffected by any settled law of the State, we incline to
the opinion that the question is not one of law, so much as it
is one of fact and good faith, and that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Iowa rests on sound principles. Jewell v.
Zhigkt, 123 U. S. 426; Smitk v. Craft, 123 U. S.436. Reference may also be made to the opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley, of this court, holding the Circuit Court in the Western
District of Texas, Ba,ron v. _Morris, 14 Nat. Bank. 2Reg. 371,
and the opinion of Mr. Justice Strong in the Circuit Court in
New Jersey, in Xiller v. Jones, 15 Nat. Bank. Reg. 150.
We see no error in the decision of the Supreme Court of
Affirmed.
Iowa, and it is

UIITED STATES v. BREWER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 1178.

Argued and submitted March 13, 1891:-Decided liarch 23, 1891.

Sections 1067, 1068 and 1070 of the Code of Tennessee of 1884, by Milliken
& Vertrees do not require that, after an election, the ballot-box shall
lie opened at the place where the election was held, and the names of the
persons appearing in each ballot be read aloud at that place, and the
ballot-box not be removed from that place before the votes are counted,
so as to make an indictment good, under ยง 5515 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, relating to an election at which a Representative
or Delegate in Congress is voted for, which alleges, as a neglect or refusal" to perform a duty, required of the officer of, an election, by a law

