OCTOBER TEI-R,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

MAGONgE v. LUCKEMEYER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE, UNITED
SOUTHERN

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 880. Argued March 30, 31, 1891.- Decided April 13,1891.

The case of ,Seeberger v. Farwell, ante, p. 608, affirmed and applied to goods
in which the percentage of cotton varied from 1.99 to 4.47.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.2r.Boicito r General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Francis.yndo Stetson for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCoHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the same question as that presented in
No.1441, Seeberger v. Fazwell, ante, p. 608, just decided.
It is an action brought by Edward Luckemeyer and others,
composing the firm of Luckemeyer, Schefer & Co., against
Daniel Magone, collector of customs of the port of New York,
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and removed
by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, to recover an alleged
excess of duties, paid under protest in December, 1887, on like
goods with those involved in No. 1441. It was tried by a jury,
which found a verdict for the plaintiffs, on which they had a
judgment, including costs, for $291.33. The defendant sued
out a writ of error.
The percentage of cotton in the goods varied from 1.99 to
4.47. The cotton was introduced into the warp of the fabric
prior to the spinning process. The filling was entirely of wool.
The warp consisted of woollen and cotton fibres twisted together, but no separate, single, distinct, continuous thread of
cotton existed therein. , The selvedges of the goods were
formed from the warp threads, drawn together in a dent, and
were composed of wool and cotton in the same combination

MAGONE v. LUCKEIIEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

and extent as the warp. In appearance, texture, quality, and
use, the goods were indistinguishable from women's dress
goods composed wholly of wool, and the cotton in them could
be discovered only by chemical analysis. The original purpose
of introducing the cotton into the warp was to change the
classification of the goods. A report of the case is found in
38 Fed.'Rep. 30.
The defendant moved that a verdict be directed for him, on
the ground that the selvedges of the goods were made wholly
or in part of other materials than wool, introduced for the
purpose of changing the classification; and on the further
ground that threads of other materials were introduced into
the goods for the purpose of changing the classification, the
warp being a compound thread composed of wool and cotton;
and on the further ground that the goods were substanially
composed of -wool, the cotton being an insignificant part of
them and not sufficient to take them out of the class of dress
goods composed wholly of wool, dutiable under Schedule K at
nine cents per square yard and 40 per centum ad .valorem.
These several motions were denied by the court and the
defendant excepted to each denial.
The court instructed the jury that a mixed-material thread,
of which the principal part was wool, was not a thread of
other material, within the meaning of the statute, to which
instruction the defendant excepted. It submitted to the, jury
the question whether-threads of other materials had been introduced for the purpose of changing the classification. It
further instructed the jury to inquire whether there had been
introduced into the goods threads of material other than wool
or vorsted, "that is, thread or threads of other material, not
composition or compound thread composed of wool and other
mat-rials, but a thread standing by itself, of material other
than wool." To this instruction the defendant excepted. It
further instructed the jury that the plaintiffs were not prohibited from so manufacturing goods as to conform to a lower
rather than a higher exaction of the tariff; atid that though
they might have adopted a very technical device to escape the
higher rate, the question presented by the case was only

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Gray, JJ.

whether their goods were embraced within the higher rate,
and not whether they had evaded the law. To this instruction
the defendant excepted.
The defendant requested the court to charge the jury that,
if they found that the selvedges of the goods were made
wholly or in part of cotton, introduced for the purpose of
changing the classification, there should be a verdict for the
defendant. The court refused so to charge, and the defendant
excepted. He further requested the court to charge, that if
the jury found that the goods were women's dress goods substantially composed of wool, and known in trade and commerce as all-wool fabrics, the defendant was entitled to a
verdict. The court refused so to charge, and the defendant
excepted. He also requested the court to charge, that if the
jury found that the quantity of cotton introduced into the
goods was so insignificaut as not to alter the character of
the goods and remove them from the category of all-wool
dress goods, as known in trade and commerce, the defendant
was entitled to a verdict. The court refused so to charge, and
the defendant excepted.
The views announced by us in deciding iNo. 1141 control
the present case.
It is assigned for error, that the court sustained the objection to a question put by the defendant to a witness, as to
whether the goods in question were bought and sold in this
country as all-wool goods. The objection was made on the
ground that the question was irrelevant. We think that the
question was properly excluded.
Judgment afflrmed.
PU. JusTicE BRowN, with whom MR. JusTicE GRAY concurred,
dissenting.
Mi. JUsTicE GRAY and myself are unable to concur in the
opinion of the-court in this case. The facts are substantially
as follows: By the Tariff act of 1883 woollen dress goods were
taxed as follows: If composed in art of wool, worsted, etc.,
and valued at not exceeding 20 cents per square yard, 5 cents

MAGOINE v. LUCKEMEYER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Gray, JJ.

per yard and 35 per cent ad valorem. If composed wholly of
wool, worsted, etc., or of a mixture of them, 9 cents per yard
and 40 per cent ad valorem. But all such goods (1) with sedvedges made wholly or in part of other materials, or (2) with
threadg of other materials introduced for the purpose of changing the classification, shall be dutiable at the higher rate of allwool goods.
It was conceded that in appearance, texture, quality and use
the goods in question were indistinguishable from women's
dress goods composed wholly of wcol, that the cotton in the
goods could be discovered only by chemical analysis, and that
the original purpose of introducing cotton in the warp was to.
change the classification. It is conceded that if threads entirely of cotton had been introduced into the goods for the
purpose of changing the classification, they would be dutiable
as all woollen goods; but in this case threads had been introduced composed partly of cotton and partly of wool, and the
opinion of the court finds that these are not threads of "other
materials," although the amount of cotton in the fabric is less
than if these threads were entirely composed of cotton, and
hence that they are dutiable as mixed goods. It would seem
to follow from this that if they are not threads of "other materials" they must be threads of wool, which certainly would
make them all woollen goods.
Assuming, however, that these introduced threads are half
cotton and half wool, and that the amount of wool in the
entire fabric is 96 per cent, the consequences are these: If the
goods contain 92 per cent of wool, a thread wholly of cotton
being introduced to change the classification, they are dutiable
as all-wool goods; but if the fabric contains 96 per cent of
wool, by reason of the introduced thread being composed
partly of wool and partly of cotton, they are dutiable as mixed
goods. It seems to us that no such conclusion should be possible, but that the. intention of Congress was that no one should
be permitted to evade the classification of all-wool goods by
the introduction of an inappreciable amount of other material which-should not as a matter of fact change its character
as an all-wool fabric.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

We think that the thread composed partly of wool and
partly of cotton is a thread of "other materials" within the
meaning of the act. Congress having enacted that duties on
all-wool goods should not be evaded by the introduction of a
cotton thread, we can hardly conceive it possible that they intended to permit an evasion by the introduction of a thread
partly of wool and partly of cotton, making the fabric nearer
an all-wool fabric than if the thread had been composed
wholly of cotton.

WILSON v. EVERETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 268. Argued and submitted March 26, 1891.-Decided April 13,1891.

Instructions to a jury upheld, where they could not have prejudiced the
party complaining.
On a writ of error, this court cannot review any error committed by a jury
in finding an amount of damages; nor take cognizance of a complaint
that a motion for a new trial was overruled, or that the verdict of the
jury was contrary to law and not warranted by the testimony.
As the writ of error was sued out merely for delay, this court awarded 10
per cent damages on the amount of the judgment, in addition to interest.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. fT... Paterson and -Mr. C. S. T-omas for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief.
.Xe. 1. T. 3fc.'eal (with whom was .M. .E. . TFells on
ihe brief) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BL.TCHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado, by William S.
Everett and James M. Robinson, against William J.-Wilson,
to recover the sum of $65,000, for alleged services performed

