OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

NORTHWESTERN FUEL COMPANY v. BROCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 1159. Submitted March 2, 1891.-Decided March 16,1891.
The judgment in this case was reversed in this court for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, 130 U. S. 341. The reversal was accompanied
by an order that the defendants recover their costs in this court; and
have execution therefor, and the cause was remanded to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings. Upon filing the mandate in the Circuit
Court, the defendants moved that they have judgment against the plaintiff for their costs in. this court, and for the costs of the transcript from
the Circuit Court, and that execution issfe therefor. The defendants,
alleging in theit motion that certain sums had been collected on the
judgment, also moved for a summary inquiry as to the amount, and that
they have judgment for the same, with interest; and they having proved
that there was collected by the plaintiff upon the judgment, by supplementary proceedings in aid of the execution thereon, the sum of $629.23,
the court rendered judgment that the defendants recover that sum with
interest and costs, and that the action be dismissed for want of jurisdiction as to the subject matter of the suit. Held, That thb Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to correct by its own order that which, according to the
judgment of this court, it had no authority to do in the first instance,
and that the judgment should be affirmed.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

The Northwestern Fuel Company, a corporation of Minnesota, brought an action in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Iowva, against the defendants, citizens of that State, to recover the sum of $1309.50;
claimed upon a contract made in July, 1881, between them
and the What Cheer Land and Coal Company, alleged to be
doing business in that State, and by that company assigned to
the plaintiff. Judgment was recovered upon it for $1402.475,
and the defendants brought the case on a writ of error to this
court, where it was reversed upon the ground that the record
did not show affirmatively that an action could have been
brought upon it in the federal court if no assignment had been

NORTHWESTERN. FUEL C0. v. BROCK.
Statement of the Case.

made; the act of 1875 declaring that no Circuit or District
Court should "have cognizance of any suit founded on contract
in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon if no assignment-had
been made, except in cases of promissory notes negotiable by
the law merchant and bills of exchange." 18 Stat. 4'70; Brock
v. Northwestern Fuzel Co., 130 U. S. 341.
The reversal was accompanied by an order that the defendants recover their costs in this court, and have execution therefor, and the cause wa' remanded to the Circuit Court for
further proceedings.
Upon filing the mandate in the Circuit Court, the defendants
moved that they have judgment against the plaintiff for their
costs in this court, and for the costs of the transcript from the
Circuit Court, and that execution issue therefor. The defendants, alleging in their motion that certain sums had been collected on the judgment, also moved for a summary inquiry as
to the amount, and that they have judgment for the same,
with interest; and further, that the suit be dismissed with
costs, unless the plaintiff should forthwith, by amendment,
show a cause of action of which the court had jurisdiction.
The court ordered that the, defendants have execution against
the plaintiff for the costs mentioned; and afterwards gave the
pidintiff leave on or before September 1, 1889, to file amendments to the petition as to the jurisdiction of the court. It
also gave judgment for the amount paid for the transcript of
the record for this court.
The plaintiff failed to amend its petition, within the time
designated, showing jurisdiction in the court, and the defendants moved that.the action be dismissed; and they having
proved that there was collected by the plaintiff upon the
judgment, by supplementary proceedings in aid of the execution thereon, the sum of $639.23, the court rendered judgment
as follows:
"ow, this 4th day of December, A.D. 1889, this cause again
coming before the court, upon the motion by defendants for a
judgment in restitution for money collected by the plaintiff on
the original judgment herein, which original judgment was

OCTOBER TER j, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

reversed by the Supreme Court, as it appears from its mandate
as filed herein, and plaintiff appearing by Messrs. Henderson,
Hurd, Daniels & Kiesel, its attorneys, and the defendants
appearing by Charles A. Clark, their attorney, and the plaintiff having failed to amend its pleadings so as to show jurisdicion of this court as to the subject matter of the action, and the
court finding that the plaintiff has collected from the defendants on the original judgment herein in favor of plaintiff and
against defendants the sum of six hundred twenty-nine and
23-100 dollars on the first day of May, i884, which said sum,
with interest thereon at six per centum per annum from said
date, the defendants are entitled to recover back from plaintiff,
because-said original judgment herein has been and is reversed
and set aside:
"It is -ther'efore ordered and adjudged by the court, that the
defendants, R. G. Brock and T. G. McKenzie, do have and
recover of and from the plaintiff, the Northwestern Fuel Coinpany, the sum of eight hundred and forty dollars, ($840,) with
interest thereon at six per cent perannum until paid, together
with the costs of this action, taxed at $22.70, with judgment
for said costs against C. -W. Eaton, surety on the cost bond
filed herein, and that said plaintiff pay said sums into this
court within twenty (20) days, in default of which payment
defendants shall have execution therefor. To all of which the
plaintiff at the time excepted.
"And it is further ordered that this action be now dismissed
for want of jurisdiction as to the subject matter of this suit."
To reverse this judgment the case is brought to this court
on writ. of error, under the act of 'Congress of February 25,
1889. 25 Stat. 236, p. 693.
.Xr. David B. Renderson, and .A[r. lFrances B. Daniels for
plaintiff in error.
.X1r'. ChiarlesA. Clark for defendants in error.
'Ia.

JusTIcE FmEL',

opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

ORTHWESTERN FUEL CO. v. BROCK.
Opinion of the Court.

The alleged error of the court below is, that it had no jurisdiction to render judgment for restitution of the money col-

lected on the reversed judgment. This is put forth in different
forms, but in no way variant in substance. The gist of the
whole complaint is that the reversal by this court being for
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit 'Court -such jurisdiction
not affirmatively appearing-that court had no authority to
act further in the matter than as directed by the mandate;
and that that went only to the reversal 'of its judgment and
the collection of the costs incurred in the appellate court.
This position is supposed to be supported by those decisions
which hold that when a case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court to entertain the action, or render the
judgment entered, the power of that court to award costs is
gone. .Mfayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 241, 250; Hornthallv. TheCollector, 9 Wall. 560, 566; AMansfld Railroad Co. v. Swan,
111 U. S. 379, 387.
But here the jurisdiction exercised by the court below was
only to correct by its own order, that which, according to the
judgment of its appellate court, it had no authority to do in
the first instance; and the power is inherent in every court,
whilst the subject of controversy is in its custody, and the
parties are before it, to undo what it had no authority to do
originally, and in which it, therefore, acted erroneously, and
to restore, as far as possible, the parties to their former position. ;urisdiction to correct what had been wrongfully done
must remain with the court so long as the parties and the case
are properly before it, either in the first instance or when
remanded to it by an appellate tribunal.
The right of restitution of what one has lost by the enforcement of a judgment subsequently reversed has been recognized
in the law of England from a very early period, and the only
question of discussion there has been as to the proceedings to
enforce the restitution. Thus in Anonymous, 2 Salkeld, 588,"
it was held by Holt, C. T., that "where the plaintiff has. execution, and the money is levied and paid, and that judgment
is afterwards reversed, there, because it appears on the record
that the money is- paid, the party shall have restitution with-

OCTOBER TEAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

out a scir'efacias,,and there is a certainty of what was lost;
otherwise where it was levied but not paid; there must then
be a scire facias suggesting the matter of fact, viz. the sum
levied, etc."
The same doctrine has been fully recognized by this court in
Bank of the United States v. Bank of Mashington, 6 Pet. 8, 17.
In that case the court, after observing that the party against
whom an erroneous judgment has been enforced does not lose
his remedy against the party to the judgment, said: "On the
reversal of the judgment the law raises an obligation in the
party to the record, who has received the benefit of the erroneous judgment, to make restitution to the other party for
what he has lost; and the mode of proceeding to effect this
object must be regulatid according to circumstances. Sometimes it is done by a, writ of restitution, without a scirefacias,
when the record shows the money has been paid, and there is
a certainty as to what has been lost. In other cases a soire
facias may be necessary to ascertain what is to be restored.
2 Salk. 587-8; Tidd's Pract. 936, 1137-8. And, no doubt,
circumstances may exist where an action may be sustained to
recover back the money." 'We are of opinion that the proceeding to enforce the restitution in the cases mentioned is
under the control of the court, and that all needed inquiry can
be had to guide its judgment in a surhmary proceeding, upon
motion of the parties, the only requisite being that the opposite party shall be heard, so that in directing restitution no
further wrong be committed. The restitution is not made to
depend at all upon the question whether or not the court rendering the judgment reversed acted within or without its
jurisdiction.
In. the case of .Morris' Cotton, 8 Wall. 507, property on land
was seized under the acts of 1861 and 1862, passed for suppression of the rebellion, according to which the claimants
were entitled to a trial by jury. Such trial was not allowed,
but a decree forfeiting the jroperty was passed by the court
below. This was reversed by this court, which held that the
District Court had no jurisdiction to proceed in the case in
the manner in which it did; and, although the proceeds of the

N-ORTHWESTERN FUEL CO. v. BROCK.

Opinion of the Court.

sale of the property had been distributed, it directed, in its
decree of reversal, that the court below should grant a new
trial and issue a writ for restitution of the proceeds to the
registry of the court.
In .xParte.Morris, 9 Wall. 605, 607, the United States filed
an information in the District Court for the Middle District of
Alabama, against certain bales of cotton, which it was alleged
were liable to seizure and confiscation, and had come into the
possession of the petitioners. The court entered a personal
decree against them for the value of the cotton. On appeal
this court reversed the judgment and remanded the cause to
the District Court with directions "to cause restitution to be
made to the appellants of whatever they have been compelled
to pay under that decree."
The same doctrine is sustained in the several state courts of
the country, all recognizing the power of a court, whose judgment is set aside on its own motion or reversed by order of an
appellate tribunal, to direct restitution, so far as practicable,
of all property and rights which have been lost by the erroneous judgment. Ililer v. Hiler, 35 Ohio St. 645, 646; Chamberlain v. Choles, 35 N. Y. 477, 479.
Judgment alfirmed.
J. (BRowx, J., concurring):
BR-w,

I had supposed the law to be otherwise, and that if the
Circuit Court did not have jurisdiction by reason of a lack of
proper citizenship of the parties to render a judgment in favor
of the plaintiff against the defendant, it was equally without
jurisdiction thereafter in the same case and without any change
in the citizenship to render a judgment in favor of the defendant against the plaintiff. But the result is so manifestly equitable I am glad to know that I was mistaken, and that the law
is as it is now adjudged to be.

