OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

other disposition, or they had been reserved from sale, the
department' had no jurisdiction to transfer the land, and their
attempted conveyance by patent is inoperative and void, no
matter with what seeming regularity the forms of law have
been observed.
In the several cases to which we have been referred in the
fifth and sixth Montana Reports, Silver Bow Xfining & 1Milling Co. v. Clark, 5 Montana, 378 ; Talbott v. -King,6 Montana,
76 ; Butte City Smoke-house Zode Cases, 6 Montana, 397; which
involved contests between parties claiming under mining patents
and others claiming under town-site patents, and in which very
able and learned opinions were given by the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Montana, the mining claim patented had been
located and the rights of the mining claimant had thus attached
before the town-site patent was issued. The patent which subsequently followed was a mere perfection of the right originated
by the location, and to which it took effect by relation. "It was
held, in accordance with this opinion, that the prior mining location was not affected by the town-site entry.
It follows from the views expressed that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana must be
Reversed, and the cause reman&ed to the Supreme Court of
the State, with directions to order a.new trial in the proper
trial court; and it is so ordered.

UNION EDGE SETTER COMPANY v. KEITH.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 283.

Argued March 20, 23,1891.-Declded'April 6,1891.

The first claim under letters patent No. 173,284, dated February 8, 1876,
granted to Charles H. Helms for an improvement in sole-edge burnishing machines, namely, "in combination with the burnishing tool, and the
rest for the face of the sole, the finger-rest D, substantially as described"
falls within the many rulings of this court, holding that a mere aggregation of old elements in a new relation is not the subject of a patent.

UNION EDGE SETTER CO. v. KEITH.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 173,284, issued February 8, 1876, to Charles H.
Helms for an improvement in sole-edge burnishing machines.
In the introduction to his specifications, the patentee stated
that his machine consisted "of a head or standard carrying a.
tool holder, holding a tool for setting or burnishing the edges
of the soles of boots and shoes, and a finger-rest to aid the
workman in holding the edge up to the tool, and the face of
the sole against the rest, which is just below the burnishing
part of the tool." After describing his machine by reference
to the drawings, he stated his operation to be as follows:
"The workman holds the shoe firmly in his hands, and thus
presents the edge to be burnished to the tool, which reciprocates with great rapidity-about 1800 times per minute, I
find, gives the best Yesults. The workman passes [presses] the
edge up against the tool, and the face of the sole against the
surface which projects below the tool, and gradually moves
the shoe so as to bring all parts of the edge to its action,
steadying the shoe by the aid of the finger-rest D, especially
when burnishing the corners of the toes. A little experience
is necessary to enable the workman to use the machine to
great advantage, but a skilled workman can do a very large
quantity of work, second to none in quality. The combination of the finger-rest D with the burnishing tool, and the rest
for the face of the sole, is the main feature of my invention."
The only claim alleged to be infringed was the first, which
reads as follows:
"In combination with the burnishing tool and the rest for the
face of the sole, the finger-rest D, substantially as described."
There were two other patents originally set forth in the
bill, but by stipulation they were stricken out.
The defences set up in answer were, 1, the invalidity of the
first claim of the patent, which was the only one relied upon
by the plaintiff, and, 2, non-infringement.
Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court, the bill was at first
sustained, but upon a rehearing, dismissed. The first opinion of
the court is reported in 28 Fed. Rep. 715, and the opinion upon
rehearing in 31 Fed. Rep. 46.

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The errors assigned were:
1. That the court decided that the combination set forth in
-the first claim was not patentable.
2. That the court decided that neither of the three elements
of the combination named in the first claim performed any
new function.
•Mi. J. E. .7faynd'ier for appellant.
21r. Joha L. S. .Robertsfor appellee.
MR.

JsTioa BRoww delivered the opinion of the court.

The machine described in this patent is designed for burnishing the edges of the sole of a boot or shoe after it has
been trimmed by a cutter to the desired shape, and consists of
a combination of three elements:
1. A tool for burnishing sole edges;
2. A lip or guard, which forms part of the tool;
3. A finger-rest.
After the sole is outlined and cut in proper shape, it is first
required to be trimmed, and then to be burnished, so as to present a neat and finished appearance. The burnishing tool must
be of the same shape in outline as the trimming tool, in order
to properly burnish the parts of the edge which have been
shaved or trimmed by the cutting tool. Cutting or trimming
the edge of the sole and burnishing the same with a tool have
been practised time out of mind in the art of making shoes;
but within the past fifty years there has grown up a separate
business in the manufacture of edge trimmers and edge burnishers, the outline of each tool corresponding with that of the
other. The machine shown and described in the Helms patent
in suit consists of a reciprocating tool-holder, carrying an ordinary burnishing tool, and an adjustable finger-rest or hook,
the front surface of which projects just below the tool. The
function of the tool is to burnish the edge of the sole in the
same manner as when the sole is burnished by hand, the face
of the burnishing tool corresponding to that of the cutter
which has been used to trim the edge to the desired shape.

UNION EDGE SETTER CO. v. KEITH.
Opinion of the Court.

The function of the finger-rest or hook is to furnish a support
to the finger and steady the hand of the operator when burnishing the sole edge, especially when burnishing the corners
of the toe.
The controversy between these parties turns largely upon
the meaning of the words "crest for the face of the sole," as
used in the first claim of the patent, which reads as follows:
"In combination with the burnishing tool and the rest for the
face of the sole, the finger-rest D, substantially as described."
While these words are used several times in the specifications,
the rest is nowhere exactly located, nor is it lettered or otherwise indicated upon the drawing. The plaintiff contended that
it referred to the guard or lower flange of the burnishing tool,
which it claimed performed this additional function of affording a rest for the fade of the sole, while the defendant insisted
that it referred to the upper part of the finger-rest or hook.
If it refers to the upper part of the finger-rest, then it is admitted that the defendant does not infringe; if it refers to the
lower flange of the burnishing tool, a further question arises
as to whether there is any novelty in the combination.
Some light is thrown upon this question by a reference to
the file wrapper and contents, which are spread upon the
record. In his original application Helms states that his
machine consists "of a head or standard carrying a toolholder holding a tool for setting or burnishing the edges of
the soles of boots and shoes, and a finger-rest to aid the workman in holding the edge up to the tool." This finger-rest D
he describes as a " hook-shaped piece secured to the head near
the tool, as shown in the drawings. For convenience it is
mounted upon a tang, which is held by a set screw. It should
be made of some non-conductor of heat, or else be wrapped
with some non-conducting wrapper." In its operation he
says "the workman presses the edge up against the tool and
gradually moves the shoe so as to bring all parts of the edge
to its action, steadying the shoe by the aid of the finger-rest
D, especially when burnishing the corners of the toes." He
'
winds up his specification by saying that " the finger-rest D is
the main feature of my invention, all the other points of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

novelty of my machine relating to new combinations of old
elements," and claims1. In. a burnishing machine the finger-rest D, constructed
and operating substantially as described.
2. The combination of the finger-rest D, the burnishing
tool, and the elastic holder B, as set forth.
The third claim is immaterial.
One thing is clearly apparent from this, and it cannot be
better stated than the patentee himself has stated it, namely,
that the finger-rest D was the main feature of his invention.
To this application for a patent the examiner having the
matter in charge replied that his first claim was anticipated in
the patent of B. J. Tayman, March 11,- 1873, No. 136,790. The
Tayman patent, which is made an exhibit, shows a finger-rest
identical with that of the patent in suit. In view of this rejection he amended his application by erasing the first clause
of his claim, and substituting the following: "1. In combination with the burnishing tool, and the rest for the face of the
sole, the finger-rest D, substantially as described." To this the
examiner replied as follows: "Attention is called to the fact
that the finger-rest in the above-cited case is stated to be the
main feature of the alleged invention. A rest for the same
purpose is shown in Tayman's patent, and the other elements
claimed in combination have been shown by the references to
be old separately, and if the finger-rest performs any new
function in this instance, in combination with the tool and
holder here used, it should be clearly stated. It is not understood what is meant by the words in the first claim now presented, viz., 'the rest for the face of the sold.' Additional
amendment is therefore necessary before the case can be further considered."
Again the patentee amended his application, 1st, by inserting immediately after the words "to aid the workman in holding- the edge up to the tool," the words "and the face of the
sole against the rest which is just below the burnishing part of
the tool." 2d. By inserting immediately after the words "the
workman presses the edge up against the tool," the words "and
the face of the sole against the surface which projects below

UNION EDGE SETTER CO. v. ]KEITH.
Opinion of the Court.

the tool." It will be observed here that in this first amendment the rest is described as just below the burnishing part of
the tool. If the burnishing part of the tool be confined to the
flat portion or bed, then the word "rest" would indicate that,
it was intended to apply to the lower flange. But amendment
2 would indicate that by the rest was meant the surface which
projects below the tool, not below the burnishing part of the
tool; and, therefore, forming no part of the tool, which would
tend to support the claim of the defendant that it was intended
to apply to the upper part of the finger-rest, which is the only
surface which projects below the tool. 3. By erasing the
paragraph immediately before the words "What I claim as
my .invention is," and substituting therefor the following:
"The combination of the finger-rest D with the burnishing
tool and the rest for the face of the sole is the main feature of
my invention; all the other points of novelty in my machine
also relate to new combinations of old elements." This also
would indicate that the rest for the face of the sole was something distinct, both from the finger-rest and from the burnishing
tool, which is impossible, as it must necessarily form a part of
one of them.
The changes between the specification and claims contained
in his original application and those finally allowed, are shown
in the following parallelism, the amendments being italicized:
OriginalSpecification.
"My machine is extremely
simple, and consists of a head
or standard carrying a toolholder holding a tool for setting or burnishing the edges
of the soles of boots and shoes,
and a finger-rest to aid the
workman in holding the edge
up to the tool.

Patent aOlowed.
"My machine is extremely
simple, and consists of a head
or standard carrying a toolholder holding a tool for setting or burnishing the edges
of the soles of boots and shoes,
and a finger-rest to aid the
workman in holding the edge
up to the tool, and thefqwe of
the sole against the rest which
is just below the burnishing
part of the tool

OCTOBER TERIf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"The workman presses the
edge up against the tool, and
theface of th sole against the
surface which _projects below
the tool, and gradually moves
the shoe so as to bring all
parts of the edge to its action,
steadying the shoe by aid of
the finger-rest D, especially
when burnishing the corners
of the toes.
"The combination of the
"The finger-rest D is the
D with the burnishfinger-rest
invention,
of
my
feature
mainall the other points of novelty ing tool and the Pest for the
in my machine relating to face of the sole is the main
new combinations of old ele- feature of my invention; all
the other points of novelty in
ments.
my machine also relate to new
combinations of old elements.
"What I claim as my invenmy
invenas
I
claim
"What
tion
is, 1. -Incombination with
tion is, First. In a burnishing
machine, the 'finger-rest D, the burnishing took"and the
constructed and operating sub- Test for theface of the sole, the
finger-rest D, substantially as
stantially as described."
described."
From this it is entirely clear that the patentee supposed
originally that he was the inventor of the finger-rest, but upon
being referred to the Tayman patent, and finding that he had
been anticipated, he resorted to the device of "a rest for the
face of the sole" to save his patent. Not only is the location
of this rest left in considerable doubt as a matter of construction from the face of the patent, but the oral evidence as to
the intention of the patentee, and. as to the actual operation
of the machine, is scarcely less ambiguous. When first
called as a witness, the patentee Helms stated: "What I
intended to be the rest f6r the face of the sole, when burnishing a shoe edge, was a finger-hook so constructed that it
would at once answer for a rest of the sole of a shoe, and a
"The workman presses the
edge up against the tool and
gradually moves the shoe so
as to bring all parts of the
edge to its action, steadying
the shoe by the aid bf the
fnger-rest D, especially when
burnishing the corners of the
toes.

UNION EDGE SETTER CO. v. KEITH.
Opinion of the Court.

guide to help the operator to steady the shoe under the action
of the polisher while in motion by grasping the hook with his
finger."
In answer to the question, "Please point out upon the
exhibit Helms's model, the part referred to in the patent
as the rest for the face of the sole?" he said, "That part
I should designate as below the polisher and on the front of
the hook." He again states that it was his original intention
to keep the tread or I- ttom of the sole in contact with the
face of the finger-hook while burnishing the toe portion of
the shoe, and that it was feasible on a -great many kinds of
goods. He also states that the drawing of the patent shows,
according to his judgment, that the tread or bottom of the
sole does not touch the front face of the finger-rest, "which
appears to me to differ somewhat from the real intention
shown by me." On being subsequently recalled, however,
and being shown the Patent Office model of his patent, he
says he should not think it possible to polish the sole properly on a machine of that pattern while holding the face of the
sole against the finger-rest; and upon being asked what he
intended to be the rest for the face of the sole in burnishing
sole edges with such machine at the time he filed his application for patent, says: "I shall have to say that when I filed
the application for this patent, which the model represents,
that it must have been the back lip of the polisher shown in
the modeL" In fact his testimony is so confused and contradictory that it is impossible to make anything out of it, except that, on finding his finger-rest to have been anticipated,
he fell back upon the rest for the face of the sole, as a dernier
resort,to save his patent, without clearly understanding in his
own mind what was meant by the words.
A witness who had used the machine at a factory in Albany
testified, that during four seasons he-burnishod sole edges on
the Helms machine, always resting the face of the sole against
the finger-hook. Another, who was foreman of a shop at
Brockton, Mass., testified that when, the machine was first
used they placed the face of the shoe against the tool, and
the face of the sole against the finger-rest, and so used it for

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

about four weeks. It would appear from this testimony that
the patentee's original idea was that the front face of the
finger-rest constituted a rest for the face of the sole, and that
in accordance therewith. the first machines were made with
the finger-rest projecting far enough forward under the burnishing tool to furnish a rest for the sole. This, however, was
found to be impracticable, and the use of the upper part of
the finger-hook as a rest seems to -have been abandoned, and
the claim made that the lower flange was intended as a rest.
The truth seems to be that, if the finger-rest be moved far
enough forward and the front surface shaped at the proper
angle, the face of the sole can be rested thereon, but when
moved some distance back it becomes impracticable.
We do not find it necessary, however, to express a decided
opinion as to the construction of this patent. In view of the
ambiguity of the language used, and of the confusion and
contradiction in the oral testimony, we prefer to adopt the
construction contended for by the plaintiff, and dispose of the
case upon another ground. Conceding the plaintiff's constructidn to be correct, and reading the first claim as if the
rest for the face of the sole were a distinct element, we find
the combination of this claim to consist, 1; of a burnishing
tool; 2, a flange at the lower edge of such tool, against which
the operator may rest the sole; 3, a finger-rest. All of these
elements are old. Burnishing tools have been employed for
finishing off the edges of boot soles from time immemorial,
and the flange or guard which the patentee dignifies as a rest
for the face of the sole was attached to the old hand tools
before the invention of burnishing machines, and has since
been attached to machines operated by power, as shown in
patent No. 28,181, to Elias T. Ingalls, which describes a reciprocating tool having a flange or guard, called in the patent "a
horizontal lip," which bears on the face of the sole. It may
be true that Helms was the first to use a burnishing tool having a guard, in connection with a finger-rest,, and that his
machine is probably superior to other devices of like design,
but as all of these elements were old, and no new function is
performed by the combination, it is a case of mere agglega-

1NlIO1

EDGE SETTER CO. v. KEITH.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, which it is well settled is not patentable. The Tayman
patent shows the finger-rest in connection with a cutter for
trimming the edge of the sole, at one end of a shaft, at the
other end of which is a revolving burnisher, to which Tayman did not see fit to attach his finger-rest. It certainly did
not require invention to change the finger-rest from one end
of the shaft to the other, or to attach it to a reciprocating
instead of a revolving burnisher, both being old, nor does it
add to its importance to change the name of the guard or lip,
and call it a rest for the face of the sole.
Undoubtedly the result is a more perfect machine, but it is
simply more perfect because of the cotperation of a greater
number of elements, and not because of any new function performed by the combination. Counsel for the plaintiff has
made a most ingenious argument to show that a new function is performed by the combination in determining the tilt
or slant of the sole by the angle required of the edge with the
tread. But that is rather an incident to the. operation of the
machine, attributable to the skill and deftness of the operator,
than any new and distinct function belonging to the machine
itself.
If any separate function had been performed by this combination, it is somewhat singular that the patentee did not
call attention to it in his original application, or until after
the main feature of his patent was shown to have been anticipated. We think that this patent falls within the many rulings of this court holding that a mere aggregation of old
elements in a new relation is not the subject of a patent.
.Reckendorfer v. Faber, 92 U. S. 347; Pickering v. .McCullough, 104 U. S. 310; te.henson v. Brookbln Cross-Town
.Railroad,114 U. S. 149 ; .Hendy v. .2finers' Iron Works, 127
U. S. 370; Iaies v. 'an Wormer, 20 Wall. 853.
It results that the decree of the court below dismissing the
bill must be
Affir med

