CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PULLMAN CAR CO. 79
Syllabus.

CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPA1NY v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 118. Argued December 16, 1890. -Decided March 2, 1891.
The Pullman Southern Car Company, operating drawing-room and sleeping
cars, hired ten of such cars to a railroad company at the compensation
of three cents per mile per car for every mile run by its cars upon
the lines of the railroad company. The railroad company agreed,
when requested, to repair the cars furnished under the contract as it
might become necessary, and, without request, to make such repairs as
were required to insure their safety, rendering bills monthly to the Pullman Company and charging for such repairs only the actual cost of the
material and labor expended. The railroad company assumed responsibility for damages to the cars occasioned by "accident or casualty"
while the sleeping car company assumed responsibility for loss or damage arising from defective heating apparatus or lights furnished by it.
The latter company was to have the exclusive right for fifteen years to
furnish drawing-room and sleeping cars on all passenger trains of the
railroad company, the latter binding itself not to contract with any other
party to run said class of cars on and over its lines duning that period.
If either party failed to keep and perform its covenants the one not in
default could, upon ivritten notice, declare the contract at an end. The
railroad company had the option to terminate the contract at the end of
five, eight or eleven years, upon written notice served six months before
the date fixed for such termination- Two of the sleeping cars, the
Louisiana and Great Northern, were entirely destroyed by fire originating
"from a cause unknown;" the former at the time of the fire being on
the railroad track under a depot shed used by the railroad company to
store cars when not in actual transit, and the latter being in a shop belonging to the railroad company, known as the Phllman repair shop, which
had been assigned to the exclusive use of the sleeping car company as a
place where it could repair its own cars. This shop at the time of the
fire was in the possession of the Pullman Company, the railroad employ6s having no access thereto. The Great Northern had been in that
shop for repairs by its owner for six months before the fire, and but for
the fire would have been in condition to have been again put in actual
useby the railroad company on the day succeeding the fire. Both the
Louisiana and the Great Northern were insured by the Pullman Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.
After the fire the insurance companies paid $19,000 in full settlement o,
the loss and damage, and this action was brought by the Pullman Company against the railroad company to recover the value of the burned
cars under an agreement between it and the insurance companies that the
recovery should be equally divided by them. There was a verdict and
judgment for the plaintiff. Held,
(1) The fire having "originated from a cause unknown" the losses were,
within the meaning of the contract, "occasioned by accident or
casualty."
(2) The collection of the insurance money did not affect or impair the
right of the sleeping car company to recover the amount of the
loss according to the contract with the railroad company. Upon
payment of the loss, or to the extent of any payment by them on
account of the loss, the insurance companies were subrogated to
the rights of the insured and could in its name,, or in their joint
names, maintain an action against the railroad company for indemnity, if the latter was liable to the insured for the loss of the
cars; this, because the liability of the railroad company was, in
legal effect, first and principal, and that of the insurer secondary,
not in order of time but in order of ultimate liability.
(3) The contract was not void as being in general restraint of trade or
against public policy. The contract is to be interpreted in view of
the condition implied, by law that the sleeping car company should
furnish cars not only adequate and safe but sufficient in number
for the use of the public travelling over the lines of the railroad
company. Such condition was not and could not have been dispensed with. Whether the agreement is so far divisible that the
stipulation giving the 'sleeping car company exclusive rights and
binding the railroad company not to make similar contracts with
other parties during the stipulated term could be separated from
the other provisions,.qucere.
(4) The railroad company was responsible for thle loss of the Louisiana
because it was in active service under the contract, and was in the
possession and under the exclusive control of the railroad company
for the purpose simply of being cleansed and resupplied for another
trip whenever the railro.ad company chose to pit it into service.
(5) The railroad company was not liable for the loss of the Great
Northern, because that car at the time of the fire was in the exclusive possession of the sleeping car company and, when burned,
was not subject to be used by, nor under the supervision of, the
railroad company.

THn case is stated in the opinion.
.Ab. Girau7t Farrarand .Afr. T om'as J. &mnmes for. plaintiff in error. .Mf'. James Fentress was with him on the brief.

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PULLMAN CAR CO.

81

Opinion of the Court.

.frr. George B. Easti and AL1. Edcgar 17. Farrarfor defendant in error. Mr. Thomas F. Hargis and -rA1.Sterling B.
Toney were with them on the brief.
M

.. JUSTicE HARL

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the Pullman Southern Car Company to recover from the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans
Railroad Company the damages alleged to have been sustained
on account of the destruction by fire of two of the plaintiff's
sleeping cars, the Great Northern and the Louisiana, while on
the premises of the defendant. There was a verdict and judgment for the sum of $19,000, with interest from September 20,
1886, the date of judicial demand, at the rate of five per cent
per annum until paid, with costs. The assignments of error
relate entirely to instructions given on behalf of the plaintiff,
and to the refusal to give instructions asked by the defendant.
The action is based upon a written agreement between these
corporations, dated April 5, 1879, showing that the business
of the plaintiff was to operate drawing-room and sleeping cars
which it hired, under written contracts for a term of years to
be used and employed on and over the lines of railway companies, receiving therefor income and revenue by the sale to
passengers of seats, berths and accommodations therein; and
that the defendant was desirous of availing itself of their use,
on its own routes, and also of connections, by means of such
drawing-room and sleeping cars, with other railroads over
which the plaintiff was running its cars. In order to effect
the objects of the parties it was, among other things, agreed
as follows:
1. The plaintiff was to furnish drawing-room and sleeping
cars "sufficient to meet the requirements of travel," on and
over the defendant's railway, and such roads as the latter then
or thereafter controlled as owner, lessee or otherwise; the cars
so furnished to be satisfactory to the general manager or
superintendent of the railroad company, and to be in part certain named cars, ten in number, among which were the Louisiana and the Great N.orthern, then operated on the defendant's
VOL. CXXXVIC-6

.82

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

lines. 2. Each of the plaintiff's cars was to be manned, at its
own cost, by one or more of its employes, as might be needful
for the collection of fares and the comfort of passengers; such
employes to be subject to the rules and regulations established
by the defendant for its own employes. 3. "In consideration
of the use of the aforesaid cars" the defendant was to haul
them on passenger trains on its own lines of railroad, and on
passenger trains on which it might, by virtue of contracts or
running arrangements with other roads, have the right to use
them, "in such manner as will best accommodate passengers
during the use of said cars." 4. By article sixth of the agreement, all necessary lubricating material, ice, fuel and material
for lights, were to be supplied, and the washing and cleansing
of the cars furnished under the contract to be done, by the
defendant at its expense, which should also renew and replace,
as often as necessary, links, pins, bell-cord and couplings for
air-brake hose, without charge to the plaintiff. 5. The plaintiff was to keep the cars furnished under the contract in good
order and repair; renew and improve them, when necessary,
at its own expense; keep them up to the average standard of
the best and most approved sleeping cars on any road using
an equal number of cars, "excepting repairs and renewals
provided for in article sixth of this agreement, and such as
are made necessary by accident oi casualty, it being understood that the railway company shall repair all damages to
said cars of every kind occasioned by accident or casualty
during the continuance of this contract, except that the Pullman Company assumes all respbnsibility for any loss or damage occurring to said cars arising from defective heating apparatus or lights furnished by it." 6. As proper compensation
for the maintenance of the running gear and bodies of the
cars, the defendant was to pay plaintiff "three cents per car
per mile' for every mile ran by said cars upon the road of the
railway company or upon the roads of other companies by
direction of the officers of the railway company while in service under this contract;" and, at all times, when requested
by the plaintiff, to make promptly such repairs to the cars
furnished under the contract as might from time to time be-

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PULLM-AN CAR CO.

83

'Opinion of the Court.
come necessary, and, without request, make such repairs as
were required "to insure their safety, rendering bills monthly
to the Pullman Company for repairs to cars and charging for
the same only the actual cost of material and labor expended
on such repairs, with an addition of ten per cent to cover general expenses, all settlements and payments for mileage and
repairs to be made monthly between said companies." 7t.
-Whenever the revenue from sales of seats and berths equalled
an average of $7500 per car per annum upon the number of
cars furnished under the contract, then, and while such revenue continued, the defendant should not pay mileage for any
car so furnished; the plaintiff, in such case to bear the ex-*
pense of all repairs and improvements to its cars, "except such
repairs as are rendered necessary by accident or casualty and
such as are provided for in article sixth of this agreement,
which shall be made by the railway company, as hereinbefore
mentioned." 8. The plaintiff was to have the exclusive right,
for a term of 15 years, from the date of the agreement, to
furnish drawing-room and sleeping cars for the defendant's
use on all its passenger trains on roads then or subsequently
controlled or owned by it, and on roads over which it had the
right to run such cars; the defendant not to "contract with
any other party to run said class of cars on and over said
lines of road during said period of fifteen years." 9. In case
either party failed to cleanse or repair any of the cars, according to the conditions of the agreement, and the party so in
default should neglect and refuse to perform its agreement in
this respect within a reasonable time after notice of such
default, the other party had the right to cleanse, and make or
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals to said
cars, at the cost of the party in default. 10. If either party
failed, at any time, to keep and perform its covenants, as set
forth in the agreement, the one not in default, after the e4iration of a reasonable time from the service of written notice
of such default, was at liberty to declare the contract at an end.
11. The defendant was given the option to terminate the contract at the end of five, eight, or eleven years, upon written
notice to the plaintiff, served six months before the day fixed

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

for such termination; and, if the contract was so terminated,
without default upon the part of the plaintiff, the defendant
was required to purchase the cars and equipments of the Pullman Company "then in use or assigned and accepted for
use" under the contract, or such interest therein as the defendant .may not have previously acquired under the provisions of
this contract, at the actual cash value of the same," with the
right to use them without charge for patent rights for their
interior arrangements. For the purposes of the option given
to terminate the contract, it was agreed "that the cars now
[then] running on said railroad, and which should form part
of the cars and equipments to be furnished under this contract, together with such additional cars and equipments as.
may hereafter be assigned to the railway company, shall be
appraised, etc." 12. The taxes upon all cars furnished to the
defendant by the plaintiff were to be paid equally by the
parties.
It was in proof that at the time of the fire the cars Great
Northern and Louisiana were insured for the plaintiff; that
before the commencement of this action the insurance companies paid to it, in full settlement of the loss and damage,
the sum of $19,000; and that this action is prosecuted under,
a written agreement between the plaintiff and the insurance
companies, that it should be conducted jointly by their counsel, and the amount recovered by suit, settlement or compromise, equally divided between them.
The ten cars mentioned in the agreement of April 5, 1819,
were furnished to the defendant and were used on its road.
Subsequently to that date, the plaintiff having complained of
the manner in which its cars were repaired at the defendant's
shops in McOomb City on its road about 105 miles above New
Orleans, the latter, by its president, suggested that the plaintiff repair its own cars. Thereupon, in order to facilitate
such repairing, a part of the passenger-car depot shed of the
defendant in New Orleans was set apart to the exclusive use
and control of the plaititiff, which, at its own expense, fitted
up the portion so assigned to it - one part as a linen room,
one 4s a carpenter shop, one as an upholstery room and one

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PULLN

CAR CO. 85

Opinion of the Court.

as a paint shop- enclosing the same with partitions and
keeping it locked with the keys in possession of its own employ~s. The place so fitted up was known as the "Pullman
repair shop." The employ~s of the defendant had no right
,of access to it. Although the tracks of the defendant extended into this repair shop, there were folding-doors across
them that were. closed, by an iron bar on the inside. The
plaintiff paid nothing for the use of this shop. The watchman over the whole premises wa maintained by the defendant. With the permission and consent of the defendant, the
plaintiff, on one or two occasions, repaired and varnished in
that shop cars assigned by it to other railroads, and not covered by the agreement in question.
The fire in question "originated from a cause unknown" in
the "Pullman repair shop." It occurred about 3 o'clock on
the morning of the 27th of May, 1882, and resulted in the
total destruction of both the Great Northern and the Louisiana. The Great Northern was at the time standing on the
defendant's track in the paint room of that shop, behind the
barred folding-door across the railroad tracks. It had been
there since the previous October undergoing repaiis, refitting,
and revarnishing, and its name changed to that of "Chatawa."
But for its destruction it would have been in condition on the
day succeeding the fire to be again put into service under the.
contract of 1879. There was no evidence that any other car
was furnished to take its place on the defendant's road while
it was in the shop undergoing repairs. When the fire occurred,
the Louisiana was standing on the defendant's track, in New
Orleans, under a depot shed belonging to it, and used to store
cars when not in actual transit - those belonging to it as well
as those belonging to the plaintiff. That shed was called by the
defendant's employs the "Pullman shed." The Louisiana
reached New Orleans about 3 o'clock in the afternoon of May
26, 1882, from a trip over defendant's road, was placed in the
above depot shed, and was to have been sent out on another
trip at 6 o'clock on the afternoon of May 27, 1882. The
Great Northern, when burned, was under the same depot
shed, but, as already stated, in that part known as the Pullman

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

repair shop. It is in evidence, that at various times during
the existence of the contract sued on, the plaintiff took some
of the ten cars, furnished under it, to shops in St. Louis, Missouri, and Pullman, Illinois, entirely off the line of defendant's
-road, in order to be repaired, so as to bring them up to the
designated standard.
The question of negligence was left to the jury, which was
instructed that the plaintiff could not recover if the fire was
"caused by its negligence.
I. The jury were instructed, at the request of the plaintiff,
that a damage or destruction by fire is a casualty or accident
within the meaning of the contract. This the defendant contends was error. We do not think so. The fire that destroyed
the Great Northern and the Louisiana originated, as we have
seen, from a cause unknown. An apcident or casualty, according to common understanding, proceeds from an unknown
cause or is an unusual effect of a known cause. Either may
be properly said to occur by chance and unexpectedly. Webster's Dict.; Imperial Dict. It was no doubt used in that
sense by the parties to the contract in question. They manifestly contemplated that the railroad company should assume
all responsibility for the loss of drawing-rpom or sleeping cars,
while in use, or subject to be used, by it, with the single exception, distinctly made, of loss or damage occurring "from
defective heating apparatus or lights furnished" by the Pullman Company, which assumed all responsibility, for loss or
*damage to its cars resulting from either of the latter causes.
This exception in respect to defective heating apparatus aid
lights furnished by the plaintiff- necessarily referring to loss
or damage by fire caused in either of those modes - renders
it clear that the railroad company assumed responsibility for
the loss of *cars used or subject to be used by it under the contract; whenever such loss was by fire occurring from a cause
unknown, that is, accidentally or from casualty.
2. The jury were instructed that the insurance of the cars
by the plaintiff was res inter alios o.act and had no determining effect upon the right of the plaintiff to recover in this
action. The giving of this instruction has been assigned for

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PULLMAN CAR CO.

87

Opinion of the Court.

error. We are of opinion that the obtaining of insurance by
the plaintiff, the collection of $19,000 in full settlement of its
claim against the insurance companies, and the agreement
between it and them for the bringing of this action for their
joint benefit, were matters with which the railroad company
had no concern, and cannot affect the determination of this
case. By the provisions of the policies, the insurance companies were entitled, in case of loss, to an assignment of the
plaintiff's right to recei. e satisfaction therefor from any other
person or persons, town or corporation, with a power of
attorney to sue for and recover the same at the expense of the
insurer. Upon payment of the loss, or to the extent of any
payment by them on account of such loss, the insurance companies were subrogated to the rights of the insured, and could,
in the name of the insured, or in their joint names, maintain
an action against the railroad company for indemnity, if that
company was liable to the insured for the loss of the cars.
The acceptance of a given amount from the insurance companies in full discharge of their liability, did not affect the
right of the plaintiff to recover from the railroad company
the whole amount of the loss for which the latter was responsible under its contract. The plaintiff could recover only one
satisfaction for the loss; and if the amount recovered from
the railroad company, increased by the sum collected from the
insurance companies, was more than sufficient for its just
indemnity, the excess would be held by it in trust for the
insurance companies. The inquiry in this action*is as to the
amount for which the railroad company i's
bound on its contract with the plaintiff, and the recovery is not affected or
limited by the amount collected from the insurance companies.
As said in Mobile & Xontgomer7y Railway v. Jurey, 111 U. S.
584, 593-which was a suit against a carrier- "although
the suit is brought for the use of the insurer, and it is the sole
party beneficially interested, yet its rights are to be worked
out through the cause of action which the insured has against
the common carrier. The legal title is' in the insured, and the
carrier is bound to respond for all the damages sustained by
the breach of his contract. If only part of the loss has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

paid by.the insurer, the insured is entitled to the residue."
See also Pkenix Insurance Oompany v. Erie Taizsortaion
Company, 117 U. S. 312, 320, 321. This is because, as said by
Chief Justice Shaw in Hart v. Western Railroad Corporation,
13 Met. 99, the liability of the railroad company is, in legal'
effect, first and principal, and that of the insurer secondary,
not in order of time, but in order of ultimate liability. So
in -Weber v. Af-owis & Essex Railroad, 35 N. J. Law, 409:
"Notwithstanding such payment, an action will lie by the
insured against the railroad company. The insurance is t? be
treated as a mere indemnity, and the insured and insurer
regarded as one person; therefore, payment-by the insurer
before suit brought cannot affect the right of action." To
the same effect are numerous other cases. Fretz v. Bull, 12
How. 466, 469; Hall & Long v. Railroad Companies, 13
Wall. 367, 370; Mierrick v. Van ,Santvoord, 34 N. Y. 208;
Conn. -FireIns. Co. v. E.rie Railway, 73 N. Y. 399; Clark v.
Wilson, 103 Mass. 219; Hayward v. Cain; 105 Mass. 213;
Gales v. Hailman, 11 Penn. St. 515; .Per'rottv. ,Shearer, 17
Michigan, 48; Peoria Ins. "Co. v. Frost, 37 Illinois, 333;
Conn. -Hut.Zife Ins. Co. v. Nfew York & NSew Haven Rail-road,25 Connecticut, 265; Swartwout v. Chicago &
rthwestern Railway, 49-Wisconsin, 625. The principle is thus stated
by Lord Blackburn in Birnand v. -Rodocanachi,7 App. Cas.
333, 339: "The general rule of law (and it is obvious justice)
is, that where there is a contract of indemnity (it matters not
whether it is a marine policy, or a policy against fire on land,
or any other contract of indemnity) and a loss happens, anything which reduces or diminishes that loss reduces or diminishes the amount which the indemnifier is bound to pay; and
if the indemnifier has already paid it, then, if anything which
diminishes the loss comes into the hands of the person to
whom he has paid it, it becomes an equity that the person
who has already paid the full indemnity is entitled to be
recouped, by having that amount back." Castellain v. Preston, 11 Q. B. D. 380. It results that the court was right in holding that the insurance upon the cars and the collection by
plaintiff of the insurance money were immaterial matters in

CHICAGO &c.RAILROAD Co. v. PULLMAX CAR CO.

89

Opinion of the Court.

this litigation. The action was well brought in the name of
the plaintiff pursuant to its agreement with the insurance
companies.
3. It is assigned for error that the court refused to instruct
the jury that the agreement sued on was void as against public policy, because of the exclusive rights given to the plaintiff
for the term of fifteen years in respect to drawing-room and
sleeping cars furnished by it to the defendant, supplemented
by the stipulation that the defendant would not "contract
with any other party to run the said class of cars on and over
said lines of road during said period of fifteen years;" and
because the law will not permit individuals to oblige themselves by a contract, when the thing to be done or omitted is
injurious to the public. Oregon Steam Nav. Co. v. Winsor,
20 Wall. 64, 66; ChappeZ v. Brockway, 21 Wend. 157, 159.
Such a contract, it is argued, is in general restraint of trade.
The authorities cited in support of this contention have no
application to such a contract as the one before us. The defendant was under a duty, arising from the public nature of
its employment, to farnish for the use of passengers on its
lines such accommodations as were reasonably required by the
existing conditions of passenger traffic. Its duty, as a carrier
of passengers, was to make suitable provisions for their comfort and safety. Instead of furnishing its own drawing-room
and sleeping cars, as it might have done, it employed the
plaintiff, whose special business was to provide cars of that
character, to supply as many as were necessary to meet the
requirements of travel. It* thus used the instrumentality of
another corporation in order that it might properly discharge
its duty to the public. So long as the defendant's lines were
supplied with the requisite number of drawing-room and sleeping cars, it was a matter of indifference to the public who
owned them. -ExpressCases, 117 U. S.1, 24, 25. We cannot
perceive that such a contract is at all in restraint of trade.
The plaintiff was at liberty, so far as that contract was concerned, to make similar arrangements for the accommodation
of passengers on all other railroads in the country, even those
that are rivals or competitors in business with the defendant.

OCTOBER TERJ, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, a fundamental condition in all such contracts
that their provisions must not be injurious to the public. As
said by this court in (herokee .latiom v. Kansas Railway Co.,
135 U. S. 641, 657, a railroad is a public highway, established
primarily for the convenience of the people and to subserve
public ends. A railroad corporation cannot, therefore, without the sanction of the government creating it, make any
agreement that militates against .the public convenience, or
that will defeat the public objects for which it was established.
If the contract in suit was liable to objection upon these
grounds, a different question would be presented for our determination. But we are of opinion that public policy did not
forbid the railroad company from employing the Pullman
Southern Car Company to supply drawing-room and sleeping
cars to be used by its passengers, and, as a means of inducing
the plaifitiff to perform this public service and to incur the
expense and hazard incident thereto, from giving it an exclusive right to furnish cars for that purpose. The defendant
did not, by such an agreement, abandon the duty it owed to
the public; for the cars so furnished, while in its possession
and use,, became, as between it and its passengers, its own
cars, subject to such regulations as it might properly establish
for the comfort and safety of passengers on its trains. .Pennsylvania,Company v. Boy, 102 U. S. 451, 457. And the contract is to be interpreted in view of the condition, implied by
law, that the plaintiff should furnish cars not only adequate
and safe but sufficient in number for the use of the public
desiring to travel over the defendant's roads. These conditions exist independently of the particular clause giving the
railroad company the option to terminate the agreement at
the end of five or eight or eleven years. Being -imposed by
law, as necessary to the public interests, they could not be dispensed with by agreement of the parties. The designation of
particular periods of time, at the end of either of which the
defendant might,, of right and upon notice, terminate the
agreement, did not tie its hands so that it could not continuously discharge its duty to the public in respect to the
adequacy or safety of cars in which it conveyed passengers.

CHICAGO &c. IAIIROAD CO. v. PUIhLMA4N CAR 60. 91
Opinion of the Court.

The stipulation, therefore, that the plaintiff, ;not being in default should have the exclusive right for fifteen years to furnish drawing-room and sleeping cars for the defendant's use,
and that the defendant should not, during that period, contract for cars of that kind with any other party, rightly construed is not unreasonable, and, properly performed, will
promote the convenience of the public in that it enables the
defendant to have on its lines, at all times, and as the requirements of travel demand, drawing-room and sleeping cars for
use by passengers. It is a stipulation that does not inteifere
in any degree with its right and duty to disregard the contract
whenever the plaintiff fails in furnishing cars that are adequately safe and sufficient in number for the travel on defendant's lines. The suggestion that the agreement is void, upon
grounds of public policy, or because it is in general restraint
of trade, cannot, for the reasons stated, be sustained.
Besides, it is not clear that the agreement is so far indivisible, that the stipulation giving the plaintiff the exclusive
rights in question, and binding the defendant not to make
similar contracts with other parties for drawing-room and
sleeping cars to be used on its lines, cannot be separated from
the other provisions. If that stipulation were held to be void,
upon the grounds suggested, we should be inclined to hold
that, as between the parties, the provision making the railroad
company liable for loss or damage, arising from casualty or
accident, to the plaintiffs cars, while in the possession of and
subject to use by the defendant, remained in force. Erie
Railway Co. v. Union Locomotive and Ewxpe.s Co., 35 N. J.
Law, 240, 246.
4. There can be no doubt that thb railroad company was,
under the evidence, liable to the plaintiff on account of the
loss by ifre of the Louisiana. The contract covered cars that
were assigned by the plaintiff to the defendant's use, while
they were in actual transit over its lines or over the lines of
other companies on whose roads they were sent by the defendant. It equally covered such as were under the defendant's immediate control While in its own yards or sheds for
the purpose simply of being cleansed and resupplied for

OCTOBER TER]M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

another trip when the defendant chose to put them into actual
service. That was the situation at the time of the loss by fire
of the Louisiana. It had a few hours before come from active
service on the defendant's road, and, but for its destructibn,
would have been put upon the road for another trip in the
afternoon of the very day of the fire. Such a case is plainly
embraced by both the letter and spirit of the contract. A
peremptory instruction to find for the plaintiff in respect to
the Louisiana would not have been erroneous.
5. The remaining instructions involved the liability of the
defendant on account of the destruction by fire of the car
Great iNorthern. The defendant asked the court to instruct
the jury as follows: "That if the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant company, by arrangement with the
plaintiff company, in the year 1879, set apart at their depot
in the city of New Orleans a certain portion of said depot for
the exclusive use and benefit of plaintiff as a repair shop,
wherein the cars of the plaintiff mentioned in the contract
sued on were to be repaired by the plaintiff at its own expense,
and the said space was inclosed, fastened and locked, and the
keys thereof were kept by the plaintiff or its agents so that
access thereto by the defendant or its agents was only such
access as was necessary to enable the defendant company to
take possession of repaired cars when tendered for service by
the plaintiff, and that at the time of the fire, on the 27th of
May, 1882, the car Great Northern was in -the said repair
shop, and bad been there for a period exceeding six months,
for the purpose of being repaired, and that at the time of the
fire said car had not been tendered for service as a car completely repaired and equipped for service to the defendant,
although ready to be tendered, then the jury must find that
the defendant is not liable for the loss of the said car Great
Northern or for any damage thereto by fire aforesaid." This
instruction was refused except with this modification: "Unless
the jury further find that the said car had been withdrawn
from the dominion of the contract, and it was held, according
to the understanding of both parties, for some other purpose
-that is, for some other purpose than those of the contract."

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PULLIA

CAR CO. 93

Opinion of the Court.

The court, in its general instructions to the jury, said: "It was
undoubtedly competent for the parties to this action to have
withdrawn their cars from the dominion of the contract, but
to constitute such a withdrawal there must be the intent of
the plaintiff to retain them for some purpose other than to
continue their use under the contract; and if the jury find
that there was a placing of the cars in the separate room or
apartment with the intent, on the part of the plaintiff, to use
them independently of the contract and not under it, thei" the
defendant would not be liable for their destruction. If, on
the other hand, the jury find that though there was a placing
of the cars in the separate room or apartment, but with the
intent to continue to use them under the contract, and to hold
them so placed merely for the purpose of repair under the
contract, and the defendant shared this intent, then the defendant would be responsible for their destruction by fire. In
determining this question the jury will consider all the facts
and circumstances established, including the fact that the cars
remained on the tracks of the defendant, and will further consider whether the defendant is shown to have any relations to
these cars except under the contract."
The defendant, also, asked this instruction: "That if the
jury believe that the two cars, Louisiana and Great Northern, were destroyed by fire at the depot of the defendant company, while the said cars were not in actual use and service
by the defendant company, then they must find a verdict for
the defendant." The court refused to give- this instruction,
saying: "I refuse that instruction, provided you find that
they were being repaired under the pontract. That's the test
which the court gives you all the way through - whether
these cars, according to the meaning of the parties, were or
were not under the contract, the contract providing for repairing as well as running." The court having, in this connection,
instructed the, jury, at plaintiff's request, that "the said contract covers the said cars while standing on the tracks of the
defendant in the yards, and under thd sheds used for storing
cars while not in transit," said that the contract covered the
cars "while standing on the tracks of the defendant in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

yards and under the sheds used for storing cars while not in
transit, but while held for transit or repair on defendant's
tracks under the contract."
It was not error to refuse that one of defendant's. requests
for instructions, predicated upon the theory that its liabilityfor the loss of a car from accident or casualty depended upon
such car being, at the time, in its "actual use and service."
Of. course, the defendant meant by this instruction, and the
jury would have understood, that a car was not in actual service while it was standing on the defendant's tracks, "between
trips." That theory would have relieved it from responsibility for the loss of the Louisiana, although that car had come
from the road only a few hours previous to the fire, and was,
when destroyed, in the immediate possession and control of
the railroad company, being cleansed and prepared for the use
of passengers on another trip to be entered upon in the afternoon of the day of the fire. We have already said that this
interpretation of the contract was unsound., But we are of
opinion that the court below erred in not giving, without
modification, the first of the above instructions asked by the
defendant. By the terms of the agreement, the railroad company was bound, upon -request, to make promptly such repairs
of the cars furnished to it as might from time to time become
necessary, and, without request, to make such as their, safety
demanded. The length of time the Great Northern was in
the repair shops indicated either that repairs were necessary
to its safety or that "the requirements of travel" did not
make it necessary to assign another sleeping car in its place.
But whatever may have been the fact in that regard, the
Great Northern was not, within any fair interpretation of the
contract, in the possession or under the control or supervision
of the defendant, or subject to be used under and for the purposes of the contract, while it was in a repair shop of which
the plaintiff had the keys, and to which the defendant's employ~s bad no access. We do not mean to say that a car,
furnished by the plaintiff, ceased to be under "the dominion
of the contract" while it was being repaired as provided for
in the contract. On the contrary, if the Great Northern had

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD. CO. v. PULLAIK CAR CO. 95
Opinion of the Court.

been destroyed by fire, the result of accident or casualty,
while in the possession of the defendant, undergoing ordinary
repairs, it would have been liable for the loss. No doubt the
defendant's assent to liability for losses or damages resulting
from accident or casualty, was because the agreement contemplated that the cars furnished to and held by it under the contract would be, all the time, - whether they were on its road

in actual service or in its shops undergoing repairs, - in its immediate possession and control, thereby insuring the safety of
the cars, so far as the vigilance of its own employ6s was concerned, from loss or damage from the causes named. But the
Pullman Company became dissatisfied with the manner in
which the repairs were made by the defendant, and undertook
itself to make such repairs, in a shop set apart to it for that
specific purpose, and placed under its exclusive "control, and
to which the defendant's agents had no access. The defendant agreed to be liable for loss or damage, from accident or
casualty, if the loss occurred while the cars were in its possession, subject to be used by it or subject to its control, care and
supervision; but not otherwise. That is the meaning of the
contract. Looking at the whole agreement, and giving full
force to all its provisions, the defendant cannot be held to
have agreed to be liable for loss or damage accruing from accident or casualty, while the cars were in the exclusive possession and subject to the entire control of the plaintiff, and not
subject to be used, controlled or cared for by the defendant,
.until the plaintiff chose to surrender its exclusive possession,
and return the cars to the possession and control of the railroad company. Upon the theory sanctioned by the court
below, we do not perceive but that the defendant would have
been liable for the loss of the Great Northern, if it had been
removed to the shops of the Pullman Palace Car Company at
Pullman, Illinois, to be repaired, and, after being there from
October, 1881, until Mfay, 1882, .had been burned up while in
those shops - a result that surely could not have been contemplated by the parties. In our opinion, the evidence did not
disclose a case of liability under the contract, upon the part
of the defeiidant, for the destruction by fire of the Great

OCTOBER TERMT, 1890.
Syllabus.

Northern; and an instruction to the jury to that effect would
not have -been improper.
-7we jdgment is Teverseci and the cause remandedfor a new
tial in conformity with tkhis o},inion.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case or take any
part in its decision.

CLARK v. BEVER.
ERRiOR To THE CMUIT COUMT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERx DISTRICT OF IOWA.
.No. 116. Argued December 15, 16,1890.-Decided March 2,1891.

In 1872, an Iowa railroad corporation, being indebted to a construction
company in the sum of $70,000 which it was unable to pay in money, had
a settlement with the latter, whereby the debt was paid in shares of the
stock of the railroad company of the par value of $350,000. The stock
was taken at 20 cents on the dollar, but was not, at the time, worth anything in the market. Greene, a member of the construction company,
received 910 shares as his part. Subsequently, in 1876, the railroad and
its appurtenances were sold under a decree foreclosing a mortgage given
to secure the bonds of the railroad company. Clark, a holder of bonds
issued by the railroad company in 1874, obtained judgment for the
amount due him, tipon which execution was issued and returned'in 1880,
no property. Greene having died, Clark brought suit against his administrator in one of the circuit courts of Iowa, sitting in probate, to hold
his estate liable for the difference between what was paid for .the stock,
and its face value, upon the ground that the stock of the corporation'
was a trust fund for creditors, and that as between creditors and stockholders, the latter was bound to account for its face value. Upon the
petition of Clark, the case was removed to and tried in the Circuit Court
of the United States, where a verdict was returned by direction of the
court for the defendant. Held,
(1) That as the proceeding involved a judicial determination of the liability of Greene's estate for the claim in qluestion, with parties
before the court to contest all questions of law and fact, it was a.
"suit" within the meaning of the act of Congress providing for
the removal of suits from the state courts. It is not competent
for a State, by legislative enactment conferring upon its own
courts exclusive jurisdiction of proceedings or suits involving the

