WALTER A. WOOD CO. v. SKINNER.
Statement of the Case.

general power granted to corporations has been exercised, the
terms and conditions under which it may be exercised are subject to legislative control. It may change or modify them as
it sees fit, and the law in force at the time the mortgage is
executed, with all the conditions and limitations it imposes, is
the law which determines the force and effect of the mortgage.
That law in this case was the law of 1877, which subordinated
the mortgage to the lien of subsequent judgments, for claims
of the nature of those held by appellees.
We see no error in the ruling of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and it is therefore
Affirmed.

WALTER A.. WOOD MOWING AND REAPING MACHINE COMPANY 9). SKINNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 1235. Submitted March 9, 1891. -Decided

March 23, 1891.

In determining the ground upon which a judgment in a state court was
rendered, this court may refer to the opinion of that court.
When it does not appear upon what ground the highest court of a State
placed its judgment, and the judgment may be supported without deciding a federal question, this court is without jurisdiction of it in error.

THis action was originally brought in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York by Skinner, the defendant in error, for
a breach of contract on the part of defendant (plaintiff. in
error,) in refusing to account and pay for the use of a certain
patented invention, known as an improvement in oil-hole
covers for journals, described in letters patent No. 124,092,
and reissue of the same, No. 10,064. The case was referred
to a referee, who found substantially the following facts in his
report:
1st. That the plaintiff and defendant entered into an agreement whereby it was agreed on the part of the plaintiff that
defendant should have the exclusive right of using plaintiff's

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

oiler on mowing and reaping machines, and should have the
right, but not exclusive, to use it on other machines; and on
the part of the defendant, that it would use the oiler on its
mowing and reaping machines, and would pay the plaintiff
the reasonable value of such use. 2d. That defendant proceeded to make and apply to its mowing and reaping machines
a device exactly similar to the plaintiff's oiler, except that in
the plaintiff's oiler the periphery of the conical head of the
spring plug was scalloped, while in the device made and applied to such machines by the defendant such periphery was
circular and not scalloped. 3d. That the defendant's oiler was
a mechanical equivalent for the plaintiff's oiler. 4th. That
prior to any invention by the plaintiff, an oiler was illustrated
and described in Webster's Dictionary, edition of 1869, substantially similar to defendant's oiler, and was represented as
fitted to perform the same functions, and in substantially the
same way. 5th. That the said making and application of
defendant's oiler was so done in pursuance of the license obtained frQm the plaintiff by virtue of such agreement, and was
in fact a use of plaintiff's oiler under such license. 6th. That
the value for such us, was 5 cents for each of 233,081 machines
upon which it was applied. Judgment having been entered
upon the liuling of the referee, an appeal was taken to the
court in general term, by whicl an opinion was rendered and
filed affirning the judgment. An appeal was then taken to
the Court of Appeals, by which the judgment was again
affirmed, no opinion having been delivered or filed. Thereupon the defendant sued out a writ of error from this court,
assigning as error, first, That the claim of the patent, upon
which plaintiff sought to recover royalties, was limited to a
conical-headed and scalloped spring plug, and that the patent
particularly set forth the scalloping of the conical head, the
defect in the device improved upon, and how the same was
obviated by such scalloping; and that the said courts erred in
holding that the claim was not for a scalloped head, but for
the combination, with other elements, of a conical head,
whether the same was or was not scalloped. Second. That
the referee found that the defendant promised to pay the

WALTER A. WOOD CO. v. SKL4TNER.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff the reasonable value of the patented device, and also
found that if the claim for the patent was for nothing more
than a scalloped conical head, in combination with other elements, the same was worthless, and that plaintiff ought not to
recover; and that said courts erred in holding that, because
the claim was substantially for a conical head, whether said
head was or was not scalloped, defendant was liable for more
than nominal damages. Third. That the state courts also
erred in their conclusion that defendant had actually used
plaintiff's inventiou, it being found by the referee that defendant had not used such device, unless the claim of the patent
was for a conical-headed spring plug, with or without scallops.
Fourth. That such holdings were an erroneous construction of
the letters patent, and necessarily involved the legal effect of
the patent laws of the United States.
A motion was thereupon made -bythe defendant in error to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction, coupled with a motion to
affirm.
Mr. Tames Lansing for the motion.
.Mr. Ezek Cowen opposing.
MR.

JUsTICE

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is well settled by a long series ot adjudications that, to
give this court jurisdiction by writ of error to a state court, it
must appear affirmatively, not only that a federal question
was presented for decision to the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction, but that its decision was necessary.to the
determination of the case, and that it was actually decided, or
that the judgment as rendered could not have been given without deciding it. DeSaussurev. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216.
Now, while the trial court appears to have held the defendant liable upon the ground that it had agreed to use the plaintiff's device upon all of its machines, and also upon the ground
that it had in fact used them, or their mechanical equivalent,
it is very evident from an examination of the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-general term, which we are at liberty to consult,k Philadelhi
-FireAssociation v. New York, 119 U. S. 110, that neither the
construction nor the validity of the plaintiff's patent was regarded as material. That court found the agreement on the
part of the defendant to be that, in consideration of the right
to the exclusive use of the plaintiff's device, it would use it
upon all mowing and reaping machines, and would pay a rea•sonable value for such use. "IBy the terms of the agreement,"
said the court, "it was not incumbent upon the plaintiff to
show that the defendant did actually use it upon such machines.
It was sufficient for him to show the number manufactured
during the existence of the agreement. Neither can the de"fendant evade liability by proving that it did not use it, because
his agreement was, in ,effect, that he would pay a reasonable
value for its use upon all mowing and reaping machines manufactured, and it cannot now be permitted to escape payment,
as provided by the agreement, by proof that, without 'the
knowledge of the plaintiff, it omitted to place the attachment
upon machines manufactured by it. .

.

.

The views thus

expressed render it unnecessary to consider the question discussed by the referee, as to whether or -not the defendant did
use plaintiff's device upon its machines." Under this view,
the only question of fact was the value of the use of the device,
which he referee fixed at five cents, and his finding upon that
point is conclusive.
The defence" to the case was that the defendant did not
make use of the plaintiff's spring plug, which had a scalloped
head, but did make use of an oiler shown in Webster's Dictionary, which was practically the same, exc6pt that it did not.
have a scalloped head, its contention being that the scalloping
of the head was immaterial and useless, and that the device so
far a it was useful had been anticipated. But the referee
found that, by accepting the license and agreeing to use the
plaintiff's'patented device, the defendant was estopped to deny
the validity of the patent to.the full extent of its claim, and
if, as he found, the defendant made use of the device set forth
in the claim of the patent, or its mechanical equivalent, it was
liable, thoughin an action for infringement of such claim, it

MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION v. HAMLIN.

297

Syllabus.

might have been adjudged invalid. But, as before stated, the
general term found it unnecessary to determine whether the
defendant had actually made use of the device or its eguiva.
lent, and held it to be liable upon the ground that it had
agreed to use it upon all its machines, and was, therefore,
bound to pay its value as fixed by the referee.
It does not appear upon what ground the Court of Appeals
proceeded in affirming this judgment, but as the case might
properly have been determined upon a ground broad enough
to support the judgment without resort to a federal question,
this court has no jurisdiction. Beauyre v. Noyes, 138 U. S.
397; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300.
The writ qf error must, therefore, be dismissed for want o
jurisdiction.

JMUTUAL RESERVE FUND LIFE ASSOCIATION v.

HA.MLIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 184. Argued March 2,3,1891.-Decided March 23,1891.

The plaintiffin error was an association formed "to furnish substantial aid
to their families or assigns in the event of a member's death." The
husband of the defendant in error became a member, and received a certificate stating thatin consideration, among other things, " of the payment
of all dues and of all mortuary assessments" his wife should be entitled
to receive $10,000 from the death fund of the association. The constitution and by-laws of the association provided that a mortuary assessment should be made on the first days of February, May, August and
November, but did not fix any rate; that it should be the duty of a member failing to receive notice of an assessment on or before those days,
to notify the home office thereof; and that a failure to pay the assessment within thirty days. from said first days should work a forfeiture of
membership. When the husband died he had failed for more than thirty
days to pay an assessment which had been made, and had not informed
the association that he had failed to receive notice of it. To an action
brought by the beneficiary to recoi-er the amount insured the association
set up these failures in defence. Held,

