ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

481

Opinion of the Court.

ELECTRIC

APPEAL

GAS-LIGHTING COMPANY v. BOSTON
ELECTRIC COMPANY.

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF 'MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 232.

Argued March 20, 1891.-Decided April 6, 1891.

Claims 2, 4 and 5 of reissued letters patent No. 9743, granted June 7, 188].
to the Franklin Electric Gas-Lighting Company, as assignee of Jacob P_
Tirrell, the inventor, for improvements in electrical apparatus for lighting street lamps, etc., (the original letters patent, No. 130,770, having
been granted to said Tirrell, August 20, 1872, and the application for the
reissue having been filed Fcbruary 21, 1881,) are invalid, as against the
defendant's apparatus, constructed under letters patent No. 281,345,
granted Jul3 17, 1883, to the Boston Electric Company, as assignee of
Charles H. Crockett, the inventor, on an application filed April 11, 188,
for improvements in electric gas-lighters.
The original patent and-the reissue compared, as to the specification and
the claims.
The state of the art at the (late of the invention described in No. 130,770.
set forth.
The history of the application for the reissue, given.
The delay of 8 years in applying for the reissue is not explained; there
was no inadvertence, accident or mistake; and the sole object of the
reissue was to unlawfully expand the claims.

IN equity, for the-infringement of letters patent.
dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed.

Decree

3Tr. Edward P. Payson andI Xrr. Edwin I. Brown for
appellant.
.Mr. John E. Abbott and J3/r. John L. S. Roberts for appelleeMR.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court-

This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of theUnited States for the District of Massachusetts, on the 1st of
May, 188-, by the Electric Gas-Lighting Company, a Maine'voL. cxxxix-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation, against the Boston Electric Company, a Mfassachusetts corporation, for the alleged infringement of claims 2,
4 and 5 of reissued letters patent No. 9743, granted June 7,
1881, to the Franklin Electric Gas-Lighting Company, as
assignee of Jacob P. Tirrell, the inventor, for improvements in
electrical apparatus for lighting street lamps, etc., the original
letters patent, No. 130,770, having been granted to said Tirrell,
August 20, 1872, and the application for the reissue having
been filed February 21, 1881. The plaintiff became the owner
of the reissued patent by assignment on the 6th of May, 1882.
The defences set up in the answer are prior use, want of
novelty and patentability, invalidity of the reissue and noninfringement. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, (29 Fed.
Rep. 455,) and the plaintiff has appealed to this court.
The alleged infringing apparatus is constructed under letters
patent No. 281,345, granted July 17, 1883, to the defendant,
as assignee of Charles H. Crockett, the inventor, on an application filed April 11, 1883, for improvements in electric gaslighters.
The only difference of consequence between the original
patent, No. 130,770, and the reissue, No. 9743, is in the claims,
the text of the two specifications being almost substantially
the same, and the drawings differing only as to scale. The
specification is as follows, words in the original which are
omitted in the reissue being here enclosed in brackets, and
words foand in the reissue and not found in the original being
printed in italics; small letters, which designate parts of the
drawings, being printed in italics in both of the specifications:"Be it known, that t, Jacob P. Tirrell, a citizen of the United
States, [of Charlestown], residing in T est Somerville, in the
county of Middlesex and State of Massachusetts, have invented
certain new and useful improvements in electrical apparatus
for lighting street lamps, etc., and I do hereby declare that the
following is a full, clear and exact description of the same
reference being had to the accompanying plates of drawings.
This invention relates to that class of electrical apparatus for
lighting street lamps in which the current is successively
thrown into the magnet at each burner, one after another; and

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON, ELECTRIC CO.

483

Opinion of the Court.

under this invention the circuit-breaker is located at the burner,
and, by the direct action of the current through the magnet
located at the burner, the circuit-breaker and the valve to let
on or turn off the gas are both operated, and the current, after
the opening or closing, as the case may be, of the valve to one
burner, is completely cut off from the magnet of such burner
and thrown into the magnet of [the] next burner, and so on.
In the accompanying plates of drawings the present invention
is illustrated. In Plates 1 and 2, Figures 1 and 2 are elevations from different sides. In P]ate 3, Fig. 3 is a partial plan
view and horizontal section; Figs. 4 and 5, [detail] detailed
views.
"A in the drawings represents a gas-burner, to which B is
the feed pipe, provided-with two horizontal platforms, C and
D, for carrying the apparatus of this invention; E [is] a U
magnet horizontally located and secured on the lower platform, C, with the pipe B in and between the legs F of the
magnet; G [is] the armature properly located with regard to
'the magnet E and secured to the lower end of an upright
lever, H, turning upon a fulcrum at I of the feed pipe B; J
[is] the circuit-breaker, secured [in] to the upper end of the
lever 1 and projecting upwards to the plane of the escape of
the gas from the burner; K, a post-in upper platform D, and
in electrical connection with the earth. At the 'upper end of
-the post K is a horizontal platinum arm, b, against which rests
the point a of the eircuit-breaker J when the lever H is at
-rest; L [is] a.spiral spring applied to lever H to throw back
the armature G from the magpet E; 0 [is] an upright ann.
This arm 0, at-its lower end, is hung upon a fulcrum, d, of. an
insulator,block, e, on platform 0, and at its upper end it is in
a position to bear against the periphery of a sector-wheel,f,
fixed to the spindle g of valve in gas-pipe B; e [is] a bent
spring applied to arm" 0 to .hold it against the sector-wheel f,
and when escaping from the periphery thereof, to swing it on
its fulcrum. The arm 0 at P, between its two ends, is insulated. A is a finger-piece projecting horizonthly from lower
end of arm 0. This finger-piece A, at its outer end, lies in a
position between the two pins I and qn, projecting horizontally

OCTOBER TER3, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

one above the other from the block e. The lower pin 1 extends
wholly through the block e,and similarly projects therefrom
[upon] fi'om its other side, being there lettered as 12. The
upper pin, 2im, only enters the block; but on the opposite side '
of the block thereto a similar pin 'n?, is located, also only entering the block. Q is an arm similarly constructed, arranged
and hung on the block e, to the arm 0. This arm Q is in a
position to bear upon the periphery of a sector-wheel, n, fixed
to the gas-valve spindle g, and for its finger-piece l2 to lie in
and between the projecting pins 2 and 7/z of the block e.
The sector-wheel n is back of the sector-wheel f. The two
sector-wheelsf and n are of equal diameter, of an equal length
of arc-that is, a half of a circle. The two together complete the circumference. The relative location of the sector:
wheelsf and n on the valve-spindle is such that with the arm
O on the periphery of [its] thle sector-wheel f the arm Q will
be off the periphery of its sector-wheel n, and vice versa; and
the purpose of the said sector-wheels is to turn their respective
arms 0 Q so as to bring about a bearing between their respective finger-pieces Ai? and the lower pins 112 and also to allow
the springs applied to the said arms 0 Q to react and bring their
finger-pieces into contact with the upper pins amn. R is a
ratchet-wheel, secured to gas-valve spindle back of inner sectorwheel n; and S a spring pawl hung to lever IT and arranged
fromn the movement of such lever to act upon the ratchet-wheel
R to turn it in the direction of the arrow, Fig. 1, Plate 1. In
lieu of a ratchet-wheel, a friction-wheel and clutch may be
employed, such as shown in Fig. 5. M and N are wires leading from the electric battery employed. The wire Al is to let
on and the wire N to shut off the gas at the burner A. The
current is thrown into the one or the other of said wires by
means of a double switch such as is employed ordinarily in
electrical gas-lighting apparatus [apparatuses], and, therefore,
needs no particular description herein. The wire 11 connects
with the arm 0 and the wire N with the arm Q. T is a wire
connecting lower pin I with magnet E ; and U a wire connectifn magnet with circuit-breaker J. V and W are wires respectively connected with upper pins v?. and m 2,from which

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

485

Opinion of the Court.

they are to lead to the next burner, and to such burner become
the letting-on and turning-off wires, as the wires M and N to
the burner A.
" The position of the several parts composing the mechanism
hereinabove described is at all times, if at rest, substantially.
that shown in Fig. 1, Plate 1, and only differs therefrom in
any condition of rest, in the relative position of the two arms
0 Q, according as the one or the other is bearing on its respective sector-whelf or n. By the shown positions of the two
arms 0 and Q, the finger-piece A of arm 0 is against the lower
pin 1, and the finger-piece A2 of arm Q against the upper pin
of
m 2 of block e. This relative contact with the pins 112 in
they
maintained,
always
is
arms
the finger-pieces to the two
never being .both .at the same time in contact with the lower
pins 112, or the upper pins i m2 , but always the one with a
lower pin and the other with an upper pin alternately. [With
the arms 0 and Q in the relative positions described and
shown, if now] If, now, with the arms 0 and Q in the relative positions described and shown, a current of electricity be
thrown into the wire Al, (which, as stated, is the letting-on
wire,) it is obvious it will pass into the magnet, (the connection
being through arm 0, finger-piece h, pin l and wire T,) thence
to the circuit-breaker J; and then, as the circuit is complete,
the armature G will be drawn towards the magnet, turning its
lever II on its fulcrum, which carries the circuit-breaker J beyond the end of the platinum arm b, breaking thereby the circuit and emitting an electric spark. This breaking of the
circuit destroys the attractive force of the magnet, and leaves
the lever II to be pulled backward by the spring L, which
backward movement of the lever. completes the circuit by
bringing the circuit-breaker into contact with the platinum
arm b,. when another attraction of the armature G occurs,
again breaking the circuit, emitting a spark, and so on, as before.. By this alternate forward and backward movement of
the lever H, the ratchet-wheel R on gas valve-spindle is intermittently rotated, carrying with it the valve-spindle g and sector-wheelsfn. If this rotation of the valve-spindle g be continued sufficiently, the periphery of the sector-wheelf will be

OCTOBER TER31, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

carried beyond the arm 0, leaving it free for its spring to act
upon it, and thus to throw its finger-piece A out of contact
with the lower pin 1, and into contact with the upper pin m,
and the periphery of the sector-wheel n will be brought to
bear upon the arm Q, throwing its finger-piece A2 out of contact with the upper pin n2, and in contact with the lower pin 12.
"With the movement of the sector-wheelf beyond its arm
0, and of the sector-wheel , on to its arm Q, as above described,
results have been effected as follows: First, the gas-valve or
stop-cock has been opened to its fullest extent, and as, at each
stroke of the lever II, caused by the successive attraction of
the armature, the circuit was broken and a spark emitted, it
is obvious the gas necessarily must have been lighted; second,
the current of electricity through wire 11 is cut off from the
magnet E and thrown into the wire V leading to the magnet
of the next burner, and which, as before stated, is the lettingon wire to such burner; third, a connection has been established between the magnet E and the shutting-off wire N, so
that, when desired to shut off the gas from the burner A, the
operator has only to make the necessary connection between
battery and slhtting-off wire. The connection between the
shutting-off wire N and the magnet is through arm Q, its finger-piece At2, pin 2 and wire T. In shutting off the gas at the
burner, the operation of the parts is precisely similar to the
letting-on of the gas, and therefore needs no particular description; and on its completion the arm Q escapes from its sectorwheel n, and the arm 0 passes on to its sector-wheelf, re-establishing the connection between letting-on wire and iagnet, as
before. Completing the shutting-off of the gas at one burner
throws the current into the wire W leading from such burner
A to the next burner, which wire -W to the said next burner is
the shutting-off wire. In Fig. 4, the valve in gas-pipe is shown
in detail, and [it] is such that in a half-turn of the spindle g the
gas will be let on, and, continuing the turn, shut off. The location of the circuit-breaker at the gas-burner is such that, as it
breaks the circuit by escaping from the platinum arm b, the
spark emitted will be sufficiently near to the escaping gas [as]
to ignite the same, and it is desirable that the movement to let

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

481

Opinion of the Court.

on the gas should be so divided as to emit a sufficient number
of sparks to insure the lighting of the gas. I do not claim
turning on and off the gas by means of a step-by-step motion,
as such is not my invention. flaying thus described my-invention [I shall state my claims] what I claim is as follows."
The trivial verbal changes in the specification of the reissue
show that there were no defects or insufficiencies in the specification of the original patent, which required correction; and
that the sole object of the reissue was to multiply and alter
the claims, which were increased in number from three to six.
The claims of the original patent were as follows: "1. A
circuit-breaker, located at the burner and operated automatically, substantially as described. 2. In combination with the
above a lever, adapted and arranged to open and close the
stop-cock or valve of the burner and carrying the circuitbreaker, substantially as herein described. 3. The arms 0 Q,
N, magnet E,lever H,
sector-wheelsfn, pins 1 12 m m2, wires _Mi
carrying armature G, circuit-breaker J, and pawl S, and the
ratchet-wheel R, all combined and arranged together and applied to a gas-burner for operation substantially as and for the
purposes set forth."
The -laims of the reissue are ts follows: "1. In an apparatus
for lighting gas by electricity, the combination of two wires
through which currents of electricity are passed, an electromagnet electrically connected therewith and attracting an
armature which actuates mechanism, substantially as described,
for automatically turning on the gas and lighting the same by
an electric spark at the tip of the gas-burner, and also for
turning off the gas to extinguish the light, substantially as
described. 2. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity,
the helix of an. electro-magnet connected at one end with the
wire through which the current of electricity is passed,-and at
the other end with the circuit-breaker located at the gasburner, so arranged that the current of electricity is passed to
the circuit-breaker through said magnet, attracting an armatureactuating mechanism operating automatically t6 turn on the
gas and light the same by the effects of the primary sparks
made at the tip of the burner from said mhgnet in the circuit.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

a. The arms 0 Q, sector-wheelfn, pins 1 12 m

2

,

wires IMN,

magnet E, lever H, carrying armature G, circuit-breaker J
and pawl S, and the ratchet-wheel; all combined and arranged
together and applied to a gas-burner for operation, substantially as and for the purposes set forth. 4. In an apparatus
for lighting gas by electricity, in combination with a circuitbreaker located at the gas-burner, a lever adapted and arranged
to open and close the stop-cook or valve of the burner, and
carrying the circuit-breaker, substantially as herein described.
5. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, the combination of a wire through which a current of electricity is passed,
actuating mechanism for letting on the gas, and electro-magnet
electrically connected with said wire, and armature operated
by said electro-magnet, mechanism actuated by said armature,
breaking the circuit at the burner tip, and producing there an
electric spark or sparks for lighting the gas, the whole operating automatically. 6. In an apparatus for lighting gas by
electricity, the combination of two wires through which currents of electricity are passed, actuating mechanism for both
letting on and turning off the gas by substantially the same
means, an electro-magnet electrically connected with said wires,
an armature operated by said electro-magnet, mechanism actuated by said armature for breaking the circuit at the burner
tip, and producing there the spark or sparks for lighting
the gas, the whole operating automatically, substantially as
described."
Prior to the invention for which patent No. 130,770 was
granted, many patents had been issued for electric gas-lighting
apparatus, in which the electric current generated by a battery
was used for turning a gas-cock and igniting the gas, and for
extinguishing the gas. Such: apparatus was commonly called
"automatic," to distinguish it from electric gas-lighting apparatus in which the gas-cock was turned by the hand of the
operator and the electric current was used only to ignite the
gas.
In regard to the state of the art at the date of the invention
described in No. 180,770, and as to the nature of the invention
set forth in reissue No. 9743, Professor Henry Miforton, an

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

489

Opinion of the Court.

expert for the defendant, testifies as follows: "The invention
set forth in this patent is, as I understand it, a combination of
instrumentalities, all of them old, both in structure and operation, to produce a certain new effect -namely, the turning on
and simultaneous lighting of a number of street gas-lamps in
succession by means of a single circuit passing successively
through a single magnet in each lamp, said magnet operating
a break-piece, which, by reason of its automatic interruptions,
both produces sparks to ignite the gas and also simultaneously
opens the stop-cock so as to turn on the gas, and then, in conjunction with other mechanism, shuts off the cukrent so as to
arrest further movement when the gas is fully turned on and
passes on the current to the next lamp of the series. This
invention further involves an arrangement by which, by the
use of another circuit, the gas can be turned off successively in
the several lamps by the aid of the sane magnet, break-piece
and the other instrumentalities which were employed to turn
it on. Operating a series of street gas-lamps in succession, so
as to turn the gas on and off by the use of one main conductor
for such operation, and employing only one magnet for both
operations in each lamp, was old, being fully set forth in
patent No. 90,629, June 1, 1869, granted to Edwin E. Bean,
but in this case there was no automatic interrupter for producing sparks at the lamps, but the interruptions were produced
at the lighting station. In this Bean patent, however, the
means employed for turning the gas on and off and shifting
the circuits from lamp to lamp are substantially the same as
in the patent No. 9743.
":Patent No. 101,491, dated April 5, 1870, to Morris and
Reid, shows the shutting off or turning on of the gas by the
direct action of electro-magnets at the several burners, and
the shutting off of the current, when it has done its work in
each burner to the next in the series; but in this patent there
is no automatic interrupter at the burner-tip connected with
either of the gas-controlling circuits, two of which are used
with separate magnets -one for turning on and the other for
shutting off the gas. An automatic interrupter is used in this
case for producing sparks to light the gas, but this is connecteI

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

with a third electro-magnet, which is arranged in a third main
circuit.
"Again, patent No. 12i,301, dated November 28, 1871,
granted to J. P. Tirrell, shows a single magnet with automatic
break-piece, actuating, by means of a pawl and ratchet-wheel,
the apparatus for turning the gas on or off aiid for shifting
the circuit to the next lamp of the series, as in patent No. 9743.
In this case, however, the gas is ignited by a spark obtained
from a helix, used as a primary induction coil, located at the
burner, whose break-piece, however, is operated by the magnet
which turns on the gas.
"Again, in patent No. 121,302, dated November 28, 1871,
granted to J. P. Tirrell, the operations of turning on and
turning off and shunting to the next lamp in series are accomplished by the use of two electro-magnets, while the ignition
is effected by a separate helix, exactly as in the patent last
referred to.
"It thus appears that at the date of patent No. 9743 and of
its original issue, 130,770, August 20, 1872, it was old to use
an electro-magnet connected at one end with a wire through
which the current of electricity is passed, and at the other
end with a circuit-breaker located at the gas-burner, and so
arranged that said circuit-breaker, acting upon and with said
magnet, operates a mechanism for turning on or off the gas
and shifting the circuit to the next lamp in series, and at the
same time connecting the said electro-magnet and circuitbreaker with another wire, through which a current of electricity may be passed to reverse the previous operation of
turning on or off when it is desired so to do. It was also old
to cause the interruption producing the spark which ignited
the gas, by means of the magnet which turned the gas on."
He adds, in regard to No. 130,770, and No. 9743: "The
apparatus shown for carrying out .the invention consists of a
single magnet provided with an armature, which armature
operates a pawl, which in turn operates a ratchet-wheel, connected with which ratchet-wheel are a gas-cock, and two circuit-shifting cam-wheels, whereby the circuit changes, referred
to as the novelty of the invention, are occasipned through ap-

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

491

Opinion of the Court.

propriate switches. The vibration of the armature is caused
by the vibrating point located at the burner tip. The operation of the apparatus is that, as soon as the current of electricity is thrown through the single controlling magnet, in the
operation of lighting the gas, the armature is put into vibration by reason of the automatic circuit-breaker located at the
burner-tip. The first movement of the armature occasions a
spark at the burner-tip, and the same electricity which does the
work of operating the armature flows in its circuit through
the circuit-breaker at the burner-tip, whereby the vibrations
of the armature for turning on the gas and the sparks at the
burner for lighting it are simultaneously produced. It is
obvious that this operation would continue indefinitely, and
the gas would be turned off and on successively in the operation, were it not for the circuit-breaking cams. When the gas
has been turned on to its full extent, the circuit-breaking cams
come into operation, and the circuit through the magnet of
the burner is interrupted, and the circuit is sent into the next
lighting apparatus. The result of this is twofold. In the
first place, the apparatus is automatically arrested when the
gas is fully turned on; and, in the second place, the current is
transmitted to the next apparatus for the purpose of igniting
the same. By this ingenious contrivance, a battery sufficient
to light one gas-burner only can be employed to light a great
number on a single line, because it is only employed to do its
work on the magnet of one gas-burner at a time. Then that
magnet and its accompanying operative parts are thrown out
of circuit and the current is devoted to operating the next apparatus. In order, however, that this combination should be
operative for the purpose set forth, it is necessary that the
vibrating armature and interrupter should be used in connection with the other agencies described in patent 1o. 9743,
such as the pawl and ratchet-wheel, and the cam-wheels and
levers for shifting the circuit at the proper time. Thus, without the pawl or ratchet-wheel or some equivalent, the vibratory
movement of the break-piece or interrupter could not be utilized to turn the gas on and off -when required, and without the
cam-wheels, levers, etc., controlling the circuits, the turning-on-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and-off device would be useless, because it would not be under
control, but would go on turning the gas on and off in rapid
succession, and leave it either on or off, as chance might determine, when the current was cut off at the lighting station.
In my opinion, therefore, this invention consists in a combination of agencies, all of which are necessary to render it operative. These instrumentalities are the two conducting circuits .X
and N, the electro-magnet F, the vibrating interrupter H with
its contact point a at the burner-tip, the pawl S, the ratchetwheel R attached to the valve or stop-cock, and also to the
sector-wheels or cams n andf, and lastly, the levers 0 and Q
operating the shifting of circuit from M or N to the magnet F
or the next lamp, as the case may be."
There is also in the record a patent, No. 18,945, granted
December 22, 1857, to Samuel Gardiner, Jr., for a mode of
lighting gas by electricity, in which it is said: "I do not claim
to b3 the discoverer of the fact that illuminating-gas may be
ignited by means of electricity; nor do I claim to be the first
to suggest the lighting of a street of gas-lamps simultaneously
,by means of electricity. A method of doing this is described
on page 125 of the American Year 3ook of Facts, 1851, and
alleged to be the invention of M. Villatte."
Before the date of patent No., 130,770, numerous patents
had been granted by the United States for electric gas-lighting
apparatus; and the state of the art was such that no room was
left for a pioneer or foundation patent for automatic electric
gas-lighting apparatus. There are two classes of such apparatus. One of them employs a step-by-step motion, in which, by
successive electric impulses, the gas-cock is rotated.and always
in the same direction, both for turning on and for turning off the
gas. In such apparatus, there are used a single electro-magnet,
a ratchet-wheel and pawl, a gas-cock which rotates always in
the same direction and switching mechanism. The use of
such switohing mechanism is automatically to divert the electric current to the next burner, and it is absolutely necessary,
for without it the gas-cock would continue to rotate, turning
the gas alternately on and off, and it would be impossible for
the operator to stop the movement of the gas-cock at the desired

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTONT ELECTRIC CO.

493

Opinion of the Court.

point. Apparatus of this class is adapted and intended to light a
series of burners. In apparatus of the second class, there is only
a single electric impulse, and a rocking-gas valve is turned in
one direction to let on the gas and in the reverse direction to
extinguish it. There are two electro-magnets, but no ratchetwheel or pawl, and no gas-cock rotating always in the same
direction, and no switching mechanism or equivalent therefor,
because the apparatus is 'adapted and intended to light only
one burner and not a series of burners. The alleged infringing
apparatus of the defendant belongs to this second class.
The first experience of Tirrell with' electri gas-lighting
apparatus was in 1869, when he was employed by Bean to
make a model of the apparatus for which the patent No.
90,629, of June 1, 1869, before mentioned, was granted to
Bean; and in the year 1870, he assisted in constructing some
electric gas-lighting burners which were applied to street
lamps in Boston, near Boston Common. The following patents have been granted to Tirrell for inventions connected
with automatic electric gas-lighting apparatus: Nos. 121,301
and 121,302, November 28, 1871; No. 130,770, August 20,
1872; No. 184,807, November 28, 1876; No. 206,057, July 16,
1878; and Nos. 230,589 and 230,590, July 27, 1880.
'When the inventions were made for which the two patents
of November 28, 1871, and the two patents of July 27, 1880,
were granted, Tirrell was in the employ of George F. Pinkham,
to whom, as his assignee, the four patents were granted. Pinkham afterward assigned those four patents, for New England,
to the defendant. Dr. William C. Cutler, a witness for the
plaintiff, testifies that in 1872 patent No. 130,770 was sold to
the United States Gas-Lighting Company, which company, in
1879, was succeeded in business and in the 'ownership of the
patent by the' Franklin Electric Gas-Lighting Company, and
that the latter company ceased to do business in 1881. In
each of the two patents, Nos. 121,301 and 121,302, granted to
Tirrell, November 28, 1871, there is a circuit-breaker located
at the auxiliary burner and operated automatioally. There
would be no invention in locating the circuit-breaker at the
main burner and' operating it there automatically. It appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

from those two patents that Tirrell then recognized the state
of the art to be such that invention in automatic electric gaslighting apparatus was limited to 'the specific mechanism described and claimed, or to its known equivalent. No. 121,302
points out the well-founded objections to the ratchet-wheel
apparatus. No. 130,770 shows a ratchet-wheel apparatus containing a single electro-magnet, and dispenses with the auxiliary burner and locates the circuit-breaker at the main burner.
The specification of patent No. 184,80T, granted to Tirrell,
November 28, 1876, states that the invention of that patent
relates more particularly to the electrical gas-lighting apparatus described in patent No. 130,7M0, of August 20, 1872, and
consists " in certain improvements in the construction, combination and arrangement of the parts embraced in said apparatus." It is also evident, from the specification and drawings
of patent No. 206,057, granted to Tirrell, July 16, 1878, that
that patent is for a further improvement in the construction,
connection and arrangement of the several parts of the apparatus described in patent No. 130,770.
Patent No. 230,589, granted to Pinklham, as assignee of
Tirrell, July 27, 1880, is for a ratchet-wheel apparatus containing a single electro-magnet and switching mechanism, and in
which the gas-cock, rotating always in one direction, is opened
and closed by a step-by-step motion and by successive electric
impulses; and the specification states that the invention
"relates to that class of apparatus in which two separate wires
are employed, one for letting on and lighting, and the other
for shutting off the gas." Patent No. 230,590, granted to
Pinkham, as assignee of Tirrell, July 27, 1880, is for an apparatus having two electro-magnets, which does not contain
a ratchet-wheel or switch mechanism, and in which the gascock is opened and closed, as may be desired, by a single
electric impulse. In that apparatus,. sparks are produced at
the burner-tip, after the gas-cock has been opened, so long as
the operator keeps the electric circuit closed, and without
further movement of the gas-cock. The lighting df the gas
is insured by the production of a succession of sparks at the
burner-tip, after the gas-cock has been fully opened. Burners

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

495

Opinion of the Court.

embodying the invention of patent No. 230;590 were the first
ones which operated successfully in practical use; and that
patent was held valid by Judge Colt, in Boston Electric Co. v.
-Fuller,29 Fed. Rep. 515. All of the earlier automatic apparatuses were adapted and intended to light street lamps or a
series of burners, while the apparatus of No. 230,590 -was not
adapted to light a series of burners, but was designed for house
lighting, where it is required that each burner be capable of
being lighted or extinguished independently of any other
burner.
Very shortly after Tirrell made and sold to Pinkham the
inventions described in patents Nos. 230,589 'and 230,590,
granted July 27, 1880, and the applications for which were
filed May 22, 1880, and after the apparatus of No. 230,590
had been put into successful use by the defendant and by other
persons who had acquired the right to use the invention from
pinkham, Tirrell was induced by the Franklin Electric GasLighting Company to apply, in February, 1881, for the reissue
of No. 130,770. Patents No. 121,301, 121,302, 230,589, and
230,590 were then owned by the defendant, for New England.
The record does not disclose who the n owned the other two
Tirrell patents, Nos. 18-,807 and 206,057, for improvements
in the apparatus of No. 130,770. No. 184,807 was applied for
January 14, 1876, nearly three years and five months after
No. 130,770 had been granted; and the second paragraph of
the specification of No. 184,807 says: "This invention relates
more particularly to the electrical gas-lighting apparatus embraced and described in the schedule annexed to the letters
patent of the United States issued to me, dated August 20,
1872, numbered 130,770; and it consists in certain improvements in the construction, combination and arrangement of
the parts embraced in said apparatus, all as hereinafter fully
described." Tirrell's attention -was again specially called to
the apparatus of patent No. 130,770, when he applied, October 18, 1877, for patent No. 206,057; yet it did not occur to
him or to any one else until February, 1881, that No. 130,770
did not claim all that he had invented. Apparatus like that
shown in the drawings of No. 130,770 had not operated suc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1800.
Opinion of the Court.

cessfuUy, and had not been manufactured for several years
prior to 1881. The apparatus of No. 184,807 had not been,
used to any extent.
Although,, the Franklin Electric Gas-Lighting"Company
obtained title to No. 130,770 from the United States GasLighting Company in 1878 or 1879, and Dr. Cutler was an
officer and stockholder of both of those companies during
their existence, and had been a stockholder in, the plaintiff
company, yet the Franklin Electric Gas-Lighting Company,
which ceased to do business in 1881, never put into use any
automatic electric gas-lighting- apparatus after the apparatus
described in No. 230,590 had been invented. Dr. Cutler, in
his testimony, on being asked to state if he knew with what
purpose and intention application was caused by the Franklin
Electric Gas-Lighting Company to be made for a reissue of
No. 130,770, replied: "For the reason that we were told that
we.had no claim for the invention of the turning of the stopcock, and lighting the gas by a single current with one wire,
in .our 1872 patent, and for no other reason." The assent of
the Franklin Electric Gas-Lighting Company to the application for the reissue was signed in its behalf by Dr. Cutler as
its president.,
The only motive which the officers of that company had in
inducing Tirrell to apply for a reissue of No. 130,770, was to
expand its claims so as to cover the inventi6n for which No.
230,590 had been granted. The fie-wrapper and contents in
the matter of the reissue form part of the record. In the
oath to the application, Tirrell states that the patent is inoperative by reason of a defective specification, "and that
such defect consists in the omission of claims for the different
combinations of wires, electro-magnets, armature attracted
thereby, mechanism actuated by said armature, circuit-breaker,
and other elements operating automatically as specified and
claimed in the claims of this application." When the application for the reissue was first filed, it contained the following
eleven claims: "1st. In an apparatus for lighting gas by
electricity, a wire through which a current of electricity is
passed, having electrical connection with an electro-magnet

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

49T

Opinion of the Court.

attracting an armature, which armature actuates mechanisn
operating automatically to turn on the gas and'light the same
by an electric spark or sparks at the tip of the gas-burner.
2d. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, a wire
through which a current of electricity is passed, having electrical connections with an electro-magnet attracting an armature, which armature actuates mechanism operating automatically to turn off the gas and extinguish the light. 3d. In an.
apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, two wires through
which currents of electricity are passed, each wire electrically
connected with the same electro-magnet, attracting an armature, which armature actuates'mechanism operating automatically to turn on the gas and light the same by an electric
spark or sparks at the tip of the gas-burner, and also to turn
off the gas and extinguish the light. 4th. In an apparatus.
for lighting gas by electricity, two wires through which currents of electricity are passed, which wires are electrically
connected with an electro-magnet, attracting an armature,
which armature actuates mechanism operating automatically
to turn on the gas and light the same by an electric spark or
sparks at the tip of the gas-burner, and also to turn off the
gas and extinguish the light. 5th. In apparatus for lighting
gas by electricity, a circuit-breaker located at the burner and
operated automatically, substantially as described. 6th. In
an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, the helix of an
electro-magnet connected at one end with the wire through
which the current of electricity is passed, and at the other end
with a circuit-breaker located at the gas-burner, so arranged
that the current of electricity is passed to the circuit-breaker
through said magnet, attracting an armature-actuating mechan-ism,operating automatically to turn on the gas and light the
same by the effects of the primary sparks made at the tip
of the burner from said magnet in the circuit. 7th. The
arms 0 Q, sector-wheels-f n, pins 11 2, m i. 2, wires Mm Nm,
magnet E, lever H, carrying armature G, circuit-breaker J,.
and pawl S,and the ratchet-wheel, all combined and arrangced
together and applied to a gas-burner for operation, substantially as and for the purposes set forth. 8th. In an apparatus
VOL. cxxxix-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

for lighting gas by electricity in combination with a circuitbreaker located at the gas-burner, a lever adapted and arranged to open and close the stop-cock or valve of the -burner
and carrying the circuit-breaker, substantially as herein described. 9th. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity,
the combination of a wire, through which a current of electricity is passed, actuating niechanism for letting on the gas, an
electro-magnet electrically connected with said wire, an armature operated by said electro-magnet, mechanism actuated by
said armature, breaking the circuit at the burner-tip and producing there an electric spark or sparks, from the effects of
the electro-magnet, for lighting gas, the whole operating automatically. 10th. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, the combination of two wires through which currents of
electricity are passed, actuating mechanism for both letting
on and turning .off the gas by substantially the same means,
an electro-magnet electrically connected with said wires, an
armature operated by said electro-ihagnet, mechanism actuated
by said armature for breaking the circuit at the burner-tip and
producing there the primary or electric spark or sparks for
lighting the gas, mechanism actuated by said armature for turning off the gas, the whole operated automatically. 11th. In
an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, a series of electfomagnets connected with a series of gas-burners, so arranged
that when a current of electricity is passed through a wireactuating mechanism for letting on the gas of the first burner
to an electro-magnet connected therewith, said magnet operates an armature-actuating mechanism operating automatically to turn on the gas of the first burner and light the same
by, an electric spark or sparks -1t the tip of the burner,
and also to cut off the current of electricity from the first
electro-magnet and throw the same into the wire-actuating
mechanism for letting on the gas of the next burner."
In these eleven claims, claims 5, 8 and 7 are substantially
the same, respectively, as claims 1, 2 and 3 of the original
patent. The other eight claims consequently must have been
intended to embrace some invention not covered by the three
claims of the original patent; and it is apparent that the sole

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

499

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of the reissue was to add claims which would cover
all electric gas-lighting apparatus in which one electric circuit
was made use of for turning the gas-cock and igniting the gas;
and it was not until after Tirrell's apparatus of 1880 had been
put into public use that the discovery was made that the claims
of patent No. 130,7110 did not cover his invention.
Under date of March 8, 1881, the examiner rejected claims
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 and 11 of the foregoing, stating that they
were met by Tirrel's patent No. 121,301, of November 28,
1871. Thereupon, Tirrell erased claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 10 and 11,
and inserted a new claim, which was finally allowed as claim
6 of the reissue, and also the following claim: "1. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, the combination of two
wires through which currents of electricity are passed, an electro-magnet or magfiets electrically connected therewith, an
armature or armatures attracted by said magnet or magnets,
and mechanism actuated by said armature or armatures and
operating automatically, whereby the gas is turned on and
lighted by an electric spark or sparks at the tip of the gasburner, and the gas also turned off and the light extinguished,
substantially as described."
In'their communication to the Patent Office, dated March
30, 1881, covering those amendments, his attorneys said: "A
reconsideration of claim 2, formerly claim 5, is respectfully
requested, as it is almost identically the same as claim I of
the original patent. In the former patent of applicant's, cited
as a reference by the examiner, the gas is first lighted at an
auxiliary burner, whose flame ignites the gas at the illuminating burner. In the present application, the circuit-breaker is
located directly at the illuminating, burner, no auxiliary burner
being used. It is believed that the claims as now presented
do not conflict with the reference, and a favorable action on
the case is, therefore, respectfully requested."
It is plain that no invention was required in locating the
circuit-breaker at the main burner, the apparatus operating in
the same way as before, and the auxiliary burner having been
used only for the purpose of securing the supposed advantage
set forth in. patent No. 121,301.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

In reply, the examiner wrote to Tirrell, under date of April
5; 1881, as" follows: "This case has been again examined.
There being but a.single magnet and a single armature shown,
applicant cannot pluralize these terms, as he has done in his
amended first claim. The 1st and 7th claims inserted by
amendment March 27 [30], as well as the third (original.sixth)
claim, are met by Edward E. Bean, 90,629, Jane 1, 1869 (gaslighting). The 2d (original fifth) claim is met by Morris and
Reid, 101,491, April 5, 1870 (gas-lighting)."
On April 29, 1881, Tirrell amended his application by erasing claims I and 2, by inserting a claim which is claim 1 in
the reissue as granted, and by inserting the following claim:
"2. In an apparatus for lighting gas by electricity, a circuitbreaker located at the top of the burner and operated automatically by means substantially as described."
In reply, the examiner wrote, under date of April 30, 1881:
"This case has received further attention. The present second
claim is substantially the same as the original 5th, and is met
by Morris and Reid, 101,491, April 5, 1870 (gas-lighting)."
Thereupon Tirrell erased claim 2, by a communication
in which his attorney said: "The application having been
amended in conformity with the requirements of th& office,
and being a reissue application, an immediate allowance is
respectfully requested."
By thus erasing this claim 2, which was substantially the
same as claim 5 of the original application for the reissue, such
erasure being made on the objection of the Patent Office,
Tirrell effectually conceded that the first claim of the original
patent was invalid. Furthermore, by erasing claim 1, which he
had inserted by his amendment of March 30, 1881, on the objection of the Patent Office that the apparatus of the original
patent showed but a single magnet and a single armature,
Tirrell conceded that he was not entitled to a claim for an
apparatus in which two magnets or two armatures were used;
and the claims of the reissue must be held to be limited to
the specific mechanism claimed in the original patent. Sutter
v. Robinson, 119 U. S. 530, 541.
In the present case, the original patent was not inoperative

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

501

Opinion of the Court.

or invalid by reason of a defective or insdfficient description
of the invention, for the text, of the specification of the reissue,
aside from the claims, is substantially the same as that of the
original. Nor was the application for the reissue made because
Tirrell in the original had claimed as his invention more than
he had a right to claim as new, for his oath declares that the
defect consists in the "omission of claims." The object of
the reissue was to prevent the patent from being confined to
the apparatus illustrated in the drawings and described in the
specification of the original, and to enable it to cover apparatus
covered by patents issued subsequently to the original, and
especially apparatus covered by patent No. 230,590. The new
claims of the reissue are not for the same invention'set forth
in the claims of the original.
It is now contended that the invention which Tirrell really
made, and which he intended to secure by patent No. 130,770,
was the utilizing of one electric circuit both to turn on and
to light the gas; but in the description contained in the specification of the original patent, there was no statement that the
invention consisted in utilizing one electric circuit to do the
work of turning on and lighting the. gas, which formerly had
required two electric circuits, nor was there any claim for such
an invention. The statement in the second paragraph of the
specification, that "under this invention the circuit-breaker- is
located at the burner, and by the direct action of the current,
through the magnet located at the burner, the circuit-breaker
anl the valve to let on or turn off the gas.are both operated,"
is equally true of the apparatus shown in patent No. 121,301,
granted to Tirrell, November 28, 1871, except that in the latter
patent the circuit-breaker is located at the auxiliary burner
instead of at the main burner. The invention which Tirrell
really made is what he claimed in No. 130,770. What be described in the specification of that patent and did not claim is
presumed to have been old.
Moreover, the unexplained delay in applying for the reissue
must be regarded as fatal to its claims. 3filler v.. Brass Co.,
104 U. S. 350, 355; Olements v. Odorless-Aparatus Co., 109
U. S. 641, 649; -Mahn v. Harwood,112 U. S.354, 363; Wolen-

OCTOBERt TERAE, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

s v. 1?eiher, 115 U. S. 96, 100; Ives v. Sargent, 119 U' S. 652,
662; fios1ln v. Fisher, 125 U. S. 217.
Nor was there any inadvertence, accident or mistake such
as would authorize a reissue with new claims. Clements v.
Odorless Apparatus ( o., 109 U. S. 641, 649; 31ahn v. Ra,wood, 112 U. S. 354, 359; Coon v. Wilson, 113 U. S. 268, 277;
.Arewton v. Furst & Bradley Co., 119 U. S. 373, 385; TTorden.
v. Searls, 121 U. S. 14, 24; Matthews v. ironclad3ff. Go., 12g
347.
U. S.
Claim 1 of the original patent cannot be regarded as a proper
foundation for claims 2 and 5 of the reissue, because that claim
was repeated in the application for the reissue, and was abandoned by Tirrell after he had repeatedly attempted, and unsuccessfully, to convince the Patent Office that the invention
set forth in that claim was not anticipated by the patents.
referred to by the office. Nor can it be held that claims 2 and
5 of the reissue are for inventions which the specification of
the original set forth as the inventions of the patentee.
Unless the first claim of the original is to be limited to a
circuit-breaker located at the burner, the fourth claim of the
reissue claims a, combination of a smaller number of elements
than claim 2 of the original, and is therefore void.
A suit was brought by the present plaintiff, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, against Luther G. Tillotson and another, composing the
firm of Tillotson & Co., for an infringement of reissue iNo.
9743, and was heard before Judge Wheeler, whose opinion is
reported in 21 Fed. Rep. 568. The infringing apparatus was
made under patent No. 230,590. The question of the validity
of the reissue was considered by the court, in reference to
claims 2 and 5, and it was held that those claims were invalid,
on the ground that they were not made anywhere in the original patent as a part of the invention; that that patent had
stood nearly nine years before those claims were made; and
that the right under which the defendant operated had accrued
before .they were made. 'The same result was reached by Judge
Wheeler in a suit in the same court, as to claim 5 of the reissue, against Smith and Rhodes, 23 Fed. Rep. 195. In the

ELECTRIC GAS CO. v. BOSTON ELECTRIC CO.

503

Opinion of the Court.

present case, Judge Colt, in his opinion in 29 Fed. Rep. 455,
adopted the views of Judge Wheeler as to claims 2 and 5 of
the reissue, and held those claims to be void, under the authority of Afiller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350, and subsequent
cases. In regard to claim 4 of the reissue, which is in substance the same as claim 2 of the original, Judge Colt held
that there was no infringement, because there was in the defendant's apparatus no separate lever to open and close the
valve and carrying the circuit-breaker, such as is described in
the Tirrell patent.
The defendant's apparatus is the Crockett burner, described
in patent No. 281,345, of July 17, 1883, and resembles the apparatus of patent No. 230,590 in dispensing with the ratchetwheel and switching mechanism, in opening and closing the
gas-cock with one electric impulse, and in employing two electro-magnets and two independent electric circuits, one for turning on and igniting the gas, and the other for turning off the gas.
If the claims of the reissue are limited, as they must be, to
the specific mechanism described in the specification, it is very
clear that the defendant's apparatus does not infringe. It is
incapable of being used to light a series of burners. It opens
the gas-valve by a single.impulse, and closes it by a single
impulse. No spark is produced until the gas-valve is fully
opened. It has no switching mechanism, or any equivalent
therefor, no ratchet-wheel and pawl, and no lever carrying
the circuit-breaker. It has two magnets, two armatures, and
two electric circuits, the magnets having no connection with
each other, one of them being used solely for turning on and
lighting the gas, and the other for turning it off, and no spark
being produced in the latter operation. Nor has it any lever
distinct from the armature; noi is the armature which operates to close the gas-valve ever in combination with the cir.Decree afflrmed.
cuit-breaker.

ELECTRIC GAs-LIGHTING CoirPAxy v. TILLOTSoN. Appeal from
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York. No. 235. Argued March 20, 1891. Decided April 6,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
1891.

MR.

JUSTICE BLATCHIFORD delivered the opinion of the

court. This suit is founded upon the same reissue, No. 9743, con-sidered in No. 232, Electric Gas-Lighting Co. v. Boston Electric Co.,
just decided. The case was heard by Judge Wheeler, who dis,missed the bill, holding that claims 2 and 5 of the reissue were
invalid. 21 Fed. Rep. 568. It having been stipulated that, if
the decree in No. 232 is affirmiled, the decree in No. 235 shall be
affirmed without costs to the appellee, and the decree in No. 232
having been affirmed, the decree in No. 235 is
A.ffirmed, without costs to the appellee.
Mr. Edward P. Payson and Mr. Edwin H. Brown for appellant.
Mr. John E. Abbott and Mr. John L. S. Roberts for appellee.

In re MANNING, Petitioner.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 1607. Submitted March 17, 1891.-Decided April 6,1891.

A person is not denied the equal protection of the laws, nor deprived
of liberty without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution, by being tried and -sentenced to imprisonment by a judge who, although appointed by the governor without authority, is a judge de facto of a court ue jure, by the law of the
State as declared by its highest court.

Tmi case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. ]?ublee A. Cole and

r... TF iF O'K eefe for petitioner.

-No one opposing.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a writ of error to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin, denying to Patrick
Manning a writ of habeas corpus to discharge him front the

