OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ALLEN v. PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY.
SAME
APFEALS FROM

THE

-. SAME.

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Nos. 1381,1382. Argued March 16, 1891. - Decided April 13, 1891.

Purely injunction bills cannot be maintained to restrain the collection of
taxes upon the sole ground of their unconstitutionality. Shelton v. Platt,
139 U. S. 591, affirmed and applied.
When in a suit in equity this court finds, on examining the proofs, nothing
which makes a proper case for equity, it is its duty to recognize the fact,
and give it effect though not raised by the pleadings, nor suggested by
counsel.
IN EQUITY.

JWr. G.

The case is stated in the opinion.
IF ickle, Attorney General of the State of Ten-

nessee, for appellant.
Mr. .EdwardS. Isham and .

: John S. .Runnells for ap-

pellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.

These were bills filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Tennessee against the comptroller of that State, for an injunction restraining him from
the collection from complainant o' certain privilege taxes or
license fees for the years 1887, 1888 and 1889, under laws of
the State of Tennessee in that behalf, which complainant
averred to be in .conflict with the Federal and state constitutions, and the taxes accordingly illegal and void.
In No. 1381, the bill alleged that the comptroller was
threatening to issue his warrant for the collection of the
taxes and to levy it upon complainant's sleeping cars, "and
your orator believes and fears that said defendant, unless

ALLEX v. PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

restrained by this honorable court, will proceed to force the
collection of said tax so illegally assessed and claimed, b& distraining and seizing upon your orator's cars from your orator'
and that the proceedings threatened for the collection of said
taxes will lead to a multiplicity of suits and will greatly harass
your orator. Your orator further shows that all the sleeping
and drawing-room cars aforesaid, running in the State of Tennessee, are attached to through express trains on the roads of
said railroad companies; that prior to their arrival in Tennessee seats and sleeping berths therein have always been sold
by your orator to persons travelling from other States into
Tennessee; that your orator has at all times contracts with
passengers to give them the accommodations furnished by
said cars while travelling upon such railroads; that unless
your orator pays the taxes so illegally imposed upon it, your
orator believes and fears that said defendant will, unless restrained therefrom by this court, levy upon and seize, in order
to force from your orator said illegal taxes, said sleeping and
drawing-room cars while the same are in actual use and running attached to.said express trains; that thereby the travelling public will be discommoded, the carriage of passengers
interstate will be prevented, your orator and said railroad
companies may become harassed by many suits for damages
by passengers for not furnishing them the accommodations
they contracted for, the credit and reputation of your orator
for furnishing comfortable accommodations, which credit and
reputation are of great value to it and have been established
by strict attention to business and at great expense and trouble
for many years, will be broken up, and the good will of said
business greatly impaired, and thereby your orator will suffer
great and irreparable injury."
In No. 1382 complainant averred that the comptroller had
issued his warrant to the sheriff of the county of Davidson,
Tennessee, and the sheriff by his deputy, one Hobson, "has,
by force, and pretending to act under said warrant, seized
upon the sleeping car 'Wetumpka,' belonging to your orator,
and now holds the same in their possession; that said car
is reasonahly worth $8000; that said Hobson has advertised

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and threatens to sell said car to satisfy said illegal and pre.
tended tax. That said sleeping car of your orator when seized
was being used by your orator in the carrying on of interstate
commerce as aforesaid, and was in use as an instrument of
interstate commerce and was in Tennessee only by virtue of
such use, and was therefore not liable to be taken in satisfaction of said tax, even if it had been a valid tax. That the
railroad companies over whose lines of road your orator
operates cars are common carriers, and are obliged by law to
take upon their trains and carry all who properly present.
themselves for carriage whether they are travelling between
points wholly within Tennessee or not; that such passengers,
travelling locally in Tennessee, sometimes apply for sleepingcar accommodations in your orator's cars attached to such
train, and, if your orator is obliged to receive them on its
cars, then the State of Tennessee by such tax act forces your
orator to pay such privilege tax and take out such license or
to cease carrying on the interstate commerce in which it is.
now engaged. That said defendants have demanded said
three thousand dollars from your orator, and have declared
that they will force your orator to pay the same; that they
now threaten to sell said car so seized by them, and your
orator believes will do so unless restrained by this honorable
court; that said car is very valuable, but will .not bring its full
value at a forced sale, and your orator fears that it will be sold
for a small amount not sufficient to pay said tax, and your
orator believes and fears that said defendants, unless restrained
by this honorable court, will thereupon proceed to enforce the
collection of said tax so illegally claimed, by (iistraining and
seizing upon your orator's other cars, and that the proceedings
threatened by defendants for the collection of said taxes will
greatly harass your orator. Your orator further shows that
"all its sleeping cars aforesaid running through the State of
Tennessee are attached to through express trains on the roads
of the said railroad companies; that, prior to their arrival in
Tennessee seats and bdrths have alway, been sold by your
orator to persons travelling from other States into Tennessee;
that your orator has at all times contracts with passengers to

ALLEN v. PULLMAIN'S PALACE CAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

give them the accommodations furnished by said cars while
travelling upon said roads; that unless your orator pays the
taxes so illegally imposed upon it your orator believes and
fears that the said defendants will, unless restrained therefrom
by this court, sell said car so already levied on, and, if it -does
not bring enough to satisfy said tax, will levy upon and seize,
in order to force from your orator said illegal tax, its sleeping
-cars while they are in actual use and running attached, to said
express trains; that thereby the travelling public will be discommoded, the carriage of passengers interstate will'be prevented, your orator and said railroad companies may become
harassed by many suits by passengers for damages for not
furnishing them the accommodations they contracted for; the
-credit and reputation of your orator for furnishing comfortable accommodations, which credit and reputation are of great
value to it and have been established by strict attention to
business and at great expense and trouble for many years,
will be broken up, and the good will of said business greatly
impaired, and thereby your orator will suffer great and irreparable injury."
The bills prayed for injunction and. general relief. Answers
and replications were filed and some evidence taken, but nothing appears in the pleadings or proofs bearing upon the question of the standing of complainant in a court of equity, except
as indicated by the averments of the bills above quoted. Upon
hearing, the relief sought was decreed and the taxes in question
perpetually enjoined.
We have already decided in Shelton v. Platt, ante, 591, that
purely injunction bills cannot be sustained to restrain the collection of taxes upon the sole ground of their unconstitutionality. The jurisdictional averments are more comprehensive in
these causes than in that, but we are of opinion that they did
not make out a case for equity interposition, for the reasons
there given, and in view of the act of Tennessee of 18T3, entitled "An act to facilitate the collection of revenues," approved
March 21, 1873. Laws Tenn. 1873, c. 44, p. 71.
So far as appeared, complainant could avert all the consequences which it deprecated as likely to ensue if the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

officials were not restrained, by complying with the terms of
that statute and availing itself of the remedy thereby afforded.
Pickardv. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34.
There is, however, this marked -distinction between Shelton
v. Platt and these cases. In Shelton v. Plattthe objection to
the jurisdiction was asserted by motion, by plea and by the
answer. Hlere that objection is urged apparently for the first
time in this court, but inasmuch as the entire record fails to
show complainant entitled to an injunction within the rule
announced, the decrees must nevertheless be reversed. It is
true that there was a prayer for general relief, but relief given
under the general prayer must be agreeable to the case made
by the bill, and in this instance the complainant sought a preventive remedy only.
Ordinarily, where it is competent for the court to grant the
relief sought, and it has jurisdiction of the subject matter, the
objection of the adequacy of the remedy at law should be
taken at the earliest opportunity and before the defendant
enters upon a full defence. Reynes v. Darnont,130 U. S. 354;
Jfilbourn v. Sunderland,130 U. S. 505 ; Brown v. Lake Superiot Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530. But in Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall.
466, it was held that if the court, in looking at the proofs,
found none of the matters which would make a proper case
for equity, it would be the duty of the court to recognize the
fact and give it effect, though not raised by the pleadings nor
suggested by counsel. Parker v. Winnipiseogee Woollen Co.,
2 Black, 545; Oelrichs v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211; N. Y. Guaranty
Co. v. .emphis Water Co., 107 U. S. 205.
The deciees are,reversed, andthe causes remandedforfurther
proceedings in co;tformity with this opinion.
MR. JusTicE Hni.&

and M:m. JUsTICE BRowN dissented.

