OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

of the government and in the enactment of laws; that the
people limit themselves in regard to the qualifications of
electors and the qualifications of the elected, and to certain
forms for the conduct of elections; that our liberty is the
liberty secured by the regular action of popular power, taking
place and ascertained in accordance with legal and authentic
modes; and that the Constitution and laws do not proceed on
the ground of revolution or any right of revolution, but on the
idea of results achieved by orderly action under the authority
of existing governments, proceedings outside of which are not
contemplated by our institutions. Webster's Works, vol. 6,
p. 217.
Discursive as are the views of petitioner's counsel, no violation of these fundamental principles in this instance is or could
be suggested.
The State of Texas is in full possession of its faculties as a
member of the Union, and its legislative, executive and judicial
departments are peacefully operating by the orderly and settled
methods prescribed by its fundamental law. Whether certain
statutes have or have not binding force, it is for the State to
determine, and that determination in itself involves no infraction of the Constitution of the United States, and raises no
Federal question giving the courts of the United States jurisdiction.
We cannot perceive that petitioner is being otherwise dealt
with than according to the law of the land.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

LEEPER v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1239. Argued December 17, 18, 1890.-Decided March 30, 1891.

It

must be regarded as settled that a petition for a writ of error forms nd
part of the record upon which action here is taken.
To give this court jurisdiction to review the judgiaent of a state court

LEEPER v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.
under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, because of the denial by the
state court of any right, title, privilege or immunity claimed under the
Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United States, it must appear on the record that such title, right, privilege or immunity was specially set up or claimed at the proper time and in the proper way.
Whether statutes of a legislature of a State have been duly enacted in
accordance with Vhe requirements of the constitution of such State, is
not a Federal question, and the decision of state courts as to what are
the laws of the State is binding upon the courts of the United States.
By the Fourteenth Amendment the powers of States in dealing with crime
within their borders are not limited, except that no State can deprive
particular persons, or classes of persons, of equal and impartial justice
under the law; that law in its regular course of administration through
courts of justice is due process, and when secured by the law of the
State the constitutional requirement is satisfied; and that due process is
so secured by laws operating on all alike, and not subjecting the individual to the arbitrary exercise of the powers of government unrestrained
by the established principles of private right and distributive justice.

PLAINTIFFS in error were arraigned in the District Court of
Coryell County, Texas, upon an indictment reading, as follows: "In the name and by the authority of the State of
Texas, the grand jurors for the county of Coryell, State aforesaid, duly organized as such at the January'term, A.D. 1890,
of the District Court for said county, upon their oaths in said
court present that Jim Leeper and Ed. Powell, on or about
the 17th day of December, A.D. one thousand eight hundred
and eighty-nine, in the county of Corvell and State of Texas,
did then and there, with malice aforethought, kill and ,murder
J. T. Mathis, by then and there shooting hin, the said J. T.
Mathis, with a pistol, contrary to law and against the peace
and dignity of the State;" and severally pleaded not guilty.
The cause being called for trial, the defendants made an
application for a continuance, which was overruled, whereupon trial was had before a jury duly empanelled, which
found each of the detendants guilty of murder and assessed
his punishment at deatli, and judgment was entered accordingly. No motion to quash, the indictment was made, nor
objection raised thereto in the progress of the trial. But exceptions were taken to the action of .the District Court in
overruling.the application of defendants for a continuance;

OCTOBER TERM,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

in refusing to quash a special venire issued in the case; in the
admission of testimony of other distinct offences committed
near the scene of the murder and immediately afterwards; in
the admission of testimony that upon an inspection of the
body of one of the defendants after he had been arrested, his
shirt having been taken off by the jailer, marks or bruises
were found thereon, indicating that he had been struck one or
more blows, which tended to corroborate the testimony of one
of the witnesses ; and to the failure of the court to charge in
relation to murder in the second degree. Defendants moved
for a new trial on the ground of error in these rulings, and also
because one of the jurors was not qualified as such under the
laws of Texas, in that he was not a freeholder in the State of
Texas, although he-had assumed to be such on his voir dire,
and the fact was not discovered until after the trial, wherefore
it was claimed defeidants had not had a trial in accordance
with law; and because the verdict was contrary to the law and
the evidence. The motioii for a new trial having been overruled, the cause was taken by appeal to the Court of Appeals
of the State of Texas, and errors therein assigned, raising
the same points as on the motion for new trial, and error in
tho action of the court in overruling that motion. The cause
was submitted to the Court of Appeals on oral arguments and
briefs and the judgment affirmed, the opinion being delivered
by Judge Willson. A rehearing was afterwards applied for
and the application heard on oral arguments and briefs, and
overruled. An opinion was delivered on this motion by Judge
Willson, and a dissenting opinion by Judge Hurt, who concurred in the views of the majority, except upon the question
of the disqualification of the juror. These opinions are transmitted as part of the record.
The court decided that the evidence tending to show assaults
upon other parties by the defendants, almost simultaneously
with the assault made by them upon the deceased and at the
same place, in pursuance of a general design to rob the parties
assaulted, was admissible, such assaults being part of the res
gestce; that it did not appear that one of the defendants was
compelled to expose his body, or that his shirt was removed

LEE'E R v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

without his consent, nor was it shown what'injury or prejudice
might have been caused by the admission of the testimony as
to the marks or bruises upon his body, and that in the manner
in which the ruling of the court in relation to this matter was
presented, it did not appear that any material error, if any at
all, had been committed; that there was no evidence in the
record that the defendants were drunk at the time, of the
homicide, and that the District Court was not called upon to
instruct as to the law where a homicide is committed by a person who at the time is in a tate of intoxication; that it was
apparent, in view of the evidence adduced on the trial, that
the testimony set forth in the application for a continuance
was not probably true, and the refusal of the application did
not afford good ground for a new trial; that under the statute
a new trial could not be granted because of the disqualification
of a trial juror; and that it did not appear that injury had
resulted to the defendants by reason of such juror serving.
Sonic other matters were also considered, and the court held
that there was "no error apparent of record for which the conviction should be disturbed."
The objection to the special venire was that the sheriff,
"although present in court, was not sworn and instructed,
cautioned and directed, by the court as to the manner in
which said venire should be by him selected, as required
by law," but the bill of exceptions showed that the sheriff
was ill and that the talesmen were summoned by two of his
deputies, who were duly sworn, cautioned and instructed, and
the opinion of the Court of Appeals makes no reference to the
matter.
The first ground assigned for the motion for rehearing was
in these words:
"Because the court erred in holding as sufficient in substance and sustaining the bill of indictment in this case, the
said bill of indictment, as is apparent on its face, not alleging
all of the material elements of the crime of murder in the first
degree or of any other crime, and for that reason being illegal
and in contravention of the constitution of the State of Texas
and of the United States, of which these appellants are now and
VOL. CXXXIX-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

were at the time of their trial and conviction native and bona
fide citizens."
This is the earliest suggestion of the existence of a Federal
question in the cause. After the application for a rehearing
had been disposed of, the defendants, as is stated in a bill of
exceptions, "gave notice in open court of an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States of America, and requested
that the same be entered upon the minutes of this court, which
action this court then and there refused," and defendants
excepted.
A petition for a writ of error from this court was then presented and allowed by the presiding judge of the Court of
Appeals. The 'petition set up in substance the same grounds
which subsequently appeared in the assignment of errors, and
averred that upon the trial there was "drawn and called in
question the construction of certain clauses of the Constitution
of the United States, and the decision of said cause was adverse
and against the rights, privileges, immunities and exemptions
so especially set up and claimed under those clauses of the
said Constitution of the United States."
The errors assigned here are that the indictment was drawn
under a certain act of the legislature, of Texas, passed March
26, 1881, which was repugnant to the Fifth Amendment, and
in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States; that the indictment, if charging
any offence, charged no higher one than that of murder in
the second degree, the punishment for which under the Penal
Code was imprisonment for a term of years, and, in the punishment inflicted, plaintiffs in error were not accorded due
process of law, nor the equal protection of the laws; that the
action of the Court of Appeals in relation to the disqualification of the juror was in contravention of the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and deprived
plaintiffs in error of their lives with6ut due process of law, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; that the inspection
of the person of one of'the plaintiffs in error, and evidence of
the results of such inspection, was in contravention of the
Fifth Amendment, and not due process of law within the

LEEPER v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Fourteenth Amendment; and that the denial of the right of
appeal was a denial to plaintiffs in error of rights guaranteed
to them by the Constitution of the United States and the Fourteenth Amendment thereof.
Upon the argument, although no error was assigned in relation thereto, it was 'contended that the Penal Code and the
Code of Criminal Procedure of Texas were not properly enacted,
either in whole or in part, under the constitution of Texas in
that behalf.
Xr. William S. Flijin and Xfr. G. P. X. Turner for
plaintiffs in error.
AIr. 1R. H. Harrison for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It must be regarded as settled that a petition for a writ of
error forms no part of the record upon which action here is
taken; -Manningv. French, 133 U. S. 186; Clark v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. S. 395; Warfleld v. Chaffe, 91 U. S. 690 ; Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52: That to give this court jurisdiction
to review the judgment of a state court under section 709 of
the Revised Statutes, because of the denial by the state court
of any right, title, privilege or immunity claimed under the
Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United States, it
must appear on the record that such title, right, privilege or
immunity was specially set up or claimed at the proper time
and in the proper way; Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 181;
Baldwin v. JKansas, 129 U. S. 52; Chappell v. Bradshaw, 128
U. S. 132: That whether statutes of a legislature of a State
have been duly enacted in accordance with the requirements
of the constitution of such State, is not a federal question, and
the decision of state courts as to what are the laws of the
State is binding upon the courts of the United States; South
Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260, 268; Post v. Supervisors, 105
U. S. 667 ; Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425, 440; Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359, 366; Baldwin v. Kansas,
129 U. S..52, 57: That by the Fofrteenth Amendment the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

powers of States in dealing with crime within their borders
are not limited, except that no State can deprive particular
persons, or classes of persons, of equal and impartial justice
under the law; that law in its regular course of administration
through courts of justice is due process, and when secured by
the law of the State the constitutional requirement is satisfied;
and that due process is so secured by laws operating on all
alike, and not subjecting the individual to the arbitrary exercise of the powers of government unrestrained by the established principles of private right and distributive justice. iurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, 535, and cases cited.
In view of these-repeatedly adjudicated propositions, we do
not care to discuss at length the points urged by plaintiff in error.
Our jurisdiction in this class of cases is properly invoked by
writ of error, not by appeal. The validity of the enactment of
the Texas codes is not open to inquiry. -Ti re Duncan, ante,449.
The sufficiency of the indictment, the degree of the offence
charged, the admissibility of the testimony objected to, and
the alleged disqualification of the juror because he was not a
freeholder, were all matters with the disposition of which, as
exhibited by this record, we have nothing to do.
We find nothing special, partial or arbitrary or in violation
of fundamental principles in the criminal laws of the State of
Texas, involved, and we perceive no ground for holding that
the proceedings complained of, which were had in the ordinary administration of those laws, amounted to a denial by the
State of due process of law to these parties, or of some right
secured to them by the Constitution of the United States. -n.
re .emmler, 136 U. S.436, 449 ; Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S.
692. Although no right, title, privilege or immunity was
specially set up or claimed at the proper time and in the proper
way, and no Federal question was passed upon by the state
couits or raised, except by the general averment in the petition for rehearing that the indictment was so defective that it,
or the statute which authorized it, contravened the Constitution, yet, as full argument was permitted at the bar, upon the
assumption that the writ of error was providently issuedi we
will instead of dismissing the writ, affirm the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

