OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Petitioners.

to others, the right to the use of the trade mark may be lawfully transferred with it. Its subsequent use by the person
to whom the establishment is transferred, is considered as
only indicaling that the goods to which it is affixed are manufactured at' the same place and are of the same character as
those to which the mark was attached by its origifal designer."
Sb in 3fenendez v. Ilolt, 128 U. S. 514, it was held that
when a partner retires from a firm, assenting to, or acquiescing in the retention by the other partners of the old place of
business, and the future conduct of the business by them under
the old name, the good will remains with the latter, as of
course, and that, under such circumstances' the right to use a
trade mark passes to the remaining partners as a part of such
good will. There are a few cases indicating that the mere
right to use a; name is not assignable, notably Chadwick- v.
Covell, 151 Mass. 190, but none that it may not be assigned
to an outgoing partner or to a successor in business as an incident to its good will. Ainswortk v. IFalmesley, L. R. 1 Eq.
518; Der'ingerv. Plate,29 California, 292.
There was no error in the decree of the court below, and it
is therefore
_______Affirmed.

In 'e INGALLS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number.

Submitted March 16, 1891.-Decided March 23, 1891.

No application to this court for a writ of error will be entertained, except
when a Justice of this Court, upon consideration of the record, has
deemed it proper, under special circumstances, to endorse thereon a
request that counsel be permitted to proceed in that way.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
_Mr. de Lagnel Borier for petitioners submitted on his brief.
-Y'.Edward D. .AVoCarthy also filed a brief for petitioners.

FOWLERI

v. HAM-ILL.

Opinion of the Court.

.r. George TF. Van Slyck for Elizabeth A. L. Hyatt, opposing.
PER Cu1Aim.

This is an application for a writ of error

made to the court in session, under the apprehension on the
part of counsel that it was directed to be so presented. We
have, therefore, considered it, with the result that the writ
must be denied. Dae Tile .Zfg,Co. v. -Hyatt,125 U. S. 46;
Walter A. TWood Co. v. Skinner, ante, 293.
We wish it to be distinctly understood that in future no
such application will be entertained, except when a Justice
of this Court, upon consideration of the record, has deemed
it proper under special circumstances to endorse thereon a
request that counsel be permitted to proceed in that way.
Writ refused.

FOWLER v. HAMILL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
INo.4. Argued and submitted March 31,1891.-Decided April.13,1891.

A decree dismissing the bill was entered April 21, 1883.

Judgment for
costs was rendered June 16, 1883. The appeal was allowed June 16,
1885, on an application made June 15, 1885. Held; that the decree of
April 21 was the final decree; but that, even if the judgment of June 16
wad the final decree, the allowance was too late to enable this court to
take jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Ar. J E. Rindon Hyde for appellant. .fr. Frederic HI.
Betts was on the brief.
Mr. Howard A. Svenry for appellee submitted on his brief.
AIf

. CHIEF

JUSTiCE

FULLER delivered the opinion: of the

court.
Fowler, deceased, claimed as having by assignment become
the owner ofall the interest of one. McClosky in the subject

