DOLA'X v. JIEINGS.
Syllabus.

because of your shirking of duties and obligations, you shall

not, whatever may have been the nature of your title in the
first instance, be permitted to appropriate the value thus produced by others.
Looking. back through the fifty years which now hatve
passed since Underwood purchased an interest in this certificate, general history discloses a marvellous change in the condition of things in the State of Texas. Then an enormous
territory, a scanty population, real estate of comparatively
trifling value, sold by the league and not by the acre; now, a,
State of large area it is true, but with a vast and growing
population, whose industries have made its real estate of value.
Surely a court of equity may look with jealous eye upon the
claims of any one to a share in that value, based upon a title
ncquired half a century ago, a title which he has ignored all
these years, and a value in the accomplishment of which he
has had absolutely no part.
We see no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and its
decree is

.A4fimetL

DOLAN v. JENNINGS.
KIBI3E v. JENNINGS.
APPEALS FROr TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE SOUTHERN

DIsTIer

STATES FOIZ

OF 2INEW YORK.

Nos. 265, 260. Argued March 26, 1891.-Decided Marcb 30,1891.

A decree was entered in the Circuit Court in favor of two complainants
against a defendant for the infrngcmcnt of letters patent, from which
the defcndant appealed. After the (decree, and before the appeal was
taken, one of the complainants bhlow died. It did not appear that the
cause of action survived, or that there was a severance between the surviving and the representatives of the deceased plaintiff. The death of
the deceased party was not suggested on the record, his representativesldid not appear voluntarily, nor were they cited to appear.
l.1d,
that the proper course of proceeding to enable this court to obtain jurisdiction had Icen wholly disregarded, and that it was too late to cure, the
defect, pnore than four years having elapsed since the Anal decree was
entered.
VOL. cxxxix-- 25

2,86

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

IN

EQUiT.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.M. John R. Bennett for appellants.
.r. Arthur v. B-'riesen (with whom was Mr. Antonio
.Rnauth on the brief) for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JIUSTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals from final decrees rendered in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of :New
York, awarding to Abraham G. Jennings and Warren P.
Jennings, complainants, damages against Thomas Dolan, of
Philadelphia, and Kibbe, Chaffee, Shreve & Co., of New York,
for the infringement of letters patent No. 218,082 for lace
purling. A design patent No. 10,448 for a design for fringed
lace fabric was also proceeded on in the bills of complaint, but
was held not to have been infringed by defendants. Final
decrees were rendered in each suit in favor of Abraham G.
Jennings and Warren P. Jennings against Dolan and Kibbe
,t al., respectively, on the 12th of February, 1887.
On the 25th of March, 1887, a petition for appeal was filed
in each case on behalf of the defendants, entitled "Abraham
G. Jennings, survivor of Abraham G. Jennings and Warren
1'. Jennings," and against Dolan and Kibbe et 'al., and the
appeals were allowed.
The bond in No. 265 was approved March 10, 1887, and
entitled "A. G. Jennings, surviving complainant in A. G.
Jennings and W. P. Jennihfgs v. Thomas Dolan," and recited
that Dolan and his sureties were "held and firmly bound unto
the above-named complainants in the sum of thirty-five hun-dred dollars, to be paid to the said complainants." 'The citation ran, "to Abraham G. Jennings, surviving complainant,
'etc.' and was served March 2-, 1887.
In No. 266 the bond was entitled "A. 0. Jennings, surviving
complainant in A. G. Jennings and W. P. Jennings v. Henry
IR. IKibbe," and the other defendants, and recited that the
persons signing were "held and firmly bound unto the aboveiiamed A. G. Jennings and 'W. P. Jennings in the sum of

DOLAN v. JENNIN'GS.
Opinion of the Court.

twenty-seven hundred dollars, to be paid to the said A. G.
Jennins & W. P. Jennings." This bond was filed March 10,
1887. The citation ran to "Abraham G. Jennings, surviving
complainant, etc.," and was served March 24.
The bills commenced "_Abraham G. Jennings and Warren
P. Jennings, doing business at the city of New York, county
and State of New York, and citizens of the State of New
York," and set up that Abraham G. Jennings and Warren P.
Jennings were "the sole and exclusive owners" of the patents
in question. It nowhere appeared from the pleadings, proofs,
proceedings or decrees, that the complainants claimed to own or
did own the patents as partners, though there was some evidence that there was a firm styled A. G. Jennings & Son, or A.
G. Jennings & Sons, or Jennings & Co. -Sundry licenses were
put in evidence, describing Abraham G. Jennings and Warren
P. Jennings as the owners of the patents and the granting of the
licenses accordingly. The death of Warren P. Jennings was not
suggested on the record by the appellants, except as the titles to
the petitions for appeal and the bonds on appeal, and the directions of the citations, might be considered as such. But we
understand his death after decree to be conceded. No order
was procured, directed to the proper representatives of the
estate of Warren P. Jennings, or notifying them of the appeal,
nor have they voluntarily appeared.
The proper course of proceeding upon this subject has been
wholly disregarded.- Rev. Stat. ยง 955; Act March 3, 1875,
ยง 9, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137; Rule 15, 108 U. S.581. So far as disclosed by these records, the cause of action did not on the
death of one of the complainants survive to the other, nor
could there have been nor was there any severance between
Abrahanii G. Jennings and the legal representatives of Warren
P. Jennings; nor do we think that the defect can now be
cured. More than four years have elapsed since the final
decrees were entered, and as'we have never had jurisdiction over
the legal representatives of the deceased complainant, it is
impossible for us to obtain it now.
In Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co. v.-Pendleton, 115 U. S.
339, after judgment had been rendered here reversing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.,,

judgment below, which had passed in favor of the plaintiffs
below, the court discoyered that the writ of error was sued
out and citation directed and served against only one of those
plaintiffs, and that the preliminary appeal bond was made to
him alone. , The supersedeas bofid was, however, executed to
all the plaintiffs, and the subsequent proceedings generally bore
a plural title. The special ciicumnstances of the case were held
to justify the amendment of the, writ of error and the issue of
a new citation.
In .2Jason v. United States, 13CI U. S. 581, the application to
amend being made more than two years after the entry of
judgment, and the omitted parties being in no way in court,
the application was denied and the writ of error dismissed.

Estis v. T'abue, 128 U. S. 225.
We are compelled to hold the objection fatal to our juris-

diction, and the appeals must be

Biarnised.

MELLEN v. BUCKINER.
BUCKNER v. MELLEN.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 13, 27.

Argued November 25, 26, 1889.-Decided March 23,1891.,

M., a planter of Louisiana, died in 1860, leaving as his heirs, the minor
children of his deceased daughter Julia, and the minor grandson of his
deceased daughter Ann. At the death of his wife, in 1844, a large portion of the property then in his possession was community property, in
which she was entitled t6 a half interest. Before his death he attempted,
by sale and donation of specified estates, valued and appraised' by him,
to give to his daughter Julia (who was then living) her interest in the
community property left by her mother and three-fourths of his own
remaining estate; and, in a like way, to give to the grandson of his
daughter Ann his like interest in the community property and the remaining one-fourth of his own estate. At his death he left a will with'
similar provisions. The parties each entered into possession of the properties thus respectively, assigned to them, occupying in separate parcels,

