CASES ADJUDGED
IN THM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.

ST. PAUL AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 54. Argued November 5, 6, 1890.-Decided March 2, 1891.

The grant of public land to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in the
act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. c. 217, p. 365, was a grant inprxsenti, in the
nature of a float until the route should be determined, and, after that,
attaching to specific sections, capable of identification, except as to
sections which were specifically reserved.
The force of such grant was in no respect impaired, or its construction
affected, by'the provision in section four of that act that patents for the
land should be issued as sections of.twenty-five miles of the road'should
be completed; but the company was not at liberty to dispose of its lund
not patented, without the consent of Con.gress.
*When the* temnini of a railroad for whose construction a land grant is
made are mentioned, the extent of which is dependent upon the distance
between those points, the road should be constructed upon the most
direct and practicable line.
The line of the Northern Pacific Railroad through the State of Minnesota
having been definitely determined in accordance with law, and the road
having been constructed, the company's right to the-lands in place along
the line of its route as so located, and to other, lands to make up deficiencies, cannot be doubted, unless a prior right attached to those lands
under an earlier grant from Congress.
1
VOL. CX-XXix-1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Cour t.

The several acts granting public lands in aid of the construction of the St.
Paul and Pacific Railroad being examined and analyzed, it appears that
the grants to that company, so far as they form the subject of controversy, were subsequent in date to the act under which the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company claims, and come under the well settled rule
that, where different grants cover the same premises, the elder takes the
title.
The operation of .the act of March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. c. 99, p. 195, upofi lands
previously reserved, was restrained by the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat.
c. 105, p. 526.
The act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. c. 144, p. 588, does not purport to be an
amendment of the act of March 3, 1857, but only authorizes a change in
the lines of the company, in consideration of the relinquishment of certain lands.
The exception, in the grant to the Ngorthern Pacific Railroad Company, of
all subsequent grants prior to the definite location of its road, was not
intended to cover other grants for the construction of roads of a similar
character.
After the withdrawal from sale or predmption of the granted odd sections,
no interest in the granted lands, adverse to the rights of the company,
could be acquired except by special legislative declaration, nor, indeed,
in the absence of its announcement, after the general route was fixed.
In order to secure the grant in the finished sections it was not necessary
that the road, throughout its whole length, should be fixed; but the general purpose of the act was accomplished if such reasonable portions of
the general route were located as would intelligently guide the officers of
the Land Department with reference to the patents to be issued for lands
intended for the company.
There was in this case no occasion for the exercise of the judgment of the
Secretary of the Interior in selecting indemnity lands, as all the lands
within the indemnity limits only made up in part for the deficiency.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

XPr. S. U. Pinney and Mr.George B. Young, for appellants.
r. ames lfcNaught and _31r. A. H. Garland,for appellee.

1MR. JusTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case was fied by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to establish its right to land in odd-numbered
sections, amounting to many thousand acres, situated in the
neighborhood of Glyndon, in Minnesota, which it claims under
a grant of the United States, made by the act of Congress of

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.

3

Opinion of the Court.

July 2, 1864; to "1aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound, on the
Pacific coast, by the northern route." 13 Stat. c. 217, p. 365.
By the first section of that act, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated, and aathorized to lay out,
construct and maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph
line, with the appurtenances, from a point on Lake Superior,
in the State of Minnesota or Wisconsin, and thence westerly
by the most eligible route, as should be determined by the
company, within the territory of the United States, on a line
north of the forty-fifth degree of latitude, to some point on
Puget Sound, with a branch by the valley of the Columbia
River, to a point at or near Portland, in the State of Oregon.
By: its third section, a grant of land was made to the company. Its language is: "That there be, and hereby is, granted
to the INorthern Pacific Railroad Company,' its successors and
assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said
railroad and telegraph line to .the Pacific coast, and to secure
the safe and speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of war and public stores, over the route of said line of
railway, every alternate section of publia land, not mineral,
designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line, as
said company may, adopt, through the Territories of the
United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on
each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any State,
and whenever on the line thereof, the United States have full
title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and
free from preemption, .or other claims .or rights, at the time
the line of said road is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed
in the office of the commissioner of the general land office; and
whenever, prior to said .time, any of said sections or parts of
sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by
homestead settlers or preeimpted, or otherwise disposed of,
other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more than
ten miles b6yond the limits of said alternate sections: Pra-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Vided, That if said route shall be found upon the line of any
other railroad route to aid in the construction of which lands
have been heretofore granted by the United States, as far as
the routes are upon the same general line, the amount of land
heretofore granted shall be deducted from the amount granted
by this act."
By the fourth section it was enacted: "That whenever said
'Northern Pacific Railroad Company' shall have twenty-five
consecutive miles of any~portion of said railroad and telegraph
line ready for the service contemplated, the President of the
United States shall appoint three. commissioners. to examine
the same, and if it shall appear that twenty-five consecutive
miles of said road and telegraph line have been completed in
all other
a good, substantial and workmanlike manner, as inrespects required by this act, the commissioners shall go report
to the President of the United States, and patents of lands,
as aforesaid, shall be issued to said company, confirming to
said company the right and title to said lands, situated opposite to, and coterminous with, said completed section of said
road ; and, from time to time, whenever twenty-five additional
consecutive miles shall have been constructed, completed and
in readiness as aforesaid, and verified by said commissioners ta
the President of the United States, then patents shall be issued
to said company conveying the additional sections of land as
aforesaid."
By the sixth scction it was enacted: "That the President
of the United States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for
forty miles in width on both sides of the entire line of said
road, after the general route shall be fixed, and as fast as may
be required by the construction of said railroad; and the odd
sections of land hereby granted shall not be liable to sale, or
entry or preemption before or after they are surveyed, except
by said company, as provided in this act; but the provisions
of the act of September, eighteen hundred and forty-one,
granting preemption rights, and the acts amendatory thereof,
and of the act entitled ' An act to secure homesteads to actual
settlers on the public domain,' approved Mfav 20, 1862, shall
be, and the same are hereby, extended to all other lands on

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.

5

Opinion of the Court.

the line of said road, when surveyed, excepting those hereby
granted to said company."
By the express declaration of the act the grants were made
and the rights and privileges were conferred upon and accepted
by the company, on the condition that it should commence
work on the road within two years from the approval of the
act by the President, and complete and equip the whole road
by the 4th of July, 1876; and the further condition that, if
the company should make any breach of the conditions of the
grants, and allow the same to continue for upwards of one
year, then at any time thereafter the United States might "do
any and all acts and things" needful and necessary to insure
a speedy completion of the road. (Secs. 8 and 9.) Subsequently
a joint resolution was passed by Congress extending the time
for the commencement of the road to July 2, 1868, and for its
completion to July 4, 1878. 14 Stat. 355, Sec. 2.
As seen by the terms of the third section of the act, the
grant is one inprcesenti; that.is, it purports to pass a present
title to the lands designated by alternate sections, subject to
such exceptions and reservations as may arise from sale, grant,
preemption or other disposition previous to the time the definite route of the road is fixed. The language of the statute is
"that there be, and hereby is, granted" to the company every
alternate section of the lands designated, which implies that
the property itself is passed, not any special or limited interest
in it. The words also import a transfer of a present title. not
.a promise to transfer one in the future.
The route not being at the time determined, the grant was
in the nature of a float, and the title did not attach to 4ny
specific sections until they were capable of identification ;.
but wheni once identified the, title attached to them as of the
date of the grant, except as to such sections as were specifically reserved. It is in this sense that the grant is termed one
in prosenti; that is to say, it is of that character as to all
lands within, the terms of the grant, and not reserved from it
at the time of the definite location of the route.
This is the. construction given to similar grants by this
court, where the question has been often considered; indeed,

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.

Opinion of the Court.

it is so well settled as to be no longer open to discussion.
Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, 60; Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; ]Pfissouri,
Kansas &c. Railway Co. v. Kansas Paific Railway Co.,'97
U. S. 491; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 IT. S. 426. The
terms of present grant are in some cases qualified by .ther
portions of the granting act, as in the case 6f Rice v. Railroad
Co., 1 Black, 358; but unless qualified they are to receive the
interpretation mentioned.
It is contended that they are. qualified, and restricted by
the provision of the fourth section, that whenever twenty-five
miles of the road are completed in a good, substantial and
workmanlike manner, and the commissioners appointed to
examine the same have -made a report to that effect to the
President, patents shall be issued "confirming to. said company the right and title to said lands, situated opposite to,
and coterminous with, said completed section of said road."
This provision, it is urged, is inconsistent with the theory that
a title to the lands had previously vested in the company. We
do not think so. There are many reasons why patents should
be issued upon the completion of each section of the road.
They would not only identify the lands as coterminous with
the completed section, but they would be evidence that, as to
that portion of the road, the conditions of the grant had been
complied with, and that it was thus freed from any liability
to forfeiture for a disregard of them. They would also obviate
the necessity of any further evidence of the grantee's title. . As
deeds of further assurance they would thus be of great value,
in giving quiet and peace to the grantee's possession. There
are many instances in the legislation of Congress where patents
are authorized to be issued to parties in further assurance of
their title, notwithstanding a previous legislative grant to
them or a legislative confirmation of a previously existing
claim. The previous grant or confirmation is in no respect
impaired thereby, or its construction affected. See on this
point -Langdeauv. ilanes, 21 Wall. 521; fight
r
v. Roseberry,
121 U. S. 488, 497.
Although the restraints in the act against the sale or aliena-

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.

7

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the lands when once identified are not the subject of
consideration in the present case, it may be well, to obviate
misapprehension, to observe that the company, notwithstanding its possession of the'title, was not at liberty to dispose of
the lands without the consent of Congress, except as each
twenty-five mile section was completed and accepted by the.
President, so as to deprive the United States of the right to
compel their application to the purposes of the grant, or so
as to prevent their forfeiture in case of the company's failure
to comply with its conditions. Congress in allowing a mortgage upon the land, and in other ways, may have granted permission to the company to use and dispose of the lands or a.
portion thereof, but with this we are not now concerned. The
-construction we give to the granting terms of the act, as qualified by subsequent provisions, not only secures the application
of the property to the construction of, the road and telegraph
line, and thus carries out the purposes of the government, but
also secures the company against any attempted alienation of
the land to other parties..
:aving expressed our opinion as to the character of the
title which Congress conveyed to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by, the act of July 2, 1864, we. proceed to
consider whether it was, by a subsequent location of the
contemplated road, made to cover the lands for which the
present suit is brought.
The general location of the route of the Northern Pacific
Railroad was designated in 1869, and a map of it, approved
by the Secretary of the Interior, was filed in the office of the
commissioner of the general land office in August, 1870; and
thereupon the Secretary ordered the withdrawal by the local
land officers in. Wisconsin and Minnesota, from sale, pregmption, homestead and other disposal, of the odd-numbered sections not sold or reserved, and to which prior rights had not
attached, within twenty miles -oneach side of the said line, for,
the benefit of the company. Subsequently this general route
in Minnesota was changed, and a map corrected'in accordance
with the -change, approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
was filed in the' general land office, on the 8th of October,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

1870, and on the 12th of that month the Secretary ordered
the withdrawal of the lands in conformity with the new general route adopted. The company then proceeded with the
-work of definitely locating the line of the road through that
State, and on the 21st of November, 1871, filed in the office of
the commissioner of the general land office a map or plat of
the line thus definitely fixed, approved by the Secretary of the
Interior. The company subsequently constructed and equipped
the road through that State in all respects as a first-class railroad, and has since operated and maintained it. The road
was accepted and approved by the President in accordance
with the provisions of the fourth section of the act of July 2,
1864.
By the joint resolution of Congress of May 31, 1870, it was
provided that in the event that there was not in any State or
Territory, in which the main line or a branch of the road of
the company might be located, the amount of lands per mile
granted by Congress, within the limits prescribed by its charter, then the company should be entitled, under the directions
of the Secretary of the Interior, to receive so many sections of
land beldnging to the United States, and designated by odd
numbers, in such State or Territory within ten miles'on each
side of the road, beyond the limits prescribed in the charter,
as would -make up the deficiency, on the said main line or
branch, in the amount of lands that had been granted, sold,
reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, predmpted or otherwise disposed of, subsequent to the passage of the act of July
2, 1864. 16 Stat. 378.
After a map of the general route of the road of the plaintiff
was filed, as above stated, and the line of the road in Minnesota was definitely fixed, the commissioner of the general land
office designated, uponi maps and records in his office, the limits of the lands granted by Congress to the plaintiff, according
to the provisions of the act of 1864, and the above joint resolution, namely, the twenty, thirty and f6rty-mile limits on each
side of the line of definite location, the first named being the
limits of the lands in place; the second, the limits of the indemnity lands; and the third, or forty-mi~e limit, the limits of

ST. P 'TTL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.
Opinion of the Court.

the further indemnity granted by the joint resolution of May
31, 1870. And upon such designation it was found that there
was not in the State, within those limits, at the time of the
final location of the road, the amount of lands intended by
the grant of Congress for the plaintiff, not previously granted,
sold, occupied by homestead settlers, preempted or otherwise
disposed of.
The right of the plaintiff, the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, to the lands in place along the line of its route as
definitely located in the State of Minnesota, and to other lands,
to make up deficiencies within those limits, caused by previous
grants, sales, reservations, settlements or preemptions, to be
taken from the indemnity limits, or within the forty-mile withdrawal, will not admit of serious doubt, unless a prior right
attached to those lands by an earlier grant of the United
States. Such earlier grait is asserted by the defendants under
the act of Congress of March 3, 1857, and subsequent legislation changing its operation. 11 Stat. c- 99, p. 195. By that
act there was granted to the Territory of Minnesota, for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of certain railroads
therein mentioned, one of which was a railroad from Stillwater by way of St. Paul and St. Anthony to a point between
the foot of Big Stone Lake and the mouth of Sioux Wood
River, with a branch via St. Cloud and Crow Wing to the
navigable waters of the Red River of the North, at such point
as the legislature of the Territory might determine, every
alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers, for six
sections in width, on each side of said road and branches. It
was also provided that the Territory or future State might
select, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
from any lands. of the United States nearest to the tiers of
sections specified, so much land, in alternate sections or parts
of sections, as should be equal to such of the granted lands as
the United States might have sold or appropriated, or to
which rights of preemption might have attached when the
lines or routes of the road and branches were ddfinitely fixed.
It was further provided that the lands so located should in no
case be further than fifteen miles from the lines of the road
and branches.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
On the 22d of May, 1857, the legislature of Minnesota passed
an act to execute the trust imposed by the act of Congress,
and created a corporation, called the Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad Company,, with p6wer to locate, build and operate a
railroad, in conformity with that.act, from Stillwater, by way
of St. Paul and St. Anthony, via Minneapolis, to the town of
Breckinridge on the Sioux Wood River, with a branch from
St. Anthony, via St. Cloud and Crow Wing, to St. Vincent on
the Red River of the North, and to aid in the construction of
that road and branches conveyed all of its interest in the lands
granted by the United States for that purposp.
In November, 1857, this railroad company thus created
located the entire main line of its road and that portion of the
"branch.line from St. Anthony via Anoka and St. Cloud to
Crow Wing, and' the maps of definite location thereof were
approved by the Secretary of the Interior and filed in the
general land office in December of that year.
In July, 1858, that railroad company executed a mortgage
to trustees upon its railroad, and all its alienable franchises,
and the rights and interest which it had acquired or might
acquire in the lands granted by the Territory, to secure the
payment of certain bonds which -the Territory had authorized
it to issue. The company having defaulted in the payment of
those bonds, the mortgage was foreclosed, the property was
sold, and the State of Minnesota, which had superseded the
Territory, becaine the purchaser.
Subsequently in March, 1862, its legislature passed an act
by which all the rights, franchises, property and interests of
the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company thus acquired
by the State were granted to certain persons named, their
associates and successors, who were incorporated by the name
of thd St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company. The grant
of the. State was accepted by that company, with all its
conditions.
In July 1862, it became evident that it would be more
advantageous for the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company,.
and for the State of Minnesota, that the line of branch railroad which was authorized to be constructed should be changed,

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.

11

Opinion of the Court.

and to accomplish this Congress, on the 12th of that month,
passed the following joint resolution:
"W7ereas by. an act of, Congress approved March third,
eighteen hundred and fifty-seven, there was granted to the
Territory of Minnesota. lands to aid in the construction of a
railroad from Stillwater, via St. Paul and St. Anthony, to a,
point between the foot of Big Stone, Lake and the mouth of
Sioux Wood River, with a branch, via St. Cloud and Crow
Wing, to the navigable waters of the Red River of the North,
the northern terminus of which was fixed by the legislature of
said Territory at St. Vincent; and whereas it is now believed
that the public interests require a change of location of a part
of said branch road; Therefore, " Be it resolved by the Senate'and House of _Representative&
of the United States of America in Con gress assembled, That
in lieu of that part of the railroad grant to Minnesota Territory
by act of Congress approved third March, eighteen hundred
and fifty-seven, which extends northwesterly from the intersection of the tenth standard parallel with the fourth guide
meridian, there shall be granted to the State of Minnesota the
alternate sections within six-mile limits of such new branch
line of route as the authorities of the State may designate,
having its southwestern terminus at any point on the existing
line, between the Falls of St. Anthony and Crow Wing, and
extending in a northeasterly direction to the waters of Lake
Superior, with a right of indemnity between the fifteen-mile
limits thereof, provided this resolution shall take effect from
the filing in the general land office of the acceptance by the
authorities aforesaid of such substitution; whereupon the land
north of the intersection aforesaid in the grant as authorized
by the said act of third March, eighteen hundred and fiftyseven, being by said acceptance disencumbered of the railroad
grant, shall be dealt with as other public lands of the United
States." 12 Stat. pp. 624, 625.
On the 6th of March, 1863, the legislature of Minnesota
accepted the terms and provisions of this joint resolution by
an act approved on that day, an authenticated copy of which
was subsequently, on February 26, 1S64, filed in the general land.
office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 28th of :May, 1864, the board of directors of the St.
Paul and Pacific Railroad Company adopted the following
resolution:
"Resolved by the Board of .Directors of the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company, That the terms, conditions and
provisions of the joint resolution of the Congress of the United
States, approved July 12, 1862, entitled 'A joint resolution
authorizing the State of Mfinnesota to change the line of certidn branch railroads in said State, and for other purposes,'
uand also the terms, conditions and provisions of the act of the
legislature of the State of Minnesota, approved March 6, 1863,
.entitled ' An act to authorize the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad
Company to construct a branch road to Lake Superior,' and
also the terms, conditions and provisions of the act of the
legislature of the State of Minnesota, approved March 4, 1864,
entitled ' An act to extend the time for the construction of the
-branch road of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company,'
be, and the same and each and every of them are, hereby
approved, accepted and assented to by the St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad Company, and the president and secretary of this
company are hereby directed to transmit a duly certified copy
of this resolution to the governor of the State."
The resolution was accordingly transmitted to the governor.
The joint resolution of Congress of July 12, 1862, and its
acceptance by the State of Minesota and the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company, established the intersection of the
tenth standard parallel with the fourth guide meridian as
the northern terminus of the branch line. That portion of
the country in Minnesota which was northwesterly of the
intersection was thus disencumbered of the railroad grant
-under the act of March 3, 1857. And that portion south of
the intersection and west of the route of the branch road
definitely located, composing the alternate sections granted,
was distant many miles east of the lands in controversy in this
suit. The act of 1857. provided for the construction of a railroad from Stillwater, by way of St. Paul and St. Anthony, to
a point between the foot. of Big.Stone Lake and the mouth of
Sioux Wood River, with a branch via St. Cloud and Crow Wing

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTH{ERN PACIFIC.

.13

Opinion of the Court.

to the navigable waters of the Red River of the North, at kuch
point as the legislature of the Territory might determine. By
the change effected this branch was to be constructed north
only to the intersection designated, and a direct line via St.
Cloud and Crow Wing to that point would also be a. long way
from the lands in controversy. When the termini of a railroad are mentioned, for whose construction a grant is made,
the extent of which is dependent upon the distance between
those points, the road should be constructed upon the most
direct and practicable line. No unnecessary deviation from
such line would be deemed within the contemplation of the
grantor, and would b& rejected as not in accordance with the
grant. The route via St. Cloud and Crow Wing to the intersection mentioned would be almost in a direct northerly line;
a route via those places to Glyndou would involve a westerly
deviation of nearly a hundred miles. Of course such a detour
from a direct line would be inadmissible. And as to the new
branch authorized to Lake Superior, that would be only in an
opposite direction.
It is, however, earnestly contended by the appellants that
they are entitled to the lands in question by the subsequent
acts of Congress of March 3, 1865, and March 3, 1871; and to
these acts we now turn our attention.
The act of March 3, 1865, "extending the time for the completion of certain land-grant railroads in the States of Minnesota and Iowa, and for other purposes," 13 Stat. c. 105, p. 526,
in its first section increases the grant made to Minnesota by
the act of March 3, 1857, to aid the construction of certain
railroads, from six alternate sections per mile on each side of
such roads and branches to ten sections per mile. Its second
section enlarges the indemnity limits from fifteen to twenty
miles from the lines of the roads and branches. Its third
section excepts from the operation of the act any lands previously reserved by act of Congress or in any other manner
by competent authority, to aid in any object of internal improvement or other purpose. The ninth section declares that
the provisions of the act shall "be construed so as to apply
and extend to that portion of the line authbrized to be vacated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-by the joint resolution approved July 12, 1862, entitled A
joint resolution authorizing the State of Minnesota to change
the line of certain branch railroads in said State, and for other
purposes,' notwithstanding the vacation thereof by said State,
*as though said joint resolution had not passed, and also to the
line adopted by-said State in lieu of the portion of the line so
vacated."
This act makes an additional and new grant to Minnesota
of four sections of land per mile to aid in the construction of
its railroads, and enlarges the indemnity limits from fifteen to
twenty miles; and the provisions of its ninth section being
applied and extended to that portion of the line between the
,intersection -of the tenth standard parallel with the fourth
guide meridian and St. Vincent, vacated by the joint resolution of July, 1862, and also to the line running eastwardly to
Lake Superior, authorized in lieu of the vacated line, in effect
made a new grant between St. Vincent and the intersection
mentioned, and enlarged the grant for the line to Lake
Superior.
On tbQ 3d of March, 1871, Congress passed an act authorizing another change to be made by the St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad Company in its lines, "in consideration of a relinquishment of lands." That act is as follows:
,Be.it enaoted by the Senate and Hlouse of Repiresentatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company may so alter its
branch lines that, instead of constructing a road from Crow
Wing to St. Vincent, and from St. Cloud to the waters of
Lake Superior, it may locate and construct, in lieu thereof, a
line from Crow Wing to Brainerd, to intersect with the
N~orthern Pacific Railroad, and from, St. Cloud to a point of
intersbction with the line of the original grant at or near
Otter Tail or Rush Lake, so as to form a more direct route to
St. Vincent, with the same proportional grant of lands to be
taken in the same manner along said altered lines, as is provided for the present lines by existing laws: Provided,however, That this change shall in io manner enlarge said grant,
and that this act shall only take effect upon condition of being

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.

15

Opinion of the Court.

in accord with the legislation of the State of Minnesota, and
upon the further condition that proper releases shall be made
to the United States by said company, of all lands along said
abandoned lines from Crow Wing to St. Vincent and from St.
Cloud to Lake Superior, and that upon the execution of said
releases such lands so released shall be considered as immediately restored to market, without further legislation." 16
Stat. c. 144, p. 588.
The act of March 3, 1865, as said above, is a new grant,
referring to, but distinguishable and distinct from, that made
by the act of March 3, 1857. The act of March 3, 1871,
only authorizes the construction of different lines from those
previously designated, in consideration of the relinquishment
of lands along the previously designated lines, the new lines
to have the same proportional grant along them to be taken
in the same manner as along the former lines.
These two acts are subsequent in date to the act under
which the plaintiff claims, and the rule has long been settled
that where different grants cover the same premises the earlier
takes the title. There would be no reason why that rule
should not be followed in the present. case if the act of March
3, 1871, should be held to cover the premises in controversy.
It is, however, contended, in answer to this position of an
earlier grant to the plaintiff, that the acts of March 3, 1865,
and March 3, 1871, are to be treated, not as distinct acts, but
simply as amendments to the act of March 3, 1857, and to be
given an operation as of that date. We do not assent to this
position. Though the act of March 3, 1865, by its new and
addition.al grants, amended the previous act of 1857, its operation upon any lands previously reserved to aid in any work of
internal improvement was expressly restrained. What was
reserved before remained reserved afterwards. And the act
of 1871 does not purport in any sense to be an amendment of
the act of 185. It simply. authorizes the St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad Company to change its lines in consideration of. the
relinquishment of certain lands. The old lines were- to be
given up, and all the benefits attached to them, in consideration of which new lines were authorized. The old lines were

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not amended, but were abandoned. There was no partial
release of the accompanying grants, but whatever rights attended the original lines were to be surrendered.
It is also urged against the priority of the plaintiff's claim
that by the terms of the act making the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company all subsequent grants prior to
the definite location of its road are excepted.
Giving full force to this exception, we do not see that it has
any application in the present case. It can only apply to
grants of land which would otherwise be covered by the
Northern Pacific grant, and the only grant which it is contended was in that situation, is the one accompanying the
authority given by the act of March 3, 1871, to construct, in
lieu of certain lines to be abandoned, a line from St. Cloud to
a point of intersection with the line of what was termed the
original grant, at or near Otter Tail or Rush Lake; though
what was intended was the line projected in 1869, but which
was never accepted by the Secretary of the Interior, because
of its plain deviation from a direct line between the termini
of the road authorized. The line of the original main grant
wag a long way distant from those lakes, to the south of them;
and no line was located to intersect it, or authorized with that
view. The line authorized, or supposed to be authorized,
under the act of March 3, 1871, was distant many miles from
the line projected in 1869, and the map of its definite location,
approved by the Secretary of the Interior, was not filed with
the commissioner of the general land office until December
20, 1871. The release required by the act of March 3, 1871,
was not made by the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company
until December 13, 1871, and a formal release to the United
States by the company was not executed until the 19th of
that month. It was only upon the execution of the releasewhether that be deemed to have been on the 13th or 19th of
December -that the act took effect. The act did not make
a grant upon condition subsequent. There was no condition
for a breach of which afiy forfeiture of a grant could be required, for no grant passed until the consideration for it, the
relinquishment of old lines with the lands along them, was

ST. PAUL & PACIFIC v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.

IT

Opinion of the Court.

given. The transaction was in the nature of an exchange, by
which the right was given to the company to construct new'
lines with proportional grants, in consideration of its relinquishing certain old lines, with their accompanying lands.
The 'new rights were to vest with the release of the old rights.
The transfer was to be mutual and simultaneous. There was,
therefore, no operative grant until there was an effective
release, and whichever date be taken - whether December IS
or 19-it was subsequent to the definite location of the
Nbrthern Pacific Railroad Company in, Minnesota. A map
of that location, approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
was filed, as stated above, in the office of the commissioner
of the general land office on the 21st of the previous November. No grant, therefore, was in existence of any lands
to any other company, which are claimed by the plaintiff
in this suit, at the time of the definite location of its route.
The act of M arch 3, 1865, as already stated, is expressly restrained from in any way interfering with any lands previously reserved by Congress or any competent authority t,
aid in any work of public improvement. Consequently, underthat act no claim could be asserted, that would in any way
interfere with the grants to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company.
But independently of this conclusion, we are of opinion
that the exception in the act making the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was not intended to' cover
other grants for the construction of roads of a similar character, for this would be to embody a provision which would
often be repugnant to and defeat the grant itself. .fissouri,
Kansas & Texas Railway v. Kansas .Pacific Railway, 9T
U. S. 491, 498, 499.
Besides, the withdrawal made by the Secretary of the.
Interior of lands within the forty-mile limit, on the 13th of'
August, 1870, preserved the lands for the benefit of the.
Northern Pacific Railroad from the operation of any subsequent grants to other companies not specifically declared to,
cover the premises. The Northern Pacific act directed that.
the President should cause the lands to be surveyed forty miles.
VOL. CXXxiX-2

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in width on both sides of the entire line of the road, after the
general route should be fixed, and as fast as might be required
by the construction of the road, and provided that the odd
sections of lands granted °should not be liable to sale, entry or
preemnption before or after they were surveyed, except by the
company. They were therefore excepted by that legislation
from grants, independently of the withdrawal by the Secretary
of the Interior. His action in formally announcing their withdrawal was only giving publicity to what the law itself declared.' The object of the withdrawal was to preserve the
land unencumbered until the completion and acceptance of
the road.
In the recent case of Buttz v. -RailroadCompany,119 U. S.
55, 72, this court, speaking of the act making the grant-to
the Northern Pacific Company, said:
"Although the act does not require the officers of the Land
Department to give notice to the local land officers of the
withdrawal of the odd sections from sale or predmption, it has
been the practice of the department in such cases to formally
withdraw them. It cannot be otherwise than the exercise of
a wise precaution by the department to give such information
to the local land officers as may serve to guide aright those
seeking settlements ou the pliblic lands; and thus prevent settlements and expenditures connected with them which would
afterwards prove to be useless."
. After such withdrawal, no interest in the lands granted can
be acquired,, against the rights of the company, except by
special legislative declaration, nor, indeed, in the absence of
its announcement, after the general route is fixed.
It is indeed pontended that there is no evidence that any
general route was fixed, meaning thereby the general route
for the whole length of the road. If this were the fact, which
is not conceded, the result would not be changed, as supposed
by counsel. The contemplated railroad from Lake Superior
to Puget Sound was about two thousand miles in length, and
it was not expected that there should be a general designation
of the vhole route over this distance before -any land should
be withdrawn or any rights of the company should attach.

ST. PAUL &c. RtAILWAY CO. v. GREENALGH.
Counsel for Appellants.

The general purpose of the act was accomplished if such rea-_
sonable portions of the general route were located as would
intelligently guide the officers of the Land Department with
reference to the patents to be issued for lands intended for
the company. The withdrawal in any case would only extend
along the route which was fixed, and a map of which was filed
in the department.
As to the objection that no evidence was produced of any
selection by the Secretary of the Interi6r from the indemnity
lands to make up for the deficiencies found in the lands within
the place limits, it is sufficient to observe that all the lands
within the indemnity limits only made up in part for these
deficiencies. There was, therefore, no occasion for the exercise of the judgment of the Secretary in selecting from them,
for they were all appropriated.
Upon the whole case we are satisfied that the decree of the
court below was correct, and it is accordingly
-Afmed.
ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND MANITOBA IAILWAY COMPANY v. GREENALGH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 24. Argued and submitted November 6,1890. -Decided

March 2,1891.

When a statut e extends the time for the completion of a land grant railroad, upon the condition of saving and securing to actual settlers and
their grantees on any of the granted lands their rights in all respects the
same as if said lands had never been granted to aid in the construction
of said lines of railroad, and the company asserts and continues to assert
and exercise ownership over the road and other property, after the exp.iration of the time for completing the road, to the same extent as previously, it will be presumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary,
that the company has accepted the conditions imposed, and that it has
relinquished all claim to the lands thus settled and occupied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-r. S. U. Piney for appellants.

