DAVIS v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

property which, but for such fraud and misrepresentation,
would have been awarded to him, and of which he was thereby
wrongfully deprived.
Decree afflrmed.
DAVIS v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1593. Submitted March 30, 1891.--Decided April 13,1891.

A writ of erro.r to review the judgment of the highest tribunal of a State
cannot be maintained in the absence of a Federal question giving this
court jurisdiction.
The questions sought to be presented in this case as Federal questions fall
entirely within the scope of the exercise of the powers of the State, and
this court has no jurisdiction over them.
This case distinguished from Calton v. Utah, 130 U. S. 83.

lOTiON to dismiss, affirm or advance. The supposed Federal questions are stated in the opinion.

.Mr. C. A. Culberson, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, .-. Henry 2f. urman and _21r. Charles 17. Arimes
for the motion.
Mr. &Samuel
Field -Phllipsand ..Mr. rederickD. 3fcJenney
opposing.
MR. CHrF JuSTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was indicted by the grand jury of Tarrant
County, Texas, for that, in that county, on July 6, A.D. 1889,
he "with force and arms, did, unlawfully and with his express
malice aforethought, kill and murder one B. 0. Evans with a
pistol, contrary to the form of the statute in such cases made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
State;" and, having been arraigned and pleaded not guilty,
was tried, found guilty of murder in the first degree, his pun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ishment fixed by the jury at death, and judgment rendered
accordingly. Two successive motions for a new trial, setting
up twenty-nine alleged grounds therefor, were made, considered and overruled. An appeal was thereupon prosecuted to
the Court of Appeals of the State of Texas, and thirty-six
errors assigned. The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, and application for a rehearing was made, heard and
denied. The opinions upon the original and second hearings
were delivered by Judge Hurt and are both sent up as parts
of the record.
Daring the trial, in the motions for a new trial, in the
assignment of errors in the Court of Appeals, and in the
application for a rehearing, no suggestion of a Federal question was made; nor was any right, title, privilege or immunity
under the Constitution or any treaty or statute of the United
States specially set up or claimed by the plaintiff in error.
Notwithstanding, a writ of error from this court was allowed
by the Presiding Judge of the Court of Appeals, and the
record was filed here January 22, 1891. The case now comes
before us on a motion to dismiss or affirm.
Seven errors are assigned. The first, second and third
question the validity of the. Penal Code of the State of Texas,
in the matter of its enactment, and insist that the Federal
Constitution was violated by these proceedings taken thereunder. We have already disposed of this objection in In re
Duncan, Petitioner, ante, 162. The fourth error assails the
indictment, and is covered by our decision in Caldwell v.
Texas, 137 U. S.692. The fifth error relates to the action of
the trial court in refusing 'a continuance, and the sixth to
the action of that court in respect to that refusal, upon the
motion for a new trial. Under article 560 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure of the State of Texas, the application
for continuance is addressed to the sound discretion of the
trial cofrt, and if it be overruled and the defendant convicted,
it is provided "if it appear upon the trial that the evidence of
the witness or witnesses, named in the application, was of a
material character, and that the facts set forth in said application were probably true, a new trial should, be granted, and

DAVIS v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

the cause continued for the term, or postponed to a future
day of the same term." Willson's Crim. Tex. Stats. pt. IH, p.
154. It was for the Court of Appeals to determine whether
the discretionary power of the trial court had been so abused
as to amount to' error, and whether its reconsideration, upon
the motion for a new trial, or the refusal to continue, called'
for revision. Sections 2169, 2171, 2186, and 2187, pt. H, of
Willson's Criminal Texas Statutes, give a large number of
cases upon the subject. The matter was for the state courts
to decide, and their action presents no Federal question. The
Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution of the
United States, referred to by counsel in the assignments of
error, are restrictive of the powers of the Federal government
and not restraints upon the States, and in the statute and its
administration we find no denial of due process of law or of
a right secured to plaintiff in error by that instrument. Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692;' Leeper v. Texas, ante, 462. The
seventh error is to the effect that as the Penal Code of Texas
(Art. 607) provided "if the jury shall find any person guilty of
murder, they shall also find by their verdict whether it is of
the first or second degree; and if any person shall plead guilty
to an indictment for murder, a jury shall be summoned to find
of what degree of murder he is guilty," and the Code of
Criminal Procedure, (Art. 676,) that "the jury are the exclusive judges of the facts in the cause, but not of the law in any
case, they are bound to receive the law from the court and
be governed thereby;" and as in this instance, the trial judge
read a charge to the jury which did not treat of murder in
the second degree, a new law was thereby promulgated and
enforced in violation of the 'Constitution of the United States
prohibiting the making or enforcing of any ex post facto law,
and inhibiting any State from denying the equal protection of
the laws; and it is suggested in argument that due process
was also denied.
Articles 677, 678, 679, 680, 681, 682, 683 and 684 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure (Willson's Cr. Tex. Stats. pt. II, p. 192)
provide that the trial judge shall deliver to the jury a written
charge setting forth the, law applicable to the case distinctly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

but not expressing any opinion as to the weight of evidence,
nor summing up the testimony; and that "this charge shall
be given in all cases of felony, whether asked or not;" that it
is beyond the province of the judge to discuss the facts or use
argument, but it is his duty to state the law of the case
plainly; that either party may ask written instructions, which
the court shall either give or refuse, with or without modification, but if modified, it shall be done in writing; that the
general charge, as well as the instructions given or refused on
request, shall be certified by the judge and filed among the
papers in the case and constitute part of the record; that the
court is not required to charge in actions for misdemeanor,
except upon request, and when requested such charges shall be
given or refused, with or without modification, as are asked in
writing; that no verbal charge shall be given in any case
whatever, except in cases of misdemeanor, and then only by
consent of the parties; that when charges are asked, the judge
shall read to the jury only such as he gives; that the jury
ihay take with them in their retirement the charges of the
court after the same have been filed, but they shall not be permitted to take with them any charge, or portion of a charge,
which has been asked and which the court has refused to
give.
Article 685 is as follows: "Whenever it appears by the
record in any criminal action, upon appeal of the defendant,
that any of the requirements of the eight preceding articles
have been disregarded, the judgment shall be reversed; pro'vided,the error is excepted to at the time of the trial." The
charge of the court in this case was given in writing, as required by the statute, and no exception whatever was taken
to it, nor any additional instructions asked by the plaintiff in error. In the motion for a new trial and before the
Court of Appeals the question was raised that the court should
have instiucted upon the law of murder in the second degree.
By Article 777 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, one of the
causes for a new trial in cases of felony is stated thus: "Where
the court has misdirected the jury as to the law, or has committed any other material error calculated to injure the rights

DAVIS v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the defendant." Under these articles and similar statutory
provisions previously existing, it has been held repeatedly by
the Texas courts of last resort that, however immaterial the
error may be, if promptly excepted to and presented by a
proper bill of exceptions on appeal, the statute is mandatory,
and that the conviction must be set aside without inquiry as
to the effect of such error upon the jury. But if the error be
not excepted to at the proper time, and is first presented in a
motion for a new trial, then the rule is that, if under all the
circumstances, as exhibited in the record, the error was "calculated to injure the rights of the defendant," the conviction
will be' set aside, but otherwise it will not be disturbed. Bishop
v. State, 43 Texas, 390; Joohnson v. State, 27 Texas, 758;
Elam' v. State, 16 Texas App. 34; Blocker v. State, 27 Texas
App. 16, 43. In the latter case, Jidge Willson, in delivering
the opinion on the motion for rehearing, said that the decisions were numerous and uniform in Texas "that where there
is no evidence from which, by any possible legitimate construction, the jury could conclude that the homicide was murder in
the second degree, the court may properly decline to submit
to the jury the issue and law of murder in the second degree;
and he cites some sixteen decisions in support of the position.
In the first opinion delivered by the Court of Appeals in
the case at bar the court said : "The learned judge submitted
the question of self-defence, but did not submit to the jury
but one degree of murder, viz., the first. There was no objection to the charge for this omission, nor did counsel requ-st
an instruction upon the second degree. We have reversed a
great number of judgments, in all manner of felony cases, for
this omission, though there was no charge requested, no objection taken, because of the omission to charge the law applicable to the different phases of the case. But, in the absence
of requested charges or objection, what is the rule? We are
discussing the matter upon the hypothesis that murder of the
second degree, is presented by some evidence in the record.
The rule is stated in Bishop v. The State, 43 Texas, 390, to be
that if the charge is erroneous and is excepted to at the time,
the judgment will be reversed; but, though erroneous, if not

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

excepted to or proper instructions requested, the judgment for
this error may or may not be reversed. If the omission was
a material error, calculated to injure the rights of the defendant, though the error is called to the attention of the
court first in a motion for new trial, the judgment should be reversed; but in determining whether the error is material and
calculated to injure the rights of the accused, we are to look
to the whole record bearing upon the subject. What was the
nature of the testimony supporting the verdict? Was it
cogent and overwhelming?' What the character of the testimony presenting the phase or theory of the case omitted to
be noticed in the charge and upon which omission error is
assigned? Was it at all reasonable? Did it present a theory
which a reasonable mind could entertain, or was it supported
by such testimony as was remotely calculated to destroy the
State's case? When considered in connection with the other
testimony in the case, as well as the charge as a whole, was
the phase of the case simply an addition to the case as made
byT the State and consistent therewith, or was it in direct conflict with the State's theory . These are all important matters
to be considered in passing upon the materiality of the omission, or error so as properly to determine whether the error
was calculated to injure the rights of the accused." The evidence considered, the conclusion was reached "that, if a charge
had been submitted, permitting the jury to find a less degree,
no juror with the least degree of intelligence, unless corrupt,
would have entertained for a moment the spggestion of any
theory less than murder of the first degree," and that, after a
careful examination of the record in the light of the argument
and brief for the condemned, and bearing in mind the penalty
awarded, the court had failed to find any error requiring a
reversal. The discussion was renewed and regnforced in the
opinion upon overruling the motion for a rehearing, and additional authorities were cited.
In view of the legitimate purview of the Fourteenth Amendment, as settled by repeated exposition, it is impossible for us
-to hold that in all this the plaintiff in error was deprived of
due process of law or denied the equal protection of the laws,
or that his privileges or immunities were abridged.

DAVIS v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

In Calton v. Utah, 130 U. S. 83, we held that where the
Code of Utah provided that imprisonment at hard labor in the
penitentiary for life might be substituted for the penalty of
death when the accused was found guilty of murder in the first
degree, if the jury made a recommendation to that effect, the
court erred in not calling the attention of the jury to that provision of the statute, since it was not to be presumed that
they were aware of their right to make such recommendation; but that was ' a case which came directly to us from the
Supreme Court of the Territory, and the inquiry related to the
commission of mere error, and statutory provisions like those
of Texas were not under consideration.
A writ of error to review the judgment of the highest tribunal of a State stands on far different ground and cannot be
maintained in the absence of a Federal question giving us
jurisdiction. The state courts rendered no decision in favor
of the validity of a statute of or authority exercised under the
State, drawn in question on the ground of repugnancy to the
laws of the United States, nor was any title, right, privilege
or immunity under such constitution or statute specially set
up or claimed in the case. It is not within our province to
pass upon any of the questions sought to be presented, as they
fall entirely within the scope of the exercise of the powers of
the State.
The writ of error is
Dismised.
voL. cxxxx-42

