OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

By the General Statutes of Nebraska, of 1873, chapter 13,
section 1, the county was made a body corporate, and it was
provided by section 4 that suits by or against it should be
brought by or against the board of county commissioners of
the county, and, by other provisions, power was conferred
upon the board to levy and collect taxes. It, therefore, had
authority to act 'or the county in respect to the collection of
taxes. Indeed, that is its only authority for the bringing of
the present suit, coupled with the provision found in section
93, of chapter 13, of the General Statutes of Nebraska, of
1873, that the county commissioners are authorized to employ
attorneys in any case, either civil or criminal, in which their
county is interested, when the cause is taken to the Supreme
Court of the State, or before any United States court, and are
authorized to pay a reasonable compensation for such services.

.Decree a-ffi med.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuImaR

did not sit in this case, or take

any part in its decision.

REDFIELD v. BARTELS.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOB THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 269. Argued March 30,1891.-Decided April 20,1891.
On the 16th of November, 1863, plaintiffs brought suit to recover customs
duties illegally exacted, laying the ad damnum at $1500. On the 8th of
January, 1881, they amended their claim, increasing the ad damnum to
$20,000. There was no interest count in the declaration, and It was
doubtful whether interest was at first specially declared for in any way.
No account was rendered or demand made prior to the commencement6
of the suit, nor was any bill of particulars furnished at that time. On
the l1th of 'May, 1882, a bill of particulars was for the first time served.
The court below gave judgment for $14,394.95, with interest from the
date of the several payments. Held, on the facts set forth at length in
the opinion, showing laches on the part of plaintiffs, that they were only
entitled to judgment for $1500 with interest from November 16, 1863, and
$12,894,95, with interest from January 8, 1881.

REDFIELD

. BARTELS.

Opinion of the Court

Tim case is stated in the opinion
.r.

Assistant Attorney General Maug-y for plaintiff in error.

-Y. S. F. Philbps and Xr. F. -3f..MeKenney for defendants
in error.

MR. CHIEF JUsTIoE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.

This suit was broughb by George F. W. Bartels and others in
the New York Supreme Court, November 12, 1863, against iRedfield, then late collector of the port of New York, to recover back
the sum of fifteen hundred dollars duties at the rate of forty per
cent under Schedule B of the act of July 30, 1846, 9 Stat. 42,
c. 74, that had been unlawfully assessed on charges for inland
transportation on a large number of importations of champagne wine invoiced from iRheims, and exported from the port
of Havre, and on one-half of one per centum excess of commissions on the said importations. Service was made November
1(3, 1863, and notice of appearance given, and bill of particula:s and copy of complaint demanded by defendant, and the
suit removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York by certiorari on February 20,
1S64.
The declaration was filed March 30, 1864, and consisted of
the common counts, alleging an indebtedness in the sum of
$1500, for money lent and advanced; paid, laid out and expended; had and received; and due upon an account stated;
and the ad dctmnun was placed at $1500. On April 20, 1864,
the defendant filed a plea of the general issue, and on the
next day, April 21, a jury was called and sworn in this and
some other cases, and a verdict rendered in these terms:
"By consent of counsel the jury find a verdict for the plaintiffs in the above-entitled action for excess of duty with interest thereon illegally exacted from plaintiffs and paid under
protest to defendant, and not barred by the statute of limitations, on commissions over one and one-half per centum on
merchandise imported by the plaintiffs at New York, from

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Great Britain; on commissions over two per centum on merchandise imported by plaintiffs at New York from the Continent of Europe (except Paris); on the discount of two and
one-half per centum disallowed on linens imported at New
York from Ireland; on charges on merchandise imported at
New York from Ireland; on charges on merchandise imported
at New York for the transportation of the goods from the interior of the country by railroad or water carriage incurred prior
to the time of exportation; on coastwise and transportation
charges from Ireland and Scotland to England on merchandise imported at New York from Ireland and Scotland 'via
England; and on additions to make market value of said merchandise at London and Liverpool; on transportation charges
from the Continent of Europe to Great Britain, on merchandise imported at New York from the Continent of Europe via
Great Britain; on merchandise imported by the plaintiffs at
New York, and invoiced in Bremen thalers, by the Bremen
thalers having been computed in assessing duties at a higher
rate than seventy-one cents, the rate at which it should by law
have been computed; the amount of excess of duties exacted
from the plaintiffs, and paid to the defendant, and. embraced
in the plaintiffs' bill of particulars to be adjusted by the clerk
of the court or his deputy. It is expressly stipulated that in,
case it shall appear on the adjustment or otherwise in any case
that the suit was not brought within the time prescribed by
statute of limitations, or that the question of timeliness of
protest, or the question of a sufficiency of a continuous or
prospective protest shall be involved, the verdict shall be
opened and opportunity to appeal be given to, and at the
option of the district attorney.
"A certificate of probable cause to be entered in each case.
"The right to appeal or writ of error as above not to be
reserved to the district attorney, unless the amount involved
be sufficiently large to allow such writ of error."
March 16, 1865, it was ordered: "That .all the orders heretofore made by this court, referring certain suits against the
collector of the port of New York to the clerk of this court
for adjustment, be and the same are hereby revoked, except

REDFIELD v. BA.RTELS.
Opinion of the Court.

as to such cases the adjustment of which was actually commenced before him." July 1, 1865, this and other suits were
referred by Judge Nelson to the collector of the port for
adjustment. November 20, 1874, an order was entered:
"That the referee therein, in adjusting any of the above
causes, shall not exclude from this report any item or items
for the reason that said item or items were paid more than
six years before the '3ommencement of suit, unless it shall
appear that the statute of limitations was duly pleaded by the
defendant in each case, and the referee is instructed to include
such items in his reports and statements, unless the statute has
been pleaded." Mr. Redfield having died July 22, 1877, and
letters testamentary having issued to Constance 0. Redfield
and Frank B. Redfield, the latter, as executrix and executor,
were substituted, May 22, 1880, as defendants. On the 8th
of January, 1881, against the opposition of the government,
plaintiffs were given leave to amend the summons and declaration by increasing the damages therein set forth to $20,000,
and interest from the dates of payment, and an amendment
thus increasing the indebtedness claimed, and the amount
named in the ad damnum, with interest, was made accordingly
on the face of the original -papers. On the 11th of May, 1882,
plaintiffs served a bill of particulars, notifying the defendants
that the plaintiffs' claim "is for excess of duty paid on charges
and commissions on all importations made into New York on
which duties were paid to the defendants between November
1, 1853, and July 1, 1857,' and giving a list of the importations. June 30, 1882, the case, with others, was referred to
the clerk of the court for adjustment, according to the verdict,
of the plaintiffs' claim, upon the bill of particulars served.
On the 19th of September, 1882, a rule to show cause why
the defendants should not be allowed to set up as additional
defences the pendency of another suit for the same cause or
causes of action, res adjudicata, and payment, was entered,
but was vacated on the 20th of October. December 15, 1882,
the referee made his report, to which 'defendants filed exceptions, which were heard March, 28, 1883, and on the 4th of
April, 1883, sustained. The opinion of the circuit judge will

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be found in 16 Fed. Rep. 336. A rehearing was granted and
had March 4, 1884; the report was recommnitted on the 16th
of May, 1884, and an additional report was filed June 1, 1885,
finding that the amount due plaintiffs was $14,394.95 principal and $29,988.55 interest, to the date of the report. This
report was confirmed April 19, 1886, and interest directed to
be computed from the date of the report to the date of entry
of. judgment. Judgment was signed October 3, 1887, for
$51,302.48. A bill of exceptions was taken, and the case
brought here on writ of error.
The order of May 16, 1884, recommitting the report,
directed, among other things, "that the referee receive such
evidence as the parties may present respecting the existence
of laches which may affect the right of plaintiffs to recover
interest under the decision of the Supreme Court in the case
of ]?edflld v. Yitahyfera Iron Co.'" The referee transmitted
the evidence taken before him bearing upon that question, and
reported that he failed to see any good and substantial grounds
for a finding of laches on the part of .plaintiffs, which ought
to deprive them of interest, and he therefore found and reported that interest should be included in the judgment. The
bill of exceptions contains the evidence adduced before the
referee, his report, and twenty-nine specific findings of fact,
made at the request of the plaintiffs, and a finding, "as a conclusion of law," likewise so requested: "That the plaintiffs
have not been guilty of laches, but have used reasonable diligence in the prosecution of this action and are entitled to interest on the amount of principal found due by the referee
from the several dates of payment." And also thirty-six findings of fact as requested by the defendants, and a refusal of
one finding of fact so requested, as well as refusals to find, as
"conclusions of law," that the plaintiffs "have been guilty of
gross laches in prosecuting this action," and "are not entitled
to recover any interest whatever in this action." To this
report and the decisions of the referee the plaintiffs and defendants severally filed exceptions, those of plaintiffs -relating
to certain refusals to.find not material here. The defendants
excepted to various findings by the referee in accordance with

REDFIELD v. BAR TELS.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs' requests, and to specific conclusions relating to
laches and the allowance of interest; to the referee's refusal
to find as requested by defendants, "that there is no evidence
in this action that these plaintiffs, or any one in their behalf,
from July 1, 1865, until about April or May, 1882, when this
action was referred to the present referee, have made any application to the collector of the port, as such referee as aforesaid, to have this action so adjusted," though the referee did
find that "there is no evidence in this action that these plaintiffs or any one in their behalf, from April 1, 1864, until somewhere about June 30, 1882, ever made any application to this
court, or a judge thereof, to have this action adjusted pursuant to the verdict therein." The defendants also excepted to
the referee's refusal to find the conclusions of law requested
by them. The exceptions of the parties were heard and overruled April 17, 1886. The opinion of the Circuit Court is
reported, 27 Fed. Rep. 286. The order for judgment is dated
April 19, 1886. Judgment was signed October 3, 1887, as
before stated. To this order and the decision of the court
embodied therein the defendants duly excepted, in so far as
the same overruled the defendants' exceptions as to the allowance of interest in the case.
In the view which we take, we do not deem it necessary to
recapitulate the various findings of fact by the referee. It
should be said, however, that it appeared, among other things,
therefrom, that a suit was commenced by plaintiffs in 1860 to
recover excesses of duty paid on charges and commissions
from November 1, 1853, to July 1, 1857, in which judgment
was finally entered February 17, 1864, which was paid April
7, 1864; and that after the judgment was paid certain missing
entries and invoices were found in the record room of the
custom-house, and the referee held that it 'was through no
fault of the plaintiffs that the amounts sought to be recovered
in this suit were not included in the prior action, which
covered practically the same period of time, and that i*f the
omission to include the amounts in the former suit had been
through any fault or neglige6ce of the plaintiffs it was cured
by the verdict entered April 21, 1864, by consent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

We agree with the Circuit Court that the consent verdict
may be properly treated as a stipulation, and that it precluded
the defendants from denying that the plaintiffs were entitled
to recover excess of duties illegally exacted by and paid under
protest to the defendants' testator; and that under the circumstances, the defence of the former suit, judgment and payment could not be availed of. And while by that so-called
verdict the defence of the statute of limitations was expressly
reserved, yet, on the 20th of November, 1874, it was ordered
that items barred by the statute should not be excluded from
the recovery except in cases where the statute had been
pleaded, and as that order was not objected to, nor exception
taken at the time, the court correctly assumed that the government had waived the stipulation so far as intended for its
protection in that regard, and hence that there could be a
recovery of the items named in the bill of particulars in this
case, notwithstanding they were all barred upon the face of
this record under the statute of limitations of New York then
applicable. Barney v. Oelrick s, 138 U. S. 529. When that
verdict was consented to, plaintiffs asserted an indebtedness
of $1500, and nearly seventeen years afterwards, on the 8th
of January, 1881, they were permitted by amendment to
raise the amount of the alleged indebtedness from $1500 to
$20,000 and interest, and no exception seems to have been
taken to the granting of that amendment. The bill of particulars was served on the 11th of May, 1882. These are
matters of record and were also found by the referee. Treating the findings of fact and conclusions of law of the referee,
and the action of the court in passing upon the exceptions to
the referee's report and findings, as adopting the referee's
conclusions, and to be considered either as a special verdict or
as findings of fact and conclusions of law by the court, the
same having been duly excepted to, the question arises
whether the judgment rendered is justified by those findings.
If upon the facts the court had instructed a jury to find the
interest allowed in this chse, and such an instruction had been
excepted to, or if the case had been submitted to the court for
trial, and findings of fact and conclusions of law had been

REDFIELD v. BARTELS.
Opinion of the Court.

made accord ingly, the question whether there was error resulting in the judgment as rendered would be open to us; and

we hold that this is so upon this record.
In Redfleld v. Ystalyfera Iron Co., 110 U. S. 114, 176, the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, said: " Interest is
given on money demands as damages for delay in payment,
being just compensation to the plaintiff for a default on the
part of his debtor. Where it is reserved expressly in the contract, or is implied by the nature of the promise, it becomes
part of the debt, and is recoverable as of right; but when it is
given as damages, it is often matter of discretion. In cases,
like the present, of recoveries for excessive duties paid under
protest, it was held, in -Erskine v. Tan A rsdale, 15 Wall. 75,
that the jury might add interest, the plaintiff ordinarily being
entitled to it from the time of the illegal exaction. But
where interest is recoverable, not as part of the contract, but
by way of damages, if the plaintiff has been guilty of laches
in unreasonably delaying the prosecution of his claim, it may
be properly withheld." That was the case of an action begun
on December 30, 1854, to recover from the collector of the
port of New York money alleged to have been illegally
exacted by him for customs duties and paid under protest,
and, on the 15th of December, 1856, a verdict was taken by
consent in the sum of $1500, subject to adjustment at the
custom-house as to the amount. Judgment was finally entered
August 22, 1883. The case made, which, by the terms of the
verdict, either party was at liberty to turn into a bill of
exceptions, set forth the entire evidence, but was not an
agreed statement of facts, nor a special verdict, nor a finding
of facts by the court, and contained no exceptions. It could
not, therefore, be treated as the basis for an assignment of
errors, but this court, notwithstanding, held that the Circuit
Court erred in allowing interest from December, 1854, until
August, 1883, a period of nearly twenty-nine years, because
the delay in the prosecution of the suit was to be attributed
to the plaintiff below. This was in view of the fact that " the
verdict was purely formal, and was entered by consent, after
the hearing of the evidence, merely as a basis for further

OCTOBER TERME, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings, which were to consist in an adjudication by the
court of the questions of fact and law arising upon the testimony, and liquidation of the amount to be recovered in case
the legal liability was found to exist."
In United States v. Sanborn, 135 U. S. 271, 281, 1?edfteld v.
Fstalyfera Iron Co. was cited with approval, and the court
said: "That the same rule should be applied against the government when, in a case like the present one, it has long delayed an assertion of its rights, without showing some reason
or excuse for the delay, especially when it does not appear
that the defendant has earned interest upon the money improperly received by him."
In the case at bar, the findings give the grounds upon which
the referee and the court concluded that the delay which
had intervened was not fairly attributable to the plaintiffs,
and the Circuit Court said that it "arose mainly from complications incident to the fact that the suit was one of a very
large number of similar suits in which questions affecting the
defendants' liability were being litigated from time to time
with varying results; that any recovery which plaintiffs might
have obtained would not have been acquiesced in by the government, but would have been further litigated; and that
their claim was to that extent involved with the trials and
results of the other suits that it was reasonable to postpone
the trial in prospect of an adjustment, which at times seemed
to be near at hand, but was constantly deferred by the vacillating action of the officers of the government."
We are satisfied, however, that the judgment cannot be
sustained upon those grounds. The indebtedness plaintiffs
set up on the 16th of November, 1863, when the summons
was served, was $1500. The indebtedness they were permitted
to claim on the 8th of January, 1881, was $20,000. The
amount of principal found by the referee, and for which judgment was entered, was $14,394.95. Interest was allowed from
the date of the several payments aggregating that amount,
(all of which were made between November 1, 1853, and July
1, 1857,) to June 1, 1885, and from that date to the third of
October, 1887, when judgment was signed for $51,302.48. The

REDFIELD v. BARTELb.
Opinion of the Court.

bill of particulars was not, as we have said, served until May
11, 1882.

All of the items sought to be recovered were barred by the
statute oflimitations. A suit had been brought as early as
1860 upon the same cause of action, had gone to judgment, and
the amount had been promptly paid, but plaintiffs were nevertheless permitted to recover in this action upon the ground
that these collections had not actually been included in the
former recovery, and that the consent, verdict or stipulation
waived the defence of res adjudicata. Whether the $1500
originally sued for contained interest, or what particular items
were included, does not appear. There was no interest count,
and it is doubtful if interest was at first specially declared for
in any way. No account was rendered or demand made prior
to the commencement of the suit, nor was any bill of particulars furnished at that time.
As interest was redoverable as damages only, upon the principle of wrongful detention of the debt, or of unreasonable and
vexatious delay in payment, we are not inclined to regard the
debtor as in default for inability to inform the creditors of
the extent of the deprivation of which they might complain;
but, on the contrary, hold that the lack of diligence on the
part of plaintiffs in the assertion of their claim was so great
that no interest should have been allowed from anterior to the
commencement of the suit, and that such allowance must be
limited by the date of service and of the amendment which
enabled plaintiffs to recover the larger amount, and to the
sums claimed at those dates, respectively. The total principal
awarded was $14,394.95, or $12,894.95 after deducting 81500.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with a
direction to the Circuit Court to enterjudgment for $1500
and interest from November 16, 1863, andfor $12,894.95
with interestfrom January 8, 1881.

