OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the proof that it would have been error to take it from the
jury.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that an application was
made in December, 1884, in the name of the insured, for reinstatement as a member of the association. When information
of the June assessment was received by -Mrs. Hamlin, the
beneficiary in the contract of insurance, in September, 1884,
she promptly offered, through a friend, to 1iay all previous,
unpaid assessments upon the insured. The defendant refusing
to accept such payment, and denying that the insured was
any longer one of its members, the attempt was made to have
him reinstated by the act of the association. That attemptevidently made to avoid litigation- cannot be regarded as a
waiver of the rights the insured had as a member; for those
Tights were not forfeited by his failure to pay the assessment
-of June 2, 1884, the only one in question; notice of which, as
the jury found, was not given as required by the contract.
Numerous other points have been made on behalf of the
,defendant. But they are the merest technicalities, in nowise
involving the substantial rights of the parties. We do not
feel obliged to extend this opinion by a discussion of questions
of that character.
We find no error of law in the record, and the judgment is
.ffirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
IERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF

'HE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 1149. Argued March 5, 6,1891. - Decided March 23,1891.

The writ of mandamus cannot issue in a case where its effect is to direct or
control the head of an executive department in the discharge-of an executive duty, involving the exercise of judgment or discretion.
When a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon the executive officers of the
government, that is, a service which they are bound to perform without
further question, then, if they refuse, the mandamus may be issued to
compel them.

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Statement of the Case.
A writ of mandamus confers no new authority, and the party to be coerced
must have the power to perform the act.
The act of June 18, 1878, 20 Stat. 124, c. 262, subjects specifically the payment of the Well and La Abra awards under the Mexican Claims Commission of July 4, 1868, 15 Stat. 679, to the control of the President;
and the subject being thus confided to his judgment and discretion, mandamus will not lie to compel their payment.
Frelinghuysen v. Zey, 110 U. S. 63, affirmed and applied.

SYLv.vNus C. BOYNTON filed his petition in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, November 23, 1889, against
the Secretary of State, for a mandamus to compel him to pay
the petitioner, as assignee of one Weil, certain moneys in
respect of a claim allowed under the convention between the
United States and Mexico for the adjudication of claims of
citizens of either country upon the government of the other,
of July 4, 1868, (15 Stat. 679.) The petition set forth from
Art. H of the treaty this clause: "The President of the
United States of America and the President of the Mexican
:Republic hereby solemnly and sincerely engage to consider
the decision of the commissioners-conjointly or of the umpire,
as the case may be, as absolutely final and conclusive upon
each claim decided upon by them or *him respectively, and to
give full effect to such decisions without any objection, evasion, or delay whatsoever;" and also Art.V, as follows: "The
high contracting parties agree to consider the result of the
proceedings of this commission as a full, perfect and final settlement of every claim upon either government arising out of
any transaction of a date prior to the exchange of the ratifications of the present convention, and further engage that every
such claim, whether or not the same may have been presented
to the notice of, made, preferred or laid before the said commission, shall, from and after the conclusion of the proceedings of the said commission, be considered and treated as
finally settled, barred and thenceforth inadmissible."
The petition averred that it was stipulated that if the aggregate of claims allowed on one side exceeded the aggregate of
those allowed on the other, the balance should be paid by the
government against whom it so resulted in equal annual instalments, and that "the government so receiving such bal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ance undertook to make distribution and payment.pro rata to
the claimants in whose favor awards had been made."
The petition then stated the sum total of the awards; the
balance to be paid over by Mexico to the United States; the
payments made by Mexico; the final instalment still remaining due; and an amount remaining undistributed in the State
Department paid by Mexico on awards as to the claims of
,Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Company. It was
further alleged that the commissioners failed to agree as to
the claim of Benjamin Weil, which was referred to an umpire,
who heard the case on the proofs submitted and made an
award in favor of Weil, which, "together with all the other
findings and proceedings of the commission," was duly reported to and filed in the State Department, and thereupon
the said award became final and conclusive under the clause
of the treaty hereinbefore recited. Petitioner' further averred
that on November 5, 1875, a part of the award made in favor
of Weil was assigned to him by an instrument in writing,
which, soon after its execution, was filed in the State Department, where it still remained"; and that the Secretary of State
paid to petitioner, on August 16, 1880, and March 8, 1881, certain sums applicable to the award in favor of Weil, leaving a
balance due. The petition then showed that on the 13th of July, 1882,
on a complaint by Mexico that the award in favor of Weil was
made on a false and fraudulent claim, a convention was negotiated and signed with that government, which recited that
the President, after considering the circumstances of the case,
and in view of the statute of June 18, 1878, being of opinion
that the cases of Weil and La Abra Company should be reopened and retried, had concluded the convention with the
President of Mexico for that purpose, which convention was,
on the 26th day of July, 1882, submitted by the President in
a special message to the Senate of the United States for its
constitutional assent and concurrence; and that, while it was
pending in the Senite,'one Key, an assignee of a portion of
the award in favor of Weil, instituted a proceeding in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a writ of man-

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Statement of the Case.

damus on the Secretary of State, and a peremptory writ was
granted, but the Secretary of State appealed to the Supreme
Court of the United -States, which pronounced its decision
January '7, 1884, reversing the judgment of the court below
and denying the mandamus, "as will appear by reference to
the case of .F'elinghuysen,Secretary of State, v. .EKy, reported
vol. 110 U. S. Reports, page 63."
The petitioner then gave his view of the- decision of the
Supreme Court of the United States, and said that the Senate
of the United States bad notice of it and of the grosnds and
reasoning on .which the court reached its conclusions, but after
due consideration and full deliberation, on April 21, 1886,
"refused to assent to and concur in the said convention of
July 13, 1882, less than two-thirds of the Senators present
voting in favor thereof, and a quorum of the Senators being
present;" and he contended that this made it certain that the
Senate "held that there was no .sufficient ground, reason or
cause for excepting the said award made in favor of the said
Weil from the operation of the finality clause of the treaty of
July 4th, 1868. or for repealing or rendering that clause inoperative as to the said award.", But petitioner said that
nevertheless the Secretary of State refused to make distribution and payment to the said Weil and his representatives or
assigns "of their distributive shares of the moneys now lying
in the State Department, and due to him or them as aforesaid;" and on November 20, 1889, in response to a written
demand therefor, replied "that for causes deemed lawful and
sufficient" he was unable to comply therewith. Finally,
petitioner averred that the moneys paid into the Department
of State in respect of the Weil award were so paid in trust to
distribute and pay the same to Weil or his representatives or
assigns in satisfaction of his original claim against Mexico.
Petitioner thereupon prayed for process and that a peremptory writ of mandamus be granted upon hearing.
A rule to show cause having been entered, the Secretary of
State answered, stating, among other things, the amount that
would be paid to relator "if the President of the United States,
in whose control is the said undistributed balance, should de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

termine that it is not inconsistent with the public interests to
pay the same, or so much thereof as would be ratably payable
to the said Boynton," but saying, "that the President of the
United States has forbidden the payment of any part of the
said net balance on the ground hereinafter stated, and that
for that reason no scheme of distribution of the said net balance has been made." The answer then alleged that the
money paid by M-Jexico became, upon receipt, the money of
the United States, and not in any way subject to the demand
or control of the original claimants, who were not recognized
by the said commission, the only parties to which, and who
appeared before the commission, being the governments of
the United, States and the Republic of Mkfexico, each represented by one person, in virtue of Article IIof the treaty.
It was further stated that the allegation of the petition that
the United States was under some obligation "to make distribution and payment pro ratl, to the claimants in whose

favor awards had been made" was not founded on any provision of the said treaty. And further, that the United States
was " invested with the entire control of said claims to enable
it to discharge any international duty that may attach thereto
or to any part thereof, and that if the President of the United
States has probable cause to think that good faith towards the
Republic of IMexico and a proper regard for the honor of the
United States require that any part of the money so paid by
the Republic of M exico should be withheld from distribution,
this respondent is advised that it is the duty of the President
to withhold payment of the same until a proper investigation
can. be had; and this respondent, answering, saith, that so it
is that grave charges ancr representations impeaching the
integrity of the evidence on which the award in the case of
said Weil was made have been brought to the notice of the
Government of the United States in a way to command its
earnest attention and that it is the desire of the President to
have the said charges and representations investigated so soon
as the Congress shall haie provided the means for doing so."
The answer also averred that a bill had been reported to
the Senate on -une 20, 1888, "to provide for the desired in-

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Statement of the Case.

vestigation by investing the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia with jurisdiction over the subject;" that "while
the said charges and representations are pending the President of the United States bath concluded that payment of themoney now demanded by the relator should be withheld;"
and that the course thus taken by the President was in harmony with section 5 of the act of June 18, 1878.
The inference set up in the petition as deducible from the
rejection by the Senaue of the convention of July 13, 1882,
was denied, and the contrary inference suggested, in view of
the bill reported in the Senate, that "the refusal of the Senate
to ratify the said convention was the result of a desire that the
proposed investigation into the said charges and representations should be made by a tribunal deriving jurisdiction over
the subject from a law of the United States."
It was then averred that the money awarded was not held
by respondent impressed with a trust for the parties claiming
to be entitled to the same, but as the agent of the President,
whose control over it was complete, and who could at any
time withdraw it from the control of the respondent; that to
hold him accountable as a trustee might be to subject him to
personal liability for the money; and that it would cause an
embarrassing conflict to adjudge him responsible to private
parties for a fund which it might be the duty of the United
States to return to the Republic of Mexico, as decided in the
case of FreZinghuysen v. Ey, referred to by relator. The
answer finally alleged that the petition related to a matter
"which falls exclusively within the powers and competency
of the President of the United States and this respondent as
subordinate to him and subject to his direction and control,
and which doth in nowise fall within the jurisdiction and
competency of the judicial department of the government of
the United States; and that it would involve an interference
by the said judicial department with a matter which is exclusively committed by the Constitution to its coidrdinate, the
executive department, for this honorable court to take cognizance of the matter of the relator's petition."
The cause having been heard, the mandamus was refuscd

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and the petition dismissed, whereupon a writ of error was
allowed to this court.
The following may be taken as a sufficiently comprehensive
statement of the matters upon which the judgment proceeded.
The time for decision fixed by the convention of July 4,
1868, was from time to time extended, finally until November
20, 1876, and payment of the first instalment to the government in favor of whose citizens the greater amount might
have been awarded, was provided to be. made on or before
January 31, 1877. (19 Stat. 6,12.)
On the 19th of January, 1877, AIr. Secretary Fish invited
the attention of Congress to the necessity of making provision
for carrying the awards into effect, and pointed out that "an
appropriation by Congress will be necessary for the payment
of the amount of the awards against the United States, which
sum, by the terms of the treaty, is to be deducted from the
awards against Mexico and from the amount to be paid by
Mexico. Provisions should also be made for the distribution
among the several parties entitled to the money as it may be
received, and also for the reimbursement to the United States
of the amount paid by the United States toward the joint
expenses of the commission, and which, by the terms of the
treaty, is to be deducted from the awards." A bill to carry
out the Secretary's recommendation passed the House during
the Forty-fourth Congress, and was favorably reported in the
Senate, but was recommitted to enable the committee to consider the complaints made by the Mexican government as to
the manner in which the awards in favor of La Abra Company and Weil were procured. The Mexican govern nent had,
in the meantime, notified the Secretary of State of the existence of evidence, not within its possession before the awards
were rendered, which, it was claimed, would establish the
fact that the awards in the cases of La Abra Company
and Benjamin- Weil were procured by fraudulent imposition
upon the commission and upon the government of the United
States on the part of the claimants. The finality of the
awards as between -the two governments was not denied by
Mexico, and the -exican minister announced the intention

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Statement of the Case.

of the government to comply with the treaty by paying the
instalments as they became due. At the next session a bill
passed both Houses, entitled: "An act to provide for the distribution of the awards made under the convention between
the United States of America and the Republic of Mexico,
concluded on the fourth day of July, eighteen hundred and
sixty-eight," which was approved June 18, 1878. 20 Stat. 144,
c. 262. Sections 1 and 5 of this act are as follows:
"That the Secretary of State be, and he is hereby, authorized and required to receive any and all moneys which may
be paid by the Mexican Republic under and in pursuance of
the conventions between the United States and the Mexican
Republic for the adjustment of claims, concluded July fourth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, and April twenty-ninth,
eighteen hundred and seventy-six; and whenever, and as often
as, any instalments shall have been paid by the Mexican
Republic on account of said awards, to distribute the moneys
so received in ratable proportions among the corporations,
companies or private individuals respectively in whose favor
awards have been made by said commissioners, or by the
umpires, or to their legal representatives or assigns, except as
in this act otherwise limited or provided, according to the proportion which their respective awards shall bear to the whole
amount of such moneys then held by him, and to pay the
same, without other charge or deduction than is hereinafter
provided, to the parties respectively entitled thereto. And in
making such distribution and payment, due regard shall be
had to the value at the time of such distribution of the respective currencies in which the said awards are made payable;
and the proportionate amount of any award of which by its
terms the United States is entitled to retain a part shall be
deducted from the payment to be made on such award, and
shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States as a part
of the unappropriated money in the Treasury."
"S1Ec. 5. And whereas the government of Mexico has called
the attention of the government -of the United States to-the
claims hereinafter named with a view to a rehearing, therefore
be it enacted, that the President of the United [States] be -and

OCTOBER TERMN, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

he is hereby requested to investigate any charges of fraud presented by the.Mexican government as to the cases hereinafter
named, and if he shall be of the opinion that the honor of the
United States, the principles of public law or considerations
of justice and equity, requiie that the awards in the cases of
Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Company, or either
of them, should be opened and the cases retried, it shall be
lawful for him to withhold payment of said awards, or either
of them until such case or cases shall be retried and decided
in such manner as the governments of the United States and
Mexico may agree, or until Congress shall otherwise direct.
Aud in case of such retrial and decision, any moneys paid or
to be paid by the Republic of -exico in respect of said awards
respectively, shall be held to abide the event, and shall be disposed of accordingly; and the said present awards shall be set
aside, modified or affirmed as may be determined on such retrial: Provided,That nothing herein shall be construed as an
expression of any opinion of Congress in respect to the character of said claims, or either of them."
Under the provisions, of the fifth section, President'Hayes
caused the charges of fraud, preferred by the Mexican government, to be investigated, and Mr. Evarts, then Secretary
of State, made a careful examination of the supplemental
evidence presented by Mexico, and submitted his conclusions
to the President in August, 1879, which were in substance:That neither the principles of public law nor considerations of
justice and equity required or permitted as between the United
States and Mexico that the awards should be opened and the
cases retried before a new international tribunal, or under any
new convention or negotiation respecting the same; that,
however, the matters called to the attention of the government on the part of Mexico brought into grave doubt the substantial integrity of the claim of Benjamin Weil, and the
sincerity of the evidence as to the measure of damages insisted
upon and accorded in the case of La Abra Silver Mining Company; that the honor of the United States required that these
two cases should be further investigated. by the United States
to ascertain whether this government had been made the

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Statement of the Case.

means of enforcing against a friendly power claims of our citizens based upon or exaggerated by fraud; that if further investigation should remove the doubts, the honor of the United
States would have been completely maintained, but if, on
the other hand, the claimants should fail in removing these
doubts, or they should be replaced by certain condemnation,
the honor of the United States would be vindicated by such
measures as might then be dictated; and that, as the executive
had not the means of instituting and pursuing methods of investigation which could coerce the production of evidence or
compel the examination of parties and witnesses, and the
authority for such an investigation must proceed from Congress, the proofs and conclusions the President might come to
thereon, if adverse to the immediate payment on these awards
of the instalments received from Mexico, "should be laid before Congress for the exercise of their plenary authority in
the matter." These views were adopted by President Hayes,
and on the 15th of April, 1880, were communicated to Congress with another report of Mr. Secretary Evarts, under date
of April 13, 1880, recapitulating his report of the preceding
August, and concluding: "Unless Congress should now make
this disposition of the matter, and furnish thereby definite
instructions to the department to reserve further payments
upon these awards till the conclusion of such investigation,
and to take such further order with the same thereafter as
Congress might direct, it would appear to be the duty of the
executive to accept these awards as no longer open to reconsideration, and to.proceed in the payment of the same pro ratat
with all other awards under the convention." On April 27,
1880, a bill was introduced in the Senate directing the Court
of Claims to investigate the claims in question, and was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, which reported
adversely, and in effect that the proper remedy was in a new
convention, in which provision should be made for doing justice to all claimants. On a bill of like character the House
Committee on Foreign Affairs made a favorable report.
In August, 1880, Mr.. Secretary Evarts, having been notified
through the Mexican legation of the intention of the Mexican

OCTOBER TERAK, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

government to commence suits to impeach and set aside the
two awards, objected to such proceeding as in contradiction of
the whole purpose of the convention, as well as of explicit
provisions thereof; and accordingly no further steps were
taken in that direction.
No definitive instructions were given by Congress in respect
to the matter during that session, but after its close payments
were made upon these awards by-the direction of the President, the same as on the others. Another instalment was
paid by the Mexican government and distributed to these
claimants, with the rest, during President Garfield's administration. In this way five instalments were distributed. After
President Arthur came into office he examined the cases further, and, "believing that said award was obtained by fraul
and perjury," negotiated a treaty with Mexico, providing .for a
rehearing. On January 31, 1882, the sixth instalment was
paid by Mexico to Mr. Frelinghuysen, then Secretary of State,
but a distribution of this instalment to these claimants was
withheld by order of the President.
The. cases of Breling7/uyse v. Ifey and La Abra Silver
fining Company v.
'Feling/uysen,
110 U. S. 63, were decided by this court January 7, 1884. President Arthur negotiated the convention with Mexico for a rehearing of the cases
by a joint commission, July 13, 1882, and sent it to the Senate
for its consideration. This convention was, rejected by the
Senate, April 21, 1886, On May 11, 1886, President Cleveland
transmitted to Congress a report of the then Secretary of
State, dated May 6, in respect to the claims in question. Mr.
Bayard in his communication gave a resum6 of the various
proceedings touching the claims, and suggested that the President "notify Congress of the condition of the law and facts."
He said: "It is within the province of the legislative branch
of this government now to review the history of the. proceedings - legislative, executive and judicial - connected with
the two claims ;" and, referring to the act of June 18, 1878,
thus concluded: "This last-mentioned act of Congress contained the further provision -stated not additionally; but in
the alternative to those above recited-'or until Congress

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Statement of the Case.

shall otherwise direct.' To relieve the action of our government from any ambiguity of legislative expression, or the
executive from any uncertainty as to his line of duty in relation to the awards in favor of Benjamin Weil and La Abra
Silver Mining Company, under the treaty with Mexico, promulgated February, 1869, I suggest *that the attention of Congress should be earnestly invoked to the consideration of the
present status of these claims referred to, and the duty of the
executive under an existing treaty, to which the force and
effect of paramount law is given by the Constitution, in the
event of the adjournment of the two Houses without further
action in reference thereto."
March 15, 1888, President Cleveland in a special message
transmitted a recommendation from the, Secretary of State
that "Congress take action- to provide expressly for the reference of the claims in question to the Court of Claims or such
other court as may be deemed proper, in order that a competent investigation of the charges of fraud may be made." The
Secretary's communication referred to Frelinghuysenv. Key,
and enclosed a letter from the chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, dated March 5, 1887, containing
a resolutioif embodying the views of a majority of that committee, and requesting the President to withhold further payments on the awards in question until the allegations of fraud
"shall have been duly investigated by the courts of the United
States, under the direction of the President, or under the further direction of Congress," and letters from members of the
House of Representatives upon the same subject, dated March
5 and 7, 1887. The Secretary stated that it was thought that
a proper judicial investigation of the claims in question might
be secured under the twelfth section of the act approved
March 3, 1887, entitled "An act to provide for the bringing
of suits against the government of the United States," and that
the department had sought the consent of the claimants in
the Weil and La Abra cases to an investigation and decision
of the allegations of fraud in relation thereto, by the Court of
Claims, which was declined. The President's message closed
with these words: "If for any reason this proceeding be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sidered inadvisable, I respectfully ask that some final and definite action be taken, directing the executive department of
the government what course to pursue in the premises. In
view of 'the long delay that has already occurred in these
cases, it would seem but just to all parties cbncerned that the
Congress should speedily signify its final judgment upon the
awards referred to, and make the direction contemplated by
the act of 1878, in default of which the money now on hand
applicable to such awards remains undistributed."
New bills'were introduced, providing for a judicial investigation of the charges of fraud in connection with these claims,
and on June 20, 1888, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations made a report recommending the passage of a bill'for
that purpose, in the Weil case. An inquiry was subsequently
ordered by the Senate with reference to the La Abra claim,
which -commenced September 24, 1888, and extended to February 27, 1889, and was reported upon Mrarch 1, 1889. The
petition in this case was filed November 23, 1889.
.Mr. George Ticknor Curtis and X r. A. H. Garland (with
whom was .r. H. J. 3fay on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
I. The award made against Mexico in favor of 'Benjamin
Weil remains a final and conclusive adjudication in favor of a
citizen of the United States against a foreign government.
II. The United States have not now and never have had any
property, right or interest in the original claim or*the award,
or in money paid in by Mexico to meet and satisfy it.
III. The money so paid is by the terms of a statute in the
official custody of the Secretary of State. The President of
the United States has now no lawful control over it, and
never had any lawful control over it, excepting for a teiiaporary purpose during the pend~ncy of a new treaty in the Senate. That control ended when the Senate rejected the new
breaty.
V. Congress has no constitutional power to pass the bill
now pending in the Senate; which undertakes to confer on a
municipal court of the United States jurisdiction to set aside

BOYNTOX v. BLAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

the awards in question in a suit or'suits instituted in the name
of the United States to retry the original claims. This point
is taken in case the court should think it necessary to look at
the proposed senate bill.
.Ar. Assistant Attorney General 3faury for defendant in
error.
AI[R. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The writ of mandamus cannot issue in a case where its
effect is to direct or control the head of an executive department in the discharge of an executive duty involving the exercise of judgment or discretion. United States ex rel. 1?edfteld
v. Windorn, 137 U. S. 636, 644. When by special statute, or
otherwise, a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon the executive officers of the government; that is, a service which they
are bound to perform without further question, then if they
refuse, the mandamus may be issued to compel them. United
States ex r'el. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, 48. The writ
goes to compel a party to do that which it is his duty to do
without it. It confers no new authority, and the party to be
coerced must have the power ti perform the act. Brownsville v. Loague, 129 U. S. 493. 501.
In view of these settled principles was the relator entitled
-to the writ?
Upon establishing at the seat of government an executive
department to be known as the*Department of State, with a
Secretary of State as its head, Congress provided:
"The Secretary of State shall perform such duties as shall
from time to time be enjoined on or intrusted to him by the
President relative to correspondences, commissions or instructions to or with public ministers or consuls from the United
States, or to negotiations with public ministers from foreign
states or princes, or to memorials or other applications from
foreign public ministers or other foreigners, or to such other
matters respecting foreign affairs as the President of the

320

OCTOBER - TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

United States shall assign to the Department, -and he shall
conduct the business of the Department in such manner as the
President shall direct." Rev. Stat. §§ 199, 202; 1 Stat. pp.
.28, 68.
It is contended, however, that, in this instance, the final
custody of the money was vested by the act of June 18,. 1878,
solely in the Secretary of State, and that it was thereby made
his duty to distribute and pay the awards to the claimants
independently of the direction or control of the President.
But the act thus referred to as the basis of this application,
when considered throughout as it must be, not only does not
undertake to impose the payment of these awards as an independent duty upon the Secretary, but specifically subjects
such payment to the control of the President. The Secretary
of State was, indeed, authorized and required by the first section to receive from Mexico the whole money awarded, and
to distribute the same from time to time as the instalments
came in, among those in whose favor awards had been made,
or to their legal representatives or assigns, but this was accompanied by the restriction, explicitly expressed, out of
abundant caution, "except as in this act otherwise limited or
provided." And by section five, the payment and distribution
were limited, so far as the cases of Weil and La Abra Company were concerned, by the request to the President to investigate any charges of fraud as to those claims, and the
provision that if he should be of the opinion "that the honor
of the United States, the principles of public law or considerations of justice and equity," required that the awards, thusspecifically named, or either of them, should-be reopened, and
the cases retried, itshould be lawful for him "to withhold
payment of said awards, or either of them, until such case or
cases shall be retried and decided in such manner as the governments of the United States and Mexico may agree, or until
Congress shall otherwise direct."
Payment of the Weil award had been withheld by the
President, after an investigation, but the case had not been
retried and decided in a manner agreed upon by the United
States and Mexico, nor had Congress otherwise directed. How

BOYNTON v. BLAINTE.
Opinion of the Court.

then could Weil or his assignee, the relator, insist upon payment under the first section of the act in disregard of the limitation imposed by the fifth? On what principle could it be
held that the duty was imposed upon the Secretary to pay
an award by an act expressly providing that payment should
not be made in a specified contingency, which had occurred ?
What power had he to do the thing demanded in virtue of
legislation which forbade it to be-done?
The political trust with which every government is charged,
as respects its own citizens, was not the grgund of relator's
contention, but he relied on the act of -1878 as giving him the
right to enforce the alleged obligation by judicial proceedings,
and it was essential to the maintenance of his position that the,
record should bring him within its terms.
The principal propositions urged by counsel are, that "the
award made. against Mexico in favor of Benjamin Weil remains a final and, conclusive adjudication in favor of a citizen
of the United States. against a foreign government ;-" that
"the" United States have not now and never have had any
property, right or interest in the original claim or the award,
or in the money paid in by Mexico to meet and satisfy it;"
that "the money so paid is, by the terms of a statute, in the
official custody of the Secretary of State; the President of
the United States has now no lawful control over it, and never
had any lawful control over it, excepting for a temporary purpose during the pendency of a new treaty in the Senate; that
control ended when the Senate rejected the new treaty."
These propositions have already been substantially disposed
of by the decision of this court in .Frelinghuysenv. Key, 110
U. S.63, from the principles announced in which we have no
dispositidn to recede. It was there ruled, Mr. Chief Justice
Waite delivering the opinion, that there was no doubt as to
the conclusiveness of the awards under the convention of July
4, 1868, but that the language of the treaty was to be construed as used in a compact between two nations for the adjustment of the claims of the citizens of either against the
other; that citizens of the United States having claims against
Mexico werd not parties to the convention; that while the
VOL. cxxxix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

claims of individual citizens were to be considered by the dommission in determining amounts, the whole purpose of the
convention was to ascertain how much was due from one
governmentto the other on account of the demands of their
respective citizens; that, as between the United States an't
Mexico, the awards were final and conclusive until set aside by
agreement between the two governments or otherwise; that
the right of the United States to treat with Mexico for a
retrial was unquestionable; that each government, when it
entered into the compact under which the awards were made,
relied on the honor and good faith of the other fdr protection,
as far as possible, against frauds and impositions by the individual claimants; and that where a fraudulent claim or false
testimony was presented by a citizen for reference to the commission, this was an imposition on his own government, and
it would be not only its right but its duty to repudiate the act,
if it afterward discovered that it had in this way been made
an instrument of wrong towards a friendly power. And the
Chief Justice said: "International arbitration must always
proceed on the highest principles of national honor and integrity. Claims presented and evidence submitted to such a
tribunal must necessarily bear the impress of the entire good
faith of the government from which they come, and it is not
to be presumed that any government will for a moment allow
itsdlf'knowingly to be made the instrument of wrong in any
such proceeding. No technical rules of pleading as applied
in municipal courts ought ever to be allowed to stand in the
way of the national power to do what is right under all the
circumstances. Every citizen who asks the intervention of his
own government against another for the redress of his personal grievances must necessarily subject himself and his claim
to these requirements of international comity." And considering the act of June 18, 1878, in its operation upon the question
of further negotiations, it was remarked that no disposition
was manifested "on the part of Congress to encroach on the
power of the President and Senate to conclude another treaty
with Mexico in respect to any or even all the claims allowed
by the commission, if in their opinion the honor of the United

BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

States should demand it. At most, it only provides for receiving and distributing the sums paid without a protest or
reservation, such as, in the opinion of the President, is entitled
to further consideration. It does not undertake to set any
new. limits on the powers of the Executive." As to the firthi
section of that act, it was observed: "From the beginning to
the end, it is, in form even, only a request from Congress to
the Executive. This is far from making the President for the
time being a quasi judicial tribunal to hear Mexico and the
implicated claimants and determine once for all as between
them, whether the charges which Mexico makes have been
judicially established."
And it was added that, "as between the United States and
the claimants, the honesty of the claims is always open to
inquiry for the purposes of fair dealing with the government
against which, through the United States, a claim has been
made."
The new convention was then pending in the Senate, and' it
was clear that the discretion of the executive department of
the government to withhold all further payments to the relators until the diplomatic negotiations between the two governments on the subject were fihally concluded, could not be
controlled by the judiciary.
This is conceded by the relator, and such a concession is
inconsistent with the contention that the award was a final
and conclusive adjudication in Weil's favor, as an individual,
against Mexico. As between nations, the proprietary right in
respect to those things belonging to private individuals orbodies corporate within a nation's territorial limits is absolute,
and the rights of Weil cannot be regarded as distinct from
those of his government. The government assumed the responsibility of presenting his claim, and made it its own in
seeking redress in respect to it. Under this convention it was
the balance that was to be paid, after deducting from what
was found in favor of one government that which was found
in favor of the other. So that the moneys paid in liquidation
of that balance belonged to the United States, to be increased
by appropriation to the extent of the amounts allowed 'Mexico,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and the aggregate to be distributed to the claimants as might
be provided.
In United State8 ex reZ. Angarica v. Bayard, 127 U. S. 251,
259, where a sum of money had been received by the Secretary of State as part of an award made by the Spanish-American Claims Commission, which sum of money had. been
eventually paid to the petitioner, but had in the meantime
been invested and earned interest, it was held that the Secretary was not liable to pay such interest to the petitioner, because the sum in question was withheld by the United States
and thd petitioner's claim based on the Withholding was a
claim against the United States, and the case fell within the
settled principle that interest is not allowed on claims against
the United States, unless the government has stipulated to
pay interest or it is given by express statutory provision.
There, under the agreement for arbitration, as here, under
the convention, the claim was laid before the arbitrators and
unipire "on the part of the government of the United States,"
and was presented with the testimony in its favor "only
through the government of the United States," and "by the
government of the United States." So the two advocates
were spoken of as "representing respectively the two governments," and it was stated that "the two governments will
accept the awards." "Thus by the plain terms of the agrement," remarked Mr. Justice Blatchford, delivering the opinion of the court, "the amount of the award in the case of
Angarica was to be paid by the Spanish government to the
government of the United States. It was paid by the Spanish government to the Secretary of State of the United States,
representing the government of the United States. If there
was any unlawful withholding from the petitioner of the
$41,129.74, the money was withheld by the government of the
United States, acting through the Secretary of State, and any
claim of the petitioner, based upon an unlawful withholding,
was a claim against the government of the United States."
Congress in furnishing the auxiliary legislation needed to
(arry the results of the convention under consideration into
tffect, requested the President to so far investigate certain

BOYNTOI

v. BLAINE.

Opinion of the Court.

charges of fraud as to determine whether a retrial ought t9
be had. This inquiry might have resulted in reopening the
awards as between the two nations, or in such redxamination
in a domestic forum as would demonstrate whether the honor
of the United States required a different disposition of the
particular amounts in question. The validity and conclusiveness of the awards remained unimpugned so long as they were
permitted to stand, and the principle of res adj] dicata could
not be invoked against the United States by individual claimants while the controversy raised as to them remained in
.#eri.
In F 'eZinghuysen v. Hey, while conceding the essential
value of international arbitration to be dependent upon the
certainty and finality of the decision, the court adjudged that
this government need not therefore close its doors against an
investigation into the question whether its influence had been
lent in favor of a fraudulent claim. It was held that no applicable rule was so rigid as not to be sufficiently flexible to do
justice, and that the extent and character of any obligation to
individuals, growing out of a treaty., an award and the receipt
of money thereon, were necessarily subject to such modification as circumstances might require.
So long as the political branch of the government had not.
lost its control over the subject matter by final action, the
a position, as between himself and his
claimant was not ingovernment, to insist on the conclusiveness of the award as to
him. And while it is true that for the disposition of the case
of -Freinghuysenv. Hey it was sufficient that it appeared that
diplomatic negotiations*were pending- which, as the court
demonstrated, the act of 1878 in no manner circumscribed, it
does not follow that the political department of the government lost its control because those negotiations failed.
On the contrary, that control was expressly reserved, for it
was made the duty of the President, if of opinion that the
cases named should be retried, to withhold payment until
such retrial could be had in an international tribunal, if the
two governments so agreed, or in a domestic tribunal if Congress so directed, and, at all events, until Congress should

OCTOBER- TERI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

otherwise direct. The fact that a difference of view as to
whether the retrial should be international or domestic may
have arisen and led to delay, or that such difference may have
existed on the merits, does not affect the conclusion. The
inaction of Congress is not equivalent to a direction by Congress. The political department has not parted with its power
over the matter, and the intervention of the judicial department cannot now be invoked.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District is
Affirmed.

HOFF v. IRON CLAD MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 225. Argued March 18, 1891.-Decided March 30, 1891.

In view of the previous state of the art, the first claim in letters patent
No. 279,871, issued June 19, 1883, to Charles Hoff of Cincinnati, for an
improvement in coal-hods, must be limited to the entire bottom of the
crimped material and the resultant increase in its thickness ; and, being
so limited, it is not infringed by a coal-hod made after letters patent
No. 304,033, granted August 26, 1884, to Henry S. Reynolds.
Whether both patents were not void for want of novelty, qucere.
THIS was a bill in equity to recover damages for the infringement of letters patent No. 279,871, issued June 19, 1883, to
Charles Hoff of Cincinnati, Ohio, for an improvement in coalhods. In his specifications the patentee stated that his invention related "to coal-hods and similar sheet-metal vessels," and
its object "to produce a stronger and better article than those
in common use at a less cost of labor and material." He
stated -his invention to consist "in forming the bucket from a
blank so shaped as to be bent into a cone or funnel-shaped
body, then folding the cone end of said body in crimps to form
the bottom." There were two claims to the patent, namely:
"1. The method of forming the body of a coal-hod or other
similar vessel, which consists, substantially, as before set forth,

