640

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

scrutiny of each word and sentence in every charge when
considered alone would always reveal dual meanings.
The sentences here in question, like the sentences in every
charge, should be given a common sense interpretation in
their relationship to all instructions and the issues raised.
When so considered, it is impossible for me to believe that
the jury was confused as to burden of proof. Seven correct explicit instructions should not be considered neutralized by legalistic inferences established by purely
formal analysis.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR.

JUSTICE BURTON

join in this

dissent.
PINKERTON

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 719.

Argued May 1, 1946.-Decided June 10, 1946.

1. Where an indictment charges both a conspiracy to engage'in a

course of criminal conduct and a series of substantive offenses
committed pursuant to the conspiracy, the substantive offenses
are not merged into the conspiracy; and, upon conviction, the
accused may be punished both for the conspiracy and for the

substantive offenses. Braverman v. United States, 317 U. S. 49,
distinguished. Pp. 642, 643.
2. The plea of double jeopardy is no defense to a conviction for
both offenses. P. 643.
3. It is not material that overt acts charged in the conspiracy count
are also charged and proved as substantive offenses. P. 644.
4. A party to a continuing conspiracy may be responsible for substantive offenses committed by a co-conspirator in furtherance of the

conspiracy, even though he does not participate in the substantive
offenses or have any knowledge of them. United States v. Sall,
116 F. 2d 745, overruled. Pp. 645-648.
151 F. 2d 499, affirmed.

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
64

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners were convicted of a conspiracy to violate
the Internal Revenue C9de and of several substantive
violations of the Code and were sentenced both for the
conspiracy and for the substantive offenses. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 151 F. 2d 499. This Court
granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 772. Affirmed, p. 648.
John S. Tucker, Jr. argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief was Thomas E. Skinner.
W. Marvin Smith argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath, Robert S. Erdahl and Leon Ulman.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.Walter and Daniel Pinkerton are brothers who live a
short distance from each other on Daniel's farm. They
were indicted for violations of the Internal Revenue Code.
The indictment contained ten substantive counts and one
conspiracy count. The jury found Walter guilty on nine
of the substantive counts and on the conspiracy count.
It found Daniel guilty on six of the substantive counts and
on the conspiracy count. Walter was fined $500 and sentenced generally on the substantive counts to imprisonment for thirty months. On the conspiracy count he was
given a two year sentence to run concurrently with the
other sentence. Daniel was fined $1,000 and sentenced
generally on the substantive counts to imprisonment for
thirty months. On the conspiracy count he was fined
$500 and given a two year sentence to run concurrently
with the other sentence. The judgments of conviction
were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.' 151 F. 2d
2Tne court held that two of the counts under which Walter was
convicted and one of the counts under which Daniel was convicted
were barred by the statute of limitations and that as to them the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U, S.

499. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari,
which we granted because one of the questions presented
involved a conflict between the decision below and United
States v. Sall, 116 F. 2d 745, decided by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
A single conspiracy was charged and proved. Some
of the overt acts charged in the conspiracy count were
the same acts charged in the substantive counts. Each
of the substantive offenses found was committed pursuant
to the conspiracy. Petitioners-therefore contend that the
substantive counts became merged in the conspiracy
count, and that only a single sentence not exceeding the
maximum two year penalty provided by the conspiracy
statute (Criminal Code § 37, 18 U. S. C. § 88) could be
imposed. Or to state the matter differently, they contend
that each of the substantive counts became a separate
conspiracy count but, since only a single conspiracy was
charged and proved, only a single sentence for conspiracy could be imposed. They rely on Braverman v.
UnitedStates, 317 U. S. 49.
In the Braverman case the indictment charged no substantive offense. Each of the several counts charged a
conspiracy to violate a different statute. But only one
demurrer should have been sustained. But each of the remaining
substantive counts on which the jury had returned a verdict of guilty
carried a maximum penalty of three years' imprisonment and a fine
of $5,000. Int. Rev. Code, § 3321, 26 U. S. C. § 3321. Hence the
general sentence of fine and imprisonment imposed on each under the
substantive counts was valid. It is settled law, as stated in Claassen
v. United States, 142 U. S. 140, 146-147, "that in any criminal case a
general verdict and judgment on an indictment or information containing several counts cannot be reversed on error, if any one of the
counts is good and warrants the judgment, because, in the absence of
anything in the record to show the contrary, the presumption of law
is that the court awarded sentence on the good count only."
The same rule obtains in the case of concurrent sentences. Hira-

bayashi v. United States, 320 U. S. 81, 85 and cases cited.

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
640

Opinion of the Court.

conspiracy was proved. We held that a single conspiracy,
charged under the general conspiracy statute, however
diverse its objects may be, violates but a single statute
and no penalty greater than the maximum provided for
one conspiracy may be imposed. That case is not apposite here. For the offenses charged and proved were not
only a conspiracy but substantive offenses as well.
Nor can we accept the proposition that the substantive
offenses were merged in the conspiracy. There are, of
course, instances where a conspiracy charge may not be
added to the substantive charge. One is where the agreement of two persons is necessary for the completion of the
substantive crime and there is no ingredient in the conspiracy which is not present in the completed crime. See
United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 355-356; Gebardiv.
United States, 287 U. S. 112, 121-122. Another is where
the definition of the substantive-offense excludes from punishment for conspiracy one who voluntarily participates
in another's crime. Gebardiv. UnitedStates, supra. But
those exceptions are of a limited character. The common
law rule that the substantive offense, if a felony, was
merged in the conspiracy,' has little vitality in this country.' It has been long and consistently recognized by the
Court that the commission of the substantive offense and
a conspiracy to commit it are separate and distinct offenses. The power of Congress to separate the two and
to affix to each a different penalty is well established.
Clune v. United States, 159 U. S. 590, 594-595. A conviction for the conspiracy may be had though the substantive offense was completed. See Heike v. United States,
227 U. S. 131, 144. And the plea of double jeopardy is
no defense to a conviction for both offenses. Carter v.
2See May's Law of Crimes (4th ed. 1938), § 126; 17 Corn. L. Q.
(1931) 136; People v. Tavormina,257 N. Y. 84,89-90, 177 N. E. 317.
3The cases are collected in 37 A. L. R. 778, 75 A. L. R. 1411.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365, 395. It is only an identity
of offenses which is fatal. See Gavieres v. United States,
220 U. S. 338, 342. Cf. Freeman v. United States, 146 F.
2d 978. A conspiracy is a partnership in crime. United
States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 253. It
has ingredients, as well as implications, distinct from the
completion of the unlawful project. As stated in United
States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78, 88:
"For two or more to confederate and combine together
to commit or cause to be committed a breach of the
criminal laws, is an offense of the gravest character,
sometimes quite outweighing, in injury to the public,
the mere commission of the contemplated crime. It
involves- deliberate plotting to subvert the laws, educating and preparing the conspirators for further and
habitual criminal practices. And it is characterized
by secrecy, rendering it difficult of detection, requiring more time for its discovery, and adding to the
importance of punishing it when discovered."
And see Sneed v. United States, 298 F. 911, 912-913;
Banghart v. United States, 148 F. 2d 521.
Moreover, it is not material that overt acts charged
in the conspiracy counts were also charged and proved
as substantive offenses. As stated in Sneed v. United
States, supra,p. 913, "If the overt act be the offense which
was the object of the conspiracy, and is also punished,
there is not a double punishment of it." The agreement
to do an unlawful act is even then distinct from the doing
of the act.'

' The addition of
unjust.

a conspiracy count may at times be abusive and
The Conference of Senior Circuit Judges reported in 1925:

"We note the prevalent use of conspiracy indictments for
converting a joint misdemeanor into a felony; and we express
our conviction that both for this purpose and for the purposeor at least with the effect-of bringing in much improper evidence, the conspiracy statute is being much abused.
"Although in a particular case there may be no preconcert
of plan, excepting that necessarily inherent in mere joint action,

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
640

645

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that there was insufficient evidence to
implicate Daniel in the conspiracy. But we think there
was enough evidence for submission of the issue to the
jury.

There is, however, no evidence to show that Daniel
participated directly in the commission of the substantive
offenses on which his conviction has been sustained,5
although there was evidence to show that these substantive offenses were in fact committed by Walter in furtherance of the unlawful agreement or conspiracy existing

between the brothers. The question was submitted to
the jury on the theory that each petitioner could be found
guilty of the substantive offenses, if it was found at
the time those offenses were committed petitioners were
parties to an unlawful conspiracy and the substantive
offenses charged were in fact committed in furtherance
of it. 6
it is difficult to exclude that situation from the established definitions of conspiracy; yet the theory which permits us to call
the aborted plan a greater offense than the completed crime
supposes a serious and substantially continued group scheme for
cooperativp law breaking. We observe so many conspiracy prosecutions which do not have this substantial base that we fear
the creation of a general impression, veti- harmful to law enforcement, that this method of prosecution is used arbitrarily and
harshly. Further the rules of evidence in conspiracy cases make
them most difficult to try without prejudice to an innocent
defendant." Annual Report of the Attorney General for 1925,
pp. 5-6.
But we do not find that practice reflected in this present case.
5 This question does not arise as to Walter. 'He was the direct
actor in some of the substantive offenses on which his conviction rests.
So the general sentence and fine are supportable under any one of
those. See note 1, supra:
6 The trial court charged: "...
after you gentlemen have considered all the evidence in this case, if you are satisfied from the evidence
beyond a reasonable doubt that at the time these particular substantive
offenses were committed, that is, the offenses charged in the first
ten counts of this indictment if you are satisfied from the evidence
beyond a reasonable doubt that the two defendafits were in an unlawful

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Daniel relies on United States v. Sall, supra. That case
held that participation in the conspiracy was not itself
enough to sustain a conviction for the substantive offense
even though it was committed in furtherance of the conspiracy. The court held that, in addition to evidence that
the offense was in fact committed in furtherance of the
conspiracy, evidence of direct participation in the commission of the substantive offense or other evidence
from which participation might fairly be inferred was
necessary.
We take a different view. We have here a continuous
conspiracy. There is here no evidence of the affirmative
action on the part of Daniel wnich is necessary to establish
his withdrawal from it. Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S.
347, 369. As stated in that case, "Having joined in an
unlawful scheme, having constituted agents for its performance, scheme and agency to be continuous until full
fruition be secured, until he does some act to disavow or
defeat the purpose he is in no situation to claim the delay
of the law. As the offense has not been terminated or
accomplished he is still offending. And we think, consciously offending, offending as certainly, as we have said,
as at the first moment of his confederation, and consciously
through every moment of its existence." Id., p. 369. And
so long as the partnership in crime continues, the partners
act for each other in carrying it forward. It is settled that
''an overt act of one partner may be the act of all without
conspiracy, as I have heretofore defined unlawful conspiracy to you,
then you would have a right, if you found that to be true to your satisfaction beyond a reasonable doubt, to convict each of these defendants
on all these substantive counts, provided the acts referred to in the
substantive counts were acts in furtherance of the unlawful conspiracy or object of the unlawful conspiracy, which you have found
from the evidence existed." Daniel was not indicted as an aider or
abettor (see Criminal Code, § 332, 18 U. S. C. 550), nor was his
case submitted to the jury on that theory.

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
640

Opinion of the Court.

any new agreement specifically directed to that act."
United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S.601, 608. Motive or
intent may be proved by the acts or declarations of some
of the conspirators in furtherance of the common objective. Wiborg v. United States, 163 U. S. 632, 657-658.
A scheme to use the mails to defraud, which is joined in
by more than one person, is a conspiracy. Cochran v.
United States, 41 F. 2d 193, 199-200. Yet all members
are responsible, though only one did the mailing. Cochran v. United States, supra; Mackett v. United States, 90
F. 2d 462, 464; Baker v. United States, 115 F. 2d 533, 540;
Blue v. United States, 138 F. 2d 351, 359. The governing
principle is the same when the substantive offense is committed -by one of the conspirators in furtherance of the
unlawful project. Johnson v. United States, 62 F. 2d 32,
34. The criminal intent to do the act is established by
the formation of the conspiracy. Each conspirator instigated the commission of the crime. The unlawful agreement contemplated precisely what was done. It was
formed for the purpose. The act done was in execution
of the enterprise. The rule which holds responsible one
who counsels, procures, or commands another to commit
a crime is founded on the same principle. That. principle
is recognized in the law of conspiracy when the overt act
of one partner in crime is attributable to all.. An overt
act is an essential ingredient of the crime of conspiracy
under § 37 of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 88. If that
can be supplied by the act of one conspirator, we fail to
see why the same or other acts in furtherance of the conspiracy are likewise not attributable to the others for the
purpose of holding them responsible for the substantive
offense.
A different case would arise if the substantive offense
committed by one of the conspirators was not in fact done
in furtherance of the conspiracy, did not fall within the

648'

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Rum-EGE,

J., dissenting in part.

328 U. S.

scope of the unlawful project, or was merely a part of the
ramifications of the plan which could not be reasonably
foreseen as a necessary or natural consequence of the unlawful agreement. But as we read this record, that is not
this case.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, dissenting in part.
The judgment concerning Daniel Pinkerton should be
reversed. In my opinion it is without precedent here
and is a dangerous precedent to establish.
Daniel and Walter, who were brothers living near each
other, were charged in several counts with substantive
offenses, and then a conspiracy count was added naming
those offenses as overt acts. The proof showed that Walter alone committed the substantive crimes. There was
none to establish that Daniel participated in them, aided
and abetted Walter in committing them, or knew that he
had done so. Daniel in fact was in the penitentiary, under
sentence for other crimes, when some of Walter's crimes
were done.
There was evidence, however, to show that over several
years Daniel and Walter had confederated to commit
similar crimes concerned with unlawful possession, transportation, and dealing in whiskey, in fraud of the federal
revenues. On this evidence both were convicted of conspiracy. Walter also was convicted on the substantive
counts on the proof of his committing the crimes charged.
fhen, on that evidence without more than the proof of
Daniel's criminal agreement with Walter and the latter's
overt' acts, which were also the substantive offenses
charged, the court told the jury they could find Daniel
guilty of those substantive offenses. They did so.

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
640

RuTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

I think this ruling violates both the letter and the
spirit of what Congress did when it separately defined the
three classes of crime, namely, (1) completed substantive
offenses; 1 (2) aiding, abetting or counseling another to
commit them; 2 and (3) conspiracy to commit them.'
Not only does this ignore the distinctions Congress has
prescribed shall be observed. It either convicts one man
for another's crime or punishes the man convicted twice
for the same offense.
The three types of offense are not identical. Bollenbach v. United States, 326 U. S. 607, 611; United States
v. Sall, 116 F. 2d 745. Nor are their differences merely
verbal. Ibid. The gist of conspiracy is the agreement;
that of aiding, abetting or counseling is in consciously
advising or assisting another to commit particular offenses,
and thus becoming a party to them; that of substantive
crime, going a step beyond mere aiding, abetting, counseling to completion of the offense.
These general differences are well understood. But
when conspiracy has ripened into completed crime, or has
advanced to the stage of aiding and abetting, it becomes
easy to disregard their differences and loosely to treat one
as identical with the other, that is, f6r every purpose
except the most vital one of imposing sentence. -And
These of course comprehend the vast variety of offenses prescribed by federal law, conspiracies for accomplishing which may be
charged under the catchall conspiracy statute, note 3.
2 "Whoever directly commits any act constituting an offense defined
in any law of the United States, or aids, abets, counsels, commands,
induces, or procures its commission, is a principal." 18 U. S. C.
2

§ 550.

3 "If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense
against the United States, or to defraud the United States in any
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any
act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties to such
conspiracy shall be fined not more than 10,000, or imprisoned not
more than two years, or both." 18 U. S. C..+88.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RuTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

328 U. S.

thus the substance, if not the technical effect, of double
jeopardy or multiple punishment may be accomplished.
Thus also may one be convicted of an offense not charged
or proved against him, on evidence showing he committed
another.
The old doctrine of merger of conspiracy in the substantive crime has not obtained here. But the dangers for
abuse, which in part it sought to avoid, in applying the
law of conspiracy have not altogether disappeared. Cf.
Kotteakos v. United States, post, p. 750. There is some
evidence that they may be increasing. The looseness with
which the charge may be proved, the almost unlimited
scope of vicarious responsibility for others' acts which
follows once agreement is shown, the psychological advantages of such trials for securing convictions by attributing
to one proof against another, these and other inducements
require that the broad limits of discretion allowed to prosecuting officers in relation to such charges and trials be note
expanded into new, wider and more dubious areas of
choice. If the matter is not generally of constitutional
proportions, it is one for the exercise of this Court's supervisory power over the modes of conducting federal criminal prosecutions within the rule of McNabb v. United
States, 318 U. S. 332.
I think that power should be exercised in this case with
respect to Daniel's conviction. If it does not violate the
letter of constitutional right, it fractures the spirit.
United States v. Sall, supra. I think the ruling in that
case was right, and for the reasons stated.' It should be
' In the substantially idpntical situation presented in the Sall case
as to the indictment and the proof, the Government argued that the
conviction on the substantive counts should stand because the proof
that the accused had entered the conspiracy amounted to proof that
he had "aided and abetted" the commission of the substantive crimes
within the meaning of 18 U. S. C. § 550. The court rejected the idea,

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
640

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

followed here. Daniel has been held guilty of the substantive crimes committed only by Walter on proof that
he did no more than conspire with him to commit offenses
of the same general character. There was no evidence
that he counseled, advised or had knowledge of those particular acts or offenses. There was, therefore, none that
he aided, abetted or took part in them. There was only
evidence sufficient to show that he had agreed with Walter
at some past time to engage in such transactions generally.
As to Daniel this was only evidence of conspiracy, not of
substantive crime.
The Court's theory seems to be that Daniel and Walter
became general partners in crime by virtue of their agreement and because of that agreement without more on his
part Daniel became criminally responsible as a principal
for everything Walter did thereafter in the nature of a
criminal offense of the general sort the agreement contemplated, so long as there was not clear evidence that
Daniel had withdrawn from or revoked the agreement.
Whether or not his commitment to the penitentiary had
that effect, the result is a vicarious criminal responsibility
as broad as, or broader than, the vicarious civil liability
of a partner for acts done by a co-partner in the course
of the firm's business.
Such analogies from private commercial law and the
law of torts are dangerous, in my judgment, for transfer
to the criminal field. See Sen. Rep. No. 163, 72d Cong.,
1st Sess., 20. Guilt there with us remains personal, not
vicarious, for the more serious offenses. It should be kept
so. The effect of Daniel's conviction in this case, to
apparently now accepted here, that "aiding and abetting" and "conspiring" are, and are intended by Congress to be, the same thing,
differing only in the form of the descriptive words. But if that is the
only difference, then conviction for both "offenses" on account of the
same act is clearly double punishment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Rumu.,E, J., dissenting in part.

328 U. S.

repeat, is either to attribute to him Walter's guilt or to
punish him twice for the same offense, namely, agreeing
with Walter to engage in crime. Without the agreement
Daniel was guilty of no crime on this record. With it
and no more, so far as his own conduct is concerned, he
was guilty of two.
In another aspect of the case, this effect is thrown into
even clearer light. The indictment here was filed after
a prior one for conspiracy alone had been dismissed. This
in turn came after petitioners had been tried, convicted
and had been successful in securing reversal on appeal
for errors in the charge. Pinkerton v. United States, 145
F. 2d 252. Following this reversal they were reindicted
and tried in the present case. The Government now says,
as to the plea of double jeopardy on this account (which
the trial court overruled on demurrer), that the two indictments were for different conspiracies since the first one
charged a different period of time as covered by the conspiracy; charged 16 as compared with 19 overt acts in the
second; and an additional object was added ki the latter,
that is, intent to violate another section of the revenue
act. In other words, there were two differefit conspiracies
by virtue of these minute differences in the detail of the
allegations. Hence, there was no double jeopardy by the
second indictment.
But later, in support of the conviction here, relative to
the bearing of the various statutes of limitations upon
proof of the overt acts, charged also as substantive offenses,
the Government points out that the earlier indictment
was framed on the assumption that a three-year statute
of limitations applied to the conspiracy as first charged;
and the convictions were reversed for failure of the trial
court to instruct the jury on that basis. Then the District
Attorney discovered the decision in Braverman v. United
States, 317. U. S. 49, 54-55, and decided to revamp the

PINKERTON v. UNITED STATES.
640

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

indictment to include details making the six-year period
applicable. He did so, and added the substantive counts
because, so it is said, in the view that a six-year period
applied he felt there were enough substantive offenses
within that time which he could successfully prove to
justify including them.
It would seem, from this history, that to sustain this
conviction as against the plea of former jeopardy by virtue
of the earlier indictment and what followed, the Government stands, and must stand, upon the idea that two
separate and distinct conspiracies were charged, one by
th& first and one by the later indictment. See United
States v. Opoienheimer, 242 U. S. 85, 87-88. But to sustain Daniel's conviction for the substantive offenses, via
the conspiracy route, there was only a single continuing
conspiracy extending over the longer period, in the course
of which Walter committed crimes, which were also overt
acts, some of them running back of the period charged
in the former indictment, others being the same but later
acts which it had charged as overt acts against both.
For these now Daniel is held responsible, not merely as
a conspirator, as the prior indictment charged, but a. both
a conspirator and a substantive offender.
What this lacks by way of being put twice in jeopardy
for the same offense, I am unable to understand. For not
only has Daniel been convicted for conspiracy for the same
overt acts, and illegal ends, as the first indictment charged.
He has had those acts converted into substantive offenses.
I do not think the prosecutoi technical, and it would
seem insubstantial, variations in the details of the indictment should be permitted to achieve so much 5
5The situation is essentially the same as when crimes are defined
with such minute distinction as to~make6 them different only in the
most technical sense. See District of Columbia v. Buckley, 128 F. 2d
17, concurring opinion at 21; cf. Ex parte Nielsen, 131 U. S. 176; In re
Snow, 120 U. S. 274.

