440

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

power to the states. For reasons already set forth and
others, including the fact that no instance of delegation.
is involved on the facts, we find them without merit.
The judgment accordingly is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.
MRAJUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THF, SUPERIOR COURT OF VENTURA COUNTY,
CALIFORNIA.

No. 274.

Argued January 8, 9, 1946.-Decided June 3, 1946.

Section 703 (a) of the California Insurance Code makes it a misdemeanor for any person, except one licensed as a "surplus line
broker," to act "as agent for a nonadmitted insurer in the transaction of insurance business" within the State. Section 1642 provides that "A person shall not act as an insurance agent, broker,
or solicitor until a license is obtained from the commissioner, authorizing such person so to act." Appellant was convicted in -a state
court for violations of §§ 703 (a) and 1642 committed subsequently
to the decision of this Court in United States v. South-Eastern
Underwriters Assn., 322 U. S. 533 (holding that the business of
insurance conducted across state lines is interstate commerce), but
prior to the enactment of the Act of Congress of March 9, 1945, 59
Stat. 33 (authorizing state taxation and regulation of the business of
insurance). The evidence showed that appellant, without a license
of any kind, had acted within the State as agent of a nonadmitted
foreign insurer conducting a mutual benefit type of insurance business. Held:
1. Section 1642, considered with other requirements of the state
law, being designed and reasonably adapted to protect the public
and applicable without discrimination to agents of local and foreign
companies acting in California, was not in violation of the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution, since it neither discrimi-

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

Syllabus:

nates against nor substantially obstructs interstate commerce.
Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S.109. P. 447.
2. Considered apart from other provisions of the Code, the
requirements for issuance of a surplus line broker's license-that
the Commissioner shall find the applicant to be trustworthy and
competent to transact an insurance brokerage business in such manner asto safeguard the interest of the insured; payment of a $50
filing fee; and posting of a $5,000 fidelity bond-were not in violation of the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 450.
3. Even, though the Code provisions regulating the admission of
foreign insurance compaiies to do business within the State, together
with provisions regulating activities of surplus, line brokers, operated to forbid either foreign or domestic companies to do within
the State a life insurance business on other than a legal reserve
basis, except as to companies engaged in doing such business there
prior to January 1, 1940, no unconstitutional discrimination against
interstate commerce was involved, and. the result is not. precluded
by the South-Eastern decision. P. 455.
(a) The conditions prescribed apply alike to domestic and
foreign corporations. P. 456.
(b) The provision differentiating between -companies organized or admitted to do business within the State prior to January 1,
1940, and others, does not involve any discrimination as between
domestic and foreign or interstate and intrastate insurers. P. 456.
(c) 'The distinction does not become discriminatory, in any
sense now pertinent, merely because the preexisting companies are
allowed to continue their business under somewhat less burdensome
reserve requirements than those under which new companies are
permitted to enter. P. 456.
4. For failure to meet its reserve requirements, a State may
exclude foreign insurance companies, or their agents, from doing
business within the State. P. 458.
(a) 'State regulation of interstate business done within the
State's borders is not rendered invalid by the mere fact that .the
regulation is in form a "license." P. 458.
(b) The Commerce Clause is not a guaranty of the right to
import iito a State whatever one may please; absent a prohibition
by Congress, regardless of the effects of the importation upon the
local community. P. 458.
(c) The reserve requirements of the State can not be deemed,
either on the face of the statute or by any showing that has been
made in this case, to be excessive for the protection of the local

442-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

328 U. S.

interest affected; nor designed or effective either to discriminate
against foreign or interstate insurers or to forbid or exclude their
activities. P. 459.
5. Appellant's objections founded on the provisions relating to
the placing of surplus line insurance with nonadmitted insurers lack
merit, in view of the power of the State, through its reserve requirements for admission and related prohibitions,- to forbid entirely the
placing of insurance of the sort here involved, whether with domestic, admitted or nonadmitted companies.' P. 460.
6. The requirements of the state law do not operate to regulate
activities of the appellant or the foreign.insurer beyond the borders
of the State; and do, not on this score violate the duie process or
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 461.
* 7. The result in this case is reached independently of the Act of
March 9, 1945; wherefore no question as to possible ex post facto
operation of that Act is involved. P. 461.
Affirmed.

Appellant was convicted in a state court of violating
certain provisions of the California Insurance Code, which
he challenged as being contrary to the Commerce Clause
and the Fourteenth Amendment. The conviction was
affirmed by an intermediate state court, which was the
highest state court to which an appeal could be taken.
Ins. L. J., May, 1945, p. 273. Appellant appealed to this
Court.

Affirmed, p. 462.

Robert R. Weaver and Earl Blodgett argued the cause
for appellant.

With Mr. Weaver on the brief was Allen

K. Perry.
T. A. Westphal, Jr., Deputy Attorney General of California, and M. Arthur Waite argued the cause for appellee. With them on the brief were Robert W. Kenny,
Attorney General, Julien G. Hathaway and H. F. Orr.

Briefs were filed as amici curiae by Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General of New York, Orrin G. Judd,
Solicitor General, and Saul A. Shames, Assistant Attorney

General, for the State of New York, and by Francis V.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

443

Opinion of the Court.

Keesling, Sr. and FrancisV. Keesling, Jr.for the California
Association of Insurance Agents et al., in support of
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case differs from PrudentialInsurance Co. v. Benjamin, ante, p. 408, in three respects. It is a criminal
cause; the statutes involved regulate,. rather than simply
tax, the business of insurance; and appellant's acts held
to violate them were done before the McCarran Act's1
effective date.
Appellant was convicted in a state court for violating
§§ 703 (a) and 1642 of the California Insurancb Code and
the conviction was sustained on appeal to the Superior
Court of Ventura County.2 Appellant now urges here
primarily that the application which has been nade of
those sections -is a regulation of interstate commerce
forbidden by the commerce clause of the Constitution,
Article I, § 8, in view of United States v. South-Easern
UnderwritersAssn., 322 U. S.533. He also puts forward
due process and equal protection arguments, resting on
his conception of the applicability of those provisions of
3
the Fourteenth Amendment.
1

Act of March 9, 1945, 59 Stat. 33; 15 U. S. C. §§ 1011-1015. See
text infra,following note 32.
The conviction was obtained in the Justice's Court of Ventura
Township, California. The Superior Court of Ventura County was
the highest court of the state to which appeal could be taken. Its
opinion is not reported. The penalty was a fine of $100 imposed for
violating each count.
3
In the Statement of Appeal filed in the Superior Court the grounds
relied upon, apart from commerce clause and local law objections,
were only that appellant's acts "were, if true, done by him in accordance with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States . . ." and that §§ 703 (a) and
1642 "are unconstitutional and in violation of .. .the Fourteenth
Amendment .... "1

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The California Insurance Code provisions are as
follows:
"703. Except when performed by a surplus line
broker, the following acts are misdemeanors when
done in this State:
"(a) Acting as agent for a nonadmitted insurer
in the transaction of insurance business in this
State."
"1642. A person shall not act as an insurance
agent, broker, or solicitor until a license is obtained
from the commissioner, authorizing such person so
to act." 4
The complaint charged in two counts that appellant
had (1) acted without a license as an agent for a nonadmitted insurer in soliciting and selling a policy contrary
to § 703 (a), and (2) solicited and sold a policy of insurance without being licensed as required by § 1642.
The evidence, which is undisputed, disclosed the following facts. The First National Benefit Society is an
Arizona corporation, conducting from Phoenix a mutual
benefit type of insurance business. Its method of operation must be inferred from the facts of record, in the
absence of other evidence. One O'Lein, then an elderly
resident of Ventura, California, had difficulty in securing
insurance on account of his age. Prior to August 28, 1944,
he had learned of the Society's "Gold Seal" policy, by
radio and through "literature." This apparently was
mailed from the home office and included a printed form
of return postal card marked, presumably pursuant to
postal permit, "Postage will be Paid by Addressee," the
Society. O'Lein- filled in and returned the card to the
4 Deering's

California Codes, Insurance Code of California, §§ 703,

1642. These sections are part of California's comprehensive regulatory scheme for the business of insurance; and are directly related,
in the case of § 703, to the requirements laid by other sections for
acting as surplus line broker, see text infra; and in that of § 1642
to such requirements for securing a license to act in the specified

representative capacities, see text infra.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

Opinion of the Court.

Society in Phoenix, asking it to "send me, without obligation, details of 'GOLD SEAL' POLICIES." A few
days later, on August 28, 1944, appellant called at O'Lein's
home with the card, stating he represented the, First National Benefit Society. Thereupon he explained to O'Lein
the terms of the policy, its benefits, and costs, soliciting
and persuading the prospect to take out a policy for himself and one also for his -wife. No medical examination
was required: Appellant filled in the application forms,
procured the signatures, accepted from O'Lein a check
made out in appellant's name in payment of the first quarterly premiums, gave receipts, later cashed the check at
a local bank, and received the proceeds. A few days later
the O'Leins received policies by mail from the Society's
office in Phoenix.,
The evidence further showed that the Society was not
admitted to do business in California and that ippellant
had no license of any kind to act as an insurance agent,
broker or solicitor there.
We may deal first exclusively -with the objections
founded on the commerce clause, since each of the others
would be obyiously without merit but for the supposedeffects of the South-Easterndecision ' not only in relation
to the prohibitory consequences of that clause but also,
apparently, to resurrect other limitations upon state
power long since settled adversely to such claims in reference to the business of insurance. 6
5But see 322 U. S. 533, 547 ff.
6 Thus, it was long settled, under the doctrine of Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 168, that neither due process nor equal protection of the
laws forbids the kind of state regulation of the business of insurance
imposed by §§ 703 (a) and 1642. Hooper v. California, 155 U. S.,
648; Nutting v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 553.. See'also Hoopeston
Co. v. Culleht, 318 U. S. 313, and text infra at note 32.
As to the dangers of blurring the due process and equal protection
limitations with commerce clause ideas, and the consequent necessity
for separate treatment in disposing of these problems, see Ribble,

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Cow t.

328 U. S.

Little need be said in relation to the general license
requirement of §.1642, except to state more fully its effects
by virtue of its relation to other provisions of the California InsuranceCode, which prescribe the conditions for
securing the license. Those requirements, in summary,
are that-an application must be made upon a prescribed
form setting.forth the kinds of insurance the applicant
desires to transact (§ 1643); he must be a citizen of the
United States or one' who has applied for citizenship;
.and must have attained his majority (§ 1648.5); he must
pass a written examination as to his qualifications (§ 1674)
and pay two fees, one a filing fee'of $4, the other an examination fee of $5 (§ 1678). On his fulfilling these conditions the license is issued if the state commissioner of
insurance is satisfied that he is qualified and intends in
good faith to carry on the business (§ 1649).
Section 1639 declares' that the purpose of, these and,
other provisions of the Code is "to protect the public by
requiring and maintaining professional standards of conduct on the part of all insurance agents and insurance
brokers acting'as such within this State." The statutory
requirements apply to all agents, without discrimination,
whether they represent California or out-of-state insur.ance companies and Whether the business done is interstate
or local in character. They apply only to agents acting
in California, not to acts done outside the state.
Appellant has not sought to obtain a license under the
Code' provisions, has not been denied one, and has not'
attacked any particular requirement. His charge is
State and National Power over Commerce (1937) 98; Nippert v.
Richmond, 327 U. S.416, 423-425; MeLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322-U. S.
327, dissenting opinion at 357. Cf. also Bethlehem Motors Corp.
v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421; Henderson, The Position of Foreign Corporations in American Constitutional Law (1918) 122; and see.c. IX.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.,
440

-447

Opinion of the Court.

wholesale, not particular.

It is, in effect, that since the

entire series of acts done by him was directed to the con-.
clusion of an interstate transaction, -within the SouthEasternruling, those acts though taking place altogether
within California were inseparably a part of the interstate transaction and therefore beyond reach of the state's
licensing or regulatory power. The contention appears
to contemplate not only that appellant's acts were interstate commerce, but also that the state cannot impose any
licensing requirement upon t hem or, it would seem, upon
any phase of conducting an interstate insurance business
through agents acting in person.
To state the argument in this way is in effect to answer
it. We accept the regulation for what it purports to be
on its face andby the statute's express declaration, namely,
a series of regulations designed and reasonably adapted
to protect the public from fraud, misrepresentation, incompetence and sharp practice which falls short of minimum standards of decency in the selling of insurance by
personal solicitation and salesmanship. That such dangers may exist, may even be Widely prevalent in the absence of such controls, is. a matter of common knowledge
and experience. And no argument is needed to show that
these evils are most apt to arise in connection With the
activities of the less reliable and responsible insurers, as
well as insurance brokers or salesmen, and vitally affect
the public interest.!
Such being the purpose and effect of § 1642, there can
be no substantial question concerning its validity on comSee Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Nelson Co., 291 U. S.
352, 360; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 412-415;
Osborn'v. Ozlin, 310 U. S. 53, 65, 66; National Union Fire Ins. Co. v.
Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71, 76-77. And see also United States v. South-Eastern Underwriters Assn., 322 U. S. 533, 539 ff.; Prudential
Insurance Co. v. Benjamin, ante, p. 408.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

merce clause grounds. That is true whether appellant's
acts are taken, in their setting, as being "in" commerce or
only as "affecting" it. For the case is ruled, so far as
§ 1642 is concerned, by decisions such, as California v.
Thompson, 313 U. S. 109; Hartford Indemnity Co. v.
Illinois, 298 U. S. 155; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465;
Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; and
Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202.8
If, in the absence of contrary action by Congress, a state
may license agents or brokers. for the*sale of interstate
transportation in order to prevent fraud, California v.
Thompson, supra; trainmen engaged in interstate commerce to secure their competence, Smith v. Alabama,
supra; Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, supra;
the sale on commission of interstate consignments of farm
produce to secure honest dealing and financial responsibility, Hartford Indemnity Co. v. Illinois, supra; and the
activities of customs brokers to secure responsibility -in
the state courts on claims arising locally, Union Brokerage
Co. v. Jensen, supra, by the sorts of conditions imposed
through the respective licensing provisions, there can be
no valid reason for outlawing § 1642.here.
That appellant's activities were of a kind which vitally
affect -the welfare and security of the local community,
the state and their residents could 'not be denied. Cf.
Hoopeston Co. v. Cullen, 318 U. S 313, 316 ff. They had
in fact a highly "special interest" in his localized pursuit
8

In some of these cases, e. g., Hartford Indemnity Co. v. Illinois,

298 U. S. 155, and Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202, there
were also federal licensing statutes which the Court. found neither
inconsistent with nor, therefore, effective to exclude the state licensing
regulation. The Union Brokerage case involved an instance of state
regulation of foreign commerce.
In addition to the cited authorities, see also the dejisions cited and
relied upon in each of the opinions.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

449

Opinion of the Court.

of this phase of the comprehensive process of conducting
an interstate insurance business. Cf. Union Brokerage
Co. v. Jensen, supra, at 212. Here, as in each of the instances cited, appellant's activities called in question were
concentrated in the regulating state, although affecting or
constituting interstate commerce. Moreover the licensing provision of § 1642 is regulatory, not exclusory in character; is not discriminatory; is not in conflict with any
policy or action of Congress but rather accords with its
expressed Views in so far as the McCarran Act may be
taken to be applicable; ' and is designed appropriately to
secure the public from those evils of uncontrolled insurance solicitation to which it is directed. In view of these
facts the regulation "neither discriminates against nor
substantially obstructs the commerce."
California v.
Thompson, supra,at 114.
Furthermore, here as in the cited cases, "unless some
measure of local control is permissible," the activities and
their attendant evils "must go largely unregulated," unless
or until Congress undertakes that function. California
v. Thompson, supra, at 115. And in view of the wellknown conditions of competition in this field, such a result
not only would free out-of-state insurance companies and
their representatives of the regulation's effect, thus giving
them advantage over local competitors, but by so doing
would tend to break down the system of regulation in its
purely local operation.
II.
Section 703 (a) is interwoven with different conditions
and therefore has somewhat different effects than does
§ 1642. Unlike the latter, which applies to acting as
agent for all insurers, it forbids acting as agent for non9See text inira following note 32.

,450

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

admitted insurers alone, unless the person so acting is a
"surplus 'ine broker." '0 To become a surplus line broker
one must procure a special license pursuant to the requirements of § 1765. This license also is issued upon application, if the commissioner of insurance finds that the
applicant is "trustworthy and competent to transact an
insurance brokerage business in such manner as to safeguard the interest of the insured . .. " The applicant
also must file with the commissioner a faithful performance bdnd in the amount of $5000 and pay a filing fee
of $50.
So far as concerns these requirements of § 1765 for procuring the surplus line broker's license, if they are considered without reference to any of the other Code provisions, the same conclusion is required concerning the
validity of § 703 (a) as for that of § 1642, by the authorities above cited and discussed. Indeed the filing fee of
$50 is larger than the combined fees required by § 1642,
but not more than the fee involved in the Union Brokerage case, supra. And the bond provision is substantially
identical with that sustained in Californiav. Thompson,
supra. In the absence of any showing that it is administered arbitrarily, the requirement that the license shall
issue only after a finding ofi trustworthiness and competence by the commissioner cannot be taken to be other
than an appropriate means of safeguarding the public
against the obvious evils arising from the lack of those
qualifications. Californiav. Thompson, supra. Considered separately from any relationship to other sections of
the Code, therefore, the prescribed conditions for securing
10See note 14, as to "surplus line insurance." In general this is
insurance involving special risks or for some other reason not falling
within the usual lines of authorized business.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

451

Opinion of the Court.

the surplus line broker's license are no more invalid than

those which must be fulfilled to secure the general agent's
license under § 1642.12
This, the state contends, is all that needs to be considered, since appellant neither possessed nor, so far as appears, had applied for or been denied a surplus line broker's
license. Consequently, in its view, the validity of other
provisions of the Code is not involved,' either, directly or
by necessary relationship to § 703 (a).12
"Appellant 'also points out that by § 1775.5 an annual tax equal
to three per cent of the gross premiums upon business done during
each calendar year is imposed upon'each surplus line broker. Apart
from the facts'That appellant has not applied for such a license and
that no effort has been made to collect this tax from appellant, so
far as appears, it may be noted that the tax applies alike to all surplus
line brokers, whether acting for domestic or admitted foreign insurers
or for nonadmitted ones. No question as to the validity of this tax
is presented by this record.
12 Indeed the state argues that no question is raised concerning the
validity of the requirements of § 1765 for procuring the surplus line
broker's license since, "so far as this record shows, the life insurance
sought to be effected in this case might or might not have been procurable from admitted insurers.'
However, on the alternative basis of, acceptingappellant's view that
the insurance would not have been so obtainable, California concedes
the' insurance would fall within the surplus line exception, but asserts
that appellant, if he had obtained the license, could have acted as agent
in the transaction. Hence, since he did not apply for the license, the
state argues that § 1765 has not been applied to Lim and its validity
is not involved.
Appellant, however, maintains that even if he had
secured the
license, the combined effects of § 703 (a) and otier sections relating to
surplus line insurance would have forbidden him to act in this transaction. See text infra, Part III. California maintains that the validity of other Code sections, apart from §§ 703 (a) and 1642, was not in
issue in the state courts and, though raised here in the briefs, is not
necessarily involved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

III.
Appellant insists, however, that § 703 (a), taken in conjunction with § 1765, is more than a licensing requirement
for regulating the qualifications of agents acting in California in the transaction of the business covered by its
terms. It is rather, he maintains, a prohibition of the
writing of such insurance there by nonadmitted insurers
and their agents. And this, he says, the state cannot do,
both because it cannot exclude interstate commerce in
California and because it cannot discriminate against outof-state insurers in such a manner.
These conclusions are based on the view that § 703 (a)
is related inseparably by its terms and in fact to other
Code provisions in addition to § 1765, namely, those regulating the admission of foreign insurance corporations to
do business in California 1 and the interwoven provisions
regulating activities of surplus line brokers." Section
33 See

California Insurance Code '§§ 1560-1607, 10818. Appellant
relies particularly upon § 10818, prohibiting the organization or admission of new insurers after January 1, 1940, to operate as so-called
"Chapter 9" companies, that is, among others, as mutual companies
having less than the reserve requirements specified for such insurers
operating on the assessment plan, but permitting previously organized
or admitted companies to continue under specially imposed requirements. See text infra at notes 16, 21.
Pertinent also is § 700 of the Code providing: "A person shall not
transact any class of insurance business in this State without first
being admitted for such class," through securing a certificate of authority from the commissioner on compliance with the Code's requirements.
14California Insurance Code, Chapter 6. Surplus Line Brokers.
§§ 1760-1779.
Section 1761 reads: "Except as provided in sections 1760 and
1760.5, a person within this State shall not transact any insurance
on property located . . . within, or on the lives or persons of resi-

dents of this State with nonadmitted insurers, except by and through

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

453

Opinion of the Court.

703 (a) on its face forbids acting as agent for nonadmitted
insurers, except in the case of a surplus line broker. - And.
the combined effects of' the provisions relating 'to such.
brokers and of those governing the admission of foreign
corporations are said to be to "absolutely prohibit" the
writing of ,or-aiding in piocuring the type of insurance
issued here or indeed of \any insurance issued by the
Society.' 5
a surplus line broker licensed under this chapter and upon -,the terms
and conditions prescribed in this chapter."
* Section 1760 provides: "Any citizen of this State may'negotiate
and effect insurance on his own property with any nonadmitted
insurer," cf. note 20, and § 1760.5 requires specified kinds of insurance,
e. g., marine and ailcraft risks, to be placed with nonadmitted insurers
only through a "special lines' surplus line broker."
By § 1763 a surplus line broker "may solicit and place insurance,;,
other than as excepted in section. 1761, with nonadmitted insurers
only if such insurance can not be procured from a majority of the
insurers admitted for \the particular class or classes of insurance.
Such part of the insurance as can not be so procured may be procured
from nonadmitted insurers," if it is not so placed to secure a lower
rate than the lowest any admitted insurer will accept. Stringent
provisions for supervising the section's requirements by the commissioner are included.
\
Other sections require maintaining an office in the state (§ 1767),
keeping records and making reports (§§ 1768, 1769, 1774), and provide
criminl sanctions for violating *thechapter's provisions, § 1776.
See as to surplus line brokers, Patterson, The Insurance Commissioner in the United States (1927) 188-190.
SThe argument is not only various but somewhat devious. Appellant disclaims, intention to maintain that the state cannot "regulate
[the] insuratnce business" and goes on to rest on the general proposition that it cannot prohibit interstate commerce entirely',and that
the effect of the statutory provisions, particularly § 10818, see note
13 supra, is to do this. As will appear, the argument really comes
down to maintaining that California cannot require foreign companies
or their agents to comply with her minimum requirements for issuing
the type of insurance issued here.

454

TERM, 1945.

.OCTOBER

Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

California in effect concedes this, alternatively to maintaining that no question concerning the validity of those
provisions is presented. The short effect of the admission
provisions, for purposes now pertinent, the state admits,
is to forbid either foreign or domestic companies to do a
life insurance business in California other than on a legal
reserve basis, 16 except as to companies engaged in doing
such business there prior to January 1, 1940.' The policy
underlying this exclusion is said to be founded in the
state's'experience showing that a mutual company doing
business "on the stipulated premium plan with right of
assessment,18 without a sufficient surplus and full reserves,
.

16 By § 10510 of the Code, -"Anincorporated life insurer issuing policies on the.reserve basis shall not transact life insurance in this State
unless it has a paid-in capital of at least $200,000." Section 36 defines
"paid-in capital" as including the surplus of a mutual insurer. The
effect of, the two sections, it is conceded iri
the state's brief, "is to
require that a stock company have a capital stock aggregating at least
$200,000 and that a mutual company have a surplus of at least $200,000
in order to do business in California.". Both requirements apply to
domestic and foreign companies alike, with the exceptions noted below
in note 17.
17The exception was the result of .a series of amendments to'the
Code, made from 1935 to 1939, designed gradually to restrict the operations iithe state of companies operating without. reserves, to enable
such companies already engaged in business to build up reserves, and
to forbid the organization or admission of new companies operating
without them or with reserves below the minimum requirement. See
Calif. Stat. 1935, cs. 282, 283, pp. 1002, 657, 667, 678; Stat. 1937, C.
726, p. 2024; Stat. 1939, c. 321, p. 1609. And see also the Annual
Reports of the Insurance Commissioner, State of California, asfollows: Sixty-sixth, 10-11; Sixty-eighth, XX; Sixty-ninth, XVII; Seventieth, XVIII; Seventy-first, XXIX; Seventy-third, XVII, XXII-

XXIII.

isThe policy issued in this case contained the following provision in
small type on the reverse side of the sheet: "The lawfully required
portion of Premiums paid on this Certificate shall be set aside into
the Mortuary Fund. Premiums necessary to maintain this Certificate in- force are not fixed amounts and in event of Premium insuffi-

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

Opinion of the Court.

is not adequately safeguarded to insure that money. will
be available to pay death benefits." In support of this
statement of California's policy and the experience on
which it is founded, counsel point to the Annual Reports
of the Insurance Commissioner covering a period of some
six years, from 1934 to 1940," which resulted in some of
the legislation now called in question. See also X Report
of Joint Insurance Investigation Committee (N. Y.) 364365 (1906); Hoopeston Co. v. Cullen, 318 U. S. 313, 321.
Furthermore, the state apparently concedes, as appellant contends, not only that the Society is excluded from
transacting insurance business by the admission requirements and its failure to comply with them, but also that
appellant would be forbidden to place insurance with it
by the provisions relating to surplus line insurance, even
if he had secured the surplus line broker's license.2'
As we understand it, therefore, appellant's argument in
this phase comes in substance to two things: (1) That
the admission requirements and the surplus line broker
provisions, as they relate to nonadmitted insurers and
their agents, are invalid for discrimination against outof-state insurers and in favor of domestic ones; (2) that
California, as a result of the South-Eastern decision, no
ciency may be adjusted, with the written approval of the Corporation
Commission, for the purpose of payment of claims and general operating expenses. In the event of any emergency caused by excessive
mortality the Corporation may, with the written consent or at the
direction of the Corporation Commission, levy Assessments on Mem-

bers to be placed in the Mortuary Fund."
19 See note 17.
2o See § 1763, quoted in part in note 14, supra, and text infra at
note 30. The type of insurance issued here is not within the exceptions specified in § 1763, which in turn relate to §§ 1760 and 1760.5.
The former, it is to be noted, relates on its face only to property
insurance; the latter to various special risks, not including mutual

assessment insurance, which can be placed only by a "special lines'
surplus line broker."

See note 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

456

Opinion of.the Court.

328 U. S.

longer can require foreign insurance corporations seeking
to do business there to maintain minimum reserves for
protection of policyholders in the state or compel agents
or brokers to refrain from representing them there notwithstanding such noncompliance.
The discrimination argument is without substance in
so far as it maintains that the statutes permit-domestic
companies to operate without meeting these requirements,
but forbid out-of-state insurers to do likewise. For, as
has been noted,21 the conditions apply alike to domestic
and foreign corporations, excepting only those organized
or admitted to do business in California before January
1, 1940. As to them different standards are applicable,
but they too apply equally and alike to domestic and
foreign insurers. '
That the state has seen fit to draw a line as of that date
between new companies seeking to enter the field and established companies, differentiating the two classes by'
different standards in the minimum reserve requirements,
in order to permit the latter to continue in business and
build up reserves, 23 does not involve any discrimination as
between domestic and foreign or interstate and intrastate
insurers. For each may be authorized to enter, and each
to continue, on identical terms. Such a distinction does
not become discriminatory, in any sense now pertinent,
merely because the preexisting companies are allowed to
continue their business under somewhat less burdensome
reserve requirements than those under which new com*panies are permitted to enter. See X Report of Joint
Insurance Investigation Committee (N. Y.) p. 365 (1906).
Otherwise the state, having authorized either domestic or
foreign companies to engage in the business, would be
greatly restricted, perhaps foreclosed, in raising the reserve
21

See note 13.

22 Ibid.
23. See the Reports of the Insurance Commissioner, cited in note 17.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

440

requirements as experience and the public interest might
make necessary."'
Apart from this classification, which is clearly within
the state's power, the discrimination argument becomes
identical with the contention that the state cannot exclude foreign companies, such as the First National
Benefit Society, or their agents, from carrying on their
business in California for failure to meet her reserve
requirements.
This is the crucial contention. It too is without merit.
The evils flowing from irresponsible insurers and insurance
certainly are not less than those arising from the activities of irresponsible, incompetent or dishonest insurance
agents. The two things are concomitant, being merely
different facades of the same sepulchre for the investments
and security of the public. Cf. Study of Legal Reserve
Life Insurance Companies, T. N. E. C. Monograph No. 28,
§ XV. It would be idle to require licensing of insurance
agents, in order to secure honesty and competence, yet to
place no restraint upon the kind of insurance to be sold or
the kinds of companies allowed to sell it, and then to cover
their representatives with their immunity. This could
only result in placing domestic and complying foreign
insurers at great disadvantage and eventually in nullifying all controls unless or until Congress should take over
the regulation.
No such consequence has followed from the South-Eastern decision. It did not wipe out the experience of the
states in the regulation of the business of insurance or
its effects for the continued validity of that regulation.
Much of this was concerned with the activities of so-called
foreign insurance companies and, in particular, with re24

Cf. Queenside Hills Realty Co.v. Saxl, 328 U. S. 80; Chicago &

Alton R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Nebraska ex rel. Omaha, 170 U. S. 57.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945,
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

quirements designed to secure minimum guaranties of
solvency and ability to pay claims as they mature. Essentially the protection sought was against fly-by-night operators and the grosser forms of profiteering and financial
mismanagement all too common in unregulated insurance
activity. See generally Patterson, The Insurance Commissioner in the United States (1927).
It is true that California imposes her reserve standards,
for both domestic and foreign insurers, by requiring them
to secure a certificate of authority to do business issued
upon compliance with those conditions, in other words,
by a form of licensing. But we are far beyond the time
when, if ever, the word "license" per se was a condemnation of state regulation of interstate business done within
the state's borders." The commerce involved here is not
transportation. Nor is it of a sort which touches the state
and its people so lightly that local regulation is inappropriate or interferes unreasonably with the commerce of
other states.26 Not the mere fact or form of licensing,
but what the license stands for by way of regulation is
important.2 7 So also, it is not simply the fact of prohibition, but what is forbidden and for the protection of what
interest, that is determinative. For the commerce clause
is not a guaranty of the right to import into a state whatever one may please, absent a prohibition by Congress,
regardless of the effects of the importation upon the local
community. That is true whether what is brought in
25See Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202; Clark v. Paul

Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583; Bradley v. Public Utilities Comm'h, 289
U. S.92; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Clark v. Poor, 274
U. S. 554; New Mexico ex rel. McLean v. Denver & Rio Grande R. Co.,
203 U. S. 38.
26 Cf. Hale v. Bimco Trading Co., 306 U. S. 375; Baldwin v. Seelig,
2W U. S.511; Hoopeston Co. v. Cullen, 318 U. S. 313.
2

Cf. authorities cited in note 25.

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

459

Opinion of the Court.

consists of diseased cattle 28 or fraudulent or unsound
insurance.
Here California's reserve requirements for securing authority to do business cannot be held, either on the face
of the statute or by any showing that has been made, to
be excessive for the protection of the local interest affected;
or designed or effective either to discriminate against foreign or interstate insurers or to forbid or exclude their
activities, by all who are able and willing to maintain
reasonable minimum reserve standards for the protection
of policyholders. Exclusion there is, but it is exclusion
of what the state has the power to keep out, until Congress
speaks otherwise. Every consideration which supports
the licensing of agents and brokers, and the authorities
we have cited giving effect to those considerations,' sustain the state's requirements in this respect, as do also the
decisions which have sustained various measures of exclusion in protection of the public health, safety and security
not only from physical harm but from various forms of
fraud and imposition.'
It is quite obvious, to repeat only one of those considerations, that if appellant's contentions were accepted and
foreign insurers were to be held free to disregard California's reserve requirements and then to clothe their
agents or others acting for them with their immunity, not
I See, as to state exclusions of and prohibitions on interstate commerce, Rasmussen v. Idaho, 181 U. S. 198; Smith v. St. Louis & S. W.
R. Co., 181 U. S. 248; Compagnie Francaisev. State Board of Health,
186 U. S. 380; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; Oregon-Washington
R. & N. Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87; Mintz -v. Baldwin, 289
U. S. 346; Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299. See also
Kimmish v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217; Missouri-K.-T. R. Co. v. Haber, 169
U. S. 613; Carterv. Virginia,321 U. S. 131.
2 See Part I, text.
0See note 28.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

only would the state be made helpless to protect her people
against the grossest forms of unregulated or loosely regulated foreign insurance, but the result would be inevitably
to break down also the system for control of purely local
insurance business. In short, the result would be ultimately to force all of the states to accept the lowest standard for conducting the business permitted by one of them
or, perhaps, by foreign countries. Inevitably this would
mean that Congress would be forced to intervene and- displace the states in regulating the business of insurance.
Neither the commerce clause nor the South-Eastern decision dictates such a result.
We do not intimate that this particular Society's insurance is unsound or fraudulent. As to that no showing has
been made. We only say that California has imposed its
reserve requirements as allowable standards for securing
minimum assurance to the state's policyholders in respect
to performance of their policies by the insurer, not as a
mere exclusionary measure in exercise of the power to bar
foreign corporations altogether; and that in the absence
of compliance the state can exclude the company and its
representatives as it did, until Congress makes contrary
command. Their remedy is not to destroy the regulatory
reserve conditions, but to comply with them.
It fQllows also that appellant's objections founded on
the provisions relating to the placing of surplus line insurance with nonadmitted insurers are without merit. Apart
from the phase relating to the requirements for obtaining
the surplus line broker's license, the objection is two-fold.
One is that, even if licensed, appellant would be forbidden
to place the insurance with a nonadmitted insurer, unless
there were no admitted one with which the risk could be
written. The other, that in any event the risk could
not be placed with the nonadmitted insurer for a less
premium than would be accepted by any admitted insurer.
The short answer would seem to be that, by the reserve

ROBERTSON v. CALIFORNIA.
440

Opinion of the Court.

requirements for admission and related prohibitions, the
state forbids entirely the placing of insurance of the sort
issued here, whether with domestic, admitted or nonadmitted companies."
It remains to say a word concerning the effect of the
McCarran Act for this case and the contentions founded
on the Fourteenth Amendment.
As for the latter,. with respect to due process, the only
objection advanced which is independent of commerce
clause considerations is that to sustain the state's requirements, particularly in so far as they exclude the Society
from interstate operations in California and thus also
appellant's activities in aid of its business, will be in effect
to project California's laws into other states, here presumably Arizona, and regulate the Society's activities there.
The contention is obviously without merit. Nothing
which California requires touches or affects anything the
Society or appellant may do or wish to do in Arizona or
elsewhere than in California. Hoopeston Co. v. Cullen,
supra.
Likewise the equal protection contention is wholly without substance.
'Our determination has been made without specific reliance upon the McCarran Act for two reasons. One is that
this was not necessary. The other arises from the facts
that this is a criminal proceeding, the appellant's acts held
to violate the California statutes were committed in
August following rendition of the South-Eastern decision
in June of 1944, and the McCarran Act was not approved
until March 9, 1945. The effect of that statute we have
considered in the Prudentialcase, ante, p. 408. But that
case involved no criminal or penal phase and therefore
no conceivable ex post facto effect. It is doubtful that
more than the semblance of such an effect would be in31

See note 20 and text.

1 See note, 6 and text infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLA%

J., dissenting in part.

328 U. S.

volved by reliance upon the Act in this case. For it hardly
could be maintained that the South-Eastern decision had
the effect to convert Congress' preexisting silence concerning a matter which prior to the decision had been held not
to be commerce into an expression by Congress of disapproval of these provisions of the California Code during
the short period intervening between the decision and the
date on which appellant acted. The indicated inference,
if any, would be to the contrary, wholly without regard
to the McCarran Act. Its effect might reasonably be
taken as merely declaring or confirming expressly the inference which would be indicated from Congress' silence
entirely without reference to the Act's provisions. But
the declaration was made, as we have said, after appellant's acts were done. And to avoid any semblance of
retroactive effect in a criminal matter, we have refrained
from explicit reliance upon the Act in this case. It does
not detract from our decision on other grounds that the
McCarran Act, if applied, would dictate the same result.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,dissenting in part.
I agree with the Court that the general license requirements which California provides for the insurance agents
were constitutional under the decisions of the Court, even
prior to the McCarran Act. But prior to that Act California could not under our decisions under the commerce
clause exclude an interstate business, at least in absence
of a showing that it was a fraudulent enterprise or in an
unsound condition. No such showing is made here. The
McCarran Act changes that rule; but it should not be
allowed to make unlawful what was lawful when done.

