OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

the means of encouraging the district judges to uncover
a better answer than they have thus far given to a lively
problem, an appropriate admonition from the Court would
accomplish the same result, or common action regarding
the practice now under review may be secured from the

Conference of Senior Circuit Judges. To reverse a judgment free from intrinsic infirmity and perhaps to put in
question other judgments based on verdicts that resulted
from the same method of selecting juries, reminds too
much of burning the barn in order to roast the pig.

I would affirm the judgment.

UNITED STATES v. JOSEPH A. HOLPUCH CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 696 and 697.

Argued May 3,1946.-Decided May 20, 1946.

Respondent had two construction contracts vith the United States,
each of which provided that "disputes concerning questions arising
under this contract shall be decided by the contracting officer ...
subject to written appeal . . .to the head of the department."
Held:
1. Disputes as to extra pay for footing excavations and for
increased wages paid to bricklayers were "questions arising under
this contract" within the meaning of the quoted provision. Pp.
238-239.
2.- Respondent's failure to exhaust the administrative appeal provisions of the contracts barred recovery in the Court of Claims in
respect of such disputes. P. 239.
.3. In the absence of clear evidence that the appeal procedure prescribed is inadequate or' unavailable, that procedure must be
pursued and exhausted before respondent may be heard to complain
in a court. P. 240.
4. The designation on the covers of the contracts of the disbursing
officer who would make payment on the contracts was not a part of
the contracts and can not be used in any way to alter or amend any
actual provisions thereof. P. 240.

UNITED STATES v. HOLPUCH CO.
234

Opinion of the Court.

5. Even if it be assumed that the dispute as to extra pay for
footing excavations concerned only the amount of payment under
the contract, such an issue is a question "arising under" the contract
and therefore expressly subject to the administrative appeal provision. P. 241.
6. There being no evidence that the wage increase to bricklayers
was established by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public
Works, which under the contracts was the only agency that had
authority to do so, a provision for an automatic adjustment of the
amount due the contractor in that event did not become operative.
P. 242.
104 Ct. Cls. 254, reversed.

The respondent brought two suits in the Court of
Claims on two contracts with the United States, and was
adjudged entitled to recover on both. This Court granted
certiorari. 327 U. S. 772. Reversed, p. 243.
Abraham J. Harris argued the cause for the United
With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett and Paul A.
Sweeney.

States.

No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the

opinion of the

Court.

The narrow question here is whether a contractor's fail-

ure to exhaust the administrative appeal provisions of a
government construction contract bars him from bringing
suit in the Court of Claims to recover damages.
Respondent, a building contractor, entered into two
contracts' with the United States through the War Department in 1933 to construct officers' quarters at Fort
Sam Houston, Texas, which were being built as a Federal
I The contracts here involved were both executed on U. S. Government Form No. P. W. A. 51.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Emergency Administration of Public Works project. Disputes arose as to excavations for footings and as to
increased wages ordered to be paid to respondent's bricklayers. Respondent brought suit against the Government
on these matters in the Court of Claims, which entered
judgments in favor of respondent on both items.'
Article 15, which appeared in both contracts, provided:
"All labor issues arising under this contract which cannot
be satisfactorily adjusted by the contracting officer
shall be submitted to the Board of Labor Review. Except
as otherwise specifically provided in this contract, all
other disputes concerning questions arising under this contract shall be decided by the contracting officer or his duly
authorized representative, subject to written appeal by the
contractor, within 30 days to the head of the department
concerned or his duly authorized representative, whose
decision shall be final and conclusive upon the parties.
thereto as to such questions. In the meantime the
contractor shall diligently proceed with the work as
directed."
The dispute concerning the footing excavations arose
out of an apparent inconsistency between certain figures
used in the specifications and in the drawings. The specifications estimated that respondent was to excavate to a
depth of 37 feet below the first-floor level of the buildings. The drawings, on the other hand, were found by
the Court of Claims to call for excavations to the depth of
33 feet. Additional payments were to be made to respondent for excavations deeper than indicated "on the
drawings," while the Government was to receive a credit
for excavations of a lesser depth. Respondent made variI The Court of Claims entered separate judgments and opinions in
relation to each of the two contracts, although both of them were
identical and involved the same issues. The only difference between
the contracts concerned the particular buildings to be constructed.

UNITED STATES v. HOLPUCH CO.
234

Opinion of the Court.

ous excavations ranging in depth from 27.58 feet to 42.42
feet. The problem thus presented itsef as to whether
the '37'/,-foot figure in the specificatiom or the 33-foot
figure in the drawings should serve as the basis for extra
compensation to the respondent and for credit to the
Government.
Article 2 of the contracts provided: "In case of difference between drawings and specifications, the specifications shall govern. In any case of discrepancy in the
figures or drawings, the matter shall be immediately submitted to the contracting officer . . ." The specifications
contained a similar provision and added that the constructing quaftermaster was to be the interpreter of the
"intent and meaning of the drawings and specifications."
The constructing quartermaster duly resolved the discrepancy in this instance by interpreting the specifications
and drawings to mean that the footing excavations were
to be paid for on the basis of the 371/2 feet estimated in
the specifications. Respondent made no attempt to appeal from this decision to the contracting officer or to
the departmental head in accordance with the terms of
Article 15.
The other dispute concerned a required increase in
wages for respondent's bricklayers. The contracts established $1.00 per hour as the minimum wage rate for skilled
labor unless, as of April 30, 1933, there should be a higher
prevailing hourly rate prescribed by collective agreements
between employers and employees. Article 18 (e) provided that this minimum wage rate "shall be subject to
change by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works on recommendation of the Board of Labor Review," in which case "the contract price shall be adjusted
accordingly." On March 3, 1934, the Board of Labor
Review ruled that bricklayers on another Army construction project at San Antonio, Texas, with which respond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ent was unconnected, should be paid at the rate of $1'25
per hour retroactive to February 2, 1934. Respondent
was informed of this decision and on March 23, 1934, the
constructing quartermaster advised respondent that all
bricklayers employed on the instant project "will be paid
at the rate of $1.25 per hour." Respondent stated that it
"would be governed accordingly but under protest, and
[ttlat it] expected reimbursement of the difference of 25
cents per hour." On May 12,1934, the constructing quartermaster advised respondent "that it was the decision of
the contracting officer that bricklayers employed on War
Department construction projects at San Antonio, Texas,
and vicinity [Fort Sam Houston is in this vicinity] should
be paid $1.25 per hour, retroactive to February 2, 1934,"
and that respondent would be within its rights "to file
appeal with the Board of Labor Review from the decision
of the contracting officer." ' No such appeal was taken;
respondent merely paid its bricklayers $1.25 per hour and
then filed a claim in the court below for the 25-cent differential. Here again the provisions of Article 15 were
ignored.
We cannot sanction respondent's'failure to abide by the
appeal provisions of Article 15 of the contracts which it
made with the United States. Both the dispute over the
The constructing quartermaster was in error in stating that
respondent could have appealed the wage increase decision to the
Board of Labor Review. Under Article 15, the Board is charged with
handling appeals only on matters involving "labor issues." This
plainly means labor issues between employers and employees. See
Blair v. United States, 99 Ct. Cls. 71, 149-150, reversed in other
respects, 321 U. S. 730. Here, however, the only controversy lay
between the respondent and the Government rather than between
respondent and its bricklayers. Hence the ordinary review provisions
of Article 15 were applicable, enabling respondent to appeal the contracting officer's decision to the Oepartmental head or his representative. The Court of Claims made a like error in this respect.

UNITED STATES v. HOLPUCH CO.
234

Opinion of the Court.

footing excavations and the dispute over the bricklayers'
wages were "questions arising under this contract" within
the meaning of Article 15. The first was a question arising under Article 2 of the contracts as well as under the
specifications, which expressly contemplated that government officers would resolve all discrepancies between
specifications and drawings. Their decisions in such matters were clearly appealable under Article 15. The second
dispute was a question arising under the wage provisions of
Article 18 of the contracts; that question involved a consideration of the factual situation surrounding the required wage increase and a determination of the validity
and effect of the increase under the circumstances. Any
decision or order of a subordinate government officer in
this respect was also appealable under Article 15. Yet
respondent did not even seek the contracting officer's
opinion as to the footing excavation decision of the constructing quartermaster. And as to the contracting officer's order requiring an increase in the bricklayers' wages,
respondent neglected to file a written appeal to the departmental head or his representative.
But Article 15 is something more than a dead letter to
be revived only at the convenience or discretion of the
contractor. It is a clear, unambiguous provision applicable at all times and binding on all parties to the contract.
No court is justified in disregarding its letter or spirit.
Article 15 is controlling as to all disputes "concerning
questions arising under this contract" unless otherwise
specified in the contract. It creates a mechanism whereby
adjustments may be made and errors corrected on an administrative level, thereby permitting the Government to
mitigate or avoid large damage claims that might otherwise be created. UnitedStates v. Blair,321 U. S. 730, 735.
This mechanism, moreover, is exclusive in nature. Solely
through its operation may claims be made and adjudicated

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

as to matters arising under the contract. United States
v. Blair, supra, 735; United States v. CallahanWalker Co.,
317 U. S. 56, 61. And in the absence of some clear evidence that the appeal procedure is inadequate or unavailable, that procedure must be pursued and exhausted before
a contractor can be heard to complain in a court.
It follows that when a contractor chooses without due
cause to ignore the provisions of Article 15 he destroys his
right to sue for damages in the Court of Claims. That
court is then obliged to outlaw his claims, whatever
may be their equity. To do otherwise is to rewrite
the contract.
In this instance no justifiable excuse is apparent for
respondent's failure to exhaust the appeal provisions of
Article 15. Certainly the reasons relied upon by the Court
of Claims are lacking in merit. The court felt that the
dispute over the footing excavation figures involved only
a matter of contract price computation and that the responsibility for such a computation rested solely with the
Army Finance Officer at Fort Sam Houston, any decision
by the contracting officer on the matter being no more
than advisory. Since the contracts made no provision
for an appeal of the Finance Officer's computation, the
Court of Claims held that there was no appealable decision confronting respondent and that respondent's claim
could be heard and determined by that court. Support
for this novel interpretation was sought in the statement
on the covers of the contracts that payment on the contracts was to be made "by the Finance Officer, U. S. Army,
Fort Sam Houston, Texas." The short answer is that this
designation of a disbursing officer is not a part of the contracts and cannot be used in any way- to alter or amend
*any actual provisions thereof. The designation only identifies the person whose duty it is to perform the ministerial

UNITED STATES v., HOLPUCH CO.
234

Opinion of the Court.

function of disbursement and is subject to change at any
time by the War Department without notice to the contractor.' Moreover, even if it be assumed that the issue
did concern only the amount of payment under the contracts,5 such an issue is a question arising under the con-

tracts and hence expressly subject to the provisions of
Article 15.
.The Government points out that in 1933 and 1934 there were 18
Army Finance Officers located at various places in the United States
and that all the notation on the cover could mean was that payment
was to be made by the Finance Officer at Fort Sam Houston, Texas,
and not by a Finance Officer located elsewhere.
Moreover, an affidavit by the Chief, Receipts and Disbursements
Division, Office of the Fiscal Director, Army Service Forces, appearing as an appendix to the Government's brief, states in regard to
the notation: "This is merely an indication to the constructing quartermaster to which disbursing officer the constructing quartermaster
should certify vouchers. The designation of the Finance Officer is
not a term of the contract. It is part of an outline showing the parties,
the amount, the site of the work, the services to be performed, and
the authorized accounts to which payments will be charged.

. .

. On

a construction contract containing the above terms the disbursing
officer would not in practice alter or modify and would not be authorized to alter or modify the decision of a certifying construction quartermaster as to the basis on which payments can be made under the
contract when such basis, as here, is dependent upon an interpretation of the specifications or has been covered by a decision on a dispute by the contracting officer. .

.

. Another reason why the Finance

Officer would not undertake to determine the question presented in
this case is that finance officers as a rule have no experience with construction and would not be qualified to make such decisions."
5Such an assumption is faulty in that nearly every dispute between
a contractor and the Government ultimately involves the amount of
payment under the contract. Hence, under the view of the Court of
Claims, all such disputes would be subject to the Finance Officer's
review, thereby nullifying Article 15 as well as other portions of the
contract contemplating, final decision by the contracting officer or the
departmental head on these matters.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The Court of Claims sought to justify respondent's
refusal to appeal the contracting officer's decision to increase the bricklayers' wages by holding that this decision
automatically increased the contract price under the terms
of Article 18 (e). It stated that the constructing quartermaster reasonably construed the ruling of the Board of
Labor Review in regard to the San Antonio project as
applicable to the vicinity of San Antonio as well, the
wages prevailing in the vicinity being the wages to apply
to a contract within that vicinity. Thus it was said that
it was plainly of no special interest to respondent to appeal
the contracting officer's decision. But the assumption
that this decision automatically resulted in a contract
price increase is not in accord with the facts or with the
contract provisions. Under Article 18 (e) no automatic
price increase results unless the wage change is established
by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public
Works on recommendation of the Board of Labor Review.'
The Board alone cannot effect a change; it can only make a
recommendation. Here, however, there was no evidence
that the wage increase either as to respondent or as to
the San Antonio project was established by the Federal
Emergency Administration of Public Works, the only
agency that had authority to do so. Accordingly the provision of Article 18 (e) for an automatic price increase
did not come into operation, as was recognized by respondent in its protest. Serious questions were thus raised as
to the authority of the contracting officer to direct a wage
increase under these circumstances and as to the validity
6The Board of Labor Review, although a part of the Federal

Emergency Administration of Public Works, is a distinct entity. And
Article 18 (e) of the contracts made a clear functional distinction
between the two in regard'to wage rate increases. We are not free to
disregard that distinction and rewrite the procedure established by
Article 18 (e).

UNITED STATES v. HOLPUCH CO.
234

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

and effect of the ruling of the Board of Labor Review.
Respondent should have secured a determination of those
questions by challenging the contracting officer's decision
pursuant to the provisions of Article 15.
Respondent having failed to avail itself of the procedure
created by Article 15 for the settlement of disputes arising
under the contracts, it was precluded from bringing suit on
such matters in the Court of Claims. And the Court of
Claims erred in entertaining and deciding the claims
involving those disputes.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
M

.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting in part.

The Court requires this contractor to pay out of his own
pocket the wage increase which he was directed to make.
Whatever support that conclusion. may have in a literal
reading of the contract, it is so harsh and unfair as to be
avoided if the contract does not compel the result. I do
not think it does.
The contract set a minimum wage rate of $1 an hour
for bricklayers. But it also provided that if the "prevailing" hourly rates under agreements between organized
labor and employei s on April 30, 1933, were above that
minimum rate, the higher rate would become the minimum and be paid.' The Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works on recommendation of the Board
1 "In

the event that the prevailing hourly rates prescribed under
collective agreements or understandings between organized labor and
employers on April 30, 1933, shall be above the minimum rates sl)ecified above, such agreed wage rates shall apply: Provided, That such
agreed wage rates shajl-be effective for the period of this contract, but
not to exceed 12 months from the (late of the contract."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DouOLAs, J., dissenting in part.

328 U. S.

of Labor Review could change the contract rate of $1 an
hour; it could also change the "prevailing" hourly rate.
If it did either, it would establish a "different" minimum
wage rate within the meaning of the contract.2 And the
contract price would be adjusted accordingly.
The Board of Labor Review, acting for the Federal
Emergency Administration of Public Works,' ruled that
bricklayers on another government project at San Antonio
should be paid at the rate of $1.25 an hour. San Antonio,
as held by the Court of Claims, is in the same vicinity as
Fort Sam Houston where the present projects were under
way. And plainly the "prevailing" hourly rate refers to
the rate which obtains in the vicinity.
So the respondent paid the extra wages under a ruling
which, as I read the contract, was binding on him. It
seems, therefore, manifestly unfair to hold that he must
pay the wage increase out of his own pocket.
A contractor confronted with an order of the quartermaster to raise the wages of his employees is ii. ah ex2"The minimum wage rates herein established shall be subject to

change by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works on
recommendation of the Board of Labor Review. In event that the
Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works acting on such
recommendation establishes different minimum wage rates, the contract price shall be adjusted accordingly on the basis of all actual labor
costs on 'the project to the contractor, whether under this contract
or any subcontract."
3 The suggestion that the wage increase at San Antonio -was not
authorized by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works
is not warranted by the record. The Board of Labor Review is a
part of the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works. It
did not "recommend" an increase at San Antonio. It "formally ruled"
that the bricklayers on that project 'should be paid at the rate of
$1.25 per hour." The Court of Claims treated that as action by the
Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works. That seems to
me to be the fair construction; and it was so treated both by the
quartermaster and the contractor.

UNITED STATES v. HOLPUCH CO.
234

245

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting in part.

tremely difficult position. If he disobeys the order, he
risks a strike and industrial turmoil. Yet the Court holds
that he must take that risk or else pay the wage increase
from his own pocket. Such a literal reading of the contract is not a fair one. And it is not a necessary one, as I
have shown. Hence I would choose a construction which
avoided that harsh and unfair result and did not victimize
the contractor. If he had not protested the order of the
quartermaster but had acquiesced, I suppose no one would
say that there had been a dispute "concerning questions
arising under" the contract, which should have been or
could have been appealed. It is not doubted that then
the contractor would be entitled to reimbursement. I see
no difference in substance if the contractor, after an initial
protest, acquiesces in the ruling and accepts the new
"prevailing" rate and thus avoids dissension with his
employees.
There is justice in what the Court of Claims ruled and I
would sustain it.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
join in this dissent.

and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

4
The Government concedes that the quartermaster's advice to
respondent that he could file an appeal with the Board of Labor
Review was erroneous. It points out that the Board of Labor Review
was charged with the decision only of "labor issues," which embrace
controversies between employers and employees. The confusion
existing in the mind of the Government's own representative emphasizes the trap set for this contractor whether he followed the
quartermaster's suggestion or acquiesced in his ruling.

