UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 447.

Argued March 26, 1946.-Decided June 10, 1946.

1. In a criminal prosecution under § 11 of t6e Selective Training and
Service Act, for refusal of the defendant to submit to induction into
the armed forces, the venue is properly laid in the judicial district
where the act of refusal occurred, rather than in the district where
the draft board which issued the order is located. P. 704.
2. In a prosecution under § 11 of the Selective Training and Service
Act for refusal to submit to induction, a judgment of the District
Court sustaining a demurrer to the indictment on the ground of
improper venue is appealable directly to this Court under the Criminal Appeals Act. Pp. 700-702.
60 F. Supp. 649, reversed.

A demurrer to an indictment of the appellee for a violation of the Selective Training and Service Act was sustained by the District Court. 60 F. Supp. 649. The
Government appealed directly to this Court under the
Criminal Appeals Act. Reversed, p. 706.
Nathan T. Elliff argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were SolicitorGeneralMcGrath and
Robert S. Erdahl.
No appearance for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDrGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On the merits the issue is narrow, namely, whether in
a criminal prosecution under § 11 of the Selective Training
and Service Act, 54 Stat. 885, 894, 50 U. S. C. App. § 311,
for refusal to submit to induction, the venue is properly
laid in the judicial district where the act of refusal occurred

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

rather than in the district where the draft board which
issued the order is located.
The facts in the case are simple. A draft board in
the City of Spokane, Washington, had jurisdiction over
appellee. He obeyed an order to report for induction
issued by this board and, with others selected, went from
Spokane to Fort Lewis, Washington. At Fort Lewis he
refused to take the oath of induction unless assured that
Army regulations requiring vaccination would be waived.
The assurance was refused. He was not inducted and
returned to Spokane. Later he was indicted in the
District Court for the Western District of Washington,
where Fort Lewis is located, for his refusal to submit to
induction.
Appellee demurred to the indictment. One ground
was that the court had "no jurisdiction of the defendant
or the subject matter of the action." The District Court
took judicial notice that, although Fort Lewis was within
its territorial jurisdiction, the City of Spokane was located
within the Eastern District of Washington. Believing
the proper venue was the district where the draft board
was located, the court concluded that in these circumstances it had no jurisdiction over the offense. Accordingly, it sustained the demurrer.' 60 F. Supp. 649.
The United States has appealed directly to this Court
under the Criminal Appeals Act.' We postponed determination of our juri3diction to the hearing.on the merits.
The Criminal Appeals Act permits a direct appeal by
the United States from district courts in criminal cases:
"From a decision or judgment quashing, setting
aside, or sustaining a demurrer or plea in abatement
Subsequently on rehearing the District Court again sustained the
demurrer on the ground that "this court has no jurisdiction of the
defendant, nor of the subject matter of this action."
'Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, as amended by the Act of
May 9, 1942, 56 Stat. 271; 18 U. S. C. § 682.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
699

Opinion of the Court.

to any indictment or information, or any count
thereof, where such decision or judgment is based
upon the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the indictment or information is
founded."
We think the Government is correct in availing itself
of the right to appeal. Ordinarily when a district court
sustains a demurrer to an indictment on the ground of
improper venue the Government may appeal directly to
this Court. Compare United States v. Johnson, 53 F.
Supp. 596, with United States v. Johnson, 323 U. S.273;
United States v. Lombardo, 228 F. 980, with United States
v. Lombardo, 241 U. S.73; see United States v. Freeman,
239 U. S. 117' United States v. Midstate Horticultural
Co., 306 U. S.. 161. This is true at any rate where the
statute itself contains a venue provision. Cf., however,
United States v. Johnson,supra.
Section 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act 3
provides that offenses such as the one with which appellee
3Section 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 (54
Stat. 894, 50 U. S. C. App. § 311) provides:
"Any person charged as herein provided with the duty of
carrying out any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or
regulations made or directions given thereunder, who shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform such duty, and any person
charged with such duty, or having and exercising any authority
under said Act, rules, regulations, or directions who shall knowingly make, or be a party to the making, of any false, improper,
or incorrect registration, classification, physical or mental er:amination, deferment, induction, enrollment, or muster, and any
person who shall knowing!y make, or be a party to the making
of, any false statement or certificate as to the fitness or unfitness
or liability or nonliability of himself or any other person for
service under the provisions of this Act, or rules, regulations,

or directions made pursuant thereto, or who otherwise evades
registration or service in the land or naval forces or any of the
requirements of this Act, or who knowingly counsels, aids, or
abets another to evade registration or service in the land or
naval forces or any of the requirements of this Act, or of said
rules, regulations, or directions, or who in any manner shall
knowingly jail or neglect to perform any duty required of him
under or in the execution of this Act, or rules or regulations

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

was charged shall be tried "in the district court of the
United States having jurisdiction thereof."'
The District Court determined that it did not have "jurisdiction"
of the offense. In doing so it necessarily construed the
Act." For in this case, as in United States v. Midstate
Horticultural Co., supra, the statute under which the
indictment was returned "provides expressly for the jurisdiction over offenses created by it . .
6
Accordingly this Court has jurisdiction of the appeal.
We therefore pass to consideration of the merits.
The "jurisdictional" provision in § 11 is apparently
derived from the Selective Draft Act of 1917, 40 Stat. 76.'
made pursuant to this Act, or any person or persons who shall
knowingly hinder or interfere in any way by force or violence
with the administration of this Act or the rules or regulations
made pursuant thereto, or conspire to do so, shall, upon conviction
in the district court of the United States having jurisdiction
thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not more than five
years or a fine of not more than $10,000, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, or if subject to military or naval law may be
tried by court martial, and, on conviction, shall suffer such
punishment as a court martial may direct. . . ." (Emphasis
added.)
4 The Government suggests that this is not a "mere venue provision"
but "prescribes a non-waivable territorial jurisdiction limitation."
We need not decide that question in this case.
3 This is true, even though the District Court looked to the regulations promulgated under the Act as aids in interpretation. To
what sources a court may go for its conclusions is not important,
for purposes of the Criminal Appeals Act, so long as the end result
is a constniction of the statute.
6 United States v. Midstate Horticultural Co., 306 U. S. 161, 163,
note 2. That case turned on a- not very dis.similar provision. Id.
at 164-165. Cf. note 4.
'. No discussion of the provision is to be found in the legislative
history of the Selective Training and Service Act. The, bills introduced in the Senate and the House contained the same language
employed in the Act as it was finally passed. S..4164, 76th Cong.,
3d Sess., introduced at S6 Cong. Rec. 8680; H. R. 10132, 76th Cong.,
3d Sess., introduced at 86 Cong. Rec. 8908.

UNITED STATES .v. ANDERSON.
699

Opinion of the Court.

Section 6 of that statute provided that those charged with
offenses under or against the Act "shall, if not subject
to military law, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction in the district court of the United States having
jurisdiction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not
more than one year .

.

. ."

(Emphasis added.)

The

legislative history of the 1917 Act shows that the bills
originally introduced in the Senate and House of Representatives read somewhat differently. The language was
"upon conviction in the proper district court of the United
States." However, the Committee on Military Affairs
of the House of Representatives recommended the change
in phraseology, 8 and both the House and the Senate
accepted the change.'
There is nothing in either the statute or the legislative
history to show an intention on the part of Congress to
depart from the Sixth Amendment's command that trials
shall be in the "State and district wherein the crime shall
have been committed .

. . ."

Exactly the contrary was

the purpose and effect of the provision.
Since the statute does not indicate where Congress considered the place of committing the crime to be, compare
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, with
United Slates v; Johnson, supra, the locus delicti must
be determined from the nature of the crime alleged and
the location of the act or acts constituting it. Cf. United
States v. Bowman, 260 U. S. 94, 97-98.
Although Anderson reported to Fort Lewis in accordarce with the draft board's order and, so far as appears,
8 H. R. Rep. No. 17, 65th Cong., 1st Segs., 1.
9 The House of Representatives passed the bill with the provision
as recommended by the Committee on Military Affairs. The Senate
passed it with the provision in its original form but subsequpntly a
conference committee adopted the House version. H. R. Rep. No.
49, 65th Cong., 1st Sess.

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

observed it in every other respect except the final step
of taking the oath and thus submitting to induction, cf.
Estep v. United States, 327 U. S. 114; Billings v. Truesdell,
321 U. S. 542; Falbo v. United States, 320 U. S. 549, the
District Court concluded that the Act, together with the
regulations, "clearly fixes the jurisdiction of the courts
in reference to violations such as here involved, as being
in the place where the local draft board is located."
It supported this conclusion by inference from various
regulations.'"
W2 think the District Court was in error. Nothing
in the Act apart from § 11, or in the regulations relied on,
even purports to deal with venue or jurisdiction for the
trial of violations, or justifies an inference that any effort
was made to fix the place for all such trials in the district
where the draft board is located." We need not inquire
how tar this might have oeen done, if attempted. But
obviously, in view of the 6ixth Amendment's provision,
no quen over-all effort could be effective as to any violation
taking place outside that Jistrict. The constitutional
10The regulations upon whiph the District Court relied in part,
with special emphasis on 6 613.1,, ae not pertinent. As the Government says, they relate "to the performance of the administrative
functions of the Selective Service System and are not directed in
any sense to the question of venue" or jurisdiction of the courts to
try offenses arising undei tne Act.
The District Court also tholo'ht some support for its ruling could
be derived from the decisions in United States v. Collura, 139 F. 2d
345, and United States v. Van Den Berg, 139 F. :d 654, although
not regarding either as directly in point.
" It was noted in the petition for rehearing in the District Court,
however, that the Department of Justice in 1942 had instructed
United States Attorneys that, in cases of failure to report for induction,
"venue is in the district where the subject was ordeied to report,"
apparently without regard to whether he had ever been present
physically there.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
C99

Opinion of the Court.

specification is geographic; and the geography prescribed
is the district or districts 12 within which the offense is
committed. This may or may not be the place where
the defendant resides; where the draft board is located;
or where the duty violated would be performed, if performed in full. The places of residence, 3 of the draft
board's location, of final and complete performance," all
may be situated in districts different from that where
the criminal act is done. When they so differ, it is the
latter, not any of the former, which determines the
jurisdiction. 5
It is, of course, necessary in order to decide where
the crime is committed to ascertain wh .- duty it was,
the failure to perform which constitutes the crime, and
also what acts of the defendant constituted the violation.
Difficulties at times arise in these respects, especially

where the crime consists merely in omitting to do something whih is commanded to be dofie."6
the doctrine of continuing offenses, as to which trial
constitutionally may be had in one or another of the districts in
which the offense is carried on. Armour Packing Co. v. United
States, 209 U. S. 56; cf. United States v. Johnson, 323 U. S. 273.
'3 Cf. Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462; Andrade v. United States,
16 F. 2d 776; United States v. Jordan, 22 F. 2d 702; United States
v. Mayer, 22 F. 2d 827.
4Compare
the cases holding that when an omission to act is the
crime, the vnue is the jurisdictional locality. where the act should
have been performed, e. g., Regina v. Milner, 2 Car. & K. 309, 175
Eng. Rep. 128; New York Cent. & H. R. R. Co. v. United States,
166 F. 267, 269; State v. Yocum, 182 Ind. 478,' 106 N. E. 705; State
v. Brewster, 87 N. J. L. 75, 93 A. 189; State v. Peabody, 25 R. I. 544,
56 A. 1028; 1 Bishop, New Criminal Procedure (2d ed.) §53 (5).
See United States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73; Rumely v. McCarthy,
250 U. S. 283; United States v. Van Den Berg, 139 F. 2d 654, 656.
is Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462.
16 Cf. authorities cited in note 14.
1Within

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

In this case, however, the problem is not difficult. For
the duty was clear and precise. as were the place of performance and the place of refusal to perform; and the
two placeR were identical.
The duty was to submit to induction. In the facts
here, it was to take the oath. The place where this was
required to be done was Fort Lewis and nowhere else.
The place where appellee refused, flatly and unequivocally, to take it and thereby Lo submit to induction was
likewise Fort Lewis. Until that refusal, as the Government says. he had violated no provision of the law or of
any regulation. It was his right under the Falbo, Billings
and Estep decisions to exhaust the entire administrative
process up to the final step before induction, as he did.
Then for the first time he declined to go forward as he
was required to do. This refusal was his crime. It took
place at Fort Lewis. The District Court accordingly had
jurisdiction.
We express no opinion concerning whether appellee's
continued failure, after returning to Spokane, to take the
oath would have conferred jurisdiction within that district
under the idea of continuing offense. Nor need we express
views concerning any other situation not involved in the
facts, for example, such as would be presented on the
present indictment if appellee had never left Spokane or
reported at Fort Lewis.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

