134

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

THOMPSON, TRUSTEE, ET AL. v. TEXAS MEXICAN
RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 42.

Argued October 9, 1945.-Decided April 29, 1946.

1. By contract between two interstate railroads, both of which were
subject to the authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
one obtained trackage rights over the lines of the other, at a specified
rental. The contract was terminable by either party upon twelve
months' notice. The grantee railroad subsequently petitioned for
reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, a trustee was
appointed, and stay orders pursuant to § 77 (j) were entered.
Thereafter the grantor gave notice that it was exercising its right
to terminate the contract. After the date when by its terms the
contract would thus have been terminated, the trustee continued
to operate trains over the lines of the grantor, and refused to pay
more than the rental specified in the contract. Thereupon the
grantor.brought suit in a state court to. enjoin the grantee and
its trustee from using the tracks of the grantor without the grantor's
consent, and to recover $500 a day damages for such use or alternativoly the reasonable value of the use. The state court denied an
injunction; adjudged that the contract had been terminated; and
a*Arded damages. Held that maintenance of the suit in the state
court was not precluded by the stay orders issued by the bankruptcy
court nor by § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, but that the state court
should have stayed its hand and remitted the parties to the Interstate Commerce Commission for determination of the administrative
phases of the questions involved. Pp. 138, 151.
(a) So far as the suit involved a money claim against the estate
for acts of the trustee in operating trains over the grantor's tracks,
it was maintainable in the state court under § 66 of the Judicial
Code, which authorizes suits against the trustee, without leave of
the bankruptcy court, "in respect of any act or transaction of his
in carrying on the business." P. 138.
(b) Maintepance of the suit in the state court is not inconsistent
with the provisions ;f § 77 granting the reorganization court exclusive jurisdiction over the debtor and its property. P. 139.

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

135

Statement of the Case.

(c) The exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is determined by the "main purpose" of the suit, which in this case evidently was an attempt on the part of the grantor to obtain a more
favorable rental. P. 139.
(d) The principle that the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court extends to the adjudication of questions affecting title
is inapplicable here, since the trackage agreement created only a
personal obligation and did not purport to grant any estate in the
property of the grantor. P. 140.
(e) The general rule in bankruptcy that the trustee takes the
contracts of the debtor subject to their terms and conditions is
applicable to proceedings under § 77 by virtue of the provisions of
§77 (1). P. 141.
(f) The qualification in § 77 (1) that the rule of bankruptcy be
"consistent with the provisions" of § 77 made premature an adjudication by the court that the contract was terminated, prior to a
determination by the Interstate Commerce Commission that that
step was consistent with the reorganization requirements of the
debtor. P. 141.
2. Prior to rendition of judgment on the merits the decision of the
Interstate Commerce Commission was necessary on certain phases
of the controversy:
(1) Whether termination of the trackage agreement would interfere with the plan of reorganization to be formulated by the Commission under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 142.
(2) Whether the Commission should issue a certificate under
§ 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act that "the present or future
public convenience and necessity" would permit abandonment of
operations under the trackage agreement. P. 144.
(3) What would be a reasonable rental to be allowed, under
§ 5 (2) (a) of the Transportation Act of 1940, if the Commission
decided that'the ifackage arrangement should be continued. P. 149.
3. Until deteminination by the Interstate Commerce Commission of
• the administrative phases of the questions involved is had, it can
not be known with certainty what issues for judicial decision will
emerge; and, until that time, judicial action is premature. P. 151.
181 S. W. 2d 895, reversed.
The respondent railroad company brought suit in a state

court against the petitioner railroad company (which was
a debtor in a reorganization proceeding under § 77 of the

OCTOBER- TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Bankruptcy Act) and its trustee, and was awarded damages. The Court of Civil Appeals affirmed. 181 S. W. 2d
895. The Supreme Court of Texas refused an application
for a writ of error. This Court granted certiorari. 324
U. S. 838. Reversed, p, 151.
Robert H. Kelley argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioners.
John P. Bullington argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were M. G. Eckhardt and B. D.
Tarlton.
Solicitor General McGrath, Daniel W. Knowlton and
Edward M. Reidy filed a brief for the Interstate Commerce Commission, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Brownsville (The St. Louis, Brownsville and Mexico
Railway Co.) and Tex-Mex (The Texas Mexican Railway Co.) are interstate carriers by railroad and subject
to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act. 24
Stat. 379, 41 Stat. 474, 49 Stat. 543, 54 Stat. 899, 49 U. S. C.
§ 1. On November 1, 1904, they entered into a written
contract whereby, for payment of specified rentals, TexMex granted Brownsville the right to operate its trains
over the tracks of Tex-Mex between Robstown and Corpus Christi, Texas, and to make use of terminal facilities
of Tex-Mex at Corpus Christi. The copftact provided
that it was to continue for a term of 50 yearis. from its date
unless sooner terminated by the parties. And'it-contained
the following provision, "It is further agreed that this
contract may be terminated without giving any reason
therefor, by either party, upon giving twelve months
notice of such intent to terminate the lease."

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

137

Opinion of the Court.

In 1933 Brownsville filed its petition for reorganization
under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.1 The petition was ap-,
proved and petitioner Thompson was appointed as trustee
in the proceeding. Shortly thereafter the bankruptcy
court entered stay orders to which we will later refer. In
October 1940 Tex-Mex notified petitioners that it was exercising its right to terminate and cancel the trackage
contract, effective twelve months after November 1, 1940.
The trustee, however, continued to operate over the TexMex and to use the Tex-Mex facilities after November 1,
1941. Tex-Mex informed him that a charge of $500 per
day would be made for the use of these facilities-an
amount in excess of the rental under the contract. The
trustee refused to pay any rental other than that specified
in the contract.
Thereupon this suit was instituted by Tex-Mex in the
Texas courts to enjoin Brownsville and its trustee from
using the tracks or other facilities without the consent of
Tex-Mex and to recover $500 a day damages for such use
or alternatively the reasonable value of the use of the
property. The trial court overruled pleas to its jurisdiction and tried the case on the merits. It denied an injunction. It held that the 1904 contract had been
terminated and awarded Tex-Mex damages in the amount
of $184,929.85. The Court of Civil Appeals affirmed.' 181
S. W. 2d 895., The Supreme Court of Texas refused an
application for a writ of error. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of
the importance of the problems in the administration of
the Interstate Commerce Act and of the Bankruptcy
Act.

I This petition was filed in the reorganization proceedings of the
Missouri Pacific R. Co. which owned about 94 per cent of the voting
stock of the New Orleans, Texas and Mexico Ry,Co., which in turn
owned all of the voting stock of Brownsville.
2 No complaint was made on appeal of the denial of an injunction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

First. It is contended here, as it was in the state court,
that the maintenance of the present suit is precluded by
the stay orders issued by the bankruptcy court and by § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act.
Sec. 66 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. -S.
C. § 125, authorizes suits against the trustee, without leave of the bankruptcy court, "in respect of any act or transaction of his
in carrying on the business."' In McNulta v. Lochridge,
141 U. S. 327, 332, this statute was said to grant an "unlimited" right "to sue for the acts and transactions" of the
estate. Operation of the trains is plainly a part of the
trustee's functions. Claims which arise from their operation-whether grade-crossing claims as in McNulta v.
Lochridge, supra, or claims for the use of the tracks of
another as in the present case-are claims based on acts
of the trustee in conducting the business. Hence this suit,
so far- as it involves only a money claim against the estate
for acts of the trustee in operating trains over respondent's
tracks, could be maintained in the state courts against
the trustee.' And the stay orders entered were wholly consistent with this course.'
3,"Every receiver or manager of any property appoiLted by any
court of the United States may be sued in respect of any act or transaction of his in carrying on the.business connected with such property,
without the previous leave of the court in which such receiver or manager was appointed; but such suit shall be subject to the general
equity jurisdiction of the court in which such manager or receiver was
appointed so far as the same may be necessary to the ends of
justice."
4 Judgment for damages was granted only against petitioner trustee;
judgment for costs was granted against the trustee and Brownsville
jointly and severally.
The stay orders authorized the trustee to defend any suits which
might be brought.
In view of our disposition of the case it is unnecessary to decide at
this time whether or not the suit may also be maintained against
Brownsville. The stay order, entered for the benefit of .he debtor,

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

139

Opinion of the Court.

It is argued, however, that this suit cannot be maintained consistently with the provisions of § 77 which
grant the reorganization court exclusive jurisdiction over
the debtor and its property.' The theory is that the suit
interferes with the administration of the estate, adjudicates the trustee's interest in property in his possession,
and indeed seeks to disrupt the operating schedule of
trains. It is clear that the issuance of an injunction
against operation of the trains over respondent's tracks
would have been an interference with the exclusive jurisdiction of the reorganization court. The fact that no
injunction was granted is not a decisive answer. In Ex
parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610, 618, the Court held that the
exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is determined'by the "main purpose" of the suit. In that case
suit had been brought in the state courts to have a railroad right of way declared forfeited and in addition to
recover damages. The claim for damages was held to be
"merely an incident" to the suit for a forfeiture and did
not save the suit from the defense that it was of the type
which sought to interfere with the exclusive jurisdiction
of the bankruptcy court. We do not construe the present
followed the provisions of § 77 (j) of the Bankruptcy Act, 49 Stat.
911, 922, 11 U. S. C. § 205 (j) and provided: "That commencement
or continuation of suits against any of the debtor companies is hereby
stayed and enjoined until after final decree entered in these proceedings, provided, however, that suits or claims for damages caused by
the operation of trains, buses, or other means of transportation may
be filed and prosecuted to judgment in any court of competent jurisdiction, and any order heretofore staying the prosecution of any such
causes of action or appeal is hereby vacated."
8 Sec. 77 (a) provides in part: "If the petition is so approved, the
court in which such order is entered shall, during the pendency of
the proceedings under this section and for the purposes thereof, have
exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property wherever
located . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

bill as having as its main object the stoppage of the movement of petitioner's trains over respondent's tracks. The
main purpose of the suit seems to be an attempt on the
part of respondent to obtain a more favorable rental.
The fact, however, that respondent's suit does not have
as its main purpose the ouster of petitioners from possession is not a complete answer to the plea to the state court's
jurisdiction. As Ex parte Baldwin, supra, p. 616, held, the
exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is not limited to protecting the possession of the trustee; it "extends
also to the adjudication of questions respecting the title."
See White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Whitney v. Wenman,"
198 U. S. 539. Petitioners argue that the present case
comes within that principle. It is pointed out that this
suit seeks the cancellation of the trackage agreement. It
is argued that the rights granted Brownsville under that
agreement are property rights; and that a suit to cancel
the agreement and collect amounts other than the specified
rentals is a suit which interferes with and adjudicates title
to the property. If we were dealing here with a lease, a
suit to effect its forfeiture could not be maintained in another court without consent of the reorganization court.
But the trackage agreement created only a personal obligation and did not purport to grant Brownsville any estate
in the property of Tex-Mex. See Des Moines & Ft. Dodge
R. Co. v. Wabash, St. L. & P. R. Co., 135 U. S. 576, 583;
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co., 163
U. S. 564, 582-583. It was an executory contract subject
to termination on a specified notice. The exclusiye jurisdiction of the reorganization court was a barrier to 'any
action by any other court which would disturb the possession of the trustee or interfere in any way with his operation of the business. But, apart from the qualification to
which we will later refer, litigation restricted to the
amount due under a contract, express or implied, for the

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

141

Opinion of the Court.

use by the trustee of another's property no more interferes
with the administration of the estate than suits to determine his liability under contracts calling for the delivery
of coal or other supplies. In each the claim is reduced to
judgment and may then be presented to the bankruptcy
court for proof and allowance. Cancellation of a contract
pursuant to its terms alters, of course, rights and duties of
the trustee. But the bankruptcy rule is that he takes the
contracts of the debtor subject to their terms and conditions. Contracts adopted by him are assumed cum onere.'
The general rule is (1) that if the other party had a right
to terminate the arrangement, that right survives adoption of the contract by the trustee; and (2) that the
incidence of termination, except as it interferes with the
exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, may be litigated in any court where the trustee may be sued. That
rule of bankruptcy is applicable to proceedings under § 77
by reason of § 77 (1) which provides:
"In proceedings under this section and consistent
with the provisions thereof, the jurisdiction and powers of the court, the duties of the debtor and the
rights and liabilities of creditors, and of all persons
with respect to the debtor and its property, shall be
the same as if a voluntary petition for adjudication
had been filed and a decree of adjudication had been
entered on the day when the debtor's petition was
filed."
But, as we shall see, the qualification in § 77 (1) that
the rule of bankruptcy be "consistent with the provisions"
of § 77 made premature an adjudication by the court that
the contract was terminated, prior to a determination by
the Interstate Commerce Commission that that step was
consistent with the reorganization requirements of the
debtor.
"See Greif Bros. Cooperage Co. v. Mullinix, 264 F. 391, 397; 4
Collier on Bankruptcy (14th ed.) § 70.43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Second. Prior to 'he rendition of judgment on the merits, the decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission
was necessary on two phases of the controversy--one
under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, the other under provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.
(1) As we have said, the right to terminate a contract
pursuant to its terms survives the bankruptcy of the other
contracting party. And that general bankruptcy rule is
applicable in § 77 proceedings by reason of § 77 (1), which,
as we have said, incorporates into § 77 the rules governing
the duties of debtors and the rights and liabilities of creditors so far as they are "consistent with the provisions" of
§ 77. We have considered the meaning of that qualification in Smith v. Hoboken Railroad, W. & S. C. Co., ante,
p. 123. We there held that a covenant of forfeiture in a
lease of railroad tracks and facilities should not be enforced by the bankruptcy court prior to a determination
by the Commission that such step would be consistent
with the reorganization requirements of the debtor. The
Commission has the primary responsibility for formulating plans of reorganization under § 77. See § 77 (d).
Forfeiture of leases by the court in advance of a determination by the Commission of the nature of the plan of
reorganization which is necessary or desirable for the
debtor may seriously interfere with the performance by
the Commission of the functions entrusted to it.
We think that the same considerations are applicable to
a determination that the trackage agreement in this case
should be terminated pending formulation of a reorganization plan. By § 77 (b) the plan of reorganization may
adopt or reject executory contracts of the debtor as well as
unexpired leases. And the adoption of either an executory
contract or of a lease by the trustee does not preclude a
rejection of it in the plan. Moreover, trackage agreements,
like leases of railroad tracks and facilities, are means by

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

143

Opinion of-the Court.

which railroad systems have been assembled. The retention or the sloughing off of trackage agreements .may assume importance in the fashioning of a plan of reorganization by the Commission. The problem is kin to that
involved in ContinentalIllinois NationalBank v.Chicago,
R. I. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S.648. In that case the Court
sustained the power of the reorganization court to enjoin
under § 77 creditors, who held collateral notes of the
debtor railroad secured by its bonds and bonds of its subsidiaries, from selling the collateral under a power of sale
in the notes, where the sale would so hinder, obstruct or
delay the plan of reorganization as would likely defeat it.
The Court stated (p. 676) that a proceeding under § 77 is
a "special proceeding which seeks only to bring about a
reorganization, if a satisfactory plan to that end can be
devised. And to prevent the attainment of that object is
to defeat the very end the accomplishment of which was
the sole aim of the section, and thereby to render its provisions futile." The Court concluded, in view of the complexity of the problems involved in the reorganization,
"that without the maintenance of the status quo for a
reasonable length of time no satisfactory plan could be
worked out." p. 679.
That decision prevented in the interests of a reorganization the enforcement of the provisions of the contracts of
the debtor according to their terms. We think like reasons
make it important that the status quo of this trackage
agreement be maintained pending decision by the Commission as to the proper treatment of it in the reorganization plan. The Commission may decide that it should be
adopted. Or the Commission may conclude that the
trackage agreement should be rejected or that its termination pursuant to its terms should be allowed. These matters involve not only the interests of the two parties to
the trackage agreement but phases of the public interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

as well. A court which enforced the termination clause
of the agreement pursuant to its terms would be narrowing
the choice of the Commission and perhaps embarrassing
it in the performance of the functions with which it has
been entrusted. For these and like reasons which we have
discussed in Smith v. Hoboken Railroad, W. & S. C. Co.,
ante, p. 123. we think the court erred in holding that the
trackage agreement had been or should be terminated.
(2) The Commission has further functions to perform
apart from determining under § 77 whether it would be
consistent with the reorganization requirements of the
debtor to terminate the trackage agreement.
By § 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act it is provided that "no carrier by railroad subject to tkis chapter
shall abandon all or any portion of a line of railroad, or
the operation thereof, unless and until there shall first
have been obtained from the commission a certificate that
the present or future public convenience and necessity
permit of such abandonment." Carriers being reorganized under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act are not exempt
from that provision. § 77 (o), 11 U. S. C. § 205 (o);
Warren v. Palmer, 310 U. S. 132, 137-138. Whatever
maybe the powers of the Commission under the Interstate
Commerce Act, rather than § 77, over the terms of the
trackage agreement (Abandonment of Chicago, R. I. &
P. R. Co., 131 I. C. C. 421; Kansas City Southern R. Co. v.
Kansas City Terminal R. Co., 211 I. C. C. 291), it is clear
that the Commission has jurisdiction over the operations.
Sec. 1 (18) embraces operations under trackage contracts,
as well as other types of operations. See Chicago & Alton
R. Co. v. Toledo, P. & WV. R. Co., 146 I. C. C. 171, 179-181.
And the fact that the trackage contract was entered into
in 1904 prioT to the passage of the Act is.immaterial; the
provisions of the Act, including § 1 (18), are applicable
to contracts made before as well as after its enactment.

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

145

Opinion of the Court.

See Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467, 482. Though the contract were terminated pursuant
to its terms, a certificate would still be required under
§ 1 (18). Brownsville or its trustee could, of course, make
the application for abandonment of operations. But the
fact that they might be content with the existing arrangement and fail or refuse to move does not mean that TexMex would be burdened with a trackage arrangement in
perpetuity. Tex-Mex might invoke the Commission's
jurisdiction under § 1 (18) and make application for
abandonment of operations by Brownsville or its trustee.
There is no requirement in § 1 (18) that the application
be made by the carrier whose operations are sought to be
abandoned. It has been recognized that persons other
than carriers "who have a proper interest in the subject
matter" may take the initiative.' See Atchison, T. &
S. F. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 283 U. S.380, 393394. An application by a city and county for abandonment of a part of the Colorado & Southern line was indeed
entertained. Colorado & Southern R. Co. Abandonment,
166 I. C. C. 470. Tex-Mex has even a more immediate
interest in the operations over this line. Its property is
involved; and the amount being paid for the use of its
property is deemed by it insufficient. The Commission is
as much concerned with its financial condition as it is with
that of Brownsville. Tex-Mex therefore has the standing
necessary to invoke § 1 (18).
Tex-Mex, however, points out that in 1941 it made application to the Commission "for authority to cancel track8 Cf. Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co., 270 U. S. 266,
273, which holds that a party in interest who is opposed to construction of an extension may not "initiate before the Commission any
proceeding concerning the project," his remedy being to appear ii
opposition if application is made or to seek an injunction under
§ 1 (20) if no application is made. And see Powell v.United States,
300 U. S.276.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

age agreements" with Brownsville and that the Secretary
of the Commission returned the application saying "The
Commission is without authority to consider an application of the nature submitted by you. Its jurisdiction
under Section 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act
would extend only to abandonment of operation by the
St. Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Railway Company." We
need not consider whether the application was in proper
form for one authorizing and requiring abandonment of
operations by Brownsville. In any event, the Secretary of
the Commission was without authority to bind the Commission in the matter. Cf. Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co.
v. Peoria& P. U. R. Co., 270 U. S. 580, 585.
(3) The jurisdiction of the Commission is not restricted,
however, to determining whether or no operations of
Brownsville over the tracks of Tex-Mex should be abandoned. Prior to the Transportation Act of 1940 the Commission had some jurisdiction over trackage agreements
of the character involved in this case. Transit Commission v. United States, 289 U. S.121. But by that Act the
Commission received new, explicit powers over trackage
rights. Sec. 5 (2) (a) (ii) provides: "It shall be lawful,
with the approval and authorization of the Commission,
as provided in subdivision (b) . . . for a carrier by railroad to a'nquire trackage rights over, or joint ownership
in or joint use of, any railroad line or lines owned or operated by any other such carrier, and terminals incidental
thereto." Trackage rights acquired without the consent
and approval of the Commission are unlawful. § 5 (4).
The authority of the Commission under § 5 (2) (a) extends to fixing terms and conditions, including rentals,
for any trackage agreements entered into subsequent to
the effective date of the Transportation Act of 1940. If,
therefore, the two carriers had voluntarily terminated the
1904 trackage contract and had entered into a new one
without, the approval of the Commission, they would have

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

147

Opinion of the Court.

violated the Act. There would be no difference in result
merely because the trackage contract expired by,its terms
or was terminated by operation of an escape clause. Until
abandonment is authorized, operations must continue.
While they continue, trackage rights are being enjoyed.
In absence of administrative control, the law would under
those circumstances imply a contract for the use of another's property and award reasonable compensation.
Thus trackage rights would be acquired on such terms as
the court and jury determined. But § 5 (2) (a) vests in
the Commission, not the courts, the power to determine
the terms and conditions under which trackage rights may
be acquired. The jurisdiction of the Commission is exclusive. Transit Commission v. United States, supra.
In that case the Commission had approved a trackage
agreement between two carriers and the Court held that
the Commission's jurisdiction being exclusive, approval by
a state commission was not necessary. The court below
thought that case was not controlling here, in view of the
fact that the Interstate Commerce Commission had not
acted. But in a long line of cases beginning with Texas
& Pacific R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.426,
it has been held that where the reasonableness or legality
of the practices of the parties was subject to the administrative authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
the court should stay its hand until the Commission had
passed on the matter. See General American Tank Car
Corp. v. El Dorado Terminal Co., 308 U. S.422, and cases
cited. That course is singularly appropriate here. It is
the function of the Commission to determine the terms and
conditions under which trackage rights are acquired. If
the parties were allowed to by-pass the Commission and
litigate the question in the courts, the power to fix the
rental under trackage agreements would be shifted from
*the Commission to the courts and juries. Moreover, one
jury would determine the amount of compensation due

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

for the period here in question and another jury the
amount due for a subsequent period. But a major concern of Congress in dealing with this problem was that
neither inadequate rentals nor extortionate nor unreasonable exactions would be made for trackage rights.
Transit Commission v. United States, supra, p. 128.
Those questions intimately relate to the financial strength
of carriers. And it is one of the Commission's high functions to protect the public interest against unfair or oppressive financial practices which in the past led to such
great havoc and disaster. That policy would be undermined if the carriers could repair to courts for determination of the conditions under which trackage rights eould
be secured. Then jury verdicts or settlements would take
the place of the expert and informed judgment of the
Commission.
It is suggested, however, that the Commission is empowered to fix the rental only for the future and that it
has no power to make an award with retroactive effect.
But on this p'Iase of the case we are not dealing with the
problem of reparations. In any case where application is
made for trackage rights the terms and conditions fixed
by the Commission are applicable when the certificate of
public convenience and necessity takes effect. If operations do not start until that time, no problem is presented.
But frequently there will be applications for renewal of
trackage agreements which have expired. Operations may
not be discontinued until a certificate of abandonment is
obtained. If new trackage rights are granted, they run
from the expiration of the old and their terms and conditions are applicable to the full term.' Once the CoinThe terms and conditions approved by the Commission in Long
Island R. Co. Trackage, 180 I. C. C. 439, affirmed Transit Commission
v. United States, 289 U. S. 121, were given retroactive effect in that
sense.

THOMPSON v. TEXAS MEXICAN R. CO.
134

149

Opinion of the Court.

mission has acted, the court may then proceed to enter
judgment in conformity with the terms and conditions
specified by the Commission. See El Dorado Oil Works
v. United States, 328 U. S. 12.
It is argued, however, that the trackage rights envisioned by § 5 (2) (a) of the Act are consensual arrangements between the parties; and that the Commission is
not granted authority to force a trackage agreement on a
carrier. We do not decide what may be the full reach
of the power of the Commission under § 5 (2) (a). We are
dealing here with an existing operation, not with a case
where one carrier seeks to initiate a new one by acquiring
the right to run its trains over the tracks of another. The
Commission has the power under § 1 (18) to refuse to
allow abandonment of the operations. If it so refuses,
trackage rights continue to be enjoyed by Brownsville.
The question of what would be the amount of a fair rental
to be paid by Brownsville would be highly relevant to a
decision by the Commission on the issue of abandonment.
We conclude that at least in that situation the Commission has the power under § 5 (2) to fix a reasonable rental
for the use of the facility by Brownsville regardless of the
consent of Tex-Mex. 10 Denial of that power to the Com10The argument is that the Commission has that authority only
under § 3 (5) which gives the Commission authority to require the
use of terminal facilities including main-line tracks for a reasonable
distance outside of the terminal.
Sec. 3 (5) provides: "If the commission finds it to be in the public
interest and to be practicable, without substantially impairing the
ability of a common carrier by railroad owning or entitled to the enjoyment of terminal facilities to handle its own business, it shall have
power by order to require the use of any such terminal facilities,
including main.-line track or tracks for a reasonable distance outside
of such terminal, of any common carrier by railroad, by another such
carrier or other such carriers, on such terms and for such compen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

mission is not required by the language of § 5 (2) (a).
And this construction of § 5 (2) (a) is in harmony with
the power of the Commission under § 1 (18) to refuse to
authorize the abandonment of operations. If operations
must continue, it is more consistent with this scheme of
regulation for the Commission rather than courts or juries
to determine the amount of the rental. Any legal, including constitutional, rights of Tex-Mex are protected by
the review which Congress has granted the orders of the
Commission.
Third. If the Commission granted trackage rights, TexMex could then recover judgment, as we have said, for
the amount of the rental fixed by the Commission. If, on
the other hand, the Commission authorizes the operations
to be abandoned, it "may attach to the issuance of the certificate such terms and conditions as in its judgment the
public convenience and necessity may require." § 1 (20).
The Commission could permit abandonment unless
Brownsville paid such reasonable compensation for the
use of Tex-Mex's property as the Commission should fix.
sation as the carriers affected may agree upon, or, in the event of a
failure to agree, as the commission may fix as just and reasonable for
the use so required, to be ascertained on the principle controlling
compensation in condemnation proceedings. Such compensation shall
be paid or adequately secured before the enjoyment of the use may
be commenced. If under this paragraph the use of such terminal
facilities of any carrier is required to be given to another carrier or
other carriers, and the carrier whose terminal facilities are required
to be so used is not satisfied with the terms fixed for such use, or if
the amount of compensation so fixed is not duly and promptly paid,
the carrier whose terminal facilities have thus been required to be
given to another carrier or other carriers shall be entitled to recover,
by suit or action against such other carrier or carriers, proper damages
for any injuries sustained by it as the result of compliance with such
requirement, or just compensation for such use, or both, as the case
may be."

THOMPSON v. TEXAS. MEXICAN R. CO.
134

151

Opinion of the Court.

rn

that case, too, the court would have an administrative
finding as a guide to the judgment it would enter. In case
abandonment were authorized without more, respondent
would then be free to move in this proceeding for judgment and to apply to the bankruptcy court for compliance
with the Commission's order. In all those situations suits
to recover the amounts due for use of the tracks of TexMex could be maintained in the state court " under the
principles announced in Central New England R. Co. v.
Boston & Albany R. Co., 279 U. S. 415, 420. If, however,
the Commission decided that the trackage agreement
should be dealt with in the plan, the state court would not
have power to proceed further. For respondent's rights
would be protected by the provisions of the plan which
may be reviewed only by the reorganization court.
§77 (e).
Thus, however the case may be viewed, the court below
should have stayed its hand and remitted the parties to
the Commission for a determination of the administrative
phases of the questions involved. Until that determination is had, it cannot be known with certainty what issues
for judicial decision will emerge. Until that time, judicial action is premature. The judgment will be reversed
and the cause remanded so that the case may be held
pending the conclusion of appropriate administrative
proceedings.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
"IIf the order of the Commission were challenged, its review could
of course be had only in the manner provided by statute. See El
Dorado Oil Works v. United States, 328 U. S. 12.

