FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
256

275

Syllabus.

that courts do not possess the techniques or the personnel
to consider and act upon the complex combinations of
factors entering into the problems. The contribution of
courts must be made through the awarding of damages
for injuries suffered from the flying of planes, or by the
granting of injunctions to prohibit their 'flying. When
these two simple remedial devices are elevated to a constitutional level under the Fifth Amendment, as the Court
today seems to have done, they can stand as obstacles to
better adapted techniques that might be offered by experienced experts and accepted by Congress. Today's opin
ion is, I fear, an opening wedge for an unwarranted judicial !
interference with the power of Congress to develop sdlutions for new and vital national problems. In my opinion
this case should be reversed on the grcund that there has
been no "taking" in the constitutional se.ase.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON joins in this dissent.

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN DRYDOCK & REPAIR

CORP.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 970. Argued May 6, 1946.-Decided May 27, 1946.
After serving in the Army and receiving an honorable discharge,
petitioner was reinstated in his former position pursuant to § 8 (a)
of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940. Subsequently,

when there was not enough work to keep all employees busy,
he was laid off temporarily on nine days while non-veterans
with higher shop seniorities were permitted to work; but he was
given work when enough became available. He sued for a declaratory judgment as to his rights under the Act and to obtain
compensation for the days that he was laid off. The union intervened and alleged in its answer that the employer's action was in
accordance with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

328 U. S.

and was not a violation of the Act. The District Court held that
petitioner was laid off in violation of the Act and gave him a money
judgment for the loss of wages. Only the union appealed. Held:
1. The Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction of the appeal,
since the union's answer put in issue the question whether there
was a conflict between the collective bargaining agreement and the
Act and, if so, which one prevailed. That issue being adjudicated
with the union and the employer as parties, would have been res
judicata as to the union had it not appealed. Pp. 281-284.
2. The temporary "lay-off" of petitioner while other employees
with higher shop seniorities were permitted to work did not violate § 8 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.
Pp. 284-291.
(a) Sections 8 (b) and (c) do not grant a veteran an increase
in seniority over what he would have had if he had never entered
the armed services. P. 285.
(b) An employee who has been laid off in accordance with a
seniority iystem and put on a waiting list for reassignment has not
been "discharged" within the meaning of § 8 (c), which forbids the
discharge of a reemployed veteran without cause within one year.
Pp. 286, 287.
(c) Nothing in the legislative history of the Act indicates a
*purpose to accord a veteran the right to work when by operation
of the seniority system there is none available for him. P. 289.
(d) The fact that, when Congress amended § 8 of the Act in
1944 'and extended the Act in 1945 without any change in § 8, it
was apprised of an administrative interpretation by the Director.
of Selective Service that a veteran was entitled to his job regardless
of seniority is not controlling-especially when the National War
Labor Board has given § 8 (c) a different construction in handling
disputes arising out of the negotiation of collective bargaining
agreements. Pp. 289-291.
3. Administrative interpretations of the Act by the Director of
Selective Service may be resorted to for guidance; but, not being
made in adversary proceedings, they are not entitled to the weight
which is accorded administrative interpretations by administrative
agencies entrusted with the responsibility of making inter partes
decisions. P. 290.
154 F. 2d 785, affirmed.

Petitioner sued under § 8 (e) of the Selective Training
and Service Act to obtain a declaratory judgment as to his

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

Opiniion of the Court.

rights under the Act and compensation for the days he was
laid off from work. The District Court refused the declaratory judgment but gave petitioner a money judgment for
the loss of wages. 62 F. Supp. 25. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 154 F. 2d 785.. This Court granted
certiorari. 327 U. S. 775. Affirmed, p. 291.
Assistant Attorney 'General Sonnett argued the cause
for petitioner. With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Frederick Beitnays Wiener, Robert L.
Werner, Searcy L. Johnson, Paul A. Sweeney, Abraham J.
Harris and Cecelia Goetz.
J. Read Smith argued the cause and filed a brief for the
Sullivan Dry Dock Corporation, respondent.
M. H. Goldstein argued the cause and filed a brief for
Roy Granatai respondent.
Ralph B. Gregg filed a brief for the American Legioi,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
Briefs were filed as amici curiae by Joseph A. Padway
and Herbert S. Thatcher for the American Federation of
Labor, by Frank L. Mulholland, ClarenceM. Mulholland
and Willard H. McEweni for the Railway) LAor Executives' Association, and. by Lee Pressman, Eugene Cotton,
Frank Donner, John J. ,Abt, Isadore Katz, Lindsay P.
Walden,. Ben Meyers, William Standard and Leon
Al. Despres for the Congress of Industrial Organizations
and certain affiliated organizations, in support of
respondents
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner is an employee of the Sullivan Drydock &
Repair Corpioration. He entered its employ in 1942 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

worked for it at a shipyard until he was inducted into the
Army in 1943.. He served in the Army a little over a year
and was honorably discharged and received a certificate
to that effect. He had worked for the corporation as a
welder and, after his tour of duty in the Army ended, he
was still qualified to perform the duties of a welder.
Within forty days of his discharge, he applied to the corporation, as was his right under the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 885, 50 U. S. C. App. § 301,
for restoration to his former position.1 He was reemployed as a welder on August 25, 1944.
1

The Act provides in part:
"Ssc. 8 (a) Any person inducted into the land or naval forces
under this Act for training and -service, who, in the judgment of
those in authority over him, satisfactorily completes his period
of training and service under section 3 (b) shall be entitled to a
certificate to that effect upon the completion of such period of
training and service, which shall include a record of any special
proficiency or merit attained....
"(b) In the case of any such person who, in order to perform
such training and service, has left or leaves a position, other than
a temporary position, in the employ of any employer and who
(1) receives such certificate, (2) is still qualified to perform the
duties of such position, and (3) makes application for reemployment within forty days after he is relieved from such training and
service"(A) if such position was in the employ of the United States
Government, its Territories or possessions, or the District of
Columbia, such person shall be restored to such position or to a
position of like seniority, status, and pay;
"(B) if such position was in the employ of a private employer,
such employer shall restore such person to such position or to a
position of like seniority, status, and pay unless the employer's
circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so;

. .

The forty-day period has been extended to ninety days. Section 8 (b)
as amended in 1944, 58 Stat. 798, gives the veteran a right to be
reemployed if he makes application "within ninety days after he is
relieved from such training and service or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year."

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

279

Opinion of the Court.

The corporation and Local 13 of the Industrial Union
of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers of America had a
collective bargaining agreement which provided: '
"Promotions and reclassifications and increases or
decreases in the working force shall be based upon
length of service and ability to do the job. Wherever
between two or more men, ability is fairly equal,
length of service shall be the controlling factor."
As work at the shipyard decreased, men would be laid off.
The men selected by the foremen, on the basis of ability
and seniority, to be. laid off would report to a department
head for reassignment on the basis of their relative seniority when work became available. On each of nine days
in the spring of 1945 petitioner was laid off although other
welders, not veterans of the recent war, possessing the
same or similar skill as petitioner, were given work on
those days. These men were preferred because they had
a higher shop seniority than petitioner. The decision to
lay off petitioner followed a decision of an arbitrator who
ruled that the seniority provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, which we have quoted, required it and
2The

agreement also provided:
"Any employee other than a probationary employee who is
drafted or volunteers for the Naval, Military or Merchant Marine
Service of the United States, shall retain his seniority standing.
In any further determination of said employee's seniority status,
the length of time spent by the employee in such service shall
count toward his seniority as if he were actually and continuously
employed by the Company. Any such employee who volunteers
or is drafted must give the Company notice of his intention to
so leave his employment. Any such employee who, within forty
(40) days after his release or discharge from said service applies
for re-employment, shall be rehired by the Company, provided
work is available and the employee is reasonably fit for duty.
Availability for work will be determined according to accumulated
seniority and ability. If re-employed, said employee shall then
receive the then current rate of pay for the job for which he is
re-employed."

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

that they were not 'inconsistent, with the provisions'of the
Selective Traiy4ng and Service Act of 1940.
Thereuponlpetitioner brought this suit, pursuant to
§ 8 (e)- of ,the Act, 3 to obtain a declaratory judgment as
to his rights under the Act and to obtain compensation
for the days he was not allowed to work. The corporation
answered, justifying its action by the provisions of the
collective bargaining agreement and the decision of the
arbitrator. The union was permitted .to intervene.' It
alleged in its answer that the action of the corporation was

warranted by the provisioiis of the collective bargaining
agreement and was not in violation of the Act.

The Dis-

trict Court ,refused the declaratory judgment requested,
3

Section 8 (e) provides:
"In case any. private employer fails or refuses to comply with
the provisions, of subsection (b) or subsection (c), the district
court of the United States for the district in which such private
employer maintains a place of business shall have power, upon
the filing of a motion, petition, or other appropriate pleading by
the person entitled to the benefits of such provisions, to specifically
require such employer to comply with such provisions, and, as an
incident thereto, to compensate such person for any loss of wages
or benefits suffered by ieason of such employer's unlawful action..
The court shall order a speedy hearing in any such case and shall
advance it on the calendar. Upon application to the United
States district attorney or comparable official for :he district in
which such private employer maintains a place of business, by
any person claiming to be entitled to the benefits of such provisions, such United States district attorney or official, if reasonably
.satisfied that the person so applying is entitled to such benefits,
shall appear and act as attorney for such person in the' amicable
.adjustment, of the claim or in the filing of any motioh, petition,
or other appropriate pleading and the prosecution thereof to
specifically require such employer to comply with such provisions:
Provided,'That no fees or dourt costs shall be taxed against the
person so applying for such benefits,"

The United States appeared as amicus curiae in the Circuit Court of
Appeals. It appears in this Court as representative of petitioner by
reason of the provisions of § 8 (e).
4Permissive intervention is governed by Rule 24 (b) of the Rules
of Civil Procedure which allows it on timely application "when an
applicant's claim or defense and the main action have a question of
law or fact in common."

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

281

Opinion of the Court.

:but entered a money judgment for petitioner for the loss
of wages during the nine days in question. 62 F. Supp. 25.
It held that petitioner was laid off in violation of the Act.
It was also of the view that the collective bargaining agreement was not inconsistent with the Act. Only the union
appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, one
judge dissenting. 154 F 2d 785. It held that the Act
did not give petitioner the preference which he claimed
and that the terms of the collective bargaining agreement
j stifled the corporation's action. The case is here on a
p tition for a writ of certiorari w1 '-h we granted because
of the importance of the question p. .sented.
I. We are met at the outset with the claim that the
union had no appealable -interest in the judgment entered
by the District Court and accordingly that the Circuit
Court of Appeals lacked jurisdiction to entertain it. It
is pointed out that a money judgment was entered only
against the corporation and that no relief was granted
against the union. It is therefore argued that the judgment did not affect any substantive right of the union and
that at most the union had merely an interest in the outcome of litigation which might establish a precedent adverse to it. Boston Tow Boat Co. v. United States, 321
U. S. 632. It is also pointed "outthat the statutory guarantee against discharge without cause for one year ' had
5Section 8 (c) of the Act provides:
"Any person who is restored to a position in accordance with,
the provisions of paragraph (A) or (B) of subsection (b) shall be
considered as having been on furlough or leave of absence during
his period of training and service in the land or naval forces, shall
be so restored without loss of seniority, shall be entitled to participate in insurance or other benefits offered by the employer pursuant to established rules and practices relating to employees on
furlough or leave of absence in effect with the employer-at the
time such person was inducted into such forces, and shall not
be discharged from such position without. cause Within one year
after such restoration."
Paragraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b) of § 8 are set forth in note 1,
supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

expired at the time of the District Court's judgment, that
therefore no declaratory relief was granted, and that petitioner's rights for the future were not adjudicated. It is
contended that the dispute between petitioner and the
union has thus become moot.
But that argument misses the point. The answer of
the corporation and the union put in issue the question
whether there was a conflict between the collective bargaining agreement and the Act and, if so, which one prevailed. The parties to the collective bargaining agreement-the union and the corporation-were before the
court. A decision on the merits of petitioner's claim
necessarily involved a reconciliation between the Act and
the collective bargaining agreement or, if it appeared that
they conflicted, an adjudication that one superseded the
other. As we have noted, the District Court was of the
view that the collective bargaining agreement was not
inconsistent with the Act. But, however the result might
be rationalized, a decision for or against petitioner necessarily involved a construction of the collective bargaining
agreement. That issue was adjudicated, with the union
as a party. Hence, if the union had thereafter instituted
a separate suit for an interpretation of the agreement, it
would be met with the plea of res judicata. And that plea
would be sustained, for the prior decision was on the precise point which the union sought to relitigate and was
adverse to the union. And both parties to the agreement-the union and the corporation-were parties to
the prior suit. This elementary principle has long been
recognized. Black, The Law of Judgments (2d ed.), pp.
764, 821, 936. As stated in Cromwell v. County of Sac,
94 U. S. 351, 352, a prior judgment "is a-finality as to the
claim or demand in controversy, concluding parties and
those in privity with them, not only as to every matter
which was offered and received to sustain or defeat the
claim or demand, but as to any other admissible matter

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

283

Opinion of the Court.

which might have been offered for that purpose." And
see Rooker v. Fidetity Trutt Co., 263 U. S. 413, 415; Grubb
v. Public Utilities Commission, 281 U. S.470, 479; Stoll
v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165; Chicot County DrainageDist.
v. Baxter State Bank, 308 U. S. 371, 375, 378. The case
of Boston Tow Boat Co. v. United States, supra, would be
relevant if the collective bargaining agreement in issue
was one between different parties.' Then the union's
interest would be merely the interest of one seeking reversal of an adverse precedent. And its "independent
right to relief" would not be increased by reason of its
intervention in the cause. Alexander Sprunt & Son v.
United States, 281 U. S. 249, 255. But here the rights of
the union and its members under a contract with the corporation were adjudicated in a proceeding in which the
union was a party. The contract was still in existence
at the time of the appeal. Hence the case was not moot.
And the only way the union could protect itself against
that binding interpretation of the agreement was by an
appeal. For then the union found itself in the position
where a right of its own (Alexander Sprunt & Son v. United
States,supra,p. 255) was adjudicated.!
It is suggested, however, that the result of what we do
is to free the union and the employer from costs and
burden Fishgold with them. There are several answers
to that. The allowance of costs has no bearing on what
6In that case Boston Tow Boat Co. intervened in a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission involving the status of
another carrier. It sought to appeal from the adverse decision against
the other carrier. That right was denied. The order in question was
not determinative of the status of Boston Tow Boat Co. That question was involved in another rrder of tiie Commission from which'
Boston Tow Boat Co. had an appea' pending.
7 The case is therefore closely analogous to one where the interest
of an intervenor in property involved in the litigation was adjudicated.
Dexter Horton National Bank v. Hawkins, 190 F. 924; United States
v. Northwestern Development Co., 203 F. 960.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

is or what is not res judicata. Their allowance to the prevailing party is not, moreover, a rigid rule. Under the
Rules of Civil Procedure the court can direct otherwise.
Rule 54 (d). And finally, Congress has provided in
§ 8 (e) of this Act that when a veteran applies to the District Court for the benefits of the Act "no fees or court
costs shall be taxed" against him.
II. We turn then to the merits. The Act was designed
to protect the veteran in several ways. He who was called
to the colors was not to be penalized on his return by
reason of his absence from his civilian job., He was, moreover, to gain by his service for his country an advantage
which thi law withheld from those who stayed behind.
These guarantees are contained in § 8 of the Act 8 and
extend to a veteran, honorably discharged and still quali'fied to perform the duties of his old position. (1) He has
a stated perict of time in which to apply for reemployment.' § 8 (b). He is not pressed for a decision immediately on his discharge but hhs the opportunity to make'
plans for the future and readjust himself to civilian life.
(2) He must be restored to his former position "or to a
position of like seniority, status, and pay." § 8 (b) (A),
(B). He is thus protected against receiving a job inferior
to that which he had before entering the armed services.
(3) He shall be "restored without loss of seniority" and
be considered "as having been on furlough or leave of
absence" during the period of his service for his country,
with all of the insurance and other benefits accruing to
employees on furlough or leave of absence. § 8 (c).
Thus he does not step back on the seniority escalator at
the point he stepped off. He steps back on at the precise
Section 8 (b) is set forth :n note 1, supra, and § 8 (c) in note 5,
supra.
9As we have noted, the original forty-day period has been extended
to ninety days. See note 1, supra.

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

Opinion of the Court.

point he would have occupied had he kept his position
continuously during the war. (4) He "shall not be discharged from such position without cause within one year
after such restoration." § 8 (c).
Petitioner's case ,comes down to the meaning of this
guarantee against "discharge." "Discharge" is construed,
by him to include. "lay-off." And it is earnestly argued
that Congress could not have intended to restore the veteran to his position, prevent his discharge without cause
for one year, and yet not intend that he perform actual
work if it was available.
This legislation is to be liberally Construed for the benefit of those who left private life to serve their country in
its hour of great need. See Boone v. Lightner, 319 U. S.
561, 575. And no practice of employers or agreements
between employers and unions can cut down the service
adjustment benefits whiclh Congress has secured the veteran under the Act. Our problem is to construe-the.separate provisions of the Act as parts of an organic whole and
give each as liberal a construction for the benefit of the
veteran as a harmonious interplay of the separate provisions permits.
We can find no support for petitioner's position in the
provision of § 8 (b) which restores him to his former position or to a "position of like seniority." Nor can we find
it in § 8 (c) which directs that he "shall be so restored
without loss of seniority." As we have said,
these provisions guarantee the veteran against loss of position or loss
of seniority by reason of his absence. He acquires not
only the same seniority he had; his service in the armed
services is counted ag service in the plant so that he does
not lose ground by reason of his absence. But we would
distort the language of these provisions if we read it as
granting the veteran an increase in seniority over what
he would have had ifhe had never entered the armed serv-

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ices. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that
by these provisions Congress made. the restoration ias
nearly a complete substitute for the original job as was
possible. No step-up or gain in priority can be fairly
implied. Congress protected the veteran against loss of
ground or demotion on his return. The provisions for
restoration without loss of seniority to his old position or
to a position of like seniority mean no more.
Nor can we read into the guarantee against discharge
"from such position" a gain or step-up in seniority. That
guarantee does not in terms deal with the seniority problem. The problem of seniority is covered by the preceding provisions. The, guarantee against discharge "from
such position" is broad enough to cover demotions. The
veteran is entitled to be restored to his old position or to
a "position of like seniority, status, and pay." If within
the statutory period he is demoted, his status, which the
Act was designed to protect, has been affected and the old
employment relationship has been changed. He would
then lose his old position and acquire an inferior one. He
would within the meaning of § 8 (c) be "discharged from
such position." But the guarantee against discharge does
not on its face suggest the grant of a preference to the
veteran over and above that which was accorded by the
seniority of "such position."
Discharge normally means termination of the employment relationship or loss of a position." In common parlance and in industrial 'parlance a person who has been
laid off by operation of a seniority system and put on a
waiting list for reassignment would hardly be considered
10 "Release or dismissal from an office, employment, etc.; as, the
discharge of a workman." Webster's New International Dictionary
(2d ed.).
"To relieve of a charge or office; (more usually) to dismiss from office, service, or employment; to cashier." Oxford English Dictionary.

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

Opinion of the Court.

as -having been "discharged." " There are three terms
used in § 8 (c) which relate to various types of cessation
of work-a "furlough," a "leave of absence" and a discharge. A furlough is not corisidered a discharge. It is
a form of lay-off. So is a leave of absence. And whether
either results from unilateral action by the employer or
otherwise, consequences are quite different from termination of the employment relationship. Section 8 (c) of
the Act recognizes that insurance and other benefits may
continue to accrue to an employee on furlough or on leave
of absence. An employee on furlough or on leave of absence has a continuing relationship with the employer;
he retains a right to be restored to work under specified
conditions.12 Thus when Congress desired to cover the
contingency of a lay-off, it used apt words to describe it.
If it had desired to enact that, so long as there was work,
no restored veteran, regardless of seniority, could be temporarily laid off during the year following his restoration,
when the slackening of work required a reduction in
forces, we are bound to believe that it would have used
a word of the kind which it had itself recognized as being
descriptive of that situation.
The "position" to which the veteran is restored is the
"position" which he left plus'cumulated seniority. Certainly he would not have been discharged from such pou Temporary suspension of an employee's work commonly does not
affect the continuance of his status. See Labor Board v. Waterman
S. S. Co., 309 U. S. 206; North Whittier Heights Citrus Assn. v. Labor
Board, 109 F. 2d 76, 82.
"Lay-off" is defined as "A period during which a workman is temporarily dismissed or allowed to leave his work; that part or season
of the year during which activity in a particular business or game
is partly or completely suspended; an off-season." Oxford English
Dictionary, Supp.
12 See Union Agreement Provisions, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, H. Doc. No. 723, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., chs. 8, 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

sition and unable to get it back, if at the time of his
induction into the armed services he had been laid off by
operation of a seniority system. Plainly he still had his
"position" when he was inducted. And in the same sense
he retains it though a lay-off interrupts the continuity of
work in the statutory-period. Moreover, a veteran on-his
return is entitled to his old "position" or its equivalent
even though at the time of his application the plant is
closed down, say for retooling, and no work is available,
unless of course the private employer's "circumstances
have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable"
to restore him. § 8 (b) (B). He is entitled to be recalled
to work in accordance with his seniority. His "position"
exists though no work is then available. The slackeping
of work which causes him to be laid off by operation of a
seniority system is neither a removal or dismissal or discharge from the "position" in any normal sense. Congress
recognized in the Act the existence of seniority systems
and seniority rights. It sought to preserve the veteran's rights under those systems and to protect him
against loss under them by reason of his absence. There
is indeed no suggestion that Congress sought to sweep
aside the seniority system. What it undertook to do was
-to give the.veteran protectiow within the framework of
the seniority system plus a guarantee against demotion or
termination of the employment relationship without cause
for a year.
The construction which we have given "discharged"
does not rob that guarantee of Vitality. As the Circuit
Court of Appeals observed, where there is a closed-shop
agreement the union would normally afford its members
protection against termination of their employment status
without cause. But in many situations the guarantee
against dismissal without cause for one year is of great

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

289

Opinion of the Court.

practical importance and is a protection granted veterans
only.
Our construction of the Act finds support in its legislative history. Representative May had charge of the bill
on the floor of the House. He explained an amendment
to § 8 (c), which added the words "shall be considered
during the period of service in such forces as on furlough
or leave of absence" and also elaborated the clause dealing
with "insurance or other benefits." He said:
"I may say that the chief purpose of the amendment i$ to preserve the seniority rights of the thousands and hundreds of thousands of railroad employees and other employees of that character who
have certain seniority privileges on the railroads. in
other words, we put them on furlough during the time
they are in the service and they will even be permitted
to count this time on the question of their retirement." 86 Cong. Rec. 11702.
And before that amendment the Committee Report of the
Senate stated:
"The Congress, in this bill, has declared as its purpose
and intent that every man who leaves his job, to participate in this training and service should be reemployed without loss of seniority or other benefits upon
his return to civil life." S. Rep. No. 2002,76th Cong.,
3d Sess., p. 8.
We have searched the legislative history in vain for any
statement of purpose that the protection accorded the
veteran was the right to work when by operation of the
seniority system there was none then available for him.
It is said, however, that when Congress amended § 8 of
the Act in 1944 13 (58 Stat. 798) and extended the Act in
1945 without any change in § 8 (c) (59 Stat. 166), it was
apprised of an administrative interpretation of § 8 (c) that
1-See note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

a veteran was entitled to his former job regardless of
seniority; and that therefore congressional approval of
or acquiescence in the administrative construction would
be inferred. See Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
United States, 288 U. S. 269, 273, and cases cited. An
administrative interpretation was rendered by the Director of Selective Service who was authorized to administer
the Act.14 .He had ruled that the Act required reinstate-

ment of a veteran to "his former position or one of like
seniority, status, and pay even though such reinstatement
necessitates the discharge of a nonveteran with a greater
seniority." 15 But a different construction was given to
§ 8 (c) by the National War Labor Board in its handling
of disputes arising out of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements.'" The Board read the Act as we read
it. The ruling of the Director may be resorted to for
guidance. See Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134,
140; Mabee v. White Plains Pub. Co., 327 U. S.178. But
his rulings are not made in adversary proceedings and are
not entitled to the weight which is accorded interpretations by administrative agencies entrusted with the responsibility of making inter partes decisions. Skidmore
v. Swift & Co., supra, p. 139. The history and language
of the Act would need be far less clear for us to give his
rulings persuasive weight. Moreover, as the Circuit
Court of Appeals pointed out, the contrariety of admin-

istrative rulings" lends less credence to the contention
that Congress by the amendment in 1944 and the extension
in 1945 showed a preference for one over the other. In
view of the language of the Act and the nature of the
"1Executive Order 8545, September 23, 1940, 5 Fed. Reg. 3779.
'5
Local Board Memorandum 190-A, May 20,1944, Part IV, § 1 (C).
16 See ScoviU Mfg. Co., 21 War
Labor Rep. 200,1201, 202.
"See Note 54 Yale L. Journ. 417.

FISHGOLD v. SULLIVAN CORP.
275

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

administrative findings, we would want explicit indication
by Congress that it chose the Director's interpretation
before we concluded that Congress had adopted it.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.

I believe we should reverse the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and remand the cause to it with directions to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction because
the Union was not a proper party to appeal. The money
judgment was in favor of Fishgold and against the Sullivan Dry Dock and Repair Company. Had the Company
paid the judgment, I see no way in which the Union would
have been "aggrieved." 'The only reason advanced by
the Court for holding that the Union was "aggrieved" is
that, had the District Court judgment remained on the
books, the judicially formulated doctrine of res judicata
would have barred the Union in any future proceedings
from challenging the District Court's application of the
federal statute to the particular collective bargaining
agreement. A fair application of res judicata bars a Party
in a second litigation only if that proceeding involves the
same issues as the first litigation between the same adverse
parties or privies. This means that res judicata could bar
the Union only in a new proceeding between it and Fishgold or his privies. But there is no possibility of such
litigation sihce the seniority right which the District Court
held Fishgold had tinder the statute had under its provisions expired by the time the Union appealed. Res
judicata would not have barred the Union in a proceeding
between it and any other party, since no other party was

OCTOBER TERM, .1945.
BLAcx, S., disenting.

328 U. S.

a party adverse to the Union in the present suit. And
this includes any possible proceeding between the Union
and the Sullivan Dry Dock Company since that Company,
though a party, was not an adverse party in the trial court.
None of the cases cited by the Court's opinion support
the proposition that a-party is bound in a future litigation
against a party that was not an adverse party, but on the
same side, in the earlier litigation. Nor do these cases, or
any other decision of this Court of which I am aware, formulate as the rule of this Court the harsh doctrine of collateral estoppel, adopted in a few state jurisdictions, which
always bars a losing party, so long as the issue is the same,
even though the later litigation involves different adverse
parties. It is unlikely that this harsh doctrine, never
adopted by this Court, would in the future have been,
applied to bar the Union in any further proceedings involving interpretation of the scope of its collective bargaining agreement in the light of the federal statute. In
my opinion the Union would not have been barred by the
trial court's judgment. It was therefore not an aggrieved
party and not entitled to appeal.
The result of permitting parties not adversely affected
to appeal a judgment is to impose burdens upon litigants
actually interested when those litigants may themselves
be fully satisfied with the judgment. The scope of res
judicata should not be extended to produce such a result.
This case illustrates the wisdom of the practice which
permits parties to settle their own lawsuits without intervention by others interested only in precedents. Bo8ton
Tow Boat Co. v. United State8, 321 U. S. 632.

