246

OCTOBER TERM, 1945,
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

PORTER, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, v. LEE ET' AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT, COURT OF APPEALS FOR- THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 1116 and 1117.

Argued May 13, 1946.-Decided May 27; 1946,

While an eviction suit by a landlord against a tenant was pending
in a state court, the Price Administrator sued in a Federal District
Court under § 205 of the Emergency Price Control Act to enjoin
the landlord from evicting that tenant "or any other tenant" and
from violating the Rent Regulation for Housing (promulgated
under the Emergency Price Control Act), which forbids the eviction
of tenants so long as they pay the rent to which the landlord is
entitled. The District Court dismissed the Administrator's complaint for want of jurisdiction. While an appeal was pending, the
tenant was evicted. The Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the
appeal as moot. Held:
1. The District Court had jurisdiction under § 205 (c) of the
Emergency Price Control Act, which provides that "The district
courts shall have jurisdiction of criminal proceedings for violations
of section 4 of this Act, and, concurrently with State and Territorial
Court , of all other proceedings under section 205 of this Act."
P. 249.
(a) The landlord's eviction proceeding in the state court was
not an enforcement proceeding authorized by the Act and, therefore, not within the "concurreht" jurisdiction contemplated by
§ 205. P. 250.
(b) Over the enforcement proceedings contemplated by § 205,
not only did the District Court acquire jurisdiction first, but the
state court never acquired any jurisdiction at all. P. 250.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding'that the case
was moot. P. 251.
(a) The mere fact that the tenant vacated the premises in
compliance with a writ of.possession did not end the controversy,
since the court could have restored the status quo by a mandatory
injunction. P. 251.
(b) Moreover, the Administrator sought to restrain the eviction of any other tenant of the landlord as iell as other act., in
violation of the lRegulation; and § 205 (a) authorizes such a. broad
injunction upon a finding that the landlord has engaged in violations. P. 251.
Reversed and remanded.

PORTER v. LEE.
246

Opinion of the Court.,

The Price Administrator sued to enjoin the eviction of
a tenant and other violations of the Rent Regulation for
Housing promulgated under the Emergency Price Control
Act. The District Court dismissed the suit for want of
jurisdiction. 59 F. Supp. 639. The Circuit Court of
Appeals dismissed an appeal as moot. This Court granted
certiorari. 328 U. S. 826. Reversed and remanded to the
District Court for trial on the merits, p. 252.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Milton
Klein, David London and Irving M. Gruber.
Howell W. Vincent argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered
Court.

the opinion of the

October 24, 1944, Dr. Lee brought a forcible detainer suit
in the Justice of the Peace Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, to recover possession of an apartment he had rented
to R. C. and Sarah Beever by reason of an alleged nonpayment of rent due on October 18, 1944. On December 4,
1944, before any judgment had been rendered, the Price
Administrator, under § 205 of the Emergency Price Control Act, 56 Stat. 23, sought an injunction in the Federal
District Court to order respondents, Dr. and Mrs. Lee. not
to prosecute eviction proceedings against "Beever or any
other tenant" and to restrain them from violating the Rent
Regulation for Housing, 10 F. R. 3436, 13528, promulgated
pursuant to the Emergency Price Control Act.' That
The part of the Regulation here in question (§ 6)was promulgated
pursuant to § 2 (d) of the Emergency Price Control Act, 56 Stat. 23,
which authorizes the Administrator, whenever such action is necessary
or proper in order to effectuate the purposes of the Act, to " regulate
or prohibit .. .renting or leasing practices (including practices re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Regulation provides among other things that so long as
the tenant continues to pay the rent to which the landlord
is entitled no tenant shall be removed or evicted by any
landlord. The Administrator's complaint in the injunction proceeding alleged that Beever owed no rent; that
tender of the rent due had been refused by Dr. Lee; that
this had been done not because there had been a default
in payment but rather because Dr. Lee did not want families with children, such as the Beevers, living on the premises; and that the eviction proceeding, thus, violated the
Rent Regulation for Housing. The District Court issued
a temporary restraining order, but later, without passing
on the disputed factual issue of whether Beever had actually been delinquent in paying his rent at the time of the
commencement of the Justice of the Peace Court proceedings. dismissed the Price Administrator's complaint on
the ground that it lacked jurisdiction to enjoin the Lees
from prosecuting an eviction proceeding in the state court.
Bowles v. Lee, 59 F. Supp. 639.2 The Justice of the Peace
Court on the landlord's motion then dismissed the forcible
detainer action and on June 25, 1945, a new ,.ction was
brought in the same Justice of the Peace Court asking for
a writ of restitution to remove the Beevers on the ground
of nonpayment of rent. The Justice of the Peace Court
then entered a judgment directing the eviction of the
Beevers. The Price Administrator this time asked the
Federal District Court to restrain enforcement and execution of the judgment of eviction. This action by the Price
lating to recovery of the possession) in connection with any defensearea housing accommodations, which in his judgment are equivalent
to or are likely to result in . .. rent increases .
inconsistent with
the purposes of this Act."
2 The original petition for injunction was filed by Chester Bowles
as Price Administrator. Petitioner Porter is his successor in office,
and upon motion he has been substituted as petitioner in this Court.

PORTER v. LEE.
246

Opinion of the Court.

Administrator was again dismissed on the ground of lack
of jurisdiction.
The Price Administrator appealed from both District
Court orders dismissing his complaints and made prompt
application to the Circuit Court of Appeals for an injunction pending appeal in the first case. This motion was
denied. The landlord moved to have the case dismissed
as moot and in Support of that motion filed an affidavit
setting forth that the premises had been vacated by the
Beevers. In response the Price Administrator submitted
an affidavit by R. C. Beever stating that he had not vacated the apartment as a matter of choice, but had moved
to several basements and into the home of his wife's parents because he was compelled to do so by a writ of possession which had been served on him. The Circuit Court
of Appeals dismissed both cases as moot. We granted
certiorari because of the obvious importance of the questions raised by the Federal District Court's dismissals for
want of jurisdiction and the holding of the Circuit Court
of Appeals that the proceedings had become moot.
First. As to jurisdiction, the provisions of the Price Control Act and the Rent Regulation for Housing, promulgated pursuant thereto and not challenged here, make it
clear that the Price Administrator's allegations in his complaint before the District Court stated an enjoinable violation over which the District Court as an enforcement
court ordinarily would have jurisdiction under § 205 (a)
and (c) of the Act. But the landlord claims that here the
District Court was without power to act because the provisions of § 205 (c) permit actions in state courts alone
under the particular circumstances here. He relies on that
part of subsection (c) which provides that "The district
courts shall have jurisdiction of criminal proceedings for
violations of section 4 of this Act, and, concurrently with
State and Territorial courts, of all other proceedings under

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

section 205 of this Act." The landlord's argument is as
follows: The Administrator's proceeding in the Federal
District Court was a proceeding under § 205 over which
the state courts have concurrent jurisdiction. The only
issue in the federal proceeding would have been whether
the landlord had legally sought to evict the Beevers because of nonpayment of rent or whether eviction was
sought for other reasons in violation of the applicable regulation. That question could have been raised in the
Justice of the Peace Court in view of its "concurrent"
jurisdiction under § 205 (c). Since the Justice of the
Peace Court action by the landlord was commenced prior
to the Administrator's injunction proceeding in the federal
court, the Justice of the Peace Court had acquired sole
power to decide the crucial issue and the Federal District
Court therefore lacked jurisdiction.
We think this contention is without merit. Section
205 (c) gives the state courts concurrent jurisdiction only
over non-criminal enforcement "proceedings under section 205." Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503, 511-512.
Here the landlord's eviction proceeding in the Justice of
the Peace Court clearly was not an enforcement proceeding authorized by the Act. It was, rather, if the allegations of the Administrator proved to be true, a violation
of the Act. The state court's jurisdiction was based on
state law and not on § 205 of the Price Control Act. It
was therefore not part of the "concurrent" jurisdiction
contemplated by § 205. Over the enforcement proceedings contemplated by that section not only did the District
Court acquire jurisdiction first, but the state court never
acquired any jurisdiction at all. It was consequently
within the power of the Federal District Court to grant
the injunction, provided the Government succeeded in
proving the merits of its case.
To rule otherwise would require the Administrator to
bring enforcement proceedings, in situations such as the

PORTER v. LEE.
246

Opinion of the Court.

one before us, always in the state courts. Such a requirement would certainly.not be in accord with the "concurrent" jurisdiction provision of § 205 (c). Or the Administrator in order to protect the public interest would always
be forced to intervene in state court proceedings brought
by the landlord. This procedure would be inadequate,
because the speedy manner in which eviction suits are
handled will frequently make it too late to intervene when
the Administrator becomes aware of a violation. Furthermore, justice of the peace courts do not, at least ordinarily, have.jurisdiction to grant injunctions to prevent
future violations of the Act. Since there is nothing in
the Act that limits the Administrator's action to intervention in the state courts, we see no reason, nor are we authorized, to so restrict him.'
Second. We also think the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred in holding that the case was moot. The mere fact
that the Beevers, in order to comply with the writ of possession, vacated the apartment was not enough to end the
controversy. It has long been established that where a
defendant with notice in an injunction proceeding completes the acts sought to be enjoined the court may by
mandatory injunction restore the status quo. Texas &
New Orleans R. Co. v. Northside Belt R. Co., 276 U. S.
475, 479. The Administrator, therefore, was entitled to
seek a restoration of the status quo in this case. See
Henderson v. Fleckinger, 136 F. 2d 381-382. Moreover,
here the Administrator sought to restrain not merely the
eviction of Beever but also that of any other tenant of
the landlord as well as other acts in violation of the Regulation. Section 205 (a) authorizes the District Court in
its discretion to grant such a broad injunction upon a
finding that the landlord has engaged in violations. See
3 And for the reasons stated in Porterv. Dicken, post, p. 252, § 265
of the Judicial Code does not require a different result.

