UNITED STATES

t).

LOVETT.

303

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
NO. 809.

CERTIOIARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.*

Argued May 3, 6, 1946.-Decided June 3, 1946.
1. The issue as to the validity of § 304 of the Urgent' Deficiency
Appropriation Act of 1943, providing that, after November 15, 1943,
no salary or other compensation shall be paid to certain employees
of the Government (specified by name) out of any monies then or
thereafter appropriated except for services as jurors or members
of the armed forces, unless they were again appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Senate prior to such
date, is not a mere political issue ,over which Congress has final
say; and a challenge to its constitutionality presents a justiciable
question to the courts. P. 313.
(a) It is not a mere appropriation measure over which Congress
has complete control. P. 313.
(b) Its purpose was not merely to cut *off the employees' compensation through' regular disbursing channels but permanently to
bar them from government service, except as jurors or soldiersbecause of what Congress thought of their political beliefs.
P. 313.
(c) The Constitution did not contemplate that congressional
action aimed at three individuals, which stigmatized, their reputations and seriously impaired their chances to earn a living, could
never be challenged in court. P. 314.
2. Section 304 violates Article I, § 3, cl. 9 of the Constitution, which
forbids the enactment of any'bill of attainder or ei post facto law.
P. 315.
(a) Legislative acts, no matter'what their form, that apply
either to named individuals or to easily ascertainable members of
a group in such a way as to inflict punishment ;on them without
a judicial trial are bills of attainder.prohibited by the Constitution.
Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277; Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333.
P. 315.
(b) Section 304 clearly accompishes the punishment of named
individuals without a judicial trial. P. 316.
*Together with No. 810, United States v. Watson, and No. 811,
United States v. Dodd, on certiorari to the same court, argued and
I
decided on the same dates.

.304

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

(c) The fact that the punishment is inflicted through the instrumentality of an Act specifically cutting off the pay of certain named
individuals found by Congress to be guilty of disloyalty inakes it
no less effective than if it had been done by an Act which designated
the conduct as criminal. P. 316.
104 Ct. Cls. 557, 66 F. Supp. 142, affirmed.
The Court of Claims entered judgments in favor of

certain government employees for services rendered after
November 15, 1943, to whom § 304 of the Urgent Deficiency Appropriation Act of 1943, 57 Stat. 431, 450, for-.
bade payment of any compensation after that date from
appropriated funds. 104 Ct. Cls. 557, 66 F. Supp. 142.
This Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 773. Affirmed,
p. 318.
Ralph F. Fuchs argued the cause for the United States'
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, David L. Kreeger
and Joseph B. Goldman.
Charles A. Horsky argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Edward B. Burling and Amy
Ruth Mahin.
By special leave of Couit, John C. Gall argued the cause
for the Congress of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging reversal. With him on the brief were Dean Hill
Stanley and Clark M. Robertson.
Robert W. Kenny filed a brief for the National Lawyers
Guild, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1943 the respondents, LoVett, Watson, and Dodd,
were and had been for several years working for the Government. The government agencies which had lawfully

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

Opinion of the Court.

employed them were fully satisfied with the quality of
their work and wished to keep them employed on their
jobs. Over the protest of those employing agencies, Congress provided in §304 of the Urgent Deficiency Appropriation Act ol 1943, by way of an amendment attached
to the House bill, that after November 15, 1943, no salary
or compensation should be paid respondents out of any
monies then or thereafter appropriated except for services
as jurors or members of the armed forces, unless they were
prior to November 15, 1943 again appointed to jobs by
the President with the advice and consert of the Senate.'
57 Stat. 431, 450. Notwithstanding the congressional
enactment, and the failure of the President to reappoint
respondents, the agencies kept all the respondents at work
on their jobs for varying periods after November 15, 1943;
but their compensation was discontinued after that date.
To secure compensation for this post-November 15th
work, respondents brought these actions in the Court of
Section 304 provides: "No part of any appropriation, allocati6n,
or fund (1) which is made available under or pursuant to this Act,
or (2) which is now, or which is hereafter made, available under or
pursuant to any other Act, to any department, agency, or instru-.
mentality of the United States, shall be used, after November 15, 1943,
to pay any part of the salary, or other compensation for the personal
services, of. Goodwin B. Watson, William E. Dodd, Junior, and Robert
Morss Lovett, unless prior to such date such person has been appointed
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate:
Provided, That this section shall not operate to deprive any such person of payment for leaves of absence or salary, or of any refund or
reimbursement, which have accrued prior to November 15, 1943:
Provided further, That this section shall not operate to deprive any
such person of payment for-services performed as a member of a jury
or as a member of the armed forces of the United States nor any benefit, pension, or emolument resulting therefrom."
As we shall point out, the President signed the bill because he had
to do so since the appropriated funds we're imperatively needed to
carry on the war. He felt, however, that § 304 of the bill Was unconstitutional, and failed to reappoint respondents.

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Cwurt.

328 U. S.

Claims. They urged that § 304 is unconstitutional and
void on the grounds that: (1) The section, properly interpreted, shows a congressional purpose to exercise the
power to remove executive employees, a power not entrusted to Congress but to the Executive Branch of Government under Article II, §§ 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Constitution; (2) the section violates Article' I, § 9, Clause 3,
of the Constitution which provides that "No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed"; (3) the
section violates the Fifth Amendment, in that it singles
out these three respondents and deprives them of their
liberty and property without due process of law. The
Solicitor General, appearing for the Government, joined
in the first two of respondents' contentions but took no
position on the third. House Resolution 386, 89 Cong.
Rec. 10882, and Joint Resolution No. 230, 78th Congress,
58 Stat. 113, authorized a special counsel to appear on
behalf of the Congress. This counsel denied all three of
respondents' contentions. He urged that § 304 was a
valid exercise of congressional power under Article I, § 8,
Clause 1; § 8, Clause 18; and § 9, Clause 7 of the Constitution, which sections empower Congress "To lay and
collect Taxes . . . to pay the Debts and provide for the
common Defence and general Welfare of the United
States," and "To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution . . . all ...
Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof," and provide that "No Money shall be drawn from
the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made
by Law . . ." Counsel for Congress also urged that § 304
did not purport to terminate respondents' employment.
According to him, it merely cut off respondents' pay and
deprived governmental agencies of any power to make
enforceable contracts with respondents for any further
compensation. The contention was that this involved

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

Opinion of the Court.

simply an exercise of congressional powers over appropriations, which, according to the argument, are plenary
and not subject to judicial review. On this premise counsel for Congress urged that the challenge of the constitutionality of § 304 raised no justiciable controversy. The
Court of Claims entered judgments in favor of respondents. Some of the judges were of the opinion that § 304,
properly interpreted, did not terminate respondents' employment, but only prohibited payment of compensation
out of funds generally appropriated, and that, consequently, the continued employment of respondents was
valid, and justified their bringing actions for pay in the
Court of Claims. Other members of the Court thought
§ 304 unconstitutional and void, either as a bill of attainder, an encroachment on exclusive executive authority, or a denial of due process. 104 Ct. Cls. 557, 66 F.
Supp. 142. We granted certiorari because of the manifest
importance of the questions involved.
In this Court the parties and counsel for Congress have
urged the same points as they did in the Court of Claims.
According to the view we take we need not decide whether
§ 304 is an unconstitutional encroachment on executive
power or a denial of due process of law, and the section is
not challenged on the ground that it violates the First
Amendment. Our inquiry is thus confined to whether
the actions in the light of a proper construction of the Act
present justiciable controversies; and, if so, whether § 304
is a bill of attainder against these respondents, involving a use of power which the Constitution, unequivocally
declares Congress can never exercise. These questions
require an interpretation of the meaning and purpose of
the section, which in turn requires an understanding of the
circumstances leading to its passage. We, consequently,
find it necessary to set out these circumstances somewhat
in detail.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

In the background of the statute here challenged lies
the House of Representatives' feeling in the late thirties
that many "subversives" were occupying influential positions in the Government and elsewhere and that their
influence must not renrain unchallenged. As part of its
program against "subversive" activities-the House in May
1938 created a Committee on Un-American Activities,
which became known as the Dies Committee, after its
Chairman, Congressman Martin Dies. H. Res. 282, 83
Cong. Rec. 7568-7587. This Committee conducted a
series of investigations and made lists of people and organizations it thought "subversive." See e. g.: H. Rep. No. 1,
77th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. No. 2743, 77th Cong., 2d
Sess. The creation of the Dies Committee was followed
by provisions such as § 9A of the Hatch Act, 53 Stat. 1148,
1149, and §§ 15 (f) and 17 (b) of the Emergency Relief
Appropriation Act of 1941, 54 Stat. 611, which forbade
the holding of a federal job by anyone who was a member
of a political party or organization that advocated the
overthrow of our constitutional form of Government in
the United States. It became the practice to include a
similar prohibition in all appropriations acts, together
with criminal penalties for its violation
Under these
provisions the Federal Bureau of Investigation began
wholesale investigations of federal employees, which investigations were financed by special congressional appropriations. 55 Stat. 292, 56 Stat. 468, 482. 'Thousands
were investigated.
While all this was happening, Mr. "Dies on February 1,
1043, in a long speech 6n the floor of the House attacked
thirty-nine named government employees as "irrespohisible, unrepresentative, crackpot, radical bureaucrats" and
2

55 Stat. 92, § 5; 55 Stat. 265, § 504; 55 Stat. 303, § 7; 55 Stat. 366,

§ 10; 55 Stat. 408, § 3; 55 Stat. 446, § 5; 55 Stat 466, § 704; 55 Stat.
499, § 10; House Doc. 833, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court' f

328 U.S.

have his day in court," and "There would be no star chainber.proceedings.," Id. at 711 and 713; but see id. at 715.

The resolutibn which was finally passed authorized the
Appropriations Committee acting through a special subcommittee "...
to examine into any. and, allallegations
or charges that certain persons in the employ of the several
executive departments and other executive agencies are
unfit to continue in such employment by reason of their
present association or membership or past association or
membership in or with organizations whose aims or purposes are or have been subversive to the Government of
the United States.." Id. at 734, 742. The Committee
was to have full plenary powers, including the right to
summon witnesses and papers, and was to report its "findings and determination" to the House. It was authorized.
to attach legislation recommended' by it to any general or
special appropriation measure, notwithstanding general
House rules against such practice. Id. at 734. The purpose of the resolution was thus described by the Chairman
of the Committee on Appropriations in his closing remarks
in favor of its passage: "The third and the really important effect is that we will expedite adjudication and disposition of these cases and thereby serve both the accused
and the Government. These men against whom charges
are pending are faced with a 'serious situation. If they
are not guilty they are entitled to prompt exoneration; on
the other hand, if they are guilty, then the quicker the
Government removes them the sooner and the more certainly will we protect the Nation against sabotage and
fifth-column activity." Id. at 741.
After the resolution was passed, a special subcommittee
of the Appropriations Committee held hearings in secret
executive session. Those charged with "subversive" beliefs and "subversive" associations were permitted to testify, but lawyers, including those representing the agen-

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

Opinion of the Court.

affiliates of "Communist front organizations." Among
these named individuals were the three respondents.
Congressman Dies told the House that respondents, as
well as the other thirty-six individuals he named, were
because of their beliefs and past associations unfit to "hold
a Government position", and urged Congress to refuse "to
appropriate money for their salaries." In this connection
he proposed that the Committee on Appropriations "take
immediate and vigorous steps to eliminate these people
from public office." 89 Cong. Rec. 474, 479, 486. Four
days later an amendment was offered to the Treasury-Post
Office Appropriation Bill which provided that "no part of
any appropriation contained in this act shall be used to
pay the compensation of" the thirty-nine individuals Dies
had attacked. 89 Cong. Rec. 645. ,The Congressional
Record shows that this amendment precipitated a debate
that continued for several days. Id. 645-742. All of
those participating agreed that the "charges" against the
thirty-nine individuals were serious. Some wanted to
accept Congressman Dies' statements as sufficient proof
of "guilt," while others referred to such proposed action as
"legislative lynching," id. at 651, smacking "of the procedure in the French Chamber of Deputies, during the
Reign of Terror." Id. at 654. The Dies charges were
referred to as "indictments," and many claimed this made
it necessary that the named federal employees be given a
hearing and a chance to prove themselves innocent. Id.
at 711. Congressman Dies then suggested that the Approriations Committee "weigh the evidence and . ..
take immediate steps to dismiss these people from the
Federal service." Id. at 651. Eventually a resolution
was proposed to defer action until the Appropriations
Committee could investigate, so that accused federal employees would get a chance to prove themselves "innocent"
of communism or disloyalty, and so that each "man would

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

311

Opinion of the Court.

,'cies by which the accused were employed, were- not
permitted to be present. At the hearings, committee
members, the committee staff, and whatever Witness was
under examination were the only ones present. The evidence, aside from that given by the accused employees,
appears to have been largely that of reports made by the
Dies Committee, its investigators, and Federal Bureau of'
Investigation reports, the latter being treated as too confidential to be made public.
After this hearing, the subcommittee's reports and recommendations were submitted to the Aouse as part of
'the Appropriation Committee's report. The subcommittee stated that it had regarded the investigations "as in
the nature of an inquest of office", with the ultimate purpose of purging the publii service of anyone found guilty
of "subversive activity." The committee, stating that
"'subversive activity" had not before been defined by Congress or by the courts, formulated its own definition of
"subversive aztivity" which we set out in the margin.'
Respondents Watson, Dodd, and Lovett were, according
to the subcommittee, guilty of having engaged in "subVersive activity within the definition adopted by the com-.
mittee." H. Rep. No. .448, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 5-7, 9.
The ultiihate finding and recommendation as to respondent Watson, which was substantially similar to the findings with respect to Lovett and Dodd, read as follows:
'Upon consideration of all of the evidence, your committee finds that the' membership and association of Dr.
Goodwin B. Watson with the organizations mentioned,
3 "Subversive activity in this country derives from conduct intentionally destructive of or inimical to the Government of the United,
States-that which seeks to undermine its institutions, or to distort
its functions, or to impede its projects, or to lessen its efforts, the
ultimate end being to overturn it all. Such activity may be open
and direct as by effort to overthrow, or subtle and indirect as by
sabotage." H. Rep. No. 448, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

and his views and philosophies as expressed in various
statements and writings constitute subversive activity
within the definition adopted by your committee, and that
he is, therefore, unfit for the present to continue in Government employment." H. Rep. No. 448, 78th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 6. As to Lovett the Committee further reported that it .had rejected a "strong appeal" from the
Secretary of the Interior for permission to retain Lovett
in government service, because as the Committee stated,
it could not "escape the conviction that this official is
unfit to hold a position of trust with this Government by
reason of his membership, association, and affiliation with
organizations whose aims and purposes are subversive to
the Government of the United States." Id. at 12.
Section 304 was submitted to the House along with the
Committee Report. Congressman Kerr, who was chairman of the subcommittee, Stated that the issue before the
House was simply: "...
whether or not the people of
this country want men Who are not in sympathy with the
institutions of 'ihiscountry to run it." He said further:
these people under investigation have no property
rights in these offices. One Congress can take away their
rights given them by another." 89 Cong. Rec. 4583.
Other members of the House during several days of debate
bitterly attacked the measure as unconstitutional and unwise. Id. at 4482-4487, 4546-4556, 4581-4605. Finally
§ 304 was passed by the House.
. The Senate Appropriation Committee eliminated § 304
and its action was sustained by the Senate. 89 Cong. Rec.
5024. After the first conference report which left the
matter still in disagreement the Senate voted 69 to 0
against the conference report which left § 304 in the bill.
The House, however, insisted on the amendment and indicated that it would not approve any appropriation bill
without § 304. Finally, after the fifth conference report,

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

113

Opinion of th6 Court.

showed that the House would not yield, the Senate adopted
§ 304. When the President sigried the bill he stated:
"The Senate yielded, as I have been forced to yield, to
avoid delaying our conduct of the war. But I cannot so
-yield without placing on record iiiy view that this provision is not only unwise and discriminatory,, but unconstitutional." H. Doc, 264, 78th Cong., 1st Sess ,
S I°

In view of the facts just set out, we cannot agree with
the two judges of the Court of Claims who held that § 304
rtquired "a mere stoppage of disbursing routine,, nothing
nore," and left the employer governmental agencies free
to continue employing respondents arid'to incur contractual obligations by virtue of such continued work whizh
respondents could enforce in the Court of Claims. Nor
can we agree with counsel for Congress that the section did
not provide for the dismissal of respondents but merely
forbade governmental agencies to compensate respondents
for their work or to incur obligations for such compensation at any and all times. We therefore cannot conclude,
as he urges, that § 304 is a mere appropriation measure,
and that, since Congress under the Constitution has complete control over appropriations, a challenge to the measure's constitutionalizy does not present a justiciable question in the courts, but is merely a political issue over which
Congress has final say.
We hold that the purpose of § 304 was not, merely to
cut off respondents' czmpensation through regular disbursing channels but permanently to bar them from government service, and that the issue of whether it is
constitutional is justiciable. The section's language as
well as the circumstances of its passage which we have
just described show that no mere question of compensation
procedure or of appropriations was involved, but that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328U. S

was designed to force the employing agencies, to discharge
respondents and to bar their being hired by any other
governmental agency. Cf. United States v.. Dickerson,
310 U. S. 554. Any other interpretation of the section
would completely frustrate the purpose of all who sponsored § 304, which clearly was to "purge" the then existing
and all future lists of government employees of those
whom Congress deemed guilty of "subversive activities"
and therefore "unfit" to hold a federal job. What was
challenged, therefore, is a statute which, because of what
Congress thought to be their political beliefs, prohibited
respondents from ever engaging in any government work,
except as jurors or soldiers. Respondents claimed that
their discharge was unconstitutional; that they consequently rightfully continued to work for the Government
and that the Government owes them compensation for
services performed under contracts of employment. Congress has established the Court of Claims to try just such
controversies. What is involved here is a congressional.
proscription of Lovett, Watson, and Dodd, prohibiting
their ever holding a government job. Were this case to
be not justiciable, congressional action, aimed at three
named individuals, which stigmatized their reputation
and seriously impaired their chance to earn a living, could
never be challenged in any court. Our Constitution did
not contemplate such a result. To quote Alexander Hamilton, ".,. . a limited constitution ., . . [is] one which
contains certain specified exceptions to the legislative authority; such, for instance, as that it shall pass no bills
of attainder, no ex post facto laws, and the like. Limitations of this kind can be preserved in practice no other
way than through the medium of the courts of justice;
whose duty it must be to declare all acts contrary to the
manifest tenor of the Constitution void. Without this,
all the reservations of particular rights or privileges would
amount to nothing." Federalist Paper No. 78.

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

Opinion of the Court.

II.

We hold that § 304 falls precisely within the category
of congressional actions which the Constitution barred by
providing that "No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law
shall be passed." In Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277,
323, this Court said, "A bill of attainder is a legislative act
which inflicts punishment without a judicial trial. If the
punishment be less than death, the act is termed a bill of
pains and penalties. Within the meaning of the Constitution, bills of attainder include bills of pains and penalties." The Cummings decision involved a provi6ion of
the Missouri Reconstruction Constitution which required
persons to take an Oath of Loyalty as a prerequisite to
practicing a profession. Cummings, a Catholic Priest,
was convicted for teaching and preaching as a minister
without taking the oath. The oath required an applicant
to affirm that he had never given aid or comfort to persons
engaged in hostility to the United States and had never
"been a member of, or connected with, any order, society,
or organization, inimical to the government of the United
States . . ." In an illuminating opinion which gave the
historical background of the constitutional prohibition
against bills of attainder, this Court invalidated the Missouri constitutional provision both because it constituted
a bill of attainder and because it had an ex post facto operation. On the same day the Cummings case was decided,
the Court, in Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall, 333, also held
invalid on the same grounds an Act of Congress which
required attorneys practicing before this Court to take a
similar oath. Neither of these cases has ever been overruled. They stand for the proposition that legislative
acts, no matter what their form, that apply either to named
individuals or to easily ascertainable members of a group
in such a way as to inflict punishment on them without a
judicial trial are bills of attainder prohibited by the Con-

,316

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.,
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

stitution.\ Adherence to this principle requires invalidation of § 304. We do adhere to it.
Section 304 was designed to apply to particular individuals.' Just as the statute in the two cases mentioned,
it "operates as a legislative decree of perpetual exclusion"
from a chosen vocation. Ex parte Garland,8upra, at'377.
This permanent proscription from any opportunity to
serve the Government is punishment, and of a most severe
type. It is a type of punishment which Congress has only
invoked for special types of odious and dangerous crimes,
such as treason, 18 U. S. C. 2; acceptance of bribes by
members of Congress, 18 U. S. C. 199, 202, 203; or by
other government officials, 18 U. S. C. 207; and interference with 'elections by Army and Navy officers, 18
U. S. C. 58:
Section 304, thus, clearly accomplishes the punishment
of named individuals without a judicial trial. The fact
that the punishment is inflicted through the instrumentality of an Act specifically cutting off the pay of certain
named individuals found guilty of disloyalty, makes it no
less galling or effective than if it had been done by an Act
which designated the conduct as criminal.' No one would
think that Congress could have passed a valid law, stating
that after investigation it had found Lovett, Dodd, and
Watson "guilty" of the crime of engaging in "subversive
activities," defined that term for the first time, and sentenced them to perpetual exclusion from any government
employment. Section 304, while it does not use that language, accomplishes that result. The effect was to inflict
punishment without the safeguards/of a judicial trial and
'This is of course one of the usual characteristics of bills of attainder. See Wooddeson, Law Lectures: A' stematical View of the
Laws of England (1792), No. 41, 622.
5See Cummings v. Missouri, supra, 4 Wall. at 325, 329; see also
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch 87, 138-139; Burgess v. Salmon, 97 U. S.
381,385.

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

Opinion. of the Court.

"determined by no previous law or fixed rule."
.*The
Constitution declares that that cannot be done either by
a State or by the United States.
Those who wrote our Constitution well knew the danger
inherent in special legislative acts which take away the
life, liberty, or property of particular named persons because the legislature thinks them guilty of conduct which
deserves punishment. They intended to safeguard the
people of this country from punishment without trial by
duly constituted courts. See Duncan v. 'Kahanamoku,
327 U. S. 304. And even the courts to which this important function was entrusted were commanded to stay their
hands until and unless certain tested safeguards were observed. An accused in court must be tried by an imnpartial jury, has a right to be represented by counsel, he must
be clearly informed of the charge against him, the law
which he is charged with violating must have been passed
before he committed the act charged, he must be confronted by the witnesses against him, he must not be compelled to incriminate himself, he cannot twice be.put in
jeopardy for the same offense, and even after conviction
6 See dissent of Mr. Justice Miller in Cummings v. Missouri,supra,
4 Wall. at 388; see also Wooddeson, supra, at 624, 638 et seq. Section
304 has all the characteristics of bills of attainder, even as they are
set out by Justice Miller's dissent, except the Eorruption 3f blood.
4 Wall. at 387. The American precedents do not consider corruption
of blood a necessary element. Originally a judgment of death was
necessary to attaint and the consequences of attainder were 'forfeiture
and corruption of blood. Coke, First Institute (on Littleton) (Thomas
Ed. 1818) Vol. III, 559, 563, 565. If the judgment was lesser punishment than death, there was no attaint and the bill was one of pains
and penalties. Practically all the American precedents are bills of
pains and penalties. See Thompson, Anti-Loyalist Legislation During
the American Revolution (1908) 3 Ill. L. Rev. 81, 153 et passim;
John C. Hamilton, History of the Republic of the United States ( 1859)
Vol. III, 23-40. The Constitution in prohibiting bills of attainder
undoubtedly included bills of pains and penalties, as the majority in
the Cummings case held.

318

OCTOBER TERMj 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

328 U. S.

no cruel and unusual punishment can be inflicted upon
him. See Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 235-238.
When our Constitution and BAill of Rights were written,
our ancestors had ample reason to know that legislative
trials and punishments were too dangerous to liberty to
exist in the nation of free men they envisioned. And so
they proscribed bills of attainder. -Section 304 is one.
Much as we regret to declare that an Act of Congress violates the Constitution, we have no alternative here.
Section 304 therefore does not stand as an obstacle to
payment of compensation to Lovett, Watson, and Dodd.
The judgment in their favor is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
MI. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE REED
joins, concurring.
Nothing would be easier than personal condemnation
of the provision of the Urgent Deficiency Appropriation

Act of 1943 here challenged.

§ 304, 57 Stat. 431, 450.1

"SEc. 304. No part of any appropriation, allocation, or fund (1)
which is made available under or pursuant to this Act, or (2) which
is now, or which is hereafter made, available under or pursuant to
any other Act, to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States, shall be used, after November 15, 1943, to pay any
part of the salary, 'or other compensation for the personal services,
of Goodwin B. Watson, William E. Dodd, Junior, and Robert Morss
Lovett, unless prior to such date such person has been appointed by
the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate:
Provided, That this section shall not operate to deprive any such
person of payment for leaves of absence or salary, or of any refund
or reimbursement, which have accrued prior to November 15, 1943:
Provided further, That this section shall not operate to deprive any
such person of payment for services performed as a member of a jury
or as a member of the armed forces of the United States nor any
benefit, pension, or emolument resulting therefrom."

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

But the judicial function exacts considerations very different from those which may determine a vote in Congress
for or against a measure. And what may be decisive for
a Presidential disapproval may not at all satisfy the established criteria which alone justify this Court's striking
down an act of Congress.
Itis not for us to find unconstitutionality in what Congress enacted although it may imply notions that are abhorrent to us as individuals or policies we deem harmful
to the country's well-being. Although, it was proposed
at the Constitutional Convention to have this Court share
inthe legislative process, the Framers saw: fit to exclude it.
And so "it must be remembered that legislatures are ultimate guardians of the liberties and welfare of the people
in quite as great a degree as the courts." Missouri, K.
& T. R. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 270. This admonition
was uttered by Mr. Justice Holmes in one of his earliest
opinions and it needs to be recalled whenever an exceptionally offensive enactment tempts the Court beyond its
strict confinements.
Not to exercise by indirection authority which the Constitution denied to this Court calls for the severest intel
lectual detachment and the most alert self-restraint. The
scrupulous observance, with some deviations, of the professed limits of this Court's power to strike down legislaton has been, perhaps, the one quality'the great judges
of the Court have had in common. Particularly when
Congressional legislation is under scrutiny, every rational
trail must be pursued to prevent collision between Congress and Court. For Congress can readily mend its ways,
or the people may express disapproval by choosing different representatives. But a decree of unconstitutionality
by this Court is fraught with consequences so enduring
and far-reaching as to be avoided unless no choice is left
in reason.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

328 U. S.

The inclusion of § 304 in the Appropriation Bill undoubtedly raises serious constitutional questions. But
the most fundamental principle of constitutional adjudication is not to face constitutional questions but to avoid
them, if at all possible. And so the "Court developed,
for its, own governance in the cases confessedly within its
of rules under which it has avoided
jurisdiction,
passing upona aseries
large part of all the constitutional questions pressed upon it for decision," Brandeis, J., uoncurring, in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297
U. S. 288, 341, at 346. That a piece of 'legislation under
scrutiny may be widely unpopular is as irrelevant to the
observance of these rules for abstention from avoidable
adjudications as that it is widely popular. Some of these.
rules may well appear over-refined or evasive to the laity.
But they have the support not only of the profoundest
wisdom. They have been vindicated, in conspicuous instances of disregard, by the most painful lessor of our
constitutional history.
Such are the guiding considerations enjoined by constitutional principles and the best practice for dealing
with the various claims of unconstitutionality so ably
pressed upon us at the bar.
The Court'reads § 304 as though it expressly discharged
respondents from office which they held and prohibited
them from holding any office under the Government in
the future. On. the basis of this reading the Court holds
that the provision is a bill of attainder in that it "inflicts
punishment without a judicial trial," Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 323, and is therefore forbidden by Article I, § 9 of the Constitution. Congress is said to have
inflicted this punishment upon respondents because it
disapproved the beliefs they were thought to hold. Such
-a colloquial treatment of the statute neglectsthe relevant
canons of constitutional adjudication and disregards those

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303'

FRANKRrER,

J., concurring.

features of the legislation which call its validity into
question on grounds other than inconsistency with the
prohibition against bills of attainder. To characterize an
act of Congress as a bill of attainder readily enlists, however, the instincts of a free' people who are comxnitted to
a fair judicial process for the determination of issues affecting life, liberty, or property and naturally abhor Anything that resembles legislative determination of guilt and
legislative punishment. As I see it, our duty precludes
reading § 304 as the Court reads it. But even if it were
to be so read the provision is not within the constitutional
conception of a bill of attainder.
Broadly speaking, two types 'of constitutional claims
come before this Court. Most constitutional issues derive from the broad standards of fairness written into the
Constitution (e. g. "due process," "equal protection of the
laws," "just compensation"), and the division of power
as between States and Nation. Such questions, by their
very nature, allow a relatively wide play for individual
legal judgment. The other class gives no such scope.
For this second class of constitutional issues derives from
very specific provisions of the Constitution. These had
their source in definite grievances and led the Fathers to
proscribe against recurrence of their experience. These
specific grievances and the safeguards against their recurrence were not defined by the Constitution. They
were defined by history. Their meaning was so settled
by history that definition was superfluous. Judicial enforcement of the Constitution must respect these historic
limit$,
The prohibition of bills of attainder falls of course
among these very specific constitutional provisions. The
distinguishing characteristic of a bill of attainder is the
substitution of legislative determination of guilt and legislative imposition of punishment for judicial finding and

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

328 U. S.

sentence. "A bill of attainder, by the common law, as
our fathers imported it from England and practised it
themselves, before the adoption of the Constitution, was
an act of sovereign power, in the form of a special statute
. . . by which a man was pronounced guilty or attainted
of some crime, and punished by deprivation of his vested
xights, without trial or judgment per legem terrae." Farrar, Manual of the Constitution (1867) 419. And see 2
Story, Commentaries on the Constitution (5th ed., 1891)
216; 1 Cooley, ConstitutionalLimitations (8th ed., 1927)
536. It was this very special, narrowly restricted, intervention by the legislature, in matters for which a decent
regard for men's interests indicated a judicial trial, that
the Constitution prohibited. It must be recalled that the
Constitution wasframed in an era when dispensing justice
was a well-established function of the legislature. The
prohibition against bills of attainder must be viewed in
the background of the historic situation when moves in
specific litigation that are now the conventional and, for
the most part, the exclusive concern of courts were commonplace legislative practices. See Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall.
386; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627, 660; Baltimore &
Susquehanna R. Co. v. Nesbit, 10 How. 395; Pound, Justice According to Law, 11 (1914) 14 Col. L. Rev. 1-12;
Woodruff, Chancery in Massachusetts (1889) 5 L. Q. Rev.
370. Cf. Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700. Bills of attainder were part-of what now are staple judicial functions
which legislatures then exercised. It was this part of
their recognized authority which the Constitution prohibited when it provided that "No Bill of Attainder . . .
shall be passed." Section 304 lacks the characteristics of
the enactments in the Statutes of the Realm and the
Colonial Laws that bear (he hallmarks of bills of
attainder.
All bills of attainder specify the offense for which the
attainted person was deemed guilty and for which the

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303,

FRANKFURTER,

J.,

concurring.

punishment was imposed. There was always a declaration of guilt either of the individual or the class to which
he belonged. The offense might be a pre-existing crime
or an act made punishable ex post facto. Frequently a
bill of attainder was thus doubly objectionable because of
its ex post facto features. This is the historic explanation
for uniting the two mischiefs in one clause-"No Bill of
Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed." No one
claims that § 304 is an ex post facto law. If it is in substance a punishment for acts deemed "subversive" (the
statute, of course, makes no such charge) for which no
punishment had previously been provided, it would clearly
be ex post facto. Therefore, if § 304 is a bill of attainder
it is also an ex post facto law. But if it is not an ex post
facto law, the reasons that establish that it is not are persuasive that it cannot be a bill of attainder. No offense
is specified and no declaration of guilt is made. When
the framers of the Constitution proscribed bills of attainder, they referred to a form of law which had been
prevalent in monarchical England and was employed in
the colonies. They were familiar with its nature; they
had experienced its use; they knew what they wanted to
prevent. It -as not a law unfair in general, even unfair
because affecting merely particular individuals, that they
outlawed by the explicitness of their prohibition of bills
of attainder. "Upon this point a page of history is worth
a volume of logic." New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256
U. S. 345, 349. Nor should resentment against an injustice displace controlling history in judicial construction
of-the Constitution.
Not only does § 304 lack the essential declaration of
guilt. It likewise lacks the imposition of punishment in
the sense appropriate for billg of attainder. The punishment imposed by the most dreaded bill of attainder was
of course death; lesser punishments were imposed by similar bills more technically called bills of pains and pen-

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRIPURzR, 4!.,
concurring.

328 U. S.

alties. The Constitution outlaws this entire category of
punitive measures. Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cranch 87. 138;
Cummings v. Missouri,4 Wall. 277. The amount of punishment is immaterial to the classification of a challenged
statute. But punishment is a prerequisite.
Punishment presupposes an offense, not necessarily an
act previously declared criminal, but an act for which

retribution is exacted. The fact that harm is inflicted by
governmental authority does not make it punishment.
Figuratively speaking all' discomforting action may be
deemed punishment because it deprives of what otherwise would be enjoyed. But therq may be reasons other
than punitive for such deprivation. A man may be forbidden to practice medicine because he has been convicted
of a felony, Hawker v. New York, 170 U. S. 189, or because he is no longer qualified, Dent v. West Virginia, 129
U. S. 114. "The deprivation of any rights, civil or political, previously enjoyed, may be punishment,*the circumstances attending and the causes of the deprivation
determining this fadt." Cummings v. Missouri,,4 Wall.
277, 320.
Is it clear then that the respondents were removed from
office, still accepting the Court's reading of the statute, as
a punishment for past acts? Is it clear, that is, to that
degree of certitude which is required before this Court
declares legislation by Congress unconstitutional? The
disputed section does not say so. So far as the House
of Representatives is concerned, the- Kerr' Committee,
which proposed the measure, and many of those who voted
in favor of the Bill (assuming it is appropriate to go behind the terms of a statute to ascertain the unexpressed
motive-of its members), no doubtconsidered the respondents "subversive" and wished to exclude them from the
Government because of their past associations and their
present views. But the legislation upon which we now
pass judgment is the product of both Houses of Congress

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

FRANKFURTER,

325'

J., concurring.

and the President. The Senate five times rejected the
substance of § 304. It finally prevailtd, not because the
Senate joined in an unexpressed declaration of guilt and
retribution for it, but because the provision was included
in an important appropriation bill. The stiffest interpretation that can be placed upon the Senate's action is
that it agreed to remove the respondents from office (still
assuming the Court's interpretation of § 304) without
passing any judgment on their past conduct or present
views.
Section 304 became law by the President's signature
His' motive in allowing it to become law is free from
doubt. He rejected the notion that the respondents were
"subversive," and explicitly stated that he wished to retain
them in the service of the Government. H. Doc. No. 264,
78th Cong., 1st Sess. Historically, Parliament passed
bills of attainder at, the 4oehest of the monarch. See
Adams, Constitutional History of England (Rev. ed.,
1935) 228-29. The Constitution, of course, provides for
the enactment of legislation even against disapproval by
the Executive. But to hold that a meAsure which did not
express a judgment of condemnation by the Senate and
carried an affirmative disavowal of iuch condemnation by
the President constitutes a bill of attainder, disregards
the historic tests fordetermining what is a bill of attainder.
At the least, there are such serious objections to finding
§ 304 a bill of attainder that it can be declared unconstitutional only by a failure to observe that this Court
reaches constitutional invalidation only through inescapable necessity. "It must be evident to anyone that the
powei to declare a legislative enactment void is one which
the judge, conscious of the fallibility of the human judgment, will shrink from exercising in any case where he
can conscientiously and with due regard tc.duty and official oath decline the responsibility." 1 Cooley, Constitutional Limitations (8th ed., 1927) 332.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

3Z8 U. S.

But even if it be agreed, for purposes of characterizing
the deprivation of the statute as punishment, that the
motive of Congress. was past action of the, respondents,
presumed motive cannot supplant expressed legislative
judgment. - "The expectations of those who sought the
enactment of legislation may not be used for the purpose
of affixing to legislation when enacted a meaning which
it does not express." United State8 v. Goelet, 232 U; S.
293, 298. Congress omitted from § 304 any condemna-.
tion for which the presumed punishment was a sanction:
Thereby it negatived the essential notion of a bill of
attainder. It may be said that such a view .of a bill of
attainder offers Congress too easy a mode of evading the'
prohibition of the Constitution. Congress need merely
omit its ground of condemnation and legislate the penalty!
But the prohibition against a "Bill of Attainder" is only
one of the safeguards of liberty in the arsenal of the Constitution, There are other provisions in the CQnstitution,
specific and comprehensive, effectively 'designed to assure
the liberties of our citizens. The restrictive function of
this clause against bills'of attainder was to take from the
legislature a judicial function which the legislature once
possessed. If Congress adopted, as it did, a form of statute so lacking in any pretensiobi to the very quality which
gave a bill of attainder its significance, that of a declaration of guilt under circumstances which made its determination grossly unfair, it simply passed an act which
this Court ought not to denounce as a bill of attainder.
And not the less so'because Congress may have been conscious of the limitations which the Constitution has
placed upon it against passing bills of attainder. .If Congress chooses to say that men shall not be paid, or even'
that they shall be removed from their jobs, we cannot
decide that Congress also said that they are guilty of
an offense. And particularly we cannot so decide as a

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
303

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

necessary assumption for declaring an act of Congress
invalid. Congress has not legislated that which is attributed to it, for the simple fact is that Congress has said
nothing. The words Congress used are not susceptible
of being read as a legislative verdict of guilt against the
respondents no matter what dictionary, or what form of
argumentation, we use as aids.
This analysis accords with our prior course of decision.
In Cummings v. Missouri, supra, and Ex parte Garland,
4 Wall. 333, the Court dealt with legislation of very
different scope and significance from that now before us.
While the provisions involved in those cases did not condemn or punish specific persons by name, they proscribed
all guilty of designated offenses. Refusal to take a prescribed oath operated as an admission of guilt and automatically resulted in the disqualifying punishment.
Avoidance of legislative proscription for guilt 'under the
provisions in the Cummings and Garland cases required
positive exculpation. ' That the persons legislatively
punished were not named was a mere detail of identification. Congress and the Missouri legislature, respectively,
had provided the most effective method for insuring
identification. These enactments followed the example
of English bills of attainder which condemned a named
person and "his adherents." Section 304 presents a situation wholly outside the ingredients of the enactments
that furnished the basis for the Cummings and Garland
decisions.2
While § 304 is not a bill of attainder, as the gloss of
history defines that phrase in the Constitution, acceptance
of the Court's reading of § 304 would raise other serious
2Even against the holding that such enactments were bills of attainder, Mr. Justice Miller wrote the powerful dissent concurred in
by Mr. Chief Justice Chase, Mr. Justice Swayne, and Mr. Justice
Davis. 4 Wall. 333, 382.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

constitutional questions.

J., concurring.

328 J.S.

The first in magnitude and

difficulty derives from the constitutional distribution of

,Rower over removal.

For about a century this Court

astutely avoided adjudication of the power of control as
between Congress and the Executive of those serving in
the Executive branch of the Government "until it should.
be inevitably presented." Myers v. United-States, 272
U. S. 52, 173. The Court then gave the fullest consideration to the problem. The case was twice argued and was
under consideration for nearly; three years. So far as
the issues could-be foreseen they were elaborately dealt
with in opinions aggregating nearly two hundred pages.
Within less than a decade an opinion of fifteen pages
largely qualified what the Myers case had apparently so
voluminously settled. Humphrey's Executor v. United
States, 295 U. S. 602. This experience serves as a powerful reminder of the Court's duty so to deal with Congressional enactments as to avoid their invalidation unless a
road to any other decision is barred.
The other serious problem the Court's interpretation of
§ 304 raises is that of dud process. In one aspect this is
another phase ot the constitutional issue of the removal
power. For, if § 304 is to be construed as a removal from
office, it cannot be determined whether singling out three
government employees for removal violated the Fifth
Amendment until it is decided whether Congress has a
removal power at all over such employees and how extensive it is. Even if the statute be read as a mere stoppage
of disbursement, the question arises whether Congress can
treat three. employees of the Government differently from
all others. But that question we do not have to answer.
In any event, respondents are entitled to recover in this
suit and their remedy-a suit in the Court of Claims-is
the same whatever view one takes of the legal significance
of §304. To be sure, § 304 also purports to prescribe con-

UNITED STATES v. LOVETT.
"303.

FRANKFURTER,

.329

J., concurring.

ditions relating to future employment of respondents by
the Government. This too is a question not now open
for decision. Reemployment by any agency of the Government, or the desire for reemployment, is not now in
controversy, "and consequently the -subject may well be
postponed until it actually arises for decision." Wilson
v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 354. The "great gravity and delicacy" of this Court's function in passing upon the validity
of an act of Congress is called into action only when absolutely necessary. Steamship Co. v. Emigration Commissioners, 113 U. S. 33, 39. It should not be exercised on
the basis of imaginary and non-existent facts. See Brandeis, J., concurring, in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley
Authority, supra, at 338-45.
Since it is apparent that grave constitutional doubts
will arise if we adopt the construction the Court puts on
§ 304, we ought to follow the practice which this 'Court
has established from the time of Chief Justice Marshall.
The approach appropriate to such a case as the one before
us was thus summarized by Mr. Justice Holmes in a similar situation :-". . . the rule is settled that as between
two possible interpretations of a statute, by one of which
it would be unconstitutional and by the other valid, our
plain duty is to adopt that which will save the Act. Even
to avoid a serious. doubt the rule is the same. United
States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407, 408.
United States v. Standard Brewery, 251 U. S. 210, 220.
Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204, 217.
,Bratton v. Chandler, 260 U. S. 110,114. PanamaR. R.
Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390. Words have been
strained more than they need to be strained here in order
to avoid that doubt. United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241
U. S. 394, 401, 402." Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142,
148. " 'When the validity of an act of the Congress is
drawn in question, and even if a serious doubt of con-

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

stitutionality is raised, it is a cardinal principle that this
Court will first ascertain whether a construction of the
statute is fairly possible by which the question may be
avoided.' Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 62.' Brandeis, J., concurring, in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley
Authority, supra, at 348.
We are not faced inescapably with the necessity of adjudicating these serious constitutional questions. The
obvious or, at the least, the one certain construction of
§ 304 is that it forbids the disbursing agents of the Treasury to pay out of specifically appropriated moneys sums
to compensate respondents for their services. We have
noted the cloud cast upon this interpretation by manifestations by committees and members of the House of
Representatives before the passage of this section. On
the other hand, there is also much in the debates not only
in the Senate but also in the House which supports the
mere fiscal scope to be given to the statute. That such
a construction is tenable settles our duty to adopt it and
to avoid determination of constitutional questions of
great seriousness.
Accordingly, I feel compelled to construe § 304 as did
Mr. Chief Justice Whaley below, 104 Ct. Cls. 557, 584,
66 F. Supp. 142, 147-148, whereby it merely prevented
the ordinary disbursaI of money to pay respondents' salaries. It did not cut off the obligation of the Government
to pay for services rendered and the respondents are, therefore, entitled to recover the judgment which they obtained
from the Court of Claims.

