OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

The whole philosophy of liability without fault is that
losses which are incidental to socially desirable conduct
should be placed on those best able to bear them. Congress has made a determination that the employer is best
able to bear the loss which, in this instance, could not be
avoided by the exercise of due care. This is an implied
determination which should preclude us from saying that
the ship owner is in a more favorable position to absorb
the loss or to pass it on to society at large, than the
employer.
D. A. SCHULTE, INC. v. GANGI ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No.517. Argued March 1, 1946.-Decided April 29, 1946.
. An employer can not be'relieved from liability for liquidated
damages under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act by a compromise or settlement of a bona fide dispute as to the coverage of
the Act. P. 114.
2. The purpose of the Fair Labor Standards Act-to secure a subsistence wage for low-income workers-requires that neither wages
nor the damages for withholding them be reducible by compromise
of controversies over coverage. Pp. 116-118, 121.
3. Maintenance employees of a building the occupants of which
receive, work on and return in intrastate commerce goods belonging to non-occupants who subsequently in the regular course of
their business ship substantial proportions of the occupants' products to other States, held covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act.
P. 120.
4. The burden of proof that 'rests upon employees to establish that
they are engaged in the production of goods for commerce, within
the coverage of the Fair Labor Standards Act, must be met by
evidence in the record. P. 120.
5. In determining whether employees are engaged in the "production of
goods for commerce," within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, it is sufficient that, from the circumstances of production,

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

Opinion of the Court.

a trier of fact may reasonably infer that the employer has reasonable
grounds to anticipate that his products will move in interstate
commerce. Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S: 564,
distinguished. Pp. 119,121.
6. Mere separation of the economic processes of production for commerce between different industrial units, even without any degree
of common ownership, does not destroy the continuity of production
for commerce. P. 121.
150 F. 2d 694, affirmed.

Respondent, suing on behalf of himself and other
employees similarly situated, brought suit against his
employer to recover liquidated damages under § 16 (b) of
the Fair Labor Standards Act. The District Court held
that the liability of the employer had been validly
released. 53 F. Supp. 844. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed. 150 F. 2d 694. This Court granted certiorari.
326 U. S. 712. Affirmed, p. 121.
Edwin A. Falk argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Abraham Friedman.

With

Isidore Entes argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
Solicitor General McGrath, William S. Tyson, Bessie
Margolin and Joseph M. Stone filed a brief for the
Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, United
States Department of Labor, as amicus curiae, urging
affirnance.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

The issues brought to this Court by this proceeding arise
from a controversy concerning overtime pay and liquidated damages under the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938. Under § 7 (a), the employer is required to pay for

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S..

excess hours of work not less than one and one-half times
the regular rate.1 An employer who violates this subsection is liable to his injured employees in the amount
due and unpaid and
in an additional equal amount as
2
damages.
liquidated
The primary issue presented by the petition for certiorari is whether the Fair Labor Standards Act precludes
a bona fide settlement of a bona fide dispute Over the coverage of the Act on a claim for overtime compensation and
liquidated damages where the employees receive the overtime compensation in full. As the conclusion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals on this issue in this case I
conflicts with that of the Fourth Circuit in Guess v.
2 52 Stat. 1063:
"SEC. 7. (a) No employer shall . . . employ any of his employees
who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce-[longer than the maximum workweek]
unless such employee receives compensation for his employment in
excess of the hours above specified at a rate not less than one and
one-half times the regular rate at which he is employed."
252 Stat. 1069:
"SEC. 16. (b) Any employer who violates the provisions of section 6
or section 7 of this Act shall be liable to the employee or employees
affected in the amount of their unpaid minimum wages, or their
unpaid overtime compensation, as the case may be, and in an additional equal amount as liquidated damages. Action to recover such
liability may be maintained in any court of comptent jurisdiction
by any one or more employees for and in behalf of himself or themselves and other employees similarly situated, or such employee or
employees may designate an agent or representative to maintain such
action for and in behalf of all employees similarly situated. The court
in such action shall, in addition to any judgment awarded to the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, allow a reasonable attorney's fee to be paid by
the defendant, and costs of the action."
3 Gangi v. D. A. Schulte, 150 F. 2d 694. See also Fleming v. Warshawsky & Co., 123 F. 2d 622, 626.

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

Opinion of the Court.

Montague, 140 F. 2d 500, 504-505, and the Fifth Circuit
in Atlantic Co. v. Broughton, 146 F. 2d 480, we granted
certiorari in order to determine the issue which was not
passed upon in Brooklyn Bank v. O'Neil, 324 U. S. 697,
702-704, 708, note 21. 326 U. S. 712.'
Respondents were employed by petitioner as building
service and maintenance employees in its twenty-three
story loft building in the garment manufacturing district
of New York City during the period October 24, 1938, to
February 5, 1942. Each put in varying hours of overtime
for which no payment had been made prior to our decision
in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, on June 1,
1942, by which service and maintenance employees in
buildings tenanted by manufacturers producing for inter'
state commerce were held to be covered by the WageHour Act. Shortly thereafter respondents made claims
for overtime pay and liquidated damages which were
refused by petitiontr on the ground, admittedly true,
that its tenants did not ship the products they produced
directly in interstate commerce but delivered them to distributors or producers in the same state who thereafter
used the products of petitioner's tenants for interstate
commerce or the production of goods for that commerce.
Under threat of suit, petitioner paid the overtime compensation and obtained a release under seal signed by the
4 In view of the number of settlements for violations, the issue is of
importance. See Annual Report, Wage and Hour and Public Contracts Divisions, U. S. Department of Labor, fiscal year ending June
30, 1945, p. 2:
"In the six years and nine months that the Fair Labor Standards Act had been in force through the end of the fiscal year, about
$85,000,000 in restitution of illegally withheld wages had been
agreed to or ordered paid to almost two and a half million workers
in more than 110,000 establishments, with more than two-fifths of
the cases involving failure to pay the minimum wage of 40 cents
an hour or less."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

several respondents. It is set out below.' Petitioner
computed the amount of overtime and respondents raise
no question as to its accuracy. Respondents then brought
this suit in the District Court to recover liquidated damages due them under § 16 (b) of the Act. It was stipulated
that the liquidated damages, due if recoverable, were certain stated amounts which. corresponded to the overtime
compensation already paid. Petitioner denied that it was
covered by the Act and pleaaed affirmatively,'as a defense,
the releases which it asserted were obtained in settlement
of a bona fide dispute as-to coverage.
The District Court held that there was a good accord
and satisfaction and release of all claims for liquidated
damages because there was a bona fide settlement of a
bona fide dispute. It specifically refused to pass upon the
defense that the Act did not cover the respondents except
to indicate that it presented a difficult issue. 53 F. Supp.
844. This judgment was entered prior to our decision in
the O'Neil case. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
That court thought the O'Neil case substantially determined that a bona fide compromise of a dispute as. to
coverage was invalid. Its conclusion as to the invalidity
of such compromises was in accord with its prior comments that the liability of unpaid overtime compensation
and li-Auidated damages is single and "is not discharged
in toto by paying one.half of it." Rigopoulos v. Kervan,
140 F. 2d 506, 507; Fleming v. Po8t, 146 F. 2d 441, 443.
Petitioner urges that the theory of a single liability of
the employer to the employee under § 16 (b) is unsound
5 "The

undersigned, an employee of D. A. Schulte, Inc., in premises
575 Eighth Avenue, New York City, does hereby acknowledge receipt
of the sum of $...... as payment in full of all sums, if any, which
may be due to the undersigned by said D. A. Schulte, Inc. by reason
of the Federal Wage & Hour Act, and the undersigned does hereby
release said D. A. Schulte, Inc. of and from any other or further
obligations in connection therewith."

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

Opinion of the Court.

and that this Court should not find a lack of power in
employers and employees to settle amicably controversies
over coverage and amounts due for violations of the unpaid minimum wage or unpaid overtime compensation
under §-§ 6 and 7 of the Act. Petitioner reasons on its
first contention that there were two claims-one for overtime compensation and the other for an equal amount
as liquidated damages-and that the payment for the
first in full was sufficient consideration for the release of
the second. On its second contention, petitioner advances
the argument that since the congressional intent to forbid
compromises of such claims is not clear, such a sharp departure from the traditional policy of encouraging the
adjustment instead of the litigation of disputes cannot be
inferred from the purposes of the Act. Petitioner points
out that a seaman may release his claims under statutes
enacted for his protection in a bona fide settlement 6 and
that settlement of accrued claims is permitted under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act., Petitioner adds that
in doubtful cases it may be advantageous to the employee
to compromise, that to force litigation may disrupt employer-employee relationships, and that numerous compromise settlements have been made for less than full
8
liability.
6Garrettv. Moore-McCormack Co., 317 U. S. 239.
Mellon v. Goodyear, 277 U. S. 335.
B Attention is called by petitioner to the failure in this case of the
Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor, as amicus curiae, to take the position that compromise
payments in cases of disputed coverage are invalid. The Administrator is charged with responsibility for 'the administration of the Act.
Petitioner cites from the Administrator's brief (p. 20) in the O'Neil
.case to show the government position the- following excerpt: "The
factors which we have mentioned suggest, to us, the difficulty and
perhaps the inadvisability from the standpoint of the policy of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

We do not find it necessary to determine whether the
liability for unpaid wages and liquidated damages that
§ 16 (b) creates is unitary or divisible.' Whether the liability is single or dual, we think the remedy of liquidated
damages cannot be bargained away by bona fide settlements of disputes over coverage. Nor do we need to
consider here the possibility of compromises in other situaAct of framing a sweeping generalization that all releases of liquidated
damages are either valid or invalid." That brief called attention
also (pp. 19-20) to government practice upon violations of the Act
by contractors with cost-plus contracts with the War and Navy
Departments:
"If it is decided by the contracting agency, the Administrator,
or on appeal by the Assistant Attorney General, that the employee should prevail, the United States Attorney handling the
case is directed to negotiate a tentative settlement with the
employee's counsel for submission to the contracting agency for
acceptance or rejection. The wages due are of course always paid,
but the claim for liquidated damages is the subject of bargaining,
and almost invariably the employee's counsel is willing to accept
considerably less than the total amount of liquidated damages.
After payment of the amount agreed on, a judgment is entered
dismissing the suit with prejudice, thereby preventing the
employee from seeking to recover more on the same claim."
Settlements of controversies undo. the Act by stipulated judgments in this Court are also referred to by petitioner. North Shore
Corp. v. Barnett, 323 U. S.679.
Petitioner draws the inference that bona fide stipulated judgments
on alleged Wage-Hour violations for less than the amounts actually
due stand in no better position than bona fide settlements. Even
though stipulated judgments may be obtained, where settlements are
proposed in controversies between employers and employees over
violations of the Act, by the simple device of filing suits and entering
agreed judgments, we think the requirement of pleading the issues
and submitting the judgment to judicial scrutiny may differentiate
stipulated judgments from compromises by the parties. At any rate,
the suggestion of petitioner is argumentative only as no judgment was
entered in this case.
9See Dize v. Maddrix, 324 U. S. 697, 701-2, 713.

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

Opinion of the Court.

tions which may arise, such as a dispute over the number
of hours worked or the regular rate of employment. °
The reasons which lead us to conclude that compromises
of real disputes over coverage which do not require the
payment in full of unpaid wages and liquidated damages
do not differ greatly from those which led us to condemn
the waivers of liquidated damages in the O'Neil case. We
said there, 324 U. S. at 708:
"The same policy which forbids waiver of the statutory minimum as necessary to the free flow of commerce requires that reparations to restore damage
done by such failure to pay on time must be made
to accomplish Congressional purposes. Moreover,
the same policy which forbids employee waiver of
the minimum statutory rate because of inequality of
bargaining power, prohibits these same employees
from bargaining with their employer in determining
whether so little damage was suffered that waiver of
liquidated damage is called for."
In a bona fide adjustment on coverage, there are the same
threats to the public purposes of the Wage-Hour Act that
exist when the liquidated damages are waived. The damages are at the same time compensatory and an aid to enforcement. It is quite true that the liquidated damage
provision acts harshly upon employers whose violations
are not deliberate but arise from uncertainties or mistakes
as to coverage. Since the possibility of violations inheres
in every instance of employment that is covered by the
Act, Congress evidently felt it should not provide for
variable compensation to fit the degree of blame in each
infraction." Instead Congress adopted a mandatory re10 See Strand v. Garden Valley Telephone Co., 51 F. Supp. 898,
904-5.
11Brooklyn Savings Bank v. O'Neil, supra, 713; West Coast Hotel
Co. v. Parrish, 300 U. S. 379, 397; Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261
U. S. 525, 563.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945..
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

quirement that the employer pay a sum in liquidated
damages equal to the unpaid wages so as to compensate
the injured employee for the retention of his pay. 2
It is realized that this conclusion puts the employer and
his employees to an "all or nothing gamble," as Judge
Chase phrased the result in his dissent below. Theoretically this means each party gets his just deserts, no more,
no less. The alternative is to find in the Act an intention
of Congress to leave the adjustments to bargaining at the
worst between employers and individual employees or at
best between employers and the employees' chosen representatives, bargaining agent or some other. We think the
purpose of the Act, which we repeat from the O'Neil case
was to secure for the lowest paid segment of the Nation's
workers'a subsistence wage, leads to the conclusion that
neither wages nor the damages for withholding them are
capable of reduction by compromise of controversies over
coverage.13 Such a compromise thwarts the public policy
of minimum wages, promptly paid, embodied in the WageHour Act, by reducing the sum selected by Congress as
proper compensation for withholding wages."4
The only other material question presented by this certiorari 11 is whether the Wage-Hour Act covers service and
12 Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572, 583-84; Birbalas v.
Cuneo PrintingIndustrie8, 140 F. 2d 826, 828-29.
1
s Discussions of compromise of liability under the Wage-Hour Act
will be found in 45 Col. L. Rev. 798; 14 George Washington L. Rev.
385 and 57 Harv. L. Rev. 257.
14
Brooklyn Savings Bank v. O'Neil, supra, 7C-5, note 14.

15

The precise language of the question presented is as follows:
"Whether building maintenance employees are within the protection of the Act if the facts relied on to establish coverage of
the employees show only that some of the tenants in the building
receive work on and return in intrastate commerce goods belong-

ing to iocal owners who are not tenants of the building and that
subsequently-some of the said goods are sold and shipped by such
non-tenant owners in interstate commerce, there being no proof

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

117

Opinion of the Court.

maintenance employees of a building that is tenanted by
occupants who receive, work on and return in intrastate
commerce goods belonging to non-occupants who subsequently in the regular course of their business ship substantial proportions of the occupants' products to other
states."6 It is agreed by petitioner and respondents that
if certain tenants are included as producers for interstate
commerce the occupants of the building who are engaged
in production for interstate commerce are sufficiently
numerous and productive to bring the maintenance emeither that at the time of production such tenants had any
knowledge of the ultimate destination of the goods worked on by
them or that at the time of production the non-tenant owners
had any prior orders or agreements to sell and ship any part
of the completed goods in interstate commerce."
16 No problem involving the soundness of the Wage-Hour standards
to guide its enforcement of the Act is involved. We express no opinion
on that question. As a working hypothesis the Wage-Hour Administration assumes that when as much as twenty per cent of a building
is occupied by firms substantially engaged in production for commerce,
then it is likely that maintenance employees will be covered. Release
PR-19 (rev.), Nov. 19, 1943, Wage-Hour Division, U. S. Department
of Labor. The Circuit Court of Appeals applied this rule with the
result that it decided none of the respondents was covered by the
Act prior to January 1, 1940. 150 F. 2d 694, 696-97. It decided
that all the respondents were covered by the Act beginning January 1,
1940, because more than twenty per cent of the tenants then were
engaged in the production of goods for commerce. No review of the
first ruling is sought by respondents. Petitioner did not question the
soundness of the twenty per cent standard in its petition for certiorari
or brief.
As no question is made in petition for certiorari or brief as to the
propriety of the action or the power of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in determining the kind of activity, state or interstate, that the petitioner's tenants carried on, rather than returning the case to the District Court for a finding of fact, we pass the question without inquiry
and without intimation of our understanding of the proper procedure.
Compare the majority and dissenting opinions in 150 F. 2d 694.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ployees of the building within the coverage of the Act.
Gangi v. D. A. Schulte, 150 F. 2d 694, note 5. That is,
petitioner's building then would be in the same classification, so far as the coverage of its maintenance employees
by the Wage-Hour Act is concerned, as were the buildings
in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, and Borden
Co. v. Borella, 325 U. S. 679. We then would have no
problem as to the business of the tenants, that is, whether
they were producers for interstate commerce, such as was
involved in 10 East 40th Street Co. v. Callus, 325 U. S. 578.
While the Wage-Hour Act covers employees engaged in
the production of goods for commerce, a maintenance
employee working for a building corporation which furnishes loft space to tenants can hardly be so engaged unless
an adequate proportion of the tenants of that building
are so engaged. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. at
524; Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S. 564,
572.
Our inquiry, therefore, is narrowed to a determination
of whether or not these certain tenants of petitioner,
twelve in number, are producing goods for interstate commerce. These tenants manufactured articles for non-tenant New York City business organizations, which organizations subsequently sold the articles in interstate commerce.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held as to them, 150 F. 2d
697: "1
17Petitioner

says as to this finding: "The sole basis in the record

for this finding is that the manufacturers for whom the said twelve
tenant-contractors worked eventually disposed of some of their goods
in interstate commerce. No evidence was offered and no attempt was
made to prove that at the time when any of the additional twelve
tenants worked on goods belonging to the manufacturers, such manufacturers had an order or an agreement or contract for the shipment
of the goods, when completed, in interstate commerce. There was no
testimony by any of the twelve tenants that they knew or had reason

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

Opinion of the Court.

"And the testimony clearly shows that at the time of
production these tenants had at the very least reasonable grounds to anticipate that their products would
move in other states. This is all that had to be shown
to constitute them interstate producers. WarrenBradshaw Drilling Co. v. Hall, 317 U. S. 88, 92;
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 118...."
Petitioner asserts that for four of the twelve there was no
evidence that any of them knew at the time of production
or later that their products were to be shipped interstate
and that the proper characterization of these four tenants,
as producers or non-producers for interstate commerce, is
decisive of the liability of petitioner. Without detailing
the factual situation which makes the position of these
four tenants decisive of liability, we assume petitioner's
conclusion that its liability depends upon the proper characterization of the four tenants in respect to their position
as producers for interstate commerce. We assume that
the other eight are in the same category of tenants.
Petitioner relies upon Walling v. Jacksonville PaperCo.,
317 U. S.564, 569, as indicating that evidence of a preexisting understanding by a manufacturer of the interstate destination of his products is essential. But that
case was concerned with whether a wholesaler's employees
who handled stock were in commerce, not whether they
were engaged in the production of goods for commerce."
On that basis distinctions were made, as to employees
handling goods locally, between a wholesaler's stock purto believe that the goods worked on by them would be shipped in
interstate commerce. In fact, there was no evidence, in the case
of four of the twelve tenants, that any of them knew, either at the
time of production or at any time thereafter, or even upon the trial,
that the goods workect on by them were eventually shipped in interstate commerce."
18 Compare McLeod v. Threlkeld, 319 U.S. 491.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

chased on prior order extra-state for delivery intrastate
and other stock purchased extra-state and warehoused for
subsequent sale and local handling. We find nothing in
the case that lends any support to the suggestion that a
manufacturer's intrastate delivery to a wholesaler or distributor or other manufacturer for further processing for
ultimate interstate distribution interrupts production for
interstate commerce.
The burden of proof that rests upon employees to establish that they are engaged in the production of goods for
commerce must be met by evidence in the record. WarrenBradshaw Drilling Co. v. Hall, 317 U. S. 88, 90. The record shows this building is at 571-583 Eighth Avenue, Borough of Manhattan, City of New York. The testimony
of many witnesses shows that the tenants were predominantly, if not entirely, engaged in work for the garment
trades. We will take judicial notice, as a matter of common knowledge, that New York City produces more
garments for interstate shipment than any other city in
the Nation. Eleven of the twelve tenants were contractors who furnished labor on goods sent in to them so as
to produce clothing articles eventually distributed in interstate commerce. The twelfth was a manufacturer with
offices, salesroom and shipping rooms elsewhere in New
York. There was no specific evidence that the four con-'
tractors, upon whose status petitioner bases his argument,
ever knew that their goods were intended to be or eventually were shipped interstate. There is clear evidence that
each business organization for which these four tenants
did produce these clothing articles shipped a major proportion of the articles so produced by these tenants in interstate commerce in the regular course of their business.
The production of these articles by the tenants for nontenants was the regular business of the tenants. The
shortest occupancy of space by any of the four was five
years and eleven months.

SCHULTE CO. v. GANGI.
108

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

From these facts, we think the conclusion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals that these tenants had reasonable
grounds to anticipate that material quantities of their production would move interstate is well supported. It is not
essential that individual products should be traced. It is
sufficient that, from the circumstances of production, a
trier of fact may reasonably infer that a producer has
grounds to anticipate that his products will move interstate." Certainly if these tenants had not only manufactured but had also shipped their products interstate,
no one would doubt that they were producers for commerce. Mere separation of the economic processes of
production for commerce between different industrial
units, even without any degree of common ownership, does
not destroy the continuity of production for commerce.
Producers may be held to know the usual routes for distribution of their products. All this is made plain by
the citations of the Court of Appeals to the Darby and
Bradshaw cases.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
BURTON

with whom MR. JUSTICE

concurs, dissenting.

Substantially for the reasons given by Judge Rifkind,
53 F. Supp. 844, I would restore his judgment in the District Court and reverse that of the Circuit Court of Appeals. For purposes of judicial enforcement, the "policy"
of a statute should be drawn out of its terms, as nourished
by their proper environment, and not, like nitrogen, out
19 Compare Dize v. Maddrix, 144 F. 2d 584; Culver v. Bell &
Loffland, 146 F. 2d 29; St. John v. Brown, 38 F. Supp. 385, 388;
Fleming v. Enterprise Box Co., 37*F. Supp. 331, aff'd 125 F. 2d 897;
Bracey v. Luray, 138 F. 2d ,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

of the air. Before a hitherto familiar and socially desirable practice is outlawed, where overreaching or exploitation is not inherent in the situation, the outlawry should
come from Congress. To that end, some responsibility at
least for a broad hint to the courts, if not for explicitness,
should be left with Congress.
When on other occasions Congress has desired to forbid
arrangements made in good faith, it has known how to
express its will. When it has not said so in words, it has
said so in effect by the very thing it has required, as, for
instance, when it made tariffs filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission the fixed measure of transportation charges and forbade discrimination. 24 Stat. 379,
380, as amended; 49 U. S. C. § 6 (7). Of course that precludes discrimination by contract. E. g., Pittsburgh,C., C.
& St. L. R. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577. The Fair Labor
Standards Act affords no comparable basis for the Court's
decision in this case. Nothing is discernible in anything
that Congress has said or done to imply the prohibition of
a settlement made by parties in good faith, not for the
minimum wages but a settlement affecting the penalizing
double liability where any liability was fairly in controversy when the sttlement was made. The severity of the
penalties imposed and the legitimate differences regarding
the scope of the Act, inherent in its terms, cf. Kirschbaum
Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 520, 523, only serve to underline the impolicy of att*ributing to Congress a purpose
reflected neither in any specific provision of the statute
nor in the scheme of the legislation. Strict enforcement
of the policy which puts beyond the pale of private arrangement minimum standards of wages and hours fixed
by law does not call for disregard of another policy, that
of encouraging amicable settlement of honest differences
between men dealing at arm's length with one another.

