HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.

707

Syllabus.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 625.

Argued April 22, 29,1946.-Decided June 10, 1946.

1. A seaman employed on a ship owned by the United States and operated for the War Shipping Administration by a private company
"as its agent and not as an independent contractor" under the standard form of General Agent Service Agreement was injured a few
days before the effective date of the Clarification Act of March 24,
1943, due to the negligent operation of the ship. Held: He is entitled to sue the operating company for damages in a state court
and to have a jury trial under § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act of
1920 (the Jones Act), even if he was technically an employee of the
United States. Pp. 715-734.
2. The purpose of the Suits in Admiralty Act was to expand, not to
restrict, the rights of seamen. To interpret it as intended to displace the settled scheme of private rights of seamen during a period
of temporary governmental control of the entire merchant marine
would be to pervert its whole purpose, create numerous uncertainties, and cause the loss of substantive rights long enjoyed by seamen.
Pp. 715-723.
3. Even if the seaman was an employee of the United States, this did
not remit him exclusively to the Suits in Admiralty Act for remedy
to enforce the substantive rights given by the Jones Act or deprive
him of al remedies against the operating '"agent" for such injuries
as he incurred. Pp. 723, 724.
4. An application of the common law rules of private agency to defeat
the Jones Act cannot be justified in this tempo-arv situation, since
neither Congress nor the President intended to take away the normally applicable rights and remedies of seamen when the maritime
industry was transferred temporarily to governmental control for
the duration of the war emergency. Pp. 724, 725, 730, 731.
5. Nothing in the Jones Act, the Suits in Admiralty Act, the War
Powers Act of 1941, or the Executive Orders by which the maritime
industry was transferred to governmental control compels a contrary conclusion. P. 725.

708

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

328 U. S.

6. That the wartime transfer of the merchant marine from private
to government control was not intended to deprive the seaman of
his right to sue under the Jones Act is confirmed by the Clarification Act. One prirpary occasion for the passage of the Clarification
Act was to save the seaman's rights rather than to take them away.
Pp. 725-734.
7. In its retroactively operating provisions, here applicable, the Clarification Act gives the seaman an election between enforcing his
rights in the usual manner and asserting them against the United
States under the Suits in Admiralty Act. It would nullify this election to hold that the seaman's only remedy for injuries incurred
before the Clarification Act became effective was under the Suits
in Admiralty Act. Pp. 729, 730.
8. The mere fact that the standard form of General Agent Service
Agreement was changed so as to omit the provion for the operating
agent to man the ship (lid not deprive seamen of the long-established scheme of rights and remedies provided by law or reduce them
to the single mode of enforcement under the Suits in Admiralty procedure. Pp. 730, 731.
176 Cre. 662, 158 P. 2d 275, reversed.

A seaman injured aboard a ship owned by the United
States brought suit and obtained a judgment for damages
in an Oregon court under § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act of 1920 (the Jones Act) against a steamship company
vihich was operating the ship for the Government under
the standard form of General Agent Service Agreement
ith the War Shipping Administration. The Supreme
Court of Oregon reversed. 176 Ore. 662, 158 P. 2d 275.
This-Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 771. Reversed,
P. 734.
Abraham E. Freedman and B. A. Green argued the
cause for petitioner. With them on the brief was 'Edwin
D. Hicks.
Erskine Wood and Erskine B. Wood argued the cause
and filed a brief for respondent.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

709

Opinion of the Court.

Briefs were filed as amici curiae by William L. Standard
and Jacquin Frank for the National Maritime Union of
America; by Silas B.. Axtell and Myron Scott for Josephine
Fontao et al.; and by Abraham E. Freedman, Milton M.
Borowsky and Charles Lakatos for the National Organization Marine Engineers Beneficial Association et al., urging reversal.
Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General
Sonnett, Ralph F.Fuchs and Paul A. Sweeney filed a brief
for the United States as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR.JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case arises by virtue of the fact that during most
of the Second World War substantially our entire merchant marine became part of a single vast shipping pool,
said to have been the largest in history,' operated and
controlled by the United States tl.rough the War Shipping
Administration.! So huge an enterprise necessarily comprehended many intricate and complex readjustments

from normal, 'peacetime shipping arrangements.

These

I As of the date of Japanese surrender the War Shipping Admin.istration operated or owned approximately 4300 merchant ships, as
compared with the 1375 ships available for deep-sea service in the
prewar American merchant marine. The number of men needed for
the wartime merchant marine was approximately 220,000, as compared
with the prewar requirement of 55,000 men. Fc- further figures on
the expansion of the merchant marine during the war, see Note (1946)
55 Yale L. J. 584, note 1 and authorities cited.
2 On February 7, 1942, the President, acting by virtue of the authority vested in him "by the Constitution and Statutes of the United
States, including the First War Powers Act, 1941" (50 U. S. C. App.
§ 601), established the War Shipping Administration. Exec. Order
No. 9054, Feb. 7, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg. 837, as amended by Exec. Order
No. 9244, Sept. 16, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg. 7327.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

were executed largely through broad powers conferred
upon the Administration.
Eventually almost every vessel not immediately belonging to naval and other armed forces came under the
Administration's authority. Otherwise than by direct
construction and ownership, this was accomplished by
transfer from private shipping interests to the Administration, pursuant to requisition or other arrangement.
Inevitably the industry's transfer from private to public
control was achieved to a very great extent by making
use not only of private property but also of private shipping men, both in management and for labor.4 This too
3 The Executive Order provided that the Administrator of the War
Shipping Administration should "control the operation, purchase,
charter, requisition, and use of all ocean vessels under the flag or
control of the United States .... " It also transferred to the War
Shipping Administration "the functions, duties and powers conferred
by law upon the United States 'Maritime Commission with respect to
the operation, purchase, charter, insurance, repair, maintenance, and
requisition of vessels and facilities required for the operation thereof
.. . under various specified statutes and executive orders "and under
any other provisions of law, including Executive Orders . ..

."

The parties have not questioned the authority of the War Shipping
Administration. The following statutes and executive orders relate
to the authority exercised. § 902 (a), Merchant Marine Act of 1936,
46 U. S. C. § 1242 (a); § 902 (e), Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as
amended, 46 U. S. C. § 1242 (e); § 207,' Merchant Marine Act of
1936, as amended, 46 U. S. C. § 1117; §§ 1 and 2, Joint Resolution
of February 6, 1941, 55 Stat. 5; Public Law 247, 77th Cong., 55
Stat. 669, 681; 50 U. S. C. App. § 1274; Exec. Order No. 9001, Dee.
27, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 6787, as amended by Exec. Order No. 9296,
Jan. 30, 1943, 8 Fed. Reg. 1429.
See H. Rep. No. 2572, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 8: "The Administrator, in the conduct of his duties and functions, makes very extensive
use of the private organizations including those engaged in merchant
marine insurance and related activities, steamship operators, stevedore, and terminal facilities, freight forwarders, and freight brokers
and agents. Special skill, knowledge, and experience are made available in this manner for use in the integrated war effort. This devel-

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

711

Opinion of the Court.

was brought about in various ways, but chiefly two for
presently pertinent purposes. One was by time-chartering of privately owned vessels with crew, in which case
the men remained the private employees of the vessel's
owner. The other was by either bareboat-charter or
outright. ownership by the Administration. In such instances, as will appear, master and seamen became technically emplcyees of the United States?
The difference is important for the issues and the decision in this case. They concern the broad question
whether seamen employed in the latter capacity, as members of the United States Merchant Marine,' lost during
the period of such service prior to March 24, 1943,- some
of the American seamen's ordinary and usual protections
in respect to personal injury or death incurred in the
course of employment, or retained those rights. Specifically, in this case the question is whether petitioner Hust
retained the seaman's usual right to jury trial in a suit
against the respondent, pursuant to the provisions of the
Jones Act,' for personal injuries incurred in the course of
his employment as a seaman on the S. S. Mark Hanna.
opment confirms the wisdom of the congressional policy in the recent
years of stimulating and assisting the development of such private
merchant marine and insurance facilities at substantial Government
cost. The policy has permitted a quick change-over from peacetime
io wartime operations of the entire merchant marine without any
substantial loss of efficiency or impairment of morale."
See H. Rep. No. 2572, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 8-10.
0 The seamen employed on Government-operated vessels were, of
course, in civilian, as opposed to military or naval, service. Cf. Hear,
ings before the Committee on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries
on H. R. 7424, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 5-6.
I The effective date of the so-called Clarification Act, 50 U. S. C.
App. § 1291, discussed at various points in this opinion. Relevant
portions of the Act are set forth in the text herein at note 36 and
in note 35.
8 § 33, Merchant Marine Act of 1920, 46 U. S. C. § 688.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

This was a Government-owned Liberty ship operated
under a so-called General Agent Service Agreement between respondent and the Administration.
The Mark Hanna had been torpedoed in the Atlantic
Ocean on March 9, 1943. Early on the morning of the
17th, the day of Hust's injury, the vessel was being towed
to port. He was ordered to go to the ship's locker in
the forepeak of the second deck and bring out a mooring
line to be used in towing. The electric bulb lighting the
locker room had btirned out and the room was dark.
While crossing it to get the line, Hust fell through an
unguarded hatch about twelve feet to the third deck. In
landing he struck a steel manhole cover projecting some
six inches above the deck, and incurred the injuries for
which this sit was brought on September 24, 1943, in
the Circuit Court for the County of Multnomah, State
of Oregon.
The complaint alleged that Hust was respondent's employee, was injured through its negligence, and that the
suit was brought pursuant to § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act.of 1920. Trial before a jury brought a verdict and
judgment for Hust. On appeal to the Supreme Court
of Oregon the judgment was reversed and an order was
entered for the cause to be remanded, with directions to
enter judgment for the respondent notwithstanding the
verdict. The Supreme Court held that, as a matter of
law," petitioner was an employee of the United States,
not of respondent, and therefore he was not entitled to
1On special interrogatory the jury had found that Hust was respondent's employee on the date the injuries were incurred. The
verdict was for $35,000, which the trial court indicated in its opinion
was excessive in relation to the injuries incurred. But being of
opinion that the question of liability should be settled by review,
it declined t6 order remittitur and denied the motion for judgment
non obstante veredicto, in effect reserving decision on the question of
remittitur pending outcome of decision on appeal.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

713

Opinion of the Court.

recover from it under the Jones Act for the injuries alleged
and proved. 176 Ore. 662, 158 P. 2d 275. The importance of the question for the administration of the Act
in application to persons situated similarly to the petitioner caused us to grant certiorari in order to review this

ruling.

327 U. S. 771.

The Supreme Court of Oregon considered that the controlling question was whether Hust was respondent's

employee when the injuries were incurred; and that "it
must be assumed . . . that the case is governed by the

rule of the common law" to determine this question and
thus the outcome of the case. Accordingly it examined
with great care the hrrangements which had been made
between respondent and the Government for operation

of the Mark Hanna. with special reference to the provisions of the General Service Agreement "' to which the

Administration and respondent were parties. From this
examination the court concluded that respondent was an
agent of the Administration for only limited purposes,
not including control, authority or principalship of the
master and crew or responsibility for negligent occurrences taking place at sea and not attributable to the

manner of discharging any duty of respondent while the
10 Acting

within its authority, cf. note 3, the Administration utilized
these standard contracts for making arrangements with private steamship companies for the operation of many of these vessels. 46 C. F. R.
(Cunt. Supp.) § 306.44. They did not cover specific vessels. Under
Article 1 of the agreement, the general agent agreed to "manage
and conduct the business of vessels assigned to it by the United
States from time to time."
In the instant case, the General Agent Service Agreement appears
to.have been given retroactive effect. The agreement states that it
is "made as of October 19, 1941"; but that it was actually made
as of that date is impossible, since the War Shipping Administration
did not come into being lntil February 7, 1942. See note 1.
Some of the terms of the agreement are summarized in the text
and notes 30, 40, 41.

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

vessel 'was in port." Hence, applying the common-law
"control" test, 2 the court came to its conclusion that Hust
was not respondent's employee as that relation is contemplated in the Jones Act. The court also found that
the so-called Clarification Act' in no way gave support
to his view that he could recover from respondent under
the Jones Act.1"
It is around these questions and the effect for determining them of various authorities, particularly Brady
v. Roosevelt S. S. Ca., 317 U. S. 575, that. the controversy
has revolved in the state courts and here. In connection
with the bearing of the Clarification Act, it is of some
importance to note .that Hust's injuries were sustained
11Cf. Brady v. Roosevelt S. S. Co., 317 U. S. 575. On the evidence
of negligence presented here it was not shown that respondent had
failed to perform any duty in outfitting the ship or. otherwise in
relation to the delinquencies alleged to have constituted causes of
the injuries. These, so far as the record discloses, were attributable
entirely to occurrences taking place after the ship had last put to sea.
12See Labor Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S. 111, notes
27 and 19 and authorities cited.
i3See note 7.
14 Petitioner relies on the following cases as supporting his position:
Gay v. Pope & Talbot, 183 Misc. 162, 47 N. Y. S. 2d 16; McCormick
v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 54 F. Supp. 399; Moss v. Alaska Packers
Assn., 160 P. 2d 224, 1945 A. M. C. 493; Bast v. American-Hawaiian
S. S. Co., 1945 A. M. C. 503; Schaller v.Matson Navigation Co., 43
N. Y. S. 2d 566.
Respondent relies upon Algiere v. Cosmopolitan Shipping Co.. 185
Misc. 271, 56 N. Y. S. 2d 361, 1945 A. M. C. 906; Pedersen v. Stockard
S. S. Corp., 268 App. Div. 992, 51 N. Y. S. 2d 675, 1945 A. M. C. 23;
Nielsen v.American President Lines, 50 N. Y. S. 2d 249, 1944 A. M. C.
1169; Steele v. American South African Line, 62 F. Supp. 636;
Baker v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 57 F. Supp. 207; Conlon v. Hammond Shipping Co., 55 F. Supp. 635; Williams v. American Foreign
S. S. Corp., 1946 A. M. C. 98; Ferris v. American South African Line,
1945 A. M. C. 1296; Walsh's Case, 1945 A. M. C. 747; Murray v.
American Export Lines, 53 F. Supp. 861; Fox v. Alcoa S. S. Co., 143
F. 2d 667. See also Note (1946) 55 Yale L. J. 584.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

715

Opinion of the Court.

only a few days before that Act became effective on March
24, 1943, and that it contained features relating to injuries
like Hust's incurred between that date and October 1,
1941, retroactive in character.'5 It is, in part, concerning
those features that argument has been most intense.
I.
At the outset it is important to state just what the
decision may mean in consequences for injured seamen
and their dependents as well as for the Government.
The Jones Act was the culmination of a long struggle
by seamen to secure more adequate relief in case of injury
or death, incurred in the course of employment, than had
been afforded by preexisting law. 6 We do not stop to
review that history. But the history of the Jones Act
since its enactment has been distinctive in that, at all
subsequent times, seamen have opposed substituting for
its provisions other forms of relief which have been tendered as being more in accord with modern trends of
legislation for these matters.'" Wisely or unwisely, they
have steadfastly preferred the traditional remedy of jury
trial for negligence to workmen's compensation based on
liability without fault. By 1942, when the Government
took over the merchant marine, that remedy had become
a thoroughly established incident of the seaman's contract
of employment, as much so as the historic relief afforded
by the general maritime law for maintenance and cure
" See text in/ra at note 36.
10 See Warner v. Goltra, 293 U. S. 155; Gerradin v. United Fruit
Co.. 60 F. 2d 927.
11See Warner v. Goltra, supra, at 159-160 and the cited legislative
history. In the hearings on the Clarification Act the seamen again
opposed being brought within a compensation act. See statement of
the National Maritime Union, Hearings before the Committee on
the Mterchant Marine and Fisheries on H. R. 7424, 77th Cong., 2d
Sess., 30-31.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

or maritime tort. 8 It was one which attached to every
seaman's contract.
Moreover, by § 1 of the Suits in Admiralty Act, like
the Jones Act enacted in 1920 (41 Stat. 525, 46 U. S. C.
§ 741), arrest and seizure under judicial process were forbidden of vessels owned by the United States or a governmental corporation "or operated by or for the United
States or such corporation"; and by § 2, in place of that
right of seizure, "a libel in personam may be brought
against the United States or against such [governmental]
corporation" in cases where "if such vessel were privately
owned or operated . . . a proceeding in admiralty could
be maintained . ...
By the decision in Johnson v. Fleet Corp., 280 U. S.
320, it was held that the remedies given by the Suits in
Admiralty Act "are exclusive in all cases where a libel
might be filed under it," that is, on "maritime causes of.
action covered by the Act." Id. at 327.
The Johnson ruling was made broadly to cover maritime causes of action which could be asserted in admiralty
against the United States or governmental corporations
and also against private operators for the Government. 9
Fleet Corp. v. Lustgarten, 280 U. S. 320, a companion
I8The Jones Act is "an integral part of the maritime law ... "
Garrett v. Moore-McCormack Co., 317 U. S.239,248.
19Four different cases were disposed of in the single opinion, including in addition to the Johnson case Fleet Corp. v. Lustgarten. In
that case the defendants were the. Fleet Corporation and the Consolidated Navigation Company, which operated the vessel for the
United States as agent pursuant to an agreement with the Shipping
Board. The suit was by a seaman injured in the ship's service allegedly for negligent failure of the defendants to furnish him a safe
place to work and, further, furnish medical treatment and care after
the injurios were incurred. 280 U. S. at 323. The judgment for
the plaintiff was reversed as to both defendants, no mention being
made in the opinion of any difference between them' for applicability
of the Suits in Admiralty Act or otherwise.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

717

Opinion of the Court.

case. But in Brady v. Roosevelt S. S. Co., supra, the
Johnson (Lustgarten) ruling was modified, in accordance
with the obvious scope and purpose of the Act, to restrict
the exclusiveness of the statutory remedy provided to
causes asserted against the Government or governmental
corporations. The Act, it was held in effect, did not affect
or exclude the seaman's rights, in admiralty or otherwise,
against the private operator.

It merely substituted one

remedy against the Government for what was, in substance though not technically, another against it, that is,
the libel in personam provided by § 2 for the libel in rem
taken away by § 1."
Prior to 1942, therefore, the privately employed seaman
had not only his remedy under the Jones Act, but also
his rights under the general maritime law enforceable in
admiralty or by various forms of proceedings elsewhere.
But even more favorably situated, under the Brady ruling,
was the seaman employed on vessels owned by the United
States and operated for it by private companies under
arrangements with the Fleet Corporation or the Maritime
Commission."' He had his exclusive remedy against the
20The Court held the Johnson ruling as to* the Navigation Co.
to be untenable, expressly stating "that the Lustgarten case so far
as it would prevent a private operator from being sued under the
circumstances of this case must be considered as no longer controlling." 317 U. S. at 578. See notes 19, 22.
It is to be noted that, although the decedent in the Brady case
for whose death the suit was brought was not a seaman, Lustgarten
was. In both cases the cause of action asserted was negligence or
maritime tort.
21 The United States Shipping Board was established by 39 Stat.
729 and 41 Stat. 989. Section 11 of the earlier statute, 39 Stat. at
731, authorized the United States Shipping Board to establish government-controlled corporations, and pursuant to this provision the
United States Shipping Board Merchant Fleet Corporation was set

up.

See Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. Merchant Fleet Corp_., 258 U. S.

549, 564. By Executive Order No. 6166, June 10, 1933, § 12, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Government or the appropriate governmental corporation, under the Suits in Admiralty Act, for all causes of
action which could be maintained in admiralty if the
vessel on which he was employed had been privately
owned or operated; and, moreover, under the Brady ruling
he retained his rights under maritime law against the
private company operating the vessel as agent for the
Government.22 Although never specifically decided here,
this was held in Carroll v. United States, 133 F. 2d 690,
to include not only general maritime rights such as the
Brady case involved, but also recovery under the Jones
Act. The Carroll case was decided flatly on authority
of the Brady decision and the result was fully justified
functions of the United States Shipping Board, including those of
the Emergency Fleet Corporation, were transferred to the Department of Commerce. Subsequently, by the Merchant Marine Act
of 1936, 49 Stat. 1987, the United States Maritime Commission was
created and the functions and duties of the former Shipping Board
were transferred to it.
22 Under the standard forms of contract utilized for these arrangements bythe Shipping Board and later by the Maritime Commission,
the private operator, though designated as "agent" somewhat in the
manner of the Administration's General Service Agreement, undertook
to "man the ship" along with other duties assumed. Under this
provision the shipping company rather than the Government was
regarded as the seaman's employer. Accordingly he had all the rights
incident to the employment as against this operating "agent," notwithstanding the vessel was owhed by the Government. The Suits
in Admiralty Act was not intended to and did not touch those rights.
As stated in the text, its remedies were added to them.
Because the General Service Agreement omits the explicit requirement that the "agent" shall "man the ship," it is strongly argued
and the Oregon Supreme Court held that the relation between the
respondent and the seaman here is basically different from that existing
under the Maritime Commission's standard arrangements since, it is
said, that omission destroys the employer-employee relation between
the "agent" and the seaman, and creates another, entirely different,
between the Government and the seaman. Cf. text infra at note 30.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

719

Opinion of the Court.

both by its ruling and by the terms of the Suits in
Admiralty Act.2"

Now it is argued that this favored position was altogether inverted when the Government took over control
of the entire merchant marine under its war powers in
1942. For it is maintained and the Oregon ,Supreme
Court has held, in effect, that this transfer stripped seamen
of many, if not all, of their protections, including the
remedy under the Jones Act, for the duration of the war

and six months. 2 '

True, the decision applies specifically

only to Jones Act proceedings. But it is equally applicable to all other maritime rights and remedies dependent
upon existence of the "employer-employee" relation, such
as the right to maintenance and cure, etc. Whenever, in
such cases, it might be found that technically the Government is the employer, the necessary result would be to
remit the seaman to the "exclusive" right to sue under

the procedure provided by the Suits in Admiralty Act.
In short the combined effects of that Act and of the transfer of American shipping to governmental control, for the

temporary period of the war, would be to confine merchant
23

Cf. note 22. Effort has been made to restrict the scope of the
Brady ruling, by regarding it as applicable only to the situation where
the injury resulted from negligence of the private operating agency
for which the Government or its sponsoring corporation would not
be liable, in reliance upon the opinion's use of this situation to illustrate the fact that the Suits in Admiralty Act did not cut off general
maritime rights and remedies against the operating agent. 317 U. S.
at 581. But the ruling was broader both in rationalization and in
result. The Court did not restrict possible recovery to such a situation in remanding the cause for determination of whether a cause
of action had been made out.
24 By which time the governmental pool presumably will have been
dissolved, at any rate to the extent of returning many of the vessels
comprising it to the private owners and operators. § 5, Clarification
Act, 57 Stat. 51, 50 U. S. C. App. §.1295; Title IV, § 401, First War
Powers Act, 55 Stat. 841, 50 U. S. C. App. § 621.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

.seamen altogether to suits under the Act, except in the
cases of men employed on vessels under time-charter 2
and possibly as to injuries incurred by others through the
general operating agent's failure to discharge some specific duty imposed by the General Service Agreement-while
the vessel is in port. 6 With those possible exceptions
the various rights'of seamen, enforceable by various proceedings in admiralty and at law, in state and federal
courts, are swept into one hopper, the suit against the
Government or governmental corporation under the Suits
in Admiralty Act.
Such a result quite obviously would resurrect the Lust.garten (Johnson) ruling to override, in practical effect,
that of the Brady decision for the duration of the war.
Nor would only the forum and the procedure to be followed be affected. For, as the Brady opinion said of the
Lustgarten ruling, the shorter limitations period of two
years provided by the Suits in Admiralty Act would
apply," with the undoubted effect in many cases of barring recovery altogether. With a variety of rights established in law and custom, the sudden shift of all relief,
except in the comparatively- infrequent instances mentioned above, to the single forum and remedy could not
but bring widespread surprise and resulting failure of'
substantive rights. Not only would wrong remedies be
25

Cf. text following note 4 supra. At the time of 'the Japanese

burrender the total number of ships operated and owned by the War
Shipping Administration was 4,363. Of these, 537 were time-chartered
from private operators and 405 were bareboat-chartered from private
operators; 3,101 were operated under a General Service Agreement.
See also note 1.
26 Such as, e. g., failing to provide needed repairs or supplies, but
not including any act attributable to negligence on the part of the
master or other members of the crew. Cf. note 23.
27317 U. S. at 581, citing § 5 of the Act, and Emergency Fleet
Corp. v. Rosenberg Bros. & Co., 276 U. S. 202 The periol provided
under the Jones Act, for instance, is three years. 4 .U. S. C. § 56.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

721

Opinion of the Court.

asserted only to discover the fact too late. as in this case
and others in relation to which briefs amicus curiae have
been filed.!8 But at least some claimants, perhaps many,
relying upon the longer period incorporated in the body
of our law, would delay instituting suit beyond the shorter
one allowed by the temporary expansion of the Suits in
Admiralty Act to cover war conditions, and thus be
trapped into loss of all remedy at a time when broad relief
was needed more than ever.
There would be other uncertainties and complexities.
Were respondent's -position to prevail, a seaman would be
forced to predict. before instituting hlis suit, whether at
the end of the litigation it would turn out that the cause
of action alleged should have been asserted against the
Government or against the private operator. Thus, it
might often be difficult to foretell whether the negligence.
alleged to have caused the injury would be attributed
ultimately, as the proof should turn out, to some act of
the master or a member of the crew, in which event only
the Government, not the operating agent, would be liabl ,
or to some default of that agent in discharging its specially
limited but various duties, in which case it and at least
in some instances not the Government 21' would be responsible. The only safe course for a claimant in doubtand obviously many such situations might arise-would
be to file two suits, one a libel in personam against the
Government, the other an appropriate proceeding against
28 One of the briefs arnicus curiae states that the seaman's widow
for whom it is filed has instituted suit against the shipping company

within two years after her husband's (leath but that, inasmuch as

no suit against the United States has been instituted within that
period, if her cause of action against the shipping company will not
lie, she will also be unable by virtue of the Statute of Limitations
in the Suits in Admiralty Act to sue the United States.
;u As in the case, suggested in the Brady opinion, in which the
agent alone and not the principal would be liable. 317 U. S. at 581.
See note 23.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

the agent; and possibly even so the risk might remain
that the division of remedies would result in loss of relief
altogether.
In addition it should be mentioned that under the practice of the industry seamen frequently would move back
and forth between vessels of the same owner moored side
by side, from ships under time-charter to others under
bareboat-charter to the Administration. With each such
shift, under respoDdent's view of the law, responsibility
for the seaman's injuries would shift from the agent to
the Government or the other way around, with corresponding shuttling of remedy.. The confusion thus
resulting was one reason which led to adoption of the
Clarification Act. S. Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.,
5; H. Rep. No. 2572, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 9, quoted infra
at note 32.
These are at least some of the uncertainties and complexities which would result from acceptance of respondent's view. It is hardly too much to say that substantive
rights would be lost in an incalculable number of cases by
the disruption such an acceptance would bring for rights
long settled. The result also would be to throw large
additional numbers into confusion which in the end could
only defeat many of them.
II.
We may assume that Congress could authorize so vast
a disturbance to settled rights by clear and unequivocal
command. It is not permissible to find one by implication. Brady v. Roosevelt S. S. Co., supra, at 580. Here
the disruption, if it has occurred, has done so only as an
implied result of the conjunction of the Suits in Admiralty
Act's provisions with the Government's emergency action
in taking over the shipping industry for war purposes.
Apart from resurrecting the Lustgarten ruling in the
face of the Brady reversal, this result could be reached

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

723

Opinion of the Court.

only by finding that Congress, or Congress and the President, intended to bring it about by the exercise of their
powers to bring the industry under governmental control.
No other legislation, or executive action, remotely could
be thought to have that effect.
Certainly this was not the purpose of the Suits in
Admiralty Act. As we have said, its effect was to expand,
not to restrict, the seaman's rights, as Brady decided.
Moreover, it was not an emergency measure, adopted to
promote the war effort. It was normal, peacetime legislation, fitting into a settled scheme of private rights.
There can be no inference from its terms or history. that
it was intended to displace that scheme entirely or in
large part, in normal times or in the emergency of war.
To give its letter this effect, because the war brought
about the temporary transfer of the industry to governmental control, would be to pervert its whole purpose.
We are told, however, that the Jones Act applies by
its specific terms only in the presence of the relation of
employer to employee, to give the latter a remedy for
the employer's negligence; and, since the effect of the
General Service Agreement was to make the seaman technically an employee of the United States, the necessary
result was to remit him exclusively to the Suits in Admiralty Act for remedy to enforce the substantive right given
by the Jones Act.
The premise is not controlling. We may accept the
Oregon court's conclusion that technically the agreement
made Hust an employee of the United States for purposes
of ultimate control in the performance of his work,
although the meticulous differences in this respect between its terms and the corresponding provisions of the
Maritime Commission's standard contract make it hardly
more than dubious that respondent did not stand pro

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

hac vice as employer with the Government.' But it does
not follow from the fact that Hust was technically the
Government's employee that he lost all remedies f.gainst
the operating "agent" for such injuries as he incurred.
This case, like Labor Board v. Hearst Publications,322
U. S. 111, involves something more than mere application
to the facts of the common-law test for ascertaining the
vicarious responsibilities of a private employer for tortious
conduct of an employee.
Here indeed is the respondent's fallacy, for it assumes
the case would be controlled by the common-law rules of
private agency."s It is true these are applied in the normal
30See the concurring opinion of Ma. JUSTICE DOUGLAS in this
case; also note 10 supra. "These questions arise because of a technical
statuls of such seamen as employees of the United States by virtue
of their employment through the War Shipping Administration for
service on such vessels." S. Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 5.
(Emphasis added.) The chief differences between the relationship
of the managing agent in the Brady case to the seamen and the
relationship of the respondent to the seamen are, as set out in the
contracts, as follows:
Under the agreement in the Brady case the managing agent agreed
to man the vessels. The licensed officers and chief steward, however,
were ' subject to the approval of the owner, the United States, which
also had the right to remove any employees "if it shall have reason
to be dissatisfied."
Under the General Agent Service Agreement the shipping company
does not agree to man the vessel. It agrees to procure the master,
subject to the approval of the United States. The master is an agent
and employee of the United States and has complete responsibility
and authority with respect to the navigation and management of
the vessel. The general agent agrees to procure officers and men
through the usual channels and in accordance with the customary
practices of commercial operators and to make them available to
the master. It is provided that officers and members of the crew
"shall be subject only to the orders of the Master."
31See text supra preceding note 10. The opinion stated: "We
think it must be assumed in determining whether the plaintiff was

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

725

Opinion of the Court.

everyday applications of the Jones Act. But in those
situations this is done to determine who comes within,
who without, the covered class in the Act's normal operation, not to exclude that class entirely or in large part.
Here the application is made to defeat the Act for all
except the smaller number of men whom it was enacted
to protect. No such application of the common-law
"control" test can be justified in this temporary situation
unless by inversion of that 'wisdom which teaches that
"the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life."
Not always does the law proceed in disregard of that
truth. There was nothing to prevent Congress or the
President., acting in exercise of their authority, from
shifting the technical relation of employer and employee
from the general agent to the Government, for purposes
relevant to ultimate wartime control of marine employees,
without at the same time disrupting their normally applicable rights and remedies. .On the contrary, there was
every reason why the change should be made without
that consequence. No presumption can be indulged that
any purpose existed to take away those protections when
they were needed more than ever, nor any that so great
a disruption would be made for only the emergency of
the war period. Nothing in the Jones Act, the Suits in
Admiralty Act, or in the War Powers Act of 1941 and
the Executive Orders by which the industry's transfer
was accomplished compels such a conclusion.
III.
Confirmation of this is furnished by the legislative history of the Clarification Act and by its retroactive provisions relative to the seaman's rights, including remedies
an employee of the defendant that the case is governed by the rule
of the common law." 176 Ore. 662, 669, 158 P. 2d 275, 278.

726

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

on account of personal injury and death. Indeed one
primary occasion for enacting the Clarification Act was
to save the seaman's rights in these respects rather than
to take them away."
It is true there was great concern for fear that those
rights had been lost or seriously attenuated by the transfer
to governmental control, particularly during the earlier
stages of congressional consideration when the Brady decision had not removed the large cloud cast over them
by the Lustgarten ruling. Nor did Brady remove all of
the doubt in the minds of those sponsoring the bill, as
32 "The basic scope and philosophy of the measure is to preserve
private rights of seamen while utilizing the merchant marine to the
utmost for public wartime benefit. Except in rare cases the ships
themselves are being operated as merchant vessels, and are therefore
subject to the Suits in Admiralty Act in all respects. Granting seamen rights to sue under that act is therefore entirely consistent with
the underlying pattern of the measure." S. Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong.,
1st Sess., 11.
"Present-day operating conditions often make uncertain whether
the vessel is a merchant or a public vessel. As a consequence the
aforementioned rights [rights under the Jones Act and the general
maritime law] of such seamen are frequently in doubt. In addition
to these rights which, at times, are uncertain for the reasons mentioned, the seamen who are employees of the United States probably
have rights updr the United States Employees' Compensation Act
in the event of injury or death. Such compensation benefits are
not presently enjoyed by seamen under private employment. Thus
vital differences in these rights are made to depend upon whether
the seaman happens to be employed aboard. a vessel time-chartered
to the War Shipping Administration or owned by or bareboat-chartered to the War Shipping Administration. Since seamen constantly
change from one vessel to another, their rights for death, injury, or
illness also constantly change depending upon the relationship of
the War Shipping Administration to the vessel. This fluctuation
and lack of uniformity of rights leads to dependency of vital rights
upon chance with a result of confusion and inequities. The bill is
designed to remove this confusion and these inequities." H. Rep.
No. 2572, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 9.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.

727

Opinion of the Court.

707

the committee reports during the later stages of consideration disclose.' Hence, to make certain that the seamen would have at least the remedy provided by the Suits
in Admiralty Act for enforcement of their substantive
rights, as well as to take care of other important matters
not affecting them," the bill proceeded to enactment.
We need not determine in this case whether prospectively the Clarification Act affected rights of the seaman
against the operating agent and others, or simply made
sure that his rights were enforceable against the Government. We make no suggestion in that respect. For this
case, on the facts, is not governed by the statute's prospective operation.'
It may be noted however that, if
See notes 36 and 37 and text.
See §§ 3 and 4 of the Clarification Act. These relate to payment
of just compensation for vessels requisitioned, war risk insurance,
limitation of liability for the War Shipping Administration, and other
miscellaneous matters. Section I of the Act provided that the
seamen "because of the temporary wartime character of their employment by the War Shipping Administration" should not be considered
as officers or employees of the -United States for the purposes of
various specified acts, including the United States Compensation
Act.
35
The provision principally affecting rights like those now in question Was §'1: "(a) officers and members of crews (hereinafter referred to as 'seamen') employed on United States or foreign flag
vessels as employees of the United States through the War Shipping
Administration shall, with respect to (1) laws administered by the
Public Health Service and the Social Security Act, as amended by.
subsection (b) (2) and (3) of this section; (2) death, injuries, illness,
maintenance and cure, loss of effects, detention, or repatriation, or
claims arising therefrom not covered by the foregoing clause (1); and
(3) collection of wages and bonuses and making of allotments, have
all of the rights, benefits, exemptions, privileges, and liabilities, under
law applicable to citizens of the United States employed as seamen
on privately owned and operated American vessels. . . . Any claim
referred to in clause (2) or (3) hereof shall, if administratively disallowed in whole or in part, be enforced pursuant to the provisions
3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

respondent's contention were the law, the provisions of
§ 1, authorizing enforcement of the seaman's substantive
rights for injury, maintenance and cure, etc., by the Suits
in Admiralty Act remedy, would do no more than reaffirm
what the latter Act had provided all along.
The Clarification Act, however, is not without important bearing for solution of the problem this case presents.
For whatever the effect of its prospectively operating
provisions upon the seaman's rights as against others than
the Government, 'the bill in its final form contained a
provision designed and effective to prevent the loss of
such rights as petitioner now -asserts.
Section 1 of the Act contains the following provision
which is in terms applicable to this case:
"Any claim, right, or cause of action of or in respect
of any such seaman accruing on or after October 1,
1941, and prior to the date of enactment of this section may be enforced, and upon the election of the
seaman or his surviving dependent or beneficiary, or
his legal representative to do so shall be governed,
of the Suits in Admiralty Act, notwithstanding the vessel on which
the seaman is employed is not a merchant vessel within the meaning
of such Act. Any claim, right, or cause of action of or .inrespect
of any such seaman accruing on or after October 1, 1941, and prior
to the date of enactment of this section may be enforced, and upon
the election of the seaman or his surviving dependent or beneficiary,
or his legal representative to do so shall be governed, as if this section
had been in effect when such claim, right, or cause of action accrued,
such election to be made in accordance with rules and regulations
prescribed by the Administrator, War Shipping Administration.
Rights of any seaman under the Social Security Act, as amended by
subsection (b) (2) and (3), and claims therefor shall be governed
solely by the provisions of such Act, so amended. When used in
this subsection the term 'administratively disallowed' means a denial
of a written claim in accordance with rules or regulations prescribed
by the Administrator, War Shipping Administration. . . " 57
Stat. 45.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

729

Opinion of the Court.

as if this section had been in effect when such claim,
right, or cause of action accrued, such election to be
made in accordance with rules and regulations
prescribed by the Administrator, War Shipping
Administration." 8
One obvious purpose of this provision was to extend
retroactively to the seaman the benefit of the assured
remedy against the Government given by § 1. But
equally obvious is the intent to save such other rights
as the seaman may have had and to give him an election
between enforcing them in the usual manner and asserting them in a suit against the United States in the manner
provided by § 1.
38 H. Rep.. No. 2572, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 15, states: "Special
provision is made with respect to rights and with respect to claims
and causes involved in section 1 (a) (2) and (3) which may have
accrued on or after October 1, 1941, and prior to the date of enactment of the measure. Under this provision the seaman or other
claimant may elect to enforce the claim as if section 1 had been in
effect at the time the claim accrued. In exercising this option the
claimant would, of course, accept the incidental consequences of such
election, would be prevented from proceeding to secure double recovery under other procedure without regard to section 1, and would
be bound by the applicable statutes or principles of limitations.
"Inasmuch as certain vessel operations on account of the Government were undertaken prior to the establishment of the War Shipping
Administration by or through the Maritime Commission, the provisions of section 1 and all amendments therein are made applicable
to the United States Maritime Commission with respect to the period
beginning October 1, 1941, to the time of taking office of the Administrator, War Shipping Administration (February 11, 1942)."
And in S. Rep. No. 1813, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 6, it was stated:
"Section 1 makes full provision with respect to rights and claims
which may have accrued during the early months of the war or its
imminence, and prior to the enactment of the bill. This provision
is necessary in view of vessel operations by or through the Maritime
Commission in the period prior to taking office of the Administrator,
War Shipping Administration (February 11, 1942)."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Uncertain in scope as the effects of the Brady decision
were regarded to be, they were clearly recognized as holding that the seaman had rights against private operators
arising after the transfer of governmental control.3 7 Respondent's view of the law would nullify the election
given. For in that view, even before the Clarification
Act was adopted, the seaman's exclusive remedy for injuries incurred after the transfer was by suit under the Suits
in Admiralty procedure. But § 1 expressly gives election
between that identical remedy, as conferred by the Clarification Act, and preexisting remedies. It is too obvious
to require statement that if the seaman's only remedy
for injuries incurred before the Clarification Act became
effective was under the Suits in Admiralty Act, as respondent contends, the election given by § 1 becomes no election
whatever.
It is true that Congress did not enumerate the specific
rights which it considered seamen to have prior to the
Clarification Act and after the industry's transfer to governmental control. To have done so, in view of its own
uncertainty in this respect, including the effects of the
Brady decision, would have been hazardous. The intent
is clear, nevertheless, in the retroactive provision to preserve all such rights and remedies as may have remained
in existence unaffected by the transfer. For the reasons
we have stated we think these included the remedy provided by the Jones Act as well as the substantive right.
The mere fact that the terms of the standard agreement
were changed to omit the provision for manning the ship
and substitute the provisions relating to employees con17 Cf. S. Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 8, 17; H. Rep. No. 107,
78th Cong., 1st Sess., 5, 29. These reports construe the effects of
the Brady decision more narrowly than we have done in this case
and than the decision justifies.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

731

Opinion of the Court.

tained in the General Service Agreement was not, in these
circumstances, enough to deprive seamen of that remedy.
We do not think either Congress or the President intended
to bring about such a result by the transfer of the industry
to temporary governmental control. If this made them
technically and temporarily employees of the United
States, it did not sever altogether their relation to the
operating agent, either for purposes of securing employment or for other important functions relating to it.'
Nor did it disrupt the long-established scheme of rights
and remedies provided by law to secure in various ways
the seaman's personal safety, either to deprive him of
those rights altogether ' or to dilute or reduce them to
the single mode of enforcement by the Suits in Admiralty
Act procedure.
This result is in accord with the spirit and policy of
other provisions of the General Service Agreement. The
managing agent selected the men, and did so by the usual
procedure of dealing with the duly designated collective
bargaining agent. It delivered them their pay, although
from funds provided by the Government. It was authorized specifically to pay claims not only for wages, but
also for personal injury and death incurred in the course
of employment, for maintenance and cure, etc.' It was
See notes 39 and 40.
On respondent's contention it is assumed that, before the Clarification Act took effect, the Government could be sued under the
Suits in Admiralty Act for recovei-y in this and similar cases. Whether
and how far that Act would have permitted suits by seamen injured
in the course of their employment prior to the Clarification Act's
effective date need not-be determined in this case.
40 "To the extent not recovered from insurance, the United States
shall also reimburse the General Agent for all crew expenditures,
accruing during the term hereof, in connection with the vessels hereunder, including, without limitation, all disbursements for or on
-

3

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

responsible for keeping the ship in repair and for providing
the seaman's supplies. For all of these expenditures not
covered by insurance the contract purported expressly
to provide for indemnity from the Government."
With so much of the former relation thus retained and
so little of additional risk thrown on the operating agent,
it would be inconsonant not only with the prevailing law,
but also with the agreement's spirit and general purpose
to observe and keep in effect the seaman's ordinary and
usual rights except as expressly nullified, for us to rule
that he was deprived of his long-existing scheme of remedies and remitted either to none or to a doubtful single
mode of relief by suit against the Government in personam
in admiralty. Our result also is in accord with the general
policy of the Government and of the War Shipping Administration that those rights should be preserved and
account of wages, extra compensation, overtime, bonuses, penalties,
subsistence, repatriation, travel expense, loss of personal effects,
maintenance, cure, vacation allowances, damages or compensation for
death or personal injury or illness, and insurance premiums, required
to be paid by law, custom, or by the terms of the ship's articles or
labor agreements, or by action of the Maritime War Emergency
Board . . . ." (Emphasis added.)
The General Agent Service Agreement provides that officers and
members of the crew "shall be paid in the customary manner with
funds provided by the United States hereunder." The proof at trial
showed that petitioner was paid his wages by the ship's purser, the
money being in envelopes bearing the name of respondent.
4' See note 40. The General Agent Service Agreement also provides
that the United States shall procure insurance against all insurance
risks "of whatsoever nature or kind relating to the vessels assigned
hereunder" and "shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the General Agent against and from any and all loss, liability, damage and
expense . . . to the extent not covered or not fully covered by
insurance."
Compare the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of the Clarification Act with
respect to insurance and compensation as they affect seamen.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.

733

Opinion of the Court.

707

maintained, as completely as might be possible under
existing law, against impairment due to the transfer.
A further word remains to be said about the legislative
history of the Clarification Act in general. Both parties
have relied strongly on excerpted portions thought to
support their respective views. As is true with respect
to all such materials, it is possible to extract particular
segments from the immediate and total context and come
out with road signs pointing in opposite directions. We
do not undertake to illustrate the contrast from the history
in this case. It can be said, however, with assurance that,
taken as a whole, the committee reports in Congress, together with appended documents from various affected
agencies and officials, are amorphous in relation to the
crucial problem presented in this case. All of them give
evidence'of concern that rights may have been lost or
rendered uncertain by the transfer, and that action should
be taken by Congress to preserve the substantive rights
intact and remedial ones at the least by extension of the
Suits in Admiralty Act to cover them.
The entire history. will be read in vain, however, for
any clear expression of intent or purpose to take away
rights, substantive or remedial, of which the seaman had
not already been deprived, actually or possibly, by virtue
of the transfer. Whether or not this conserving intent
was made effective in the prospectively operating provisions of the Act, it is made clear beyond question in the
retroactive ones. Congress was confessedly in a state of
uncertainty. But, being so, it nevertheless had no purpose to destroy rights already accrued and in force,
whether substantive or remedial in character. Its object,
in this respect at the least, was to preserve them and at
the same time to provide an additional assured remedy
42

See notes 32, 40, 41.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

328 U. S.

in case what had been preserved might turn out for some
reason to be either doubtful or lost.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

agrees, concurring.
While I have joined in the opinion of the Court, I add
a few words to indicate that the result we have reached
is consonant with the traditional rules of liability.
A charterer who obtains exclusive possession and management of the vessel from the owner is owner pro hac vice
and subject to the responsibilities of ownership for the
duration of the charter period. Reed v. United States,
11 Wall. 591, 600-601; Leary v. United States, 14 Wall.
607, 610; United States v. Shea, 152 U. S. 178. The question whether exclusive possession and management of the
vessel have been transferred to the charterer turns on
the facts of each case-a construction of the agreement
between the parties, and the conduct of the parties under
the arrangement. United States v. Shea, supra, pp.
189-191.
This agreement provides that the General Agent is
appointed "to manage and conduct the business of vessels
assigned to it by the United States from time to time."
Art. 1. The General Agent promises "to manage and
conduct the business for the United States" of such vessels
as have been "assigned to and accepted by the General
Agent." Art. 2. The United States has the power on
specified notice to terminate the agreement and "to
assume control forthwith" of the vessels. Art. 11. On

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

735

DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

termination "all vessels and other property of whatsoever
kind then in the custody of the General Agent" are to be
"immediately turned over to the United States." Art.
12. The fair intendment of these provisions is that possession of the vessels passes to the General Agent under
the agreement.
Management of the vessels also is granted the General
Agent. It is to "maintain the vessels in such trade or
service as the United States may direct." Art. 3. It is
the one to "equip, victual, supply and maintain the vessels." Id. It shall "procure the Master of the vessels
•. * ,subject to the approval of the United States." Id.
It shall "procure and make available to the Master for
engagement by him the officers and men required by him
to fill the complement of the vessel." Id. The officers
and men are to be "procured by the General Agent through
the usual channels and in accordance with the customary
practices of commercial operators and upon the terms and
conditions prevailing in the particular service or services
in which the vessels are to be operated from time to time."
Id. The General Agent shall "arrange for the repair of
the vessels." Art. 14.
All of these things are done, to be sure, for the account
of the United States. The agreement, moreover, specifically provides that the master is "an agent and employee
of the United States." Art. 3. The officers and crew
are subject "only to the orders of the Master." Art. 3.
And the shipping articles which were entered into were
between the master and the crew. From this it is argued
that the members of the crew were employees of the
United States, not of the General Agent or operator.
The shipping articles, however, are by statute required
to be an engagement between the master and the crew.
38 Stat. 1168, 46 U. S. C. § 713. The responsibility of
the master for the operation of the vessel is, moreover,
traditional. See United States v. Farnham,25 Fed. Cas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

No. 15,071. pp. 1042. 1045. So the case for respondent
comes down essentially to the provision in the agreement
that the master is the agent and employee of the United
States.
If the parties to a contract could by the choice of a label
determine these questions of responsibility to third persons the problem would be simple. But the conventions
of the parties do not determine in the eyes of the law the
rights of third persons. Brady v. Roosevelt S. S. Co.,
317 U. S. 575, 583. The Court dealt with one species of
this problem in Knights of Pythias v. Withers, 177 U. S.
260, where an insurance policy designated the person to
whom premiums were paid as the agent of the insured,
not the agent of the insurer. The Court said, p. 268:
"The reports are by no means barren of cases turning upon the proper construction of this so-called
'agency clause,' under which the defendant seeks to
shift its responsibility upon the insured for the neglect
of Chadwick to remit on the proper day. In some
jurisdictions it is held to be practically void and of
no effect; in others, it is looked upon as a species
of wild animal, lying in wait and ready to spring
upon the unwary policyholder, and in all, it is eyed
with suspicion and construed with great strictness.
We think it should not be given effect when manifestly contrary to the facts of the case, or opposed

to the interests of justice."
This problem of liability to third persons is resolved
by determining whose enterprise the particular venture
was. The fact that the parties say it is the enterprise
of one, not the other, is not decisive. Control in the
operation and management of the business, as distinguished from general supervision, is the customary test.

I look in vain to find in the present arrangement any
evidence that the owner acted as 'the manager of this
business.

Respondent, the General Agent, had a most

substantial measure of control over the operations of the

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

DOUGLAS, J.,

737

concurring.

vessels. Its de facto control was no whit less or more
whether the master were called the agent of the owner
or its own agent. The case is not one where an agent
attends only to the business of a vessel as distinguished
from its rhanning or physical operation or control. Respondent maintains the vessels in the broadest sense and
procures the master and crew. In the Brady case the
operator was "to man, equip, victual, supply and operate
the vessels." 317 U. S. p. 576. The same was true in
Quinn v. Southgate Nelson Corp., 121 F. 2d 190, 191.
But the difference in words between the agreements in
those cases and the present one does not, on a view of
the entire situation, mark a difference in functions of the
private operator. It is, indeed, difficult to see how the
functions of the private operator were in any way changed
under this agreement from what they were in those other
two cases. Respondent, of course, accounts for its operations to the United States. The United States reimburses it for all of its expenditures, including the wages
of the crew. But it is immaterial that the owner provides the entire crew and pays their wages. A charterer
who has control of the operations is owner pro hac vice.
Hills v. Leeds, 149 F. 878. So far as this record reveals,
the operator performed all of the functions which it performed in the Brady and Quinn cases. There is here no
taking over of additional functions by the owner. rhe
arrangement is clothed in different garb. But it is the
private operator who manages and controls the physical
operation. The powers reserved to the owner were general supervisory powers adequate for the exigencies of
the wartime conditions which prevailed. But they did
not detract from the powers of physical operation granted
respondent.
The fact that we have here no more than a change in
form not in substance is borne out by collateral phases

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

of this undertaking. The compensation of respondent
is not to be less than "the amount of earnings which the
General Agent would have been permitted to earn under
any applicable previously existing bareboat charters,
preference agreements, commitments, rules or regulations
of the United States Maritime Commission until the earliest termination date permissible thereunder as of March
22, 1942." Art. 5. The United States agrees to reimburse respondent for "damages or compensation for death
or personal injury or illness" required to be paid. Art. 7.
It also agrees to reimburse respondent for payments made
by respondent to a pension fund for officers and members
of the crew, as well as for "social security taxes which
the General Agent is or may be required to pay on behalf
of the officers and crew of said vessels as agent or otherwise." Id.
These provisions all suggest, as the relationship of the
parties bears out, that the United States was the underwriter of the financial risks of the venture,' the operator
continuing, as it always had, to perform the managerial
functions. These managerial functions constitute control, decisive of liability in this case. There was no
demise. But the form of the agreement is not important
if the functions of the operator were those of an owner
pro hac vice. I think that is the true condition which
existed here.
At common law respondent would be the principal, for
the business of managing and operating the vessel was
its business. It was therefore the employer and responsible for this personal injury claim.
MR. JUSTICE REED, dissenting.

Petitioner, Hust, a fireman and watertender on the S. S.
Mark Hanna, brought an action in an Oregon Circuit
1 See

S. Rep. No. 898, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 39-40.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

739

REED, J., dissenting.

Court' against the respondent, the Moore-McCormack
Lines, Inc. The suit was under the Merchant Marine
Act of 1920, the Jones Act, § 33.' It sought damages
against the respondent as employer. As § 33 shows on
its face, a seaman has the advantages of the Federal Employers' Liability Act only against his employer. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon denying petitioner the right to recover in this action would then be
correct unless the respondent is petitioner's employer or
unless congressional legislation since the Merchant Marine Act grants petitioner a right of recovery against
respondent even though the employer-employee relationship does not exist.
The S. S. Mark Hanna, a Liberty ship, was owned by
the United States. So far as appears from the record, it
had never belonged to anyone else. Its operation was
under the direction of the War Shipping Administration.
In order to carry out its responsibilities, the Administration employed respondent as its General Agent to conduct
the business of certain ships assigned to respondent for
handling. From the excerpts from the contract, set out
1 See Garrett v. Moore-McCormack Co., 317 U. S. 239, 245.

2 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688:

"Any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the course
of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for
damages at law, with the right of trial by jury, and in such action
all statutes of the United States modifying or extending the
common-law right or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway
employees shall apply; . . ."
3
Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 389; Nolan v. General
Seafoods Corp., 112 F. 2d 515, 517; The Norland, 101- F. 2d 967;
Baker v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 57 F. Supp. 207, 208; Eggleston
v. Republic Steel Corp., 47 F. Supp. 658, 659; Gardiner v. Agwilines,
Inc., 29 F. Supp. 348.
Compare Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 237 U. S. 84, 94:
"We are of the opinion that Congress used the words 'employ6'
and 'employed' in the statute in their natural sense, and intended
to describe the conventional relation of employer and employ6."
Hull v. Philadelphia& Reading R. Co., 252 U. S. 475.

740

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED, J.,

dissenting.

328 U. S.

below, we think 'it clear that this was a conventional
agency contract under which respondent managed certain
matters connected with the ship for the United States.
We think it clear, as did the Supreme Court of Oregon,
that so far as the crew is concerned the respondent only
procured the members, such as Hust, and made them
available to the Master, a United States agent, for employment by said Master for the account of the United
States.' Such a contract makes the United States the
"Witnesseth: That in consideration of the reciprocal undertakings
and promises of the parties herein expressed:
"Article 1. The United States appoints the General Agent as
its agent and not as an independent contractor, to manage and conduct
the business of vessels assigned to it by the United States from
time to time.
"Article 2. The General Agent accepts the appointment and
undertakes and promises so to manage and conduct the business
for the United States, in accordance with such directions, orders, or
regulations as the latter has prescribed, or from time to time may
prescribe, and upon the terms and conditions herein provided, of
such vessels as have been or may be by the United States assigned
to and accepted by the General Agent for that purpose.
"Article 3A. To the best of its ability, the General Agent shall
for the account of the United States:
"(d) The General Agent shall procure the Master of the vessels
operated hereunder, subject to the approval of the United States.
The Master shall be an agent and employee of the United States,
and shall have and exercise full control, responsibility and authority
with respect to the navigation and management of the vessel. The
General Agent shall procure and make available to the Master for
engagement by him the officers and men required by him to fill the
complement of the vessel. Such officers and men shall be procured
by the General Agent.through the usual channels and in accordance
with the customary practices of commercial operators and upon the
terms and conditions prevailing in the particular service or services
in which the vessels are to be operated from time to time. The officers
and members of the crew shall be subject only to the orders of the

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

REED,

741

J., dissenting

employer under the Merchant Marine Act, not the Master
and not respondent, the General Agent. This is an action
under the Merchant Marine Act and the question of
liability of the respondent for any negligence under any
other statute or rule of law, admiralty or otherwise, is
not before us.
Since 1920, employees of the United States upon merchant vessels of the United States have had a right of
action in admiralty against the vessels in all cases where
the employees would have had a right if the vessel were
privately owned or operated. This came from § 2 of the
Suits in Admiralty Act.' This right of action was enforceable exclusively in admiralty.' There was no right
to a trial and assessment of damages by a jury.
When the War Shipping Administration became the
operator of practically the entire American merchant
marine, doubts sometimes arose as to whether a particular
vessel was a "merchant" vessel, operated by the United
States or not. Therefore to clarify this situation and to
assure all "employees of the United States through the
War Shipping Administration" all "rights" for "injuries"
applicable to seamen "employed on privately owned and
operated American vessels," Congress enacted an act to
clarify the law relating to functions of the AdministraMaster. All such persons shall be paid in the customary manner
with fundsprovided by the United States hereunder."
541 Stat. 525--26:
"SEC. 2. That in cases where if such vessel were privately
owned or operated, or if such cargo were privately owned and
possessed, a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained at the
time of the commencement of the action herein provided for,
a libel in personam may be brought against the United States
or against such corporation, as the case may be, provided that
such vessel is employed as a merchant vessel or is a tug boat
operated by such corporation ..

Fleet Corp. v. Rosenberg Bros., 276 U. S.202; Johnson v. Fleet
Corp., 280 U. S.320.
O

742

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

tion. Provisions from the first section which are important here are set out below.7
As will be seen by an examination of the reports of the
House and Senate ' in connection with the specific requirement of the first section, supra, for enforcement of these
rights, Congress declared its purpose in no uncertain terms
to grant the power to enforce these rights only through
the Suits in Admiralty Act. That is, the seaman could
not submit his claim to a jury.' It will be noted that the
words "right" and "status" are used with care, so that
757 Stat. 45-46:
"That (a) officers and members of crews (hereinafter referred
to as 'seamen') employed on United States or foreign flag vessels
as employees of the United States through the War Shipping
Administration shall, with respect to ... (2) death, injuries,
illness,

. ..

have all of the rights, benefits, exemptions, privi-

leges, and liabilities, under law applicable to citizens of the United
States employed as seamen on privately owned and operated
American vessels ....

Any claim referred to in clause (2) or

(3) hereof shall, if administratively disallowed in whole or in
part, be enforced pursuant to the provisions of the Suits in
Admiralty Act, notwithstanding the vessel on which the seaman
is employed is not a merchant vessel within the meaning of such
Act. Any claim, right, or cause of action of or in respect of
any such seaman accruing on or after October 1, 1941, and prior
to the date of enactment of this section may be enforced, and
upon the election of the seaman or his surviving dependent or
beneficiary, or his legal representative to do so shall be goverhed,
as if this section had been in effect when such claim, right, or
cause of action accrued, such election to be made in accordance
with rules and regulations prescribed by the Administrator, War
Shipping Administration. ...."
8S.Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. No. 107, 78th Cong.,
.1st Sess.
9This purpose is made plain by a few excerpts from the reports.
S. Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 5-6, 11, 14:
"Seamen employed as Government employees on vessels owned
by, or bareboat-chartered to, the War Shipping Administration
are sometimes precluded from enforcing against the United States
the rights and benefits in case of death, injury, illness, detention,
and so on that would be available to them if employed by private
employers, except under the Suits in Admiralty Act. If they
were private eiployees, rights to redress for death, injury, or
illness could be prosecuted under the Jones Act and the general
maritime law. These same rights may be asserted against the

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

REED,

J., dissentifig.

it is plain Congress intended to give all Administration
seamen rights under the Merchant Marine Act and remedies under the Suits in Admiralty Act.
United States as the employer under the Suits in Admiralty Act
providing the vessel involved is a merchant vessel. In case of
public vessels the seaman must rely, for compensation upon the
Administrator's policy recognizing contractual liability which this
legislation recognizes. Present-day operating conditions often
make uncertain in some cases whether the vessel is a merchant
or a public vessel. As a consequence, even though the vessels
are generally merchant vessels and not public vessels, there are
some cases in which the aforementioned rights of such seamen
are in doubt. In addition to these rights which, at times, are
uncertain for the reasons mentioned, the seamen who are employees of the United States probably have rights under the
United States Employees' Compensation Act in the event of
injury or death. Such compensation benefits are not presently
enjoyed by seamen under private employment. Thus vital dif.ferences in these rights are made to depend upon whether the
seaman happens to be employed aboard a vessel time-chartered
to the War Shipping Administration or owned by or bareboatchartered to the War Shipping Administration. Since seamen
constantly change from one vessel to another, their rights for
death, injury, or illness also constantly change, depending upon
the relationship of the War Shipping Administration to the vessel.
This fluctuation and lack of uniformity of rights leads to dependency of vital rights upon chance with a result of confusion and
inequities. The bill is designed to remove this confusion and
these inequities. The bill does not affect seamen employed on
vessels time-chartered to the War Shipping Administration where
the vessels are supplied with crews employed by the company
from which the vessel is chartered. As to them their status and
the status of the Government employees mentioned will be made
uniform.
...
They will continue to have the right to indemnity
through court action for injury resulting from unseaworthiness
of the vessel or defects in vessel appliances, and they (and their
dependents) will have the right to action under the Jones Act
(1920) for injury or death resulting from negligence of the
employer. Such seamen will have the right to enforce claims
for these benefits according to the procedure of the Suits in
Admiralty Act, except that claims with respect to social-security
benefits shall be prosecuted in accordance with the procedure
provided in the social-security law. . ..
"The provision of the Suits in Admiralty Act that suit lies
thereunder only if the ship involved is empioyed as a merchant
vessel or a tugboat is waived for the purposes of section 1 so

744

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

As there might be instances where a seaman was an
employee of the Administration but his boat was not a
merchant vessel of the United States, the Clarification
that the claim may be enforced regardless of the nature of the
vessel on which the seaman is serving as an employee of the
War Shipping Administration. To prevent ufhnecessary or premature litigation against the United States, it is required that
before suit there shall he an administrative disallowance of the
same in accord with rules or regulations to be prescribed by
the Administrator, War Shipping Administration."
H. Rep. No. 107, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3, 21:
"The basic scope and philosophy of the measure is to preserve
private rights of seamen while utilizing the merchant marine
to the utmost for public wartime benefit. Except in rare cases
the ships themselves are being operated as merchant vessels,
and are therefore subject to the Suits in Admiralty Act. Granting seamen rights to sue under that act is therefore entirely
consistent with the underlying pattern of the measure. This
should follow even in the extraordinary case where vessels might
otherwise technically be classed as public vessels.
"The various rights and remedies tinder statute and general,
maritime law with respect to death, injury, illness, and other
casualty to seamen, have been rather fully set forth hereinabove.
Under clause 2 of section 1 (a) these substantive rights would
be governed by existing law relating to privately employed seamen. The only modification thereof arises from' the remedial
provision that they shall be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of the Suits in Admiralty Act. This procedure is
appropriate in view of the fact that the suits will be against
the Government of the United States. In such a suit no provision is made for a jury trial as may otherwise be had in a proceeding such as one under the Jones Act for reasons set forth
in the letter of the Attorney General (September 14, 1942). The
provision of the Suits in Admiralty Act that suit lies thereunder
only if'the ship involved is employed as a merchant vessel or
a tugboat is waived for the purposes of section 1 so that the
claim may be enforced regardless of the nature of the vessel
on which the seaman is serving as an employee of the War Shipping Administration. To prevent unnecessary or premature
litigation against the United States, it is required that before.
suit there shall be an administrative disallowance of the same
in accord with rules or regulations to be prescribed by the Administrator, War Shipping Administration."
The desirability of a jury trial was commented upon by a representative of the National Maritime Union and the Attorney General
in reply. See.Hearings on H. R. 7424, House Committee on Merchant

Marine &Fisheries, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 30-33.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

REED,

745

J., dissenting.

Act of March 24, 1943, was made retroactive to October
1, 1941.10 Probably other compensation for injuries may
have existed prior to the enactment of this Act.
It is said by the Court that if a seaman employed by
the United States is limited to the remedies of the Suits
in Admiralty Act for recovery in tort, the holding in
Emergency Fleet Corp. v. Lustgarten, 280 U. S. 320, is
restored as a rule of law. The Lustgarten case was over-

ruled by Brady v. Roosevelt S. S. Co., 317 U. S.575, 578.
We think that this misconceives the effect of the Brady
case. We do not think the requirement that seamen,
employees of the United States, must seek their remedy
against their 'employer under the Suits in Admiralty Act
has any relation to the Lustgarten or Brady cases.
Lustgarten, a seaman, sought recovery at law for a tort
against the Navigation Company, an agent of the United

States.
10

It was held that he could only recover under

S.Rep. No. 62, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13:
"Inasmuch as certain vessel operations on account of the
Government were undertaken prior to the establishment of the
War Shipping Administration by or through the Maritime Commission, the provisions of section 1 and all amendments therein
are made applicable to the United States Maritime Commission
with respect to the period beginning October 1, 1941, to the
time of taking office of the Administrator, War Shipping Administration (February 11, 1942). To avoid administrative confusion and uncertainty as to the exact status of employment of
seamen employed on War Shipping Administration vessels, it
is provided that seamen employed through that agency shall be
included under the provisions of section 1 even though the seamen
may be employed on a vessel chartered or made available to
another department or agency of the United States for purposes
of convenience in the war effort.

"With respect to seamen on foreign-flag vessels, the remedy
provided by this legislation is, of course, in substitution for
remedies that might exist under the laws of a country in which
the vessel may be documented, and seamen proceeding under
this section by such choice of remedies will have waived benefits
under laws of any other country that might otherwise be
available."
See also H. Report No. 107, supra,pp. 21 and 22.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

the Suits in Admiralty Act. In the Brady case, under
a petition of a visitor to the boat to recover against a
similar agent, it was held a cause of action in tort at law
would lie. The Lustgarten case was overruled. The
only effect of the Brady decision was to hold that actions
could be maintained against agents of the United States
at common law for the agent's own torts. The case had
nothing whatever to do with the right to recover against
employers under the Jones Act. The opinion said, 317
U. S. at 577, "The sole question here is whether the Suits
in Admiralty Act makes private operators such as respondent non-suable for their torts." "The liability of an
agent for his own negligence has long been embedded in
the law." Id., at 580. "But it is a non sequitur to say
that because the Act takes away the remedy of libel in rem
in all cases involving government vessels and restricts the
remedies against the United States and its wholly owned
corporations, it must be presumed to have abolished all
right to proceed against all other parties." Id., at 582.
"The question is not whether the Commission had authority to delegate to respondent responsibilities for managing
and operating the vessel as its agent.. Itis whether respondent can escape liability for a negligent exercise of
that delegated power if we assume that by contract it
will be exonerated or indemnified for any damages it must
pay." Id., at 583-84. The case was then sent back to
the Circuit Court of Appeals to determine whether a cause
of action against the agent was established. All that was
meant or said in Brady about Lustgarten was that the
Lustgarten case was in error in saying that a seaman
could not sue an agent for the agent's own tort. The
Brady final statement on Lustgarten was, "Our conclusion,
however, is that that position is untenable and that the
Lustgarten case so far as it would prevent a private operator from being sued under the circumstances of this case

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
707

REED,

747

J., dissenting.

must be considered as no longer controlling." Id., at 578.
There is no reason here why the petitioner should not
sue respondent for its alleged tort. What petitioner is
attempting is to hold respondent liable as employer for
negligence of petitioner's fellow servants, of petitioner's
superiors or the Master under the Merchant Marine Act.
This it cannot do under this record. 1'

It is suggested that the respondent may be in the position of an employer, as a charterer or owner pro hac vice.
But a charterer or owner pro hac vice, who is also an

employer, is one who takes over "the exclusive possession,
command, and navigation of the vessel." Reed v. United
States, 11 Wall. 591, 600. That is a bareboat charter.
Under the contract in this case, the respondent had no
11176 Ore. 662, 665, 668-669, 680, 695, 158 P. 2d 275, 276, 277-78,
282, 287--88:
"On the trial the defendant moved for a directed verdict on
the grounds that the evidence showed that the plaintiff was not
employed by it and that his injury was not caused by its negligence. The court denied the motion, and in its charge left it
to the jury to determine as a question of fact whether the relation
of employer and employee existed between defendant and
plaintiff."
"There is no evidence that the defendant did anything in
connection with the business of the vessel not contemplated by
the terms of the service agreement, or that it exercised or attempted to exercise any control over the master or crew. Indeed,
the uncontradicted evidence is that when it was the duty of the
defendant to assist in the loading of the vessel it acted under
the instructions of the master as to the time, place and method
of loading."
"As stated, the trial judge left to the jury the question of
employer-employee relationship as one of fact. The propriety
of that submission is not defended here, and it seems to be agreed
by both parties that the question is one of law to be determined
by the court. Of the correctness of this view we think there
can be no doubt."
"We find no such basis of liability in this case. The defendant
was not responsible for a negligent order of the boatswain which
sent the plaintiff into a place of danger. There is no evidence
that the vessel was not properly equipped when it started on
its voyage."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

such authority. As we have pointed out above, and as
the contract shows, he acted for the United States under
its command and then only in certain matters not connected with actual navigation.
The Court does not challenge the respondent's assertion
that the Merchant Marine Act requires the employeremployee relationship. It is said, "But it does not follow
from the fact that Hust was technically the Government's
employee that he lost all remedies against the operating
<agent' for such injuries as '.e incurred." Certainly Hust
did not lose his remedies against the agent for the agent's
torts. He still has those remedies but petitioner wishes
to hold the agent as an employer. There is here no "disruption" of the normal and past relationship between
seaman and employer. Th:03 Court errs, we think, in suggesting any seaman has been deprived of any rightby
the Clarification Act of 1943 under the construction of
the Oregon Supreme Court. No seaman ever had a right
of recovery under the Merchant Marine Act except against
his employer. That the seaman still has.
What the Clarification Act does and what it obviously
was intended to do, see notes 7 and 9, supra, was to continue the policy of requiring seamen who were employ,-es
of the United States to continue to vindicate those rights
through the Suits in Admiralty Act. Congress has been
generous in permitting seamen to recover in court against
the United States for torts. It felt that the traditional
proceeding in admiralty offered the best opportunity for
justice to all such injured seamen when they were employees of the United States. A convenient summary of the attitude of the administrative agencies toward this problem is found in a letter
of the War Shipping Administration to the National Labor
12See

Remedies of Merchant Seamen Injured on Government

Owned Vessels, 55 Yale Law Journal 584, 591.

HUST v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.

749

REED, J., dissenting.

Relations Board of October 20, 1942.13 Such administrative determination is entitled to weight.
We think that the judgment of the Oregon Supreme
Court should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and MR. JUSTICE BURTON

join in this dissent.

"The War Shipping Administrator has been advised that under
the contractual arrangements mentioned above and for other reasons,
the Master, officers and members of the crew of all vessels owned
by or barehoat chartered to the War Shipping Administration are
employees of the United States and particularly of the War Shipping
Administration, and are so considered and treated at the present
time by other governmental departments and agencies for the purposes of the Civil Service Retirement Act, the United States Employces' Compensation Act, the Federal Social Security Laws, and
the Fed: ral Employment Tax laws. Furthermore, the wages of such
personnel are exempt from attachment as government employees."
13

