MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
Counsel for Parties.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COItRT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 704.

Argued March 27, 1946.-Decided June 3, 1946.

1. Provisions of the Virginia Code, 1942, §§ 4097z to 4097dd, which
require the separation of white and colored passengers on both
interstate and intrastate motor carriers are invalid as applied to
interstate passengers in vehicles moving interstate, because they
burden interstate commerce contrary to Art. I, § 8, el. 3 of the
Constitution of the United States, even though Congress has enacted
no legislation on the subject. Pp. 374, 380, 386.
2. If a state statute unlawfully burdens interstate commerce, the
powers reserved to the State by the Tenth Amendment will not
validate it. P. 376.
3. An interstate passenger, charged in a criminal proceeding with
violation of the statute, is a proper person to challenge its validity
as a burden on interstate commerce. P. 376.
4. State legislation is invalid if it unduly burdens interstate commerce
where uniformity is necessary in the constitutional sense of useful
in accomplishing a permitted purpose. Pp. 377, 380.
5. A State cannot impose undue burdens on interstate commerce by
simply invoking the convenient apologetics of the police power.
P. 380.
6. Seating arrangeihents for the different races in interstate motor
travel require a single, uniform rule to promote and protect national travel. P. 386.
164 Va. 24. 34 S. E. 2d 491, reversed.
Appellant, an interstate passenger, was convicted of a
violation of Virginia Code, 1942, § 4097dd, relating to the
segregation of white and colored passengers on mot ir
buses. The Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia affirmed. 184 Va. 24, 34 S. E. 2d 491.
On appeal to this
Court, reversed, p. 386.
William H. Hastic and Thurgood Marshall argued the
cause for appellant. With them on the brief was Leon
A. Ransom.

374I

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Abram P. Staples, Attorney General of Virginia, argued
the cause and filed a brief for appellee.
Briefs were filed as;amici curiae by Gregory Hankin,

Osmond K. Fraenkel and Arthur Garfield Hays for the
American Civil Liberties Union, and by HaroldA. Stevens
for the Workers Defense League, in support of appellant.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal brings to this Court the question of the
constitutionality of an act of Virginia,1 which requires all
passenger motorvehicle carriers, both interstate and intrastate, to separate without'discrimination ' the white and
colored passengers in their motor buses so that contiguous
seats will not be occupied by persons of different races
at the same time. A violation of the requirement of separation by the carrier is a misdemeanor. The driver or
other person in charge is directed and required to increase
or decrease the space allotted to the respective races as
may be necessary or proper and may require passengers
to change their seats to comply with the allocation. The
operator's failure to enforce the provisions is made a
misdemeanor.'
These regulations were applied to an interstate passenger, this appellant, on a motor vehicle then making an
interstate run or trip. According to the statement of fact
by the Supreme Cotrt of Appeals of Virginia, appellant,
who is a Negro, was traveling on a motor common car1 Virginia

Code of 1942, §§ 4097z to 4097dd inclusive.

The sections

are derived from an act of General Assembly of Virginia of 1930. Acts
of Assembly, Va. 1930, p. 343.
'Id., §§ 4097z, 4097m, 4097s; Morgan v. Commonwealth, 184 Va.
24, 39, 34 S. E. 2d 491.
'Id., § 4097aa.
5

Id., § 4097z; § 4097bb.
Id., § 4097bb.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

Opinion of the Court.

rier, operating under the above-mentioned statute, from
Gloucester County, Virginia, through the District of Columbia, to Baltimore, Maryland, the destination of the bus.
There were other passengers, both white and'colored. On
her refusal to accede to a request of the driver to move
to a back seat, which was partly occupied by other c'olored
passengers, so as to' permit the seat that she vacated to
be used by white passengers, a warrant was obtained and
appellant was arrested, tried and convicted of a violation
of § 4097dd of the Virginia Code." On a writ of error
the conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia. 184 Va. 24. The Court of Appeals
interpreted the Virginia statute as applicable to appellant
since the statute "embraces all motor vehicles and all
6 "4P97dd.

Violation by passengers; misdemeanor; ejection.-All

persons who fail while on any motor vehicle carrier, to take and
occupy the seat or seats or other space assigned to them by the driver,
operator or other person in charge of such vehicle, or by the person
whose duty it is to take up tickets or collect fares from passengers
therein, or who fail to obey the directions of any such driver, operator
or other person in charge, as aforesaid, to change their seats from
time to time as occasions require, pursuant to any lawful rule, regulation or custom in force by such lines as to assigning separate seats
or other space to white and colored persons, respectively, having been
first advised of the fact of such regulation and requested to conform
thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a misdeheanor, -nd upon conviction
-thereof shall be fined not less than five dollars nor more than twentyfive dollars for each offense. Furthermore, such persons may be
ejected from such vehicle by any driver, operator or person in charge
of said vehicle, or by any police officer or other conservator of th2
peace; and in case such persons ejected, shall have paid their fares
upon said vehicle, they shall not be entitled to the return of any
part of same. For the refusal of any such passenger to abide by the
request of the person in charge of said vehicle as aforesaid, and his
consequent ejection from said vehicle, neither the driver, operator,
person in charge, owner, manager nor bus company operating said
vehicle shall be liable for damages in any court.".

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328U. S.

passengers, both interstate and intrastate." ' The Court
of Appeals refused to accept appellant's contention. that
the statute applied was invalid as a delegation of legislative power to the carrier by a concurrent holding "that
The
no power is delegated to the carrier to legislate . ...
statute itself condemns the defendant's conduct as a violation of law and not the rule of the carrier." Id., at 38.
No complaint is made as to these interpretations of the
Virginia statute by the Virginia court.9
The errors of the Court of Appeals that are assigned and
relied upon by appellant are in form only two. The first
is that the decision is repugnant to Clause 3, § 8, Article I
of the Constitution of the United States,9 and the second
the holding that powers reserved to the states by the
Tenth Amendment include the power to require an interstate motor passenger to occupy a seat restricted for the
use of his race. Actually, the first question alone needs
consideration for, if the statute unlawfully burdens interstate commerce, the reserved powers of the state will not
validate it."
We think, as the Court of Appeals apparently did, that
the appellant is a proper person to challenge the validity
of this statute as a burden cn commerce." If it is an invalid burden, the conviction under it would fail. The
statute affects appellant as well as the transportation company. Constitutional protection against burdens on comMorgan v. Commonwealth, supra, 37. Cf. Smith v. State, 100
Tenn. 494, 46 S. W. 566; Alabama & Vicksburg R. Co. v. Morris,
103 Miss. 511, 60 So. 11; Southern R. Co. v. Norton, 112 Miss. 302,

73 So. 1.
8Compare Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 317; General Trading
Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 322 U. S. 335, 337.
1 "Section 8. The Congress shall have Power . . .To regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, -and
with the Indian Tribes; ..
10 Case v. Bowles, 327 U. S.92, 101-102.
1"Cf. Edwards v. California,314 U. S.160, 172, n. 1.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

Opinion of the Court.

merce is for her benefit on a criminal trial for violation of
the challenged statute. Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152,
160; Federationof Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S. 450,463.
This Court frequently must determine the validity of
.state statutes that are attacked as unconstitutional interferences with the national power over interstate commerce.
This appeal presents that question as to a statute that
compels racial segregation of interstate passengers in vehicles moving interstate.'
The precise degree of a permissible restriction on state
power cannot be fixed generally or indeed not even for one
kind of state legislation, such as taxation or health or
safety."3 There is a recognized abstract principle, however/that may be taken as a postulate for testing whether
particular state legislation in the absence of action by
Congress is beyond state power. This is that the state
legislation is invalid if it unduly burdens that commerce
in matters where uniformity is necessary-necessary in
the constitutional sense of useful in accomplishing a permitted purpose.1 Where uniformity is essential for the
functioning of commerce, a state may not interpose its
local regulation.'" Too true it is that the principle lacks
in precision. Although the quality of such a principle
is abstract, its application to the facts of a situation created
by the attempted enforcement of a statute brings about
a specific determination as to whether or not the statute
12 When passing upon a rule of a carrier that required segregation
of an interstate passenger, this Court said, "And we must keep in mind
that we are not dealing with. the law of a State attempting a regdlation
of interstate commerce beyond its power to make." Chiles v. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 218 U. S. 71, 75.
"1Cf. Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 439; Mintz
v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346, 352; Welch Co. v. New Hampshire, 306 U. S.
79, 84.
" Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 766-71.
11 Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402; Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1, 10.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

.328

U. S.

in question is -a burden on commerce. Within the broad
limits of the principle, the cases turn on their own facts.
In the field of transportation, there has been a series
of decisions which hold that where Congress has not acted-and although, the state statute affects interstate commerce, sa state may validly enact legislation which has
predominantly only a local influence on the course of commnerce. " It is equally well settled that,, even where Con16 Statutes or orders dealing with safety of operations: Smith v. Alabama, 124 U.- S. 465 (Alabama statute requiring an examination and
license of train engineers before operating in 'the state); Nashville, C.
& St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96 (statute'requiring examination
of railroad employees as to vision'and color blindness); New York,
N. H. & H. R. Co. v. New York, 165'U. S. 628 (New York gtatute
forbidding the use of furnaces-or stoves in passenger carsand requiring
guard-posts on railroad bridges); Erb v.Morasch, 177 U. S.-584 (municipal ordinance limiting speed of trains in city to 6 miles an hour)';
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280 (Georgia statute
requiring electric' headlights on locomotives); Morris v. Duby, 274
U. S. 135 (weight restrictions on motor carriers imposed by order of
Oregon highway, commission); Sproles v. Bin!ord, 286 U,. S. 374 (size
and weight restrictions on trucks imposed by Texas statute); South
Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. Si 177 (statute
restricting weight and size of motor carriers); Maurer v. Hamilton,
309 U. S. 598 (Pennsylvania statute forbidding the use of its highways
to any vehicle carrying any other vehicle over the head of the operator
of the vehicle); Terminal Assn. v. Trainmen, 318 U. S. 1 (Illinois
statute requiring cabooses on freight trains).
Statutes or orders requiring-local train service: Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427 (state statute requiring intrastate train to stop at
county seat to take on and discharge passengers); Lake Shore & Michigan Southern R. Co. v. Ohio, -173 U. S; 285 (statute requiring three
trains daily, if so many are run, to stop at each city containing. over
3,000 inhabitants as applied to interstate trains); Atlantic Coast Line,
R. Co. v. North Carolina CorporationComm'n, 206 U. S. 1 (order
regulating train service, particularly requiring train to permit connection with through trains at junction point); Missouri Pacific R. Co.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

379

Opinion of the Court.

gress has not acted, state legislation or a final court order
lis invalid which materially affects interstate commerce.,
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262 (order directing .the operation of intrastate
passenger train service over specified route).
Statutes dealing with employment of labor-full crew laws: Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453 (Arkansas full crew

law applied to interstate trains); 'St. Louis, I. M. & S.. R. Co. v.
Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518 (Arkansas full crew laws applied to switching

crews); Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Norwood, 283 U. S. 249 (Arkansas
full crew, laws applied to freight and switching crews).
"Statutes or orders dealing with saf.ty of operations: Kansas City
Southern.R. Co. v.. Katb Valley Dist., 233 U. S. 75 (order requiring
railroad to remove its bridges over river for flood control purposes);
South Covington & Cincinnati R. Co. v. Covivgton, 235 U. S. 537
(ordinances regulating the number of passengers to be carried in, the
number of cars to be run and the temperature of an interstate street
railway car invalid; those requiring rails on front and reai platform,
-ventilation and cleaning valid), Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Blackwell,
244 U. S. 310 (Georgia Blow Post Law requiring train to blow whistle:
and slow down almost to a stop at each grade: crossing where numerous
grade crossings were involved.. Cf. Southern R. Co. v. King, 217 U. S.
524, where answer held insufficient to permit-proof of burden of the
statute on interstate commerce); Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325
U.S. 761 (statute limiting number of cars in freight train to 70 and
passenger cars to 14).
Statutes or, orders requiring local train service: Illinois Central R.
Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142 (statute applied to require fast mail train
to detour from main line in order to stop at station for the taking on
and 'discharge of passengers); Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R. Co. v.
Illinois, 177 U. S. 514 (Illinois statute requiring interstate train to stop
at each station); Mississippi Railroad Comm'n v. Illinois Central R.
Co., 203 U .S. 335 (order of commission reqtiiring interstate train to
stop at small town); Atlantic -Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328
(South Carolina statute and railroad commissiorl order requiring interstate train to stop at small town); St. Louis Southwestein R. Co. v.
Arkansas, 217 U: S. 136 (statute and order requiring delivery of freightcars to local shippers); Herndon v. Chicago, R. I. & P: R. Co., 218
U. S. 135 (statute requiring interstate train to stop at junction point) ;
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n, 237-U. S. 220

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

Because the Constitution puts the ultimate power to regulate commerce in Congress, rather than the states, the
degree of state legislation's interference with that commerce may be weighed by federal courts to determine
whether the burden makes'the statute unconstitutional.' 8
.The courts could not invalidate federal legislation for the
same reason because Congress, within the limits of the
Fifth Amendment, has authority to burden commerce if
that seems to it a desirable means of accomplishing a
permitted end.' 9
This statute is attacked on the ground that it imposes
undue burdens on interstate commerce. It is said by the
.Court of Appeals to have been 'passed in the exercise of
the state's police power to avoid friction between the races.
But this Court pointed out years ago "that a State cannot
avoid the operation of this rule by simply invoking the
convenient apologetics of the police power." 0 Burdens
upon commerce are those actions of a state which directly
"impair the usefulness of its facilities for such traffic." 21
That impairment, we think, may arise from other causes
than costs or long delays. A burden may arise from a
state statute which requires interstate passengers to order
(Wisconsin statute requiring interstate train to stop at villages containing 200 or more inhabitants); Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Tezas,'
245 U. S. 484 (order requiring trains to start on-time and fixing time
allowed for stops at junctions en route); St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 254 UJ. S. 535 (order requiring through trains
to detour through a small town); St. Louis-San Francisco R. Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 261 U. S. 369 (order requiring that interstate
trains be stopped at small town).
I' See Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. at 770.
19 Compare United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144,
146.
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Kaw Valley Dist., 233 U. S.
75, 79.
21 Illinois CentralR. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142, 154.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

Opinion of the Court.

their movements on the vehicle in accordance with local
rather than national requirements.
On appellant's journey, this statute required that she
sit in designated seats in Virginia. 22 Changes in seat designation might be made "at any time" during the journey
when "necessary or proper for the comfort and convenience of passengers." This occurred in this instance.
Upon such change of designation, the statute authorizes
the operator of the vehicle to require, as he did here, "any
passenger to change his or her seat as it may be necessary
or proper." 23 An interstate passenger must if necessary
repeatedly shift seats while moving in Virginia to meet
the seating requirements of the changing passenger group.
On arrival at the District of Columbia line, the appellant
would have had freedom to occupy any available seat and
so to the end of her journey.
Interstate passengers traveling via motor buses between
the north and south or the east and west may pass through
Virginia on through lines in the day or in the night. The
large buses approach the comfort of pullmans and have
seats convenient for rest. On such interstate journeys
the enforcement of the requirements for reseating would
be disturbing.
Appellant's argument, properly we think, includes facts
bearing on interstate motor transportation beyond those
immediately involved in this journey Under the Virginia
statutory regulations. To appraise the weight of the
burden of the- Virginia statute on interstate commerce,
related statutes of other states are important to show
whether there are cumulative effects which may make
22 The Virginia Code of 1942, § 67, defines a colored person, for
the purpose of the Code, as follows: "Every person in whom there
is ascertainable any negro-blood shall be deemed and taken to be
a colored person . . " Provisions for vital statistics make a record
of the racial lines of Virginia inhabitants. §§ 1574 and 5099a.23 § 4097bb.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

local regulation impracticable. Eighteen states, it appears, prohibit racial separation on public carriers."'
Ten require separation on motor carriers.2 5 Of these, Alabama applies specifically to interstate passengers with an
exception for interstate passengers with through tickets
from states without laws on separation of passengers."6
The language of the other acts, like this Virginia statute
before the Court of Appeals' decision in this case, may be
said to be susceptible to an interpretation that they do
or do not apply to interstate passengers.
In states where separation of races is required in motor
vehicles, a method of identification as white or colored
must be employed. This may be done by definition.
Any ascertainable Negro blood identifies a person as colored for purposes of separation in some states." in the
other states which require the separation of the races in
24

Cal. Civ. Code 'Deering), 1941, §§ 51-54; Colo. Stat. "Ann., 1935,
Ch. 35, §§ 1-10; Conn. Gen. Stat. (Supp. 1933), § 1160b; Ill. Rev.
Stat., 1945, Ch.38, §§ 125--128g; Ind. Stat. (Burns), 1933, §§ 10-901,
10-902; Iowa Code, 1139, §§ 13251-13252; Kan..Gen. Stat., 1935,
§ 21-2424; Mass. Laws.(Michie), 1933, Ch. 272, § 98, as amended
1934; Mich. Stat. Ann., 1938, §§ 28.343, 28.344; Minn. Stat. (Mason),
J927, § 7321; Neb. Comp. Stat., 1929, § 23-101; N. J. Rev. Stat.,
1937, §§ 10:1-2 to 10:1-7; N. Y. Civil Rights Law (McKinney),
§§ 40-41; Ohio Code (Throckmorton), 1940, §§ 12940-12942; Pa.,
Stat. (Purdon), Tit. 18, §§ 4654 to 4655; R. I. Gen. Laws, 1938, Ch.
606, §§ 28-29; Wash. Rev. Stat. (Remington), 1932, § 2686 (semble);
Wis. Stat.,.1943, § 340.75.
25
Ala. Code, 1940, Tit. 48, § 268; Ark. Stal., 1937 (Pope), §§ 69216927, Acts 1943, p. 379; Ga. Code, 1933, § 68-616; La. Gen. Stat.
(Dart), 1939, §§ 5307-5309; Miss. Code, 1942, §7785; N. C. Gen.
Stat,, 1943, §62-109; Okla. Stat. Ann., 1941, Tit. 47, §§201-210;
S. C. Code, 1942, § 8530-1; Tex. Pen. Code (Vernon), 1936, Art.
1659; Va. Code, 1942, §§ 4097z--4097dd.
26Ala. Code 1940, Tit. 48, § 268.
27
Ala. Code, 1940, Tit. 1, § 2; Ark. Stat. (Pope), 1937, § 1200
(separate coach law); Ga. Code (Michie Supp.), 1928, § 2177; Okla.
Const., Art. XXIII, § 1; Va. Code (Michie), 1942, § 67.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

Opinion of the Court..

motor carriers, apparently no definition generally applicable or made for the purposes of the statute is given.
Court definition or further legislative enactments would
be required to clarify the line betweer the races.
Obviously there -nay be changes by legislation in the
definition.2
The interferences to interstate commerce which arise
from state regulation of 'racial association on interstate
vehicles has long been recognized. Sucli regulation hampers freedom of choice in selecting accommodations. The
recent changes in transportation brought about by the
coming, of automobiles does not seem of great significance
in the problem. People of all races travel today more
extensively than in 1878 when this Court first passed upon
state regulation of racial segregation in commerce. The
factual situation set out in preceding paragraphs emphasizes the soundness of this Court's early conclusion in
Hall v. DeCuir,95 U. S. 485.
The DeCuir case arose under a statute of Louisiana interpreted by the courts of that state and this Court to
require public carriers "to give all persons travelling in
that State, upon the public conveyances.employed in such
business, equal rights and privileges in all parts of the conveyance, without distinction or discrimination on account
of race or color." Page 487. Damages were awarded
against Hall, the representative of the operator of a Mississippi river steamboat that raversed that river interstate
from New Orleans to Vicksburg, for excluding in Louisiana
the defendant in error, a cG:ored person, from a cabin reserved for whites. This Court reversed for reasons well
28

Compare Va. Code, 1887, § 49, providing that those' who had
one-fourth or more Negro blood were to be considered colored. This
was changed in i910 (Acts, 1910, p. 581) to read one-sixteenth or
more. It was again changed in 1930 by Acts, 1930, p. 97, 'to its
present form, i. e., any ascertainable Negro blood. See note 22,
supra.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

stated in the words of Mr. Chief Justice Waite.2 As our
previous discussion demonstrates, the transportation diffiU. S. at 489:
"It was to meet just such a case that the commercial clause in
the Constitution was adopted. The river Mississippi passes
through or along the borders of ten different States, and its tributaries reach many more. The commerce upon these waters is
immense, and its regulation clearly a matter of national concern.
If each State was at liberty to regulate the conduct of carriers
while within its jurisdiction, the confusion likely to follow could
not but be productive of great inconvenience and unnecessary
hardship. Each State could provide for its own passengers and
regulate the transportation of its own freight, regardless of the
interests of others. Nay more, it could prescribe rules by which
the carrier must be governed within the State in respect to passengers and property brought from without. On one side of the
river or its tributaries he might be required to observe one set of
rules, and on the other another. Commerce cannot flourish in the
midst of such embarrassments. No carrier of passengers can
conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or comfort to
those employing him, if on one side of a State line his passengers,
both white and colored, must be permitted to occupy the same
cabin, and on the other be kept separate. Uniformity in the regulations by which he is to be governed from one end to the other
of his route is a necessity in his business,'and to secure it Congress,
which is untrammelled by State lines, has been invested with the
exclusive legislative power of determining what such regulations
shall be. If this statute can be enforced against those engaged in
inter-state commerce, it may be as well against those engaged in
foreign; and the master of a ship clearing from New Orleans for
Liverpool, having passengers on board, would be compelled to
carry all, white and colored, in the same cabin during his passage
down the river, or be subject to an action for damages, 'exemplary
as.well as actual,' by anyone who felt himself aggrieved because
he had been excluded on account of his color."
See Louisville, N. 0. & T. R. Co. v. Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587,
590-91.
A regulation of the number of passengers on interstate street cars
was held invalid in South Covington & CincinnatiR. Co. v. Covington,
235 U. S. 537, 547. This Court said at 547-48.
"If Covington can regulate these matters, certainly Cincinnati
can, and interstate business might be impeded by conflicting and
varying regulations in this respect, with which it might .be impossible to comply. On one side of the river one set of regulations
might be enforced and on the other side quite a different set,.and
both seeking to control a practically continuous movement of cars.
As was said in Hall v. DeCuir,95 U. S. 485, 489, 'commerce cannot
flourish in the midst of such embarrassments.'"
295

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

385

Opinion of the Court.

culties arising from a statute that requires commingling
of the races, as in the DeCuir case, are increased by one
that requires separation, as here.' Other federal courts
have looked upon racial separation §tatutes as applied to
interstate passengers as burdens upon commerce.,1
In weighing the factors that enter into our conclusion
as to whether this statute so burdens interstate commerce
or so infringes the requirements of national uniformity
as to be invalid, we are mindful of the fact that conditions
10 South Covington & Cincinnati R. Co. v. Kentucky, 252 U. S. 399,
relied upon by appellee, does not decide to the contrary of the holding
in Hall v. DeCuir. In that case a carrier corporation was convicted
in the Kentucky courts of violation of a state statute that required it
to furnish cars with separate compartments for white and colored. It
operated street cars interstate over the lines bf another corporation
that owned tracks that were wholly intrastate. The Court of Appeals
of Kentucky held the conviction good on the ground that the offending
act was the operation of the intrastate railroad in violation of the state
statute. It was said that the. statute did not apply to an interstate
passenger. South Covington & CincinnatiStreet R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 181 Ky. 449, 454, 205 8. W. 603. The Court of Appeals referred, with continual approval, at that point to Chiles v. Chesapeake
& Ohio R. Co., 125 Ky. 299, 304: "It is admitted that sections 795-801
of the Kentucky Statutes, requiring all railroad companies to furnish
separate coaches for transportation of white and colored passengers,
and imposing upon the company and conductors a penalty for refusing
or failing to carry out the provisions of the law, does not apply to
appellant, who was an interstate passenger; it being conceded that
the statute is only operative within the territoirial limits of this State,
and effective as to passengers who travel from one point within the
State to another place within its border." This Court accepted this
application of the state statut6 and said it "is not a regulation of
interstate commerce." Page 403. Probably what was meant by the
opinions was that under the Kentucky act the company with wholly
intrastate mileage must operate cars with separate compartments for
intrastate passengers.
" Anderson v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 62 F. 46; 48; Washington, B.
& A. R. Co. v. Waller, 53 App. D. C. 200, 289 F. 598. See also Hart
v. State, 100 Md. 595, 60 A. 457; Carrey v. Spencer, 36 N. 'Y. Supp.
886.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLACK, J., concurring.

328U. S.

vary between northern or western states such as Maine
or Montana, with practically no colored population; industrial states such as Illinois, Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania with a small, although appreciable, percentage of
colored citizens; and the states of the deep south with
percentages of from twenty-five to .nearly fifty per cent
colored, all with varying densities of the white and colored races in certain localities. Local efforts to promote
amicable relations in difficult areas by legislative segregation in interstate transportation emerge from the latter
racial distribution. As no state law can reach beyond
its own border nor bar transportation of passengers across
its boundaries, diverse seating requiremeats for the races
in interstate journeys result' As there is no federal act
dealing with the separation of races in interstate transportation, we must decide the validity of this Virginia
statute on the challenge that it interferes with commerce,
as a matter of balance between the exercise of the local
.police power and the need for national uniformity in the
regulations for interstate travel: It seems clear to us that
seating arrangements for the different races in interstate
motor travel require a single, uniform rule to promote and
..protect national travel. Consequently, we hold the Virginia statute in controversy invalid.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUsTICE BLACK, concurring.
The Commerce Clause of the Constitution provides
that "Congress shall hav6 power . . to regulate commerce .... among the §everal States." I have believed,
and still- believe, that this provision means that Congress

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

387

BLACK, J., concurring.

can regulate commerce and that the courts cannot. But
in a series of cases dee.ided in recent years this Court over
my protest'has held that the Commerce Clause justifies
'this Court in nullifying state legislation which this Court
concludes imposes an "undue burder" on interstate commerce.' I think that whether state legislation imposes
an "undue burden" on interstate commerce raises pure
questions. of policy, which the Constitution intended
should be resolved by the Congress.
Very recently a majority of this Court reasserted its
power to invalidate state laws on the ground that such
legislation put an undue burden on commerce. Nippert
v. Richmond, supra; Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona,
supra., I thought then, and still. believe, that in these
cases the Court was assuming .the role of a "suptr-legislature" in determining matters of governmental policy.
Id., at 788, n. 4.
But the Court, at least for the present, seems committed
to this interpretation of the Commerce Clause. In the
Southern Pacific Company case, the Court, as I understand its opinion, found an "undue burden" because a
State's requirement for shorter trains increased the cost
of railroad operations and thereby delayed interstate commerce and impaired its efficiency. In the Nippert case
a small tax imposed on a sales solicitor employed by concerns located outside of Virginia was found to be an "undue
burden" even though a solicitor for Virginia concerns engaged in the same business would have been, required to
pay the same tax.
So long as the Court remains committed to the "undue
burden on commerce formula,", imust make decisions
under it. The "burden on commerce" ' imposed by the
Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U., S. 416; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Arizona, 325 U. S. 761; McCarroll v. Dixie Greyhound Lines, 309

U. S. 176; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434; 'Adams
Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

328 U. S.

Virginia law here under consideration seems to me to be
of a far more serious nature than those of the Nippert or
Southern Pacific Company cases. The Southern Pacific
Company opinion, moreover, relied in part on the rule
announced in Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485, which case
held that the Commerce Clause prohibits a state from
passing laws which require that "on one side of a State
line . . . passengers, both white and colored, must be
permitted to occupy the same cabin, and on the other be
kept separate." The Court further said that "uniformity
in the regulations by which . . . [a carrier] is to be
governed from one end to the other of his route is a necessity in his business" and that it was the responsibility of
Congress, not the states, to determine "what such regulations shall be." The "undue burden on commerce formula" consequently requires the majority's decision. In
view of the Court's present disposition to apply that formula, I acquiesce.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

My brother Burton has stated with great force reasons
for not invalidating the Virginia statute'. But for me Hall
v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; "iscontrolling. Since it was decided nearly seventy years ago, that case on several occasions has been approvingly cited and has never been
questioned. Chiefly for this reason I concur in the opinion of the Court.
The imposition upon national systems of transportation
of a crazy-quilt of State laws would operate to burden
commerce unreasonably, whether such contradictory and
confusing State laws concern racial, commingling or racial
segregation. This does not imply the necessity for a nationally uniform regulation of arrangements for passengers on interstate carriers. Unlike other powers of Congress (see Art. I, § 8, cl. 1, concerning "Duties, Imposts

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

389

BURTON, J., dissenting.

and Excises"; Art: I, § 8, cl. 4, concerning "Naturalization"; Art. I, § 8, cl. 4, concerning "Bankruptcies"), the
power to regulate commerce does not require geographic
uniformity. Congress may devise a national policy with
due regard to varying interests of different regions. E. g.,
37 Stat. 699, 27 U. S. C. § 122; Clark Distilling Co.
v. Western Maryland R. Co., 242 U. S. 311.; 45 Stat. 1084,
49 U. S. C. § 60; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431. The
States cannot impose diversity of treatment when such
diverse treatment would result in unreasonable burdens
on commerce. But Congress may effectively exercise its
power under the Commerce Clause without the necessity
of a blanket rule for the country.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

dissenting.

On the application of the interstate commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution to this case, I find myself
obliged to differ from the majority of the Court. I would
sustain the Virginia statute against that clause. The
issue is neither the desirability of the statute nor the
constitutionality of racial segregation as such. The opinion of the Court does not claim that the Virginia statute,
regulating seating arrangements for interstate passengers
in motor vehicles, violates the Fourteenth Amendment or
is in conflict with a federal statute. The Court holds this
statute unconstitutional for but one reaso'n. It holds that
the burden imposed by the statute upon the nation's interest in interstate commerce so greatly outweighs the contribution made by the statute to the State's interest in
its public welfare as to make it unconstitutional.
The undue burden upon interstate commerce thus relied
upon by the Court is not complained of by the Federal
Government, by any state, or by any carrier. This statute has been in effect since 1930. The carrier concerned
is operating under regulations of its own which conform

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, )J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

'to the statute. The statute conforms to the policy
adopted by Virginia as to steamboats (4900), electric or
street cars and railroads (1902-1904).1 Its validity has
been unanimously upheld by the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. The argument relied upon by the
majority of this Court to establish the undue burden of
this statute on interstate commerce is the lack of uniformity between its provisions and those of the laws of
other stateson the subject of the racial separation of interstate passengers on motor vehicles.
If the mere diversity between the Virginia statute and
comparable statutes of other states is so serious as to render the Virginia statute invalid, it probably means that
the comparable statutes of those other states, being diverse
from it and from each other, are equally invalid. This is
especially true under that assumption of the majority
which disregards sectional interstate travel between neighboring states having similar laws, to hold "that seating
arrangements for the different races in interstate motor
travel require a single, uniform rule to promote and protect
national travel." (Italics supplied.) More specifically,
the opinion of the Court indicates that the laws of the
10 contiguous states of Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, Texas: and Oklahoma require racial separation of
passengers on motor carriers, while those of 18 other states
prohibit racial separation of passengers on public carriers.
On the precedent of this case, the laws of the 10 states
requiring racial separation apparently can be invalidated
because of their sharp diversity from the laws in the rest
of the Union, or, in a lesser degree, because of their diversity from one another. Such invalidation, on the ground
1 Steamboats:

Acts of 1900, p. 340; electric or street cars: Acts of
1902-1904, p. 990; railroads: Acts of 1902-1904, p. 987. Va. Code
Ann., 1942, §§ 4022-4025; 3978-3983; 3962-3969. :

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

BURTON,

J.,,dissenting.

of lack of nation-wide uniformity, may lead to questioning the validity of the laws of the 18 states now prohibiting racial separation of passengers, for those laws likewise differ sharpi y from laws on the same subject in other
parts of the Union and, in a lesser degree, from one another. In the absence of federal law, this may eliminate
state regulation of racial separation in the seating of interstate passengers on motor vehicles and leave the regulation
of the subject to the respective carriers.
The present decision will lead to the questioning of the
validity of statutory regulation of the seating of intrastate
passengers in.the same motor vehicles with interstate passengers. The decision may also result in increased lack
of uniformity between regulations as to seating arrangements on motor vehicles limited to intrastate passengers
in a given state and those on motor vehicles engaged in
interstate business in the same state or on connecting
routes.
The basic weakness in the appellant's case is the lack
of facts and findings essential to demonstrate the existence
of such a serious and major burden upon the national
interest in interstate commerce as to outweigh whatever
state or local benefits are attributable to the statute and
which would be lost by its invalidation. The Court recognizes that it. serves as "the final arbiter of the competing
demands of state and national interests" 2 and that it must
fairly determine, in the absence of congressional action,
whether the state statute actually imposes such an
undue burden upon interstate commerce as to invalidate
that statute. In weighing these competing demands, if
this Court is to justify the invalidation of this statute, it
must, ,first of all, be satisfied that the many years of experience of the state and the carrier that are reflected in this
Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 769.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

328 U. S..

state law should be set aside. It represents the tested
public policy of Virginia regularly enacted, long maintained and currently observed. The. officially declared
state interests, even when affecting interstate commerce,
should not be laid 'aside summarily by this Court in the
absence of congressional action. It is only Congress that
can supply affirmative national uniformity.of action.
In Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 768-,
769, 770, this Court speaking through the late Chief Justice
said:
"In the application of these principles some enactments may be found to be plainly within and others
plainly without state power. But between these extremes lies the infinite variety of cases, in which reg*ulation of local matters may also operate as a regulation of commerce, in which reconciliation of the conflicting claims of, state and national power, is to be
attained only by some appraisal and accommodation.
of the competing demands of the state and national
interests involved.3
"But in general Congress has left it to the courts to
formulate the rules thus interpreting the commerce
clause in its application, doubtless because it has appreciated the destructive consequences to the commerce of the nation if their [i. e. the courts'] protection were withdrawn, . . . arid. has been aware that
in their application state laws will not be invalidated
without the support of relevant factual material
which will 'afford a sure basis' for an informed judgment.4 . . . Meanwhile, Congress has accommodated its legislation, as have the states, to these rules
as hn established feature of our constitutional system.
There has thus been left to the states wide scope for
See Parker v. Brown, 3i7 U., S'. 341, 362; Di Santo ". Pennsylvania,
273 U. S. 34, 44.
4 Terminal Assn.. v.

Trainmen, 318 U.,S. 1, S.

MORGAN v. VIRGINIA.
373

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

the regulation of matters of local state concern, even
though it in some measure affects the commerce, provided it does not materially restrict the free flow of
commerce across state lines, or interfere with it in
matters with respect to which uniformity of regulation is of predominant national concern." (Italics
supplied.)
The above-quoted requirement of a factual establishment of "a sure basis" for an informed judgment by. this
Court calls for a firm and demonstrable basis-of action on
the part of this Court. In the record of this casethere
are no findings of -fact that demonstrate adequately the
excessiveness of the burden, if any, which the Virginia
statute has imposed upon interstate commerce, during the
many years since its enactment, in comparison with the
resulting effect in Virginia of the invalidation of this statute.- The Court relies largely upon the recital of a nation-wide diversity among state statutes on this subject
without a demonstration of the factual situation in those
states, and especially in Virginia. The Court therefore
is-not able in this case to make that necessary "appraisal
and accommodation of the competing demands of the
state and national interests involved" which should be he
foundation for passing upon the validity of a state stat ite
of long standing and of important local significance in 'he
exercise of the state police power.
-

"Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485,.does not require the conclusion
reached by the Court in this case. The Louisiana statute in the
DeCuir case could have been invalidated, at that time and place, as
an undue burden on interstate commerce under the rules clearly stated
by Chief Justice Stone in Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, supra, and
as applied in this dissenting opinion. If the DeCuir case is followed
without weighing the surrounding facts, it would invalidate today
statutes in New England states prohibiting racial separation in seating
arrangements on carriers, which would not be invalidated under the
doctrine stated in the Arizona case.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

The Court makes its own further assumption that the
question of racial separation of interstate passengers in
motor vehicle carriers requires national uniformity of
treatment rather than diversity of treatnient at this time.
The inaction of Congress is an important indication that,
in the opinion of Congress, this issue is better met without
nationally uniform affirmative- regulation than with it.
Legislation raising the issue. long has been, and is now,
pending before Congress but has not reached the floor of
either House.' The fact that 18 states have prohibited
in some degree racial separation in public carriers is important progress in the direction of uniformity. The fact,
however, that 10 contiguous states in some degree require,
by state law, some racial separation of passengers on motor
carriers indicates a different appraisal by them of the needs
and conditions in those areas than in others. The remaining 20 states have not gone equally far in either direction.
This recital of existing legislative diversity is evidence
against the validity of the assumption by this Court that
there exists today a requirement of a single uniform national rule on the subject.
It is a fundamental concept of our Constitution that
where conditions are diverse the solution of problems arising out of them may well come through the application
of diversified treatment matching the diversified needs as
determined by our local governments. Uniformity of
treatment is appropriate where a substantial uniformity
of conditions exists.

o See H. R. 8821, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., 83 Cong. Rec. 74; H. R. 182,
76th Cong., Ist Sess., 84 Cong. Rec. 27; H. R. 112, 77th Cong., Ist
Sess., 87 Cong. Rec. 13.
1,

