152

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

FIRST IOWA HYDRO-ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE
v. FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION.
STATE OF IOWA, INTERVENOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 603. Argued March 8, 1946.-Decided April 29, 1946.
Petitioner applied to the Federal Power Commission for a license for
a power project in Iowa involving the construction of a dam on a
navigable stream and the diversion of water from two navigable
streams into another. Section 9 (b) of the Federal Power Act
requires an applicant to submit satisfactory evidence of compliance with requirements of state laws "with respect to bed and banks
and to the appropriation, diversion, and use of water for power
purposes and with respect to the right to engage in the business of
developing, transmitting, and distributing power, and in any other
business necessary to effect the purposes of a license under this
Act." Petitioner showed no attempt to comply with Iowa Code,
1939, ch. 363, which forbids the construction of dams and the diversion of water for industrial purposes without a permit from the
State Executive Council and authorizes the issuance of such a permit
upon a finding, inter alia, that "any water taken from the
stream .

.

. is returned thereto at the nearest practicable place."

The State intervened and urged that the application be denied
because petitioner did not submit evidence of its compliance with
the requirements of the Iowa Code for a permit from the State
Executive Council. The Commission found that a federal license
for the project was required under the Federal Power Act and that
the project called for a practical and reasonahly adequate water'
power development, with certain recreational advantages, all at a
cost not appearing to be unreasonable; but it dismissed the application without prejudice, on the ground of petitioner's failure to
present satisfactory evidence, pursuant to § 9 (b), of compliance
with requirements of laws of Iowa requiring a state permit.
Held:
1. Compliance with requirements for a state permit under Iowa
Code, 1939, ch. 363, is not a condition precedent to, or an administrative procedure that must be exhausted before, securing a federal
license. Pp. 163, 170, 182.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 153
152

Syllabus.

(a) To require petitioner to secure a state permit as a condition precedent to securing a federal license would vest in the State
Executive Council a veto power over the federal project which
easily could destroy the effectiveness of the Federal Act and subordinate to state control the "comprehensive" planning which the
Federal Power Act entrusts to the judgment of the Commission or
other representatives of the Federal Government. P. 164.
(b) The action of the Commission in requiring petitioner to
present satisfactory evidence of compliance with the requirements
for a state permit, while not requiring it actually to secure a state
permit, avoided vesting a veto power in the State Executive Council; but it did not meet the substance of petitioner's objection,
because it subjected to state control the very requirements of the
project which Congress has placed in the discretion of the Commission. P. 165.
(c) The Act leaves to the States their traditional jurisdiction
over property rights to the beds and banks of streams and the use
of water, subject to the superior right of the Federal Government
to regulate interstate and foreign commerce, administer public lands
and reservations of the United States and exercise authority under
treaties. Pp. 171-176.
(d) The intention of Congress was to secure a comprehensive.
development of national resources and not merely to prevent
obstructions to navigation. Pp. 180-181.
(e) The Act establishes a dual system of control by separating
those subjects which remain under the jurisdiction of the States
from those which the Constitution delegates to the United States
and over which Congress vests the Commission with authority to
act. P. 167.
(f) Where the Federal Government supersedes the State Government, there is no suggestion that both agencies shall have final
authority. P. 168.
(g) A contrary policy is indicated in §§ 4 (e), 10 (a), (b) and
(c) and 23 (b), which sections place responsibility squarely upon
federal officials and usually upon the Federal Power Commission.
P. 168.
(h) The express provision of § 27 requiring that the Act be
not construed as affecting the laws of the States relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation
or for municipal or other uses, or any vested right acquired therein,
indicates that § 9 (b) should not be given a like effect in the absence
of a similar provision. Pp. 175-178.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

(i) Section 27, protecting state laws from supersedure, is limited to laws as to the control, appropriation, use or distribution of
water in irrigation or for municipal or other uses of the same nature
and has primary, if not exclusive, reference to such proprietary
rights. Pp. 175, 176.
(j) Section 9 is devoted to securing adequate information for
the Commission as to pending applications for licenses and does
not itself require compliance with any state laws. Pp. 168, 177, 178.
(k) The detailed provisions of the Act providing a comprehensive plan for the development and regulation of the water
resources of the Nation leave no room or need for conflicting state
controls. P. 181.
(1) It is the Federal Power Commission rather than the Iowa
Executive Council that under our constitutional Government must
pass upon issues affecting the use of navigable waters--on behalf
of the people of Iowa as well as on behalf of all others. P. 182.
2. The action of the Commission was erroneous in dismissing the
application on the ground of petitioner's failure to present satisfactory evidence, pursuant to § 9 (b), of compliance with requirements
of laws of Iowa requiring a state permit. Pp. 161-167.
(a) The project is clearly within the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Federal Power Act. P. 163.
(b) Believing the Iowa law to be inapplicable or to have been
superseded by the Federal Power Act, the Commission would have
been justified in following its own interpretation of the Federal
Power Act and proceeding with the merits of the application thereunder, without requiring petitioner to submit evidence of compliance
with such laws of Iowa. Pp. 160-162.
(c) The Commission's action in dismissing the application
without prejudice did not avoid passing on the issue as to the need
for evidence of petitioner's compliance with the state law, but constituted a ruling that such evidence was essential. Pp. 161-162.
(d) A state permit not being required, there was no justification for requiring petitioner, as a condition of securing a federal
permit, to present evidence of its compliance with the requirements
of the state law for that state permit. P. 166.
(e) There is ample opportunity and authority for the Commission to require by regulation the presentation of evidence satisfactory to it of petitioner's compliance with any of the requirements
for a state permit that the Commission considers appropriate to
effect the purposes of a federal license. P. 167.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 155
152

Counsel for Parties.

3. Upon the remand of this application to the Commission, it
will not act as a substitute for the local authorities having jurisdiction over such questions as the sufficiency of applicant's legal title
to riparian rights or the validity of its local franchises relating to
proposed intrastate public utility service. P. 178.
(a) The references in § 9 (b) to beds and banks of streams, to
proprietary rights to divert or use water, or to legal rights to
engage locally in the business of developing, transmitting and distributing power neither add anything to nor detract anything from
the force of local laws, if any, on those subjects. P. 178.
(b) In so far as those laws have not been superseded by the
Federal Power 'Act, they remain as applicable and effective as they
were before its passage. P. 178.
151 F. 2d 20, reversed.

Petitioner applied to the Federal Power Commission for
a license to construct, operate, and maintain a power
project on navigable waters in Iowa. The State intervened and urged that the application be denied because
petitioner had not presented satisfactory evidence of its
compliance with the requirements of Iowa Code, i939,
ch. 363, as to the issuance of a permit by the State Executive Council. The Commission dismissed the application
"without prejudice to renewal within one year upon satisfying the requirements of Section 9 (b) of the Federal
Power Act." 52 P. U. R. (N. S.) 82. The Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed. 151 F. 2d
20. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 715.
Reversed, p. 183.
David W. Robinson, Jr.argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were George B. Porter, Andrew G.
Haley and John Connolly, Jr.
Howard E. Wahrenbrock argued the cause for the Federal Power Commission, respondent. With him on the
brief were Solicitor General McGrath and Louis W.
McKernan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Neill Garrett argued the cause for the State of Iowa,
intervenor. With him on the brief were John M. Rankin,
Attorney General of Iowa, Horace L. Lohnes and C.
Walter Harris.
MR. JUSTICE

BuRToN-delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case illustrates the integration of federal and
state jurisdictions in licensing water power projects under the Federal Power Act.' The petitioner is the First

Iowa Hydro-Electric Cooperative, a cooperative association organized under the laws of Iowa with power to gen-

erate, distribute and sell electric energy. On January 29,
1940, pursuant to § 23 (b) of the Federal Power Act,' it
141 Stat. 1063, as amended, 49 Stat. 838, 16 U. S. C. §§ 791a-825r.
. (b) It shall be unlawful for any person, State, or
municipality, for the purpose of developing electric power, to construct, operate, or maintain any dam, water conduit, reservoir, power
house, or other works incidental thereto across, along, or in any of
the navigable waters of the United States, or upon any part of the
public lands . . . of the United States . . . except under and in
accordance with the terms of . . . a license granted pursuant to this
Act. Any person, association, corporation, State, or municipality
intending to construct a dam or other project works across, along,
over, or in any stream or part thereof, other than those defined herein
as navigable waters, and over which Congress has jurisdiction under
its authority to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States shall before such construction file declaration of
such intention with the Commission, whereupon the Commission shall
cause immediate investigation of such proposed construction to be
made, and if upon investigation it shall find that the interests of
interstate or foreign commerce would be affected by such proposed
construction, such person, association, corporation, State, or municipality shall not construct, maintain, or operate such dam or other project
works until it shall have applied for apd shall have received a license
under the provisions of this Act. If the Commission shall not so find,
and if no public lands . . . are affected, permission is hereby granted
to construct such dam or other project works in such stream upon
compliance with State laws." 49 Stat. 846, 16 U. S. C. § 817.
2

"SEc. 23. .

.

-

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 157
152

Opinion of the Court.

filed with the Federal Power Commission a declaration
of intention to construct and operate a dam, reservoir and
hydro-electric power plant on the Cedar River, near Moscow, Iowa.'
On April 2, 1941, it also filed with the Commission an
application for a license, under the Federal Power Act,
to construct an enlarged project essentially like the one it
now wishes to build. The cost of the enlarged project is
estimated at $14,600,000. It calls for an 8,300 foot
earthen dam on the Cedar River near Moscow, an 11,000
acre reservoir at that point and an eigh't-mile diversion
canal to a power plant to be built near Muscatine on the
Mississippi. The canal will create two other reservoirs
totaling 2,000 acres. It is alleged that the three reservoirs incidentally will provide needed recreational facilities. The power plant will have four turbo-generating
units with a total capacity of 50,000 kw., operating with
an average head of 101 feet of water provided by the fall
from the canal to the Mississippi. Water will be pumped
from the Mississippi up to the head bays of the power
intake dam at the plant to meet possible shortages in supply. The tailrace will extend for a mile along the shore
of the Mississippi to a point below Dam 16 on that River.
Transmission lines will connect the project with a source
of steam standby electric current at Davenport, Iowa, 24
miles up the Mississippi. The plant is expected to produce 200,000,000 kwh. of marketable power per year, of
which 151,000,000 kwh. will be firm energy in an average
year. Interchange of energy is proposed with the MolineRock Island Manufacturing Company near Davenport
and the project is suggested as an alternative to the addi3 This described a project including an 8,500 foot earthen dam, and
a power plant of three 5,000 kw. hydraulic turbine generators operating under a maximum head of 35 feet, with an estimated output of
47,000,000 kwh. per year. The water was to be returned to the
Cedar River immediately below the dam.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

tion of a 50,000 kw. unit to the plant of that company.
The power will be available especially to non-profit rural
electrification cooperative associations and to cities and
towns in-35 or more nearby counties.
The Cedar River rises in Minnesota and flows 270 miles
southeasterly through Iowa to Moscow, which is 10 miles
west of the Mississippi. From there it flows southwesterly
29 miles to Columbus Junction where it joins the Iowa
River and returns southeasterly 28 miles to the Mississippi. The proposed diversion will take all but about 25
c. f. s. of water from the Cedar River at Moscow. This
will correspondingly reduce the flow in the Iowa River
while the diverted water will enter the Mississippi at Muscatine, about 20 miles above its present point of entry at
the mouth of the Iowa River. There are no cities or
towns on the Cedar River between Moscow and Columbus
Junction and the record indicates that the petitioner has
options upon 98% of the riparian rights on the Cedar
River in that area. At petitioner's request, this application was treated as a supplement to its then pending
declaration of intention to construct the smaller project.
On June 3, 1941, the Commission made the following
findings:
"(1) That the Cedar and Iowa Rivers are navi* gable waters of the United States;
(2) That the diversion of water from the Cedar
River by means of the diversion canal as set forth
Pbove would have a direct and substantial effect upon
the flow and stage of the Iowa River and hence would
affect the navigable capacity of that river;
(3) That the alternate withholding of water in the
reservoir and canal during periods of shut-down of
the power plant and the release of water at substantial rates of flow during periods of operation of the
power plant, as set forth above, would cause extreme
fluctuations in the flow of the Mississippi River at

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 159
152

Opinion of the Court.

Muscatine, Iowa, and would substantially affect the
navigable capacity of that river;
(4) That the interests of interstate commerce
would be affected by construction of the project as
described in the declaration of intention as supplemented;
(5) That the two small islands . . . [in the Cedar
River] are public lands of the United States and will
be partly or wholly flooded by the reservoir of the
proposed project and will be occupied by the project;
(6) That a license for the construction proposed
above is required under the provisions of the Federal
Power Act." 2 Fed. Power Comm. Rep., 958.'
On August 11, 1941, the petitioner, pursuant to that
finding, filed with the Commission an application for a
license to construct the project above described. On
November 4, 1941, the Commission granted the State of
Iowa's petition to intervene and, since then, the State
has opposed actively the granting of the federal license.
'On February 7, 1940, the Commission had sent notice to the
Governor of Iowa of the filing of the original declaration of intention
and invited him to present information and comments relative thereto.
-The State, however, took no part in the proceedings. The record also
indicates that twice in the three years before the present proceeding,
the Executive Council of the State of Iowa rejected applications of
the petitioner requesting state permits to construct a dam near Moscow comparable to that proposed in all of these proceedings, but not
including a diversion of water from the Cedar to the Mississippi
River. The last application of the petitioner to the Council for such
a permit was filed August 12, 1940, and rejected June 25, 1941. No
application has been made by th petitioner to the Executive Council
f'or a state permit for construction of the project including the canal
diverting most of the flow of the Cedar River to the Mississippi and
providing for a plant and tailrace on the bank of the Mississippi. In
its petition to intervene in the present proceeding for a federal license,
the State alleged that such a diversion would violate § 7771 (in Chapter 363) of the Code of Iowa, 1939. That allegation touches the
principal question in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

On January 29, 1944, after extended' hearings, the Commission rendered an opinion including the following
statements:
"As first presented, the plans of the applicant for
developing the water resources of the Cedar River
were neither (desirable nor adequate, but many important changes ,n design have been made. [The opinion here quoted in a footnote § 10 (a) of the Federal
Power Act.]' The applicant has also agreed to certain modifications proposed by the Chief of Engineers
of the War Department. The present plans call for
a practical and reasonably adequate development to
utilize the head and water available, create a large
storage reservoir, and make available for recreational
purposes a considerable area now unsuitable for
such use, all at a cost which does not appear to be
unreasonable.
"Further changes in design may be desirable, but
they are minor in character and can be effected if the
applicant is able to meet the other requirements of
the act." Re First Iowa Hydro-Electric Cooperative, 52 PUR (NS) 82, 84.
We believe that the Commission would have been
justified in proceeding further at that time with its consideration of the petitioner's application upon all the
material facts. Such consideration would have included
evidence submitted by the petitioner pursuant to § 9 (b)
5 "SEC. 10. All licenses issued under this Part shall be on the following conditions:
"(a) That the project adopted, including the maps, plans, and
specifications, shall be such as in the judgment of the Commission
will be best adapted to a comprehensive plan for improving or developing a waterway or waterways for the use or benefit of interstate or
foreign commerce, for the improvement and utilization of waterpower development, and for other beneficial public uses, including
recreational purposes; and if necessary in order to secure such plan
the Commission shall have authority to require the modification of
any project and of the plans and specifications of the project works
before approval." 49 Stat. 842, 16 U. S. C. § 803 (a).

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 161
152

Opinion of the Court.

of the Federal Power Act' as to the petitioner's compliance
with the requirements of the laws-of Iowa with lespect to
the petitioner's property rights to make its proposed use
of the affected river beds and banks and to divert and use
river water for the proposed power purposes, as well as
the petitioner's right, within the State of ,Iowa, to engage
in the business of developing, transmitting, and distributing power, and in any other business necessary to effect
the purposes of the license. The Commission, 'however,
was confronted at that point with a claim by the State
of Iowa that the petitioner must not only meet the requirements for a federal license for the project under the Federal Power Act, but should als6d-present satisfactory evidence of its compliance with the requirements of Chapter
363 of the Code of Iowa, 1939, hereinafter discussed, for
a permit from the State Exe.cutive Council of Iowa for the
same project.
While it now appears, from its brief and the argument
in this Court, that it is the opinion of the Federal Power
Commission that the requirements of Chapter 363 of the
Coe of Iowa as to. this project have been superseded by
those of the Federal. Power Act, yet, at the time of the
original hearing, the Commission felt that the courts were
the appropriate place for the decision on Iowa's contention
as to the applicability and effectiveness of Chapter 363
6 "SEc. 9. That each, applicant for a license hereunder shall submit

fo the commission* "(b) Satisfactory evidence that the applicant has complied with

the iequirements of the laws of the State or Stat.s within which the
proposed projet is,
to be located with respect lo bed and banks and
to the appropriation, diversion, and Use-of water for power purposes
and with respect to the right to engage in.
the business of developing,
transmitting, and distributing power, and in any other business necessary to effect the purposes of a license under this Act." 41 Stat.
1068, 16 U. S. C. §802 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

of its Code in relation to this project. The Commission
decided, therefore, to proceed no further until that question had been decided by the courts, and dismissed the
petitioner's application, without prejudice, in accordance
with the following explanation stated in its opinion:
"The appropriate place for a determination of the
validity of such state laws is in the courts and, if we
dismiss the application for license on the basis of
failure to comply with the requirements of § 9 (b),
applicant qy seek review of our action and its contentions under § 313 (b) of the Federal Power Act."
52 PUR (NS) 82, 85.
The Commission also expressly found that"The applicant has not presented satisfactory evidence, pursuant to § 9 (b) of the Federal Power Act,
of compliaqce with the requirements of applicable
laws of the state of Iowa requiring a permit from the
State Executive Council to effect the purposes of a
license under the Federal Power Act, and the pending
application, as supplemented, should be dismissed
without prejudice; . . ." Id. at 85.
This action, after all, did not save the Commission from
passing on the issue, for the order of dismissal was a ruling
upon it, adverse both to the petitioner's contentions and
to its own views on the law. The Commission would have
been justified in following its own interpretation of the
Federal Power Act and proceeding with the merits of the
application without requiring the petitioner to submit evidence of its compliance with the terms oi Chapter 363,
or of any other laws of the State of Inwa, which the Commission held to be inapplicable or to have been superseded
by the Federal Power Act.
On the applicant's petition for review of the dismissal,
it was affirmed by the United States Court ot Appeals for
the District of Columbia. 151 F. 2d 20. We then
granted certiorari under § 240 (a) of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 347, and § 313 (b) of the Federal Power Act,

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 163
152

Opinion of the Court.

49 Stat. 860, 16 U. S. C. § 8251, because of the importance
of the case in applying the Federal Power Act.
The findings made by the Commission on June 3,1941,
in response to the petitioner's declaration of intention are
not in question. For the purposes of this application it is
settled that the project will affect the navigability of the
Cedar, Iowa and Mississippi Rivers, each of which has
been determined to be a part of the navigable waters of
the United States; will affect the, interestsof interstate
commerce; will flood certain public lands of the United
States; and will require for its construction a license from
the Commission.7 The project is clearly within the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Federal Power Act.
The question at issue is .the need, if any, for the presentation of satisfactory evidence of the petitioner's compli"Sc.4. The Commission is hereby authorized and empdWered" '') To issue licenses . . . to any corporation organized" under
the' iAvs of the United States or any State thereof, ...
for the purpose of constructing, operating, and maintaining dams, water conduits,
reservoirs, power houses, transmission lines, or other project works
necessary or convenient for the development and improvement of
navigation and for the development, transmission, and utilization of
power across, along, from, or in any of the streams or other bodies
of water over which Congress has jurisdiction under its authority to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
or upon any part of the public lands .. .of the United States .. .:
Provided further, That no license affecting the navigable capacity of
any navigable waters of the United States shall be issued until the
plans of the darn or other structures affecting navigation have been
approved by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War.
Whenever the contemplated improvement is, in the judgment of the
Commission, desirable and justified in the public interest for the purpose of improving or developing a waterway or waterways for the
use or benefit of interstate or foreign commerce, a finding to that
effect shall be made by the Commission and shall become a part of
the records of the Commission: .... " 49 Stat. 840, 16 U. S. C.
§ 797 (e). See also, § 23 (b), note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ance with the terms of Chapter 363 of the Code of Iowa.
This question is put in issue by the petition for review of
the order of the Commission which dismissed the application solely on the ground of the failure of the petitioner
to present such evidence. The laws of Iowa which that
State contends are applicable and require a permit from
its Executive Council to effect the purposes of the federal
license are all in §§ 7767-7796.1 of the Code of Iowa, 1939,
constituting Chapter 363, entitled "Mill Dams and
Races." Section 7767 of that chapter is alleged to require
the issuance of a permit by the Executive Council of the
Stat and is the one on which the Co mmission's order must
depend.' It provides:
"7767 Prohibition-permit. No dam shall be
constructed, maintained, or operated in this state
in any navigable or meandered stream for any purpose, or in any other stream for manufacturipg or
power purposes, nor shall any water be taken from
such streams for industrial purposes, unless a permit
has been granted by the executive council to the person, firm, corporation, or municipality constructing,
maintaining, or operating the same."
'
To require the petitioner to secure the actual grant to
it of a state permit under § 7767 as a condition precedent
to securing a federal license for the same project under
the Federal Power Act would vest in the Execuitive Council of Iowa a veto power over the federal project. Such a
veto power easily could destroy the effectiveness of the
Federal Act. It would subordinate to the control of the
State the "comprehensive" planning which the Act provides shall depend upon the judgment of the Federal
Power Commission or other representatives Of the Federal
Government9
8Sections 7771, 7776, 7792 and 7796 of Chapter 363 have a less
direct relation to the issue but would be superseded by the Federal
Power Act if § 7767 is superseded by it.
9
See § 10 (a), note 5, supra; § 23 (b), note 2, supra; and § 4 (e),
note 7, supra.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 165
152

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission's order of dismissal avoids this extreme
result because, instead of charging th6 petitioner with failure to present satisfactory evidence of the actual grant to
it of a state permit, the order charges the petitioner with
failure to present satisfactory evidence merely of its
"compliance with the requirements of applicable laws of
the state of Iowa requiring a permit from the State Executive Council." While this avoids subjecting the petitioner
to an arbitrary and capricious refusal of the permit it does
not meet the substance of the objection to the order. For
example, § 7776 of the State Code requires that "the method of construction, operation, maintenance, and equipment of any and all dams in such waters shall be subject
to the approval of the Executive Council." This would
subject to state control the very requirements of the
project that Congress has placed in the discretion of the
Federal Power Commission."0 A still greater difficulty
is illustrated by § 7771. This states the requirements for
a state permit as follows:
"7771 When permit granted. If it shall appear
to the. council that the construction, operation, or
10See § 10 (a), note 5,supra;and also:
"SEc. 10. Alt -licenses issued under this Part shall be on the
following conditions: .. .
"(b) That except when emergency shall require for the protection of navigation, life, health, or property, no substantial
alteration or addition not in conformity with the approved plans
shall be made to any dam or other project works constructed
hereunder .. .without the prior approval of the Commission;
and any emergency alterstion or addition so ir:de shall thereafter
be subject to such modification and change as the Commission
may direct.
"(c) That the licensee shall maintain the project works in a
condition of repair adequate for the purposes of navigation and
for the efficient operation of said works in the development
and transmission of power, shall make all necessary renewals and
replacements, shall establish and maintain adequate depreciation
reserves for such purposes, shall so maintain and operate said
works as not to impair navigation, and shall conform to such
rules and regulations as the Commission may from time to time
prescribe for the protection of life, health, and property. . ....
49 Stat. 842, 16 U. S. C. § 803 (b) and (c). (Italics supplied.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

maintenance of the dam will not materially obstruct
existing navigation, or materially affect other public
rights, will not endanger life or public health, and
any water taken from the stream in connection with
the project is returned thereto at the nearest practicable place without being materially diminished
in quantity or polluted or rendered deleterious to
fish life, it shall grant the permit, upon such terms
and conditions as it may prescribe." (Italics
supplied.)
This strikes at the heart of the present project. The
feature of thg project which especially commended it to
the Federal Power Commission was its diversion of sub'stntially all of the waters of the Cedar River near Moscow, to the Mississippi River near Muscatine. Such a
diversion long has been recognized as an engineering possibility and as constituting the largest power development
foreseeable on either the Cedar or Iowa Rivers." It is
this diversion that makes possible the increase in the head
of water for power development from.a maximum of 35
feet to an average of 101'feet, the increase in the capacity
of the plant from 15,000 kw. to 50,000 kw. and its output
from 47,000,000 kwh. to 200,000,000 kwh. per year. It is
this diversion that led the Federal Power Commission, on
January 29, 1944, to make its favorable appraisal of the
enlarged project in contrast to its unfavorable appraisal,
and to the State's rejection, of the smaller project. It is
this feature that brings this project squarely under the
Federal Power Act and at the same time gives the project
its greatest economic justification.
If a state permit is not required, there is no justification
for requiring the petitioner, as a condition of securing its
federal permit, to present evidence of the petitioner's comn Report from the Chief of Engineers on the Iowa River and its
tributaries made in 1929 covering navigation, flood control, power
development and irrigation. H. R. Doc. No. 134, 71st Cong., 2d

Sea., 86, 87, 90.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 167
152

Opinion of the Court.

pliance with the requirements of the State Code for a state
permit. Compliance with state requirements that are in
conflict with federal requirements may well block the
federal license. For example, compliance with the state
requirement, discussed above, that the water of the Cedar
River all be returned to it at the nearest practicable place
would reduce the project to the small one which is classified by the Federal Power Commission as "neither desirable nor adequate." Similarly, compliance with the engineering requirements of the State Executive Council, if
additional to or different from the federal requirements,
may well result in duplications of expenditures that would
handicap the financial success of the project. Compliance
with requirements for a permit that is not to be issued is
a procedure so futile that it cannot be imputed to Congress
in the absence of an express provision for it. On the other
hand, there is ample opportunity for the Federal Power
Commission, under the authority expressly given to it by
Congress, to require by regulation the presentation of
evidence satisfactory to it of the petitioner's compliance
with any of the requirements for a state permit on the
state waters of Iowa that the Commission considers appropriate to effect the purposes of a federal license on the
navigable waters of the United States. This evidence
can be required of the petitioner upon the remanding of
this application to the Commission.
In the Federal Power Act there is a separation of those
subjects which remain under the jurisdiction of the States
from those subjects which the Constitution delegates to
the United States and over which Congress vests the Federal Power Commission with authority to act. To the
extent of this separation, the Act establishes a dual system
of control. The duality of control consists merely of the
division of the common enterprise between two cooperating agencies of government, each with final authority in
its own jurisdiction. The duality does not require two

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

agencies to share in the final decision of the same issue.
Where the Federal Government supersedes the state government there is no suggestion that the two agencies both
shall have final authority. In fact a contrary policy is
indicated in §§ 4 (e), 10 (a), (b) and (c), and 23 (b). 2
In those sections the Act places the responsibility squarely
upon federal officials and usually upon the Federal Power
Commission. A dual final authority, with a duplicate
system of state permits and federal licenses required for
each project, would be unworkable. "Compliance with
the requirements" of such a duplicated system of licensing

would be nearly as bad.

Conformity to both standards

would be impossible in some cases and probably difficult
in most of them. 3 The solution adopted by Congress,

as to what evidence an applicant for a federal license
should submit to the Federal Power Commission, appears
in § 9 of its Act. It contains not only subsection (b)"
but also subsections (a) and (c)." Section'9 (c) permits
See notes 7, 5, 10 and 2, supra.
In addition to those given in the text, another example of conflict
between the project requirements of the Iowa statutes and those of
the Federal Power Act appears in § 7792 of the Iowa Code. That
section requires the beginning of construction of the project dam or
raceway within one year and the completion of the plant within three
years after the granting of the permit. This conflicts with § 13 of
the Federal Power Act which makes this largely discretionary with
the Federal Power Commission' but generally contemplates that the
construction be commenced within two years from the date of the
license. So in § 7793 of the Iowa Code, the life of a permit conflicts
with the term of a license under § 6 of the Federal Power Act.
12

13

14 See
'5

note 6, supra.
"SEc. 9. That each applicant for a license hereunder shall submit

to the commission"(a) Such maps, plans, specifications, and estimates of cost as may
be required for a full understanding of the proposed project. Such
maps, plans, and specifications when approved by the commission shall
be made a part of the license; and thereafter no change shall be made

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 169
152

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission to secure from the applicant "Such additional information as the commission may require." This
enables it to secure, in so far as it deems it material, such
parts or all of the information that the respective States
may have prescribed in state statutes as a basis for state
action. The entire administrative procedure required as
to the present application for a license is described in § 9
and in the Rules of Practice and Regulations of the
Commission."
in said maps, plans, or specifications until such changes shall have
been approved and made a part of such license by the commission.
"(c) Such additional information as the commission may require."
41 16Stat. 1068, 16 U. S. C. § 802 (a) and (c).
These rules and regulations are issued pursuant to §§ 303, 308 and
309, 49 Stat. 855, 858, 16 U. S. C. §§ 825b, 825g and 825h, interpreting
§§ 4 and 9 of the Federal Power Act. Federal Power Commission
Rules of Practice and Regulations, 1938, §§ 4.40-4.51, 18 C.- F. R.
§§ 4.40-4.51. They cover the field so fully as to leave no purpose
to be served by filing comparable information required in some alternative form under state laws as a basis for a state permit. Exhibits
D and E, required by § 4.41 of the regulations, are to satisfy § 9 (b)
of the Federal Power Act and have to do especially with property
rights in the use of water under the state laws and do not alter the
legal situation presented by the Act itself. These exhibits are
described as follows:
"Exhibit D.-Evidence that the applicant has complied with
the requirements of the laws of the State or States within which
the project is to be located with respect to bed and banks and
to the appropriation, diversion, and use of water for power
purposes and with respect to the right to engage in the business
of developing, transmitting, and distributing power, and in any
other business, necessary to effect the purposes of the license
applied for, including a certificate of convenience and necessity,
if required. This evidence shall be accompanied by a statement
of the steps that have been taken and the steps that remain to be
taken to acquire franchise oi other rights from States, counties,
and municipalities before the project can -be completed and put
into operation.
"Exhibit E.-The nature, extent, and ownership of water rights
which the applicant proposes to use in the development of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The securing of an Iowa, state permit is not in any
sense a condition precedent or an administrative procedure
that must be exhausted before securing a federal license.
It is a procedure required. by the State of Iowa in dealing
with its local streams and also with the waters of the
United States within that State in the absence of an
assumption of jurisdiction by the United States over the
navigability of its waters. Now that the Federal Government has taken jurisdiction of such waters under the Federal Power Act, it has not by statute or regulation added
the state requirements to its federal requirements.
The State of Iowa, in its petition to intervene in the
proceedings before the Commission, stated in relation to
the proposed diversion of water from the Cedar River to
the Mississippi: "said diversion would be in direct violation of the provisions of section 7771, Code of Iowa 1939."
Also, in the State's motion to intervene in the proceedings
before the Court of Appeals, it alleged that."By reason of
said provisions of law [§§ 7767 and 7771, Code of Iowa,
1939] and the diversion of water involved in the proposed
project of petitioner, the executive council of the state of
Iowa could not lawfully grant a permit for the erection of
the dam proposed." Furthermore, the Executive Council, which includes the Governor of the State, on July 5,
project covered by application, together with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant has proceeded as far as practicable in perfecting its rights to use sufficient water for proper operation of the
project works. A certificate from the proper State agency setting forth the extent and validity of the applicant's water rights
shall be appended if practicable. In case the approval or permission of one or more State agencies is required by State law as a
condition precedent to the applicant's right to take or use water
for the operation of the project works, duly certified evidence
of such approval or permission, or a showing of cause why such
evidence cannot be reasonably submitted shall also be filed.
When a State certificate is involved, one certified copy and three
uncertified copies shall be submitted." Federal Power Commission Rules of Practice and Regulations, effective June 1, 1938,
pp. 21-22.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 171
152

Opinion of the Court.

1944, adopted a resolution directing the Attorney General
of Iowa to intervene in this case before that court and
"thereby take steps to sustain the said order of the Federal
Power Commission [dismissing the petitioner's application for a federal license]" because "it is vital to the interests of the State of Iiwa that the said order of the Commission be sustained." This demonstrates that the State
of Iowa not only is opposed to the granting of a state permit but is opposed also to the granting of a federal license
for the project. This opposition is based at least in part
on the ground that the state statute, as interpreted by the
state officials, expresses a policy opposed to the diversion of
water from oh'e stream to another in Iowa under such
circumstances as the present.
Accepting 'this as the meaning of § 7771 of the Iowa
Code brings us to consideration of the effect of the Federal
Power Act upon it and the related state statutes. We find
that when that Act is read in the light of its long and colorful legislative history, it discloses both a vigorous determination of Congress to make progress with the development of the long idle water power resources of the Nation
and a determination to avoid unconstitutional invasion of
the jurisdiction of the States. The solution reached is to
apply the principle of the division of constitutional powers
between the State -and Federal Governments. This has
resulted in a dual system involving the close integration
of these powers rather than a dual system of futile duplication of two authorities over the same subject matter.
The Act leaves to the States their traditional jurisdiction subject to the admittedly superior right of the Federal Government, through-Congress, to regulate interstate
and foreign commerce, administer the public lands and
reservations of the United States and, in certain cases,
exercise authority under the treaties of the United States.
These sources of constitutional authority are all applied in

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

the Federal Power Act to the development of the navigable
waters of the United States."
The closeness of the relationship of the Federal Government to these projects and its obvious concern in maintaining control over their engineering, economic and
financial soundness is emphasized by such provisions as
those of § 14 authorizing the Federal Government, at the
17The

Federal Government took its greatest step toward exercising
its jurisdiction in this field by authorizing federal licenses, under the
Federal Water Power Act of 1920 (41 Stat. 1063), for terms of 50
years for the development of water power in the navigable waters of
the United States. That Act was limited in 1921 by the exclusion
from it of water power projects in national parks or national monuments. 41 Stat. 1353. The Commission was reorganized so as to
improve its administrative capacity in 1930. 46 Stat. 797. The Act
was generally revised and perfected on August 26, 1935, 49 Stat. 803,
when it received the name of the Federal Power Act. It was then
made Part I of Title II of the Public Utility Act of 1935.
This last step was shortly after the decision of this Court in United
States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463, and it has served to clarify
the law as it existed prior to that decision. Among other things, this
last step amended § 23 so as expressly to require a federal license for
every water power project in the navigable waters of the United
States. It also made mandatory, instead of discretionary, the filing
with the Federal Power Commission of a declaration of intention by
anyone intending to construct a project in non-navigable waters over
which Congress had jurisdiction under its authority to regulate commerce. It continued its recital of permission to construct such projects upon compliance with the state laws, rather than with the Federal
Power Act, provided the projects were not in navigable waters of the
United States, did not affect the interests of interstate or foreign
commerce and did not affect the public lands or reservations of the
United States. These amendments sharpened the line between the
state and federal jurisdictions and helped to make it clear that
the Federal Government was assuming responsibility through the Federal Power Commission for the granting of appropriate licenses for the
development of water power resources in the navigable waters of
the United States. See also the rapid development of federal p rojects
shown in the Annual Reports of the Federal Power Commission
1921-1945.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 173
152

Opinion of the Court.

expiration of a license, to take over the licensed project by
payment of "the net investment of the licensee in the
project or projects taken, not to exceed the fair vaie of
the property taken," plus an allowance for severance- lamages. The scope of the whole program has been further
aided, in 1940, by the definition given to navigable waters
of the United States in UnitedStates v. AppalachianPower Co., 311 U. S.377. "Students of our legal evolution
know how this Court interpreted the commerce clause
of the Constitution to lift navigable waters of the United
States out of local controls and into the domain of federal
control. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, to United States v.
Appalachian 'PowerCo., 311 U. S.377." Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota,322 U. S.292,303.
It was in the light of these. developments that this
petitioner, in April, 1941, made application for a federal
license for this enlarged project. This project thus illustrates the kind of a development, inrelation to interstate
commerce and to the navigable waters of the United
States, that is brought forth by the new recognition of its
value when viewed from the comprehensive viewpoint of
the Federal Power Commission. Until 1941, this enlarged
project had remained dormant at least from the'time when
its value was recognized in the report to Congress filed by
the War Department in 1929.18
Further light is thrown upon the meaning of the Federal Power Act by the statement, made by Representative
William L. LaFollette of Washington, a member of the
Special Committee on Water Power, which reported the
bill which later became the Federal Water Power Act of
1920. In the debate which led to the insertion in § 9 (b)
18 H. R. Doc. No. 134, 71st Cong., 2d Sess., reflecting the recommendations of the District Engineer, pp. 8-90; Division Engineer,
p. 90; Mississippi River Commission, pp. 90-93; Board of Engineers
for Rivers and Harbors, pp. 3-8; and the Chief of Engineers, pp. 1-3.
See especially pp. 86,87,90.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

of the reference to state laws as to the bed and banks of
streams, he said:
"The property rights are within the State. It can
dispose of the beds, or parts of them, regardless of the
riparian ownership of the banks, if it desires to, and
that has been done in some States. If we put in this
language, which is practically taken from that Supreme Court decision [United States v. Cress 243
U. S.316], as to the property rights of the States as
to the bed and the banks and to the diversion of the
water, then it is sure that we have not infringed any
of the rights of the States in that respect, or any of
their rules of property, and we are trying in this bill
above everything else to overcome a divided authority
and pass a bill that will make it possible to get development. We are earnestly trying not to infringe the
rights of the States. If possible we want a bill that
can not be defeated in the Supreme Court because of
omissions, because of the lack of some provision that
we should have put in the bill to safeguard the
States." 56 Cong. Rec. 9810. (Italics supplied.)
As indicated by Representative LaFollette, Congress
was concerned with overcoming the danger of divided
authority so as to bring about the needed development of
water power and also with the recognition of the constitutional rights of the States so as to sustain the validity of
the Act. The resulting integration of the respective jurisdictions of the State and Federal Governments is illustrated by the careful preservation of the separate interests
of the States throughout the Act, without setting up a
divided authority over any one subject.'
19Instances of such provisions are the following: § 4 (a) and (c),
cooperation of the Commission with the executive departments and
other agencies of ihe State and National Governments is required
in the investigation of such subjects as the utilization of water
resources, water-power industry, location, capacity, development
costs and the relation to markets of power sites, and the fair value
of power. § 4 (f), notice of application for a preliminary permit is
to go to any State or municipality likely to be interested. § 7 (a), in
I

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 175
152

Opinion of the Court.

Sections 27 and 9 are especially significant in this regard.
Section 27 expressly "saves" certain state laws relating to
property rights as to the use of water, so that these are
not superseded by the terms of the Federal Power Act.
It provides:
"SEC. 27. That nothing herein Contained shall be
construed as affecting or intending to affect or in any
way to interfere with the laws of the respective States
relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation or for municipal or
other uses, or any vested right acquired therein." 41
Stat. 1077, 16 U. S. C. § 821.
Section 27 thus evidences the recognition by Congress of
the need for an express "saving" clause in the Federal
Power Act if the usual rules of supersedure are to be overcome. Sections 27 and 9 (b) were both included in the
original Federal Water Power Act of 1920 in their present
form. The directness and clarity of § 27 as a "saving"
clause and its location- near the end of the Act emphasizes
the distinction between its purpose and that of § 9 (b)
which is included in § 9, in the early part of the Act, which
deals with the marshalling of information for the consideration of a new federal license. In view of the use by
Congress of such an adequate "saving" clause in § 27, its
failure to use similar language in § 9 (b) is persuasive that
§ 9 (b) should not be given the 'same effect as is given
to § 27.
The effect of § 27, in protecting state laws from supersedure, is limited to laws as to the control, appropriation,
issuing permits and licenses preference is to be given to States and
municipalities. § 10 (e), licenses to States and municipalities under
certain circumstances shall be issued and enjoyed without charge.
§ 14, a right is reserved not only to the United States but to any
State or municipality to take over any licensed project a: any time by
condemnation and payment of just compensation. §§ 19 and 20, regulation of service and rates is preserved to the States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

use or distribution of water in irrigation or for municipal
or other uses of the same nature. It therefore has primary, if not exclusive, reference to such proprietary
rights. The phrase "any vested right acquired therein"
further emphasizes the application of the section to property rights. There is nothing in the paragraph to suggest
a broader scope unless it be the words "other uses."
Those words, however, are confined to rights of the same
nature as those relating to the use of water in irrigation or
for municipal purposes. This was so held in an early decision by a District Court, relating to § 27 and upholding the
constitutionality of the Act, where it was stated that "a
proper construction of the act requires that the words
'other uses' shall be construed ejusdem generis with the
words 'irrigation' and 'municipal.'" Alabama Power Co.
v. Gulf Power Co., 283 F. 606, 619.
This section therefore is thoroughly consistent with the
integration rather than the duplication of federal and
state jurisdictions under the Federal Power Act. It
strengthens the argument that, in those fields where rights
are not thus "saved" to the States, Congress is willing to
let the supersedure of the state laws by federal legislation
take its natural course.2°
20 The legislative history of § 27 confirms these conclusions.
The
language is similar to that of § 8 of the Reclamation Act of 1902, 32
Stat. 390, 43 U. S. C. § 383, which provides, "nothing [in several listed
sections] in this Act shall be construed as affecting or intended to
affect or to in any way interfere with the laws of any State or Territory relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of
water used in irrigation, or any vested right acquired there-

under,

. .

This restricted clause appeared in a modified and broader form
in the Ferris Public Lands Bill of 1916, H. R. No. 408, 64th Cong., 1st

Sess.:
"SEc. 13. That nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting or intended to affect or to in any way interfere with the laws

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 177
152

Opinion of the Court.

Section 9 (b)21 does not resemble § 27. It must be read
The entire section is devoted to
with § 9 (a) and (c).2
securing. adequate information for the Commission as to
pending applications for licenses. Where § 9 (a) calls for
engineering and financial information, § 9 (b) calls for
legal information. This makes § 9 (b) a natural place in
which to describe the evidence which the Commission shall
require in order to pass upon applications for federal
licenses. This makes it a correspondingly unnatural
place to establish by implication such a substantive policy
as that contained in § 27 and which, in accordance with
the contentions of the State of Iowa, would enable Chapter 363 of the Code of Iowa, 1939, to remain in effect
although in conflict with the 'requirements of the Federal
Power Act. There is nothing in the express language of
§ 9 (b) that requires such a conclusion.
It does not itself require compliance with any state laws.
Its reference to state laws is by way of suggestion to the
of any State relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water."
It also had appeared as § 14 of the Ferris Bill of 1914, H. R. No.
16673, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., as follows:
"SEC. 14. That nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting or intended to affect or to in any way interfere with the laws
of any State relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation or for municipal or other uses,
or any vested right acquired thereunder."
Discussion in Congress further emphasized the purely proprietary
sense in which this language was used. 51 Cong. Rec. 13630-13631.
The clause reappeared in the Bill which became tfie Federal Water
Power Act and was there enacted into the law in its present form.
The use, in § 27 of the Federal Power Act, of language having a limited
meaning in relation to proprietary rights under the reclamation law
and in public land bills, carries that e-tablished meaning of the language into the Federal Power Act in the absence of anything in the Act
calling for a different interpretation of the language.
2See note 6.
2 See note 15.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Federal Power Commission of subjects as to which the
Commission may wish some proof submitted to it of the
applicant's progress. The evidence required is described

merely as that which shall 'be "satisfactory" to the Commission. The need for compliance with applicable state
laws, if any, arises not from this federal statute but from
the effectiveness of the state statutes themselves.
When this application has been remanded to the Commission, that Commission will not act as a substitute for
the local authorities having jurisdiction over such questions as the sufficiency of the legal title of the applicant to
its riparian rights, or as to the validity of its local franchises, if any, relating to proposed intrastate public utility
service. Section 9 (b) says that the Commission may wish
to have "satisfactory evidence" of the progress made by
the applicant 0oward meeting local requirements but it
does not say that the Commission is to assume responsibility for the legal sufficiency of the steps taken. The references made in § 9 (b) to beds and banks of streams, to
proprietary rights to divert or use water, or to legal rights
to engage locally in the business of developing, transmitting and distributing power neither add anything to nor
detract
from the force of the local laws, if any,
on thoseanything
subjects. In so far as those laws have
not been
superseded by the Federal Power Act, they remain as
applicable and effective as they were before its passage.
The State of Iowa, .however, has sought to sustain the
applicability and validity of Chapter 363 of the Code of
Iowa in this connection, ori the ground that the Federal
Power Act, by the implieations of §9 (b), has recognized
this chapter of Iowa law as part of a system of dual control
of power project permits, cumbersome and complicated
though it be. If it had been the wish of Congress to
make the applicant obtain consent of state as well as federal authorities to each project, the simple thing would

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N.
152

179

Opinion of the Court.

have been to so provide. In the course of the long debate
on the legislation it was proposed at one time to provide
for some such consent in § 9 (b).
For example, in the Shields Bill, S. No. 1419, 65th Cong.,
2d Sess., in 1917, a proviso was proposed:
"That before the permit shall be granted under this
Act, the permittee must first obtain, in such manner
as may be required by the laws of the States, the consent of the State or States in which the dam or other
structure for the development of the water power is
proposed to be constructed." (Italics supplied.)
This proviso was not enacted into law but it illustrates the
concreteness with which the proposal was before Congress.
In 1918, when Representative Mondell, of Wyoming, successfully defended the present language against amendment, he stated the purposes of § 9 (b) as follows:
"There are two controlling reasons for the insertion
of this paragraph. The first, from the standpoint of
water-power legislation, is that the water-power commission shall have the benefit of all of the information which the States possess relative to the condition
of water supply at the point of proposed diversion.
That is a very important reason for a provision of this
kind. . . . The second reason is so that the bill
shall carry with it notice to the commission that they
must proceed in accordance with the State laws,
which they must do in any event, whether the provision were in the bill or not." 56 Cong. Rec. 98139814. (Italics supplied.)
The purpose of this section as thus explained is consistent with the contention of the Commission in this case.
It provides for presentation of information to the federal
commission and protects the constitutional rights of the
States. This explanation does not support the contention of the State of Iowa that § 9 (b) amounts to the subjection of the federal license to requirements of the state
law on the same subject. The inappropriateness of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court-.

328 U. S.

an interpretation is apparent in the light of the circumstances which culminated in the passage of the Federal

Water Power Act in 1920. The purposes of the Act were
then so generally known as to have made such a restrictive interpretation impossible and a denial of it unnecessary. It was the outgrowth of a widely supported effort of

the conservationists to secure enactment of a complete
scheme of national regulation which would promote the
comprehensive development of the water resources of the
Nation, in so far as it was within the reach of the federal
power to do so, instead of the piecemeal, restrictive, negative approach of the River and Harbor Acts and other
federal laws previously enacted.
It was a major undertaking involving a major change of
national policy.23 That it was the intention of Congress
28 The nation-wide drive for the passage of this legislation dates
back at least to the administration of Theodore Roosevelt and to the
enthusiastic support of "the conservationists" led by Gifford Pinchot,
as Chief of the Division of Forestry.
"With all its faults the Federal Water Power Act of 1920,
marked a great advance. It established firmly the principle of
federal regulation of water power projects, limited licenses to not
more than fifty years, and provided for Government recapture
of the power at the end of the franchise.
"For the first time, the Act of 1920 established a national policy
in the use and development of water power on public lands and
navigable streams." Pinchot, The Long Struggle for Effective
Federal Water Power Legislation (1945), 14 Geo. Wash. L. Rev.
9, 19. See also, Kerwin, Federal Water-Power' Legislation,
c. VI.
The present Act was distinctly an effort to provide federal control
over and give federal encouragement to water power development.
It grew out of a bill prepared by the Secretaries of War, Interior and
Agriculture. It was recommended by a Special Committee on Water
Power created in the House' of Representatives at the suggestion of
President Wilson. SeeStatement by Representative Sims, Chairman
of the Committee on Water Power, 56 Cong. Rec. 9797-9798. The
bill was to provide "a method by which the water powers of the

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 181
152

Opinion of the Court.

to secure a comprehensive development of national
resources and not merely to prevent obstructions to navigation is apparent from the provisions of the Act, the
statutory scheme of which has been several times reviewed
and approved by the courts.
The detailed provisions of the Act providing for the
federal plan of regulation leave no room or need for coniflicting state controls.2 ' The contention of the State of
country, wherever located, can be developed by public or private
agencies under conditions which will give the necessary security to the
capital invested and at the same time protect and preserve every
legitimate public interest. . . . The problems are national, -rather
than local; they transcend State lines and cannot be handled adequately except by or in conjunction with national agencies." Statement by David F. Houston, Secretary of Agriculture, quoted in H. R.
Rep. No. 61, 66th Cong., Isi Sess., p. 5.
24 New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; United States v. Appalachian Power Co., 311 U. S. 377; Clarion River Power Co. v. Smith,
59 F. 2d 861, certiorari denied, 287 U. S. 639; Alabama Power Co. v.
McNinch, 94 F. 2d 601; Pennsylvania Water & Power Co. v. Federal
Power Commission, 74 App. D. C. 351, 123 F. 2d 155, certiorari
denied, 315 U. S. 806; Alabama Power Co. v. FederalPower Commission, 75 U. S. App. D. C. 315, 128 F. 2d 280, certiorari denied, 317 U. S.
652; Puget Sound Power & Light Co. v. Federal Power Commission,
78 U. S. App. D. C. 143, 137 F. 2d 701; Wisconsin Public Service Corp.
v. Federal Power Commission, 147 F. 2d 743, certiorari denied, 325
U. S. 880; Georgia Power Co. v. FederalPower Commission, 152 F. 2d
908.
22 Sections 4 (e) and 10 (a), comprehensive plans required; §§ 4 (f)
and 5, preliminary permits; § 4 (g), investigation of power resources;
§ 6, license term of 50 years; § 7 (a) development of water resources
on a national basis; § 7 (b), developments by the United States itself;
§ 13, prompt construction required; § 14, recapture of projects and
payment for them by the Government upon expiration of licenses,
thus giving the Government a direct interest in and reason for control
of every feature of each licensed project; § 21, federal powers of condemnation vested in licensee; and § 28, prohibition of amendment or
repeal of licenses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Iowa is comparable to that which was presented on behalf
of 41 States and rejected by this Court in United States v.
Appalachian Power Co., 311 U. S. 377, 404-405, 426-427,
where this Court said:
"The states possess control of the waters within
their bdrders, 'subject to the acknowledged jurisdiction of the United States under the Constitution in
regard to commerce and the navigation of the waters
of rivers.' It is this subordinate local control that,
even as to navigable rivers, creates between the respective governments a contrariety of interests relating to the regulation and protection of waters through
licenses, the operation of structures and the acquisition of projects at the end of the license term. But
there is no doubt that the United States possesses the
power to control the erection of structures in navigable waters.
"The point is that navigable waters are subject to
national planning and control in.the broad regulation
of commerce granted the Feder,,l Government. The
license conditions to which objection is made have
an obvious relationship to the exercise of the commerce power. Even if there were no such relationship the plenary power of Congress over navigable
waters would empower it to deny the privilege of
constructing an obstruction in those waters. It may
likewise grant the privilege on terms. It is no objection to the terms and to the exertion of the power
that 'its exercise is attended 'by the same incidents
which attend the exercise of the police power of the
states.' The Congressional authority under the commerce clause is complete unless limitea by the Fifth
Amendment."
It is the Federal Power Commission rather than the
Iowa Executive Council that under our constitutional
Government must pass upon these issues on behalf of the
people of Iowa as well as on behalf of all others.

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 183
152

FRANKFURTER',

J., dissenting.

We accordingly reverse the judgment of the court below
with directions to remand the. case to the Federal Power
Commission for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

This case does not present one of those large constitutional issues which, because they are so largely abstract,
have throughout its history so often divided the Court.
The controversy, as I understand it, is concerned with the
proper administration of a law in which Congress has
recognized the interests of the States as well as of the
United States and has entrusted the proper adjustment
of these nation-State relations to the interrelated functions of the Federal Power Commission and the courts.
We are all agreed that Congress has the constitutional
power to promote a comprehensive development of the
nation's water resources and that it has exercised its
authority by the Federal Power Act. 41 Stat. 1063, 49
Stat. 838; 16 U. S. C. §§ 791 (a) et seq. See United
States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53; New Jersey
v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; United States v. Appalachian
Power Co., 311 U. S. 377. And in view of Congress'
power, of course this enactment overrides all State legislation in conflict with it. But the national policy fbr water
power development formulated by the Federal Power Act
explicitly rec ognizes regard for certain interests of the
States as part of that national policy. This does not
imply that general, uncritical notions about so-called
"States' rights" are to be read into what Congress has written. It does mean that we must adhere' to the express
Congressional mandate that the public interest which

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., ilissenting.

328 U. S.

underlies the Federal Power Act involves the protection
of particular matters of intimate concern to the people of
the States in which proposed projects requiring the sanction of the Federal Power Commission are to be located.
By §9 (b) of the Act, 41 Stat. 1063, 1068; 16 U. S. C.
§ 802 (b), 1 Congress explicitly required that before the
Commission can issue a license for the construction of a
hydro-electric development, such as the proposed project
of the petitioner, the Commission must have "satisfactory
evidence that the applicant has complied with the requirements of the laws of the State" in reference to the matters
enumerated.
Whether the Commission has such "satisfactory evidence" necessarily depends upon what the requirements
of State law are. In turn, what the requirements of State
law are often depends upon the appropriate but unsettled
construction of State law. And so, the Commission may
well be confronted, as it was in this case, with the necessity
of determining what the State law requires before it can
determine whether the applicant has satisfied it, and,
therefore, whether the condition for exercising the Commission's power has been fulfilled.
To safeguard the interests of the States thus protected
by § 9 (b), Congress has directed that notice be given to
the State when an application has been filed for a license,
the granting of which may especially affect a State.
§ 4 (f), 49 Stat. 838, 841; 16 U. S. C. § 797 (f). If a State
does not challenge the claim of an applicant, the evidence
' "SEc. 9. That each applicant for a license hereunder shall submit

to the commission ...
(b) Satisfactory evidence that the applicant has complied with
the requirements of the laws of the State or States within which the
proposed project is to be located with respect to bed and banks and
to the appropriation, diversion, and use of water for power purposes
and with respect to the right to engage in the business of developing,
transmitting, and distributing power, and in any other business
necessary to effect the purposes of a license under this Act."

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 185
152

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

submitted by the applicant, if found to be satisfactory
by the Commission, has met the demands of § 9 (b), and a
State cannot thereafter challenge the Commission's determination. But a real problem in administration is presented to the Power Commission when a State does intervene and claims that the applicant has not complied with
its lawful requirements. For, before the Commission can
meet the duty placed on it by § 9 (b), it must ascertain
the scope and meaning of the State law. Suppose the
State law is not clear or is susceptible' of different constructions and has received no construction by the only
authoritative source for the :interpretation of State laws,
namely, the highest court of the State. Must the Federal
Power Commission give an independent interpretation of
the laws of the State? This is not to suggest an unreal or
hypothetical situation. The Federal Power Commission
submitted here a compilation of laws relating to State
requirements relevant under § 9 (b) for not less than
thirty States. Are the lawyers of the Commission to make
themselves the originating interpreter. of the laws of these
States? Are they to construe, for instance, the laws bf
New Jersey and Oklahoma and Arizona and Illinois when
the courts of those States have not spoken? And if they
do and the State appeals from the decision, must the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia become the interpreter of these various laws? Finally, in the event of a
further appellate review is this Court to construe State
legislation without guidance by the State courts? Time
out of mind, and in a variety of situations, this Court has
admonished against the avoidable assumption by this
Court of the independent construction of State legislation.
See, e. g., Gilchristv. InterboroughCo., 279 U. S. 159, 207209; Brandeis, J., dissenting, in Railroad Comm'n v. Los
Angeles R. Co., 280 U. S. 145, 158, 164-66. It is pertinent
to recall the classic statement of the reason for leaving
to the controlling interpretation of local courts th* mean-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

ing of local law: "to one brought up within it, varying emphasis, tacit assumptions, unwritten practices, a
thousand influences gained only from life. may give to the
different parts wholly new values that logic and grammar
never could have got from the books." Diaz v. Gonzalez,
261 U. S. 102, 106. If it has been deemed unwise to throw
upon this Court the burden of construing local legislation
when the construction could by appropriate procedure be
had from the States, it seems odd that we should reject
this as a rule of administration adopted by the Power
Commission.
That is all that the Commission has done in this case.
It has said, in effect: "We do not know what the Iowa law
demands of the applicant. Iowa has a right to make certain demands under § 9 (b) and until they are met we are
not empowered to grant a license to the applicant. But
we cannot tell whether they have been met, because the
-meaning of the Iowa statutes has not been determined, as
it easily can be determined, by an appropriate action in
the Iowa courts. Only after such an authoritative pronouncement can we know what our obligation under the
statute may be." The Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia thought that such procedure made sense. It
seems. to have said: "The Commission doesn't know what
the Iowa law require s, and neither do we. For we cannot
tell what it requires until the Iowa Supreme Court tells
us what it requires. And an adjudication of that issue
can be readily secured if the applicant will proceed along
the easy path provided by Iowa for obtaining such an
adjudication." 151 F. 2d 20. See Iowa Laws, 1943,
c. 278, § 306 and Lloyd v. Ramsay, 192 Iowa 103, 116-17,
183 N. W. 333. Even we cannot construe the requirements
of Iowa law in the absence of a determination by the Iowa
Supreme Court. And in much more conventional types of
litigation we have evolved the procedure whereby federal
litigation is stayed until the State law is authoritatively

FIRST IOWA COOP. v. POWER COMM'N. 187
152

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

determined by a State court. E. g., Railroad Commission
v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496; Spector Motor Co. v.
McLaughlin, 323 U. S. 101; A. F. of L. v. Watson, 327 U. S.
582.
What reason of policy is there for not approving this
mode of adjusting interests that involve a regard for both
federal and State enactments? The Federal Power Commission which devised this procedure has not been an
.unzealous guardian of the national ihterests. E. g., Federal Power Comm'n v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co., 315 U. S.
575; Federal Power Comm'n v. Hope Natural Gas Co.,
320 U. S. 591.
It is no ans*er to suggest that the Attorney-General of
Iowa at the bar of this Court expressed a view of the Iowa
statute which would make obedience to it needless because
of conflict with the provisions of the Federal Power Act.
The Attorney-General is not the judicial organ of the
State of Iowa. This Court does not always take the interpretation by the Attorney-General of the United States
of a federal statute. It should not take the view of the
Attorney-General of Iowa as' authoritative on a statute
riot construed by the Supreme Court of Iowa when we are
called upon to make the adjustment in federal-State relations which Congress has enjoined in § 9 (b). After all,
advocates, including advocates for States, are like managers of pugilistic and election contestants in that 'they
have a propensity for claiming everything. Before conflict can be found between federal and State legislation,
construction must be given the State legislation. Avoidance of conflict is itself an important factor relevant to
construction. And so, construction of State legislation
relating to the matters dealt with in the Federal Power Act
is subtle business and a subtlety peculiarly within the
duty, skill, and understanding of State judges.
If it be said that the procedure for which the Federal
Power Commission contends may take time, there is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRA:NKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

assurance that a contested case like this will not take just
as much time hereafter. The Commission must pass independently on an unconstrued State statute; its construction may then come before the Court of Appeals for the
District and eventually before this Court. Even then the
possibility remains that this Court's decision will be followed by one in the State court ruling, as has not been
unknown, that this Court's interpretation was in error. In
any event, mere speed is not a test of justice.. Deliberate
speed is. Deliberate speed takes time. But it is time well
spent.
With due respect, I have not been able to discover an
adequate answer to the position of the Federal Power
Commission, thus summarized in the Solicitor-General's
brief:
"Unless Section 9 (b) is to be given no effect whatever, some evidence of compliance with at least some
state laws is a prerequisite to the issuance of a federal
license, and the view of the court below, that there is
no occasion, in this case, to anticipate conflicts between state and federal authority and the consequent
invalidity of the state law, is not an unreasonable one.
'To predetermine, even in the limited field of water
power, the rights of different sovereignties, pregnant
with future controversies, is beyond the judicial function.' United States v. Appalachian Electric Power
Co., 311 U. S. 377, 423. Here petitioner, since the
modification of its plans, has given the State Executive Council and the Iowa courts no opportunity to
express their views on its proposed project with reference to matters which may be peculiarly of local
concern; without such an expression, it is difficult
to assess the propriety of what is only an anticipated
exercise of the State's power."
Accordingly, I think that the judgment should be affirmed.

