UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. ROOT RFG. CO. 575
Statement of the Case.

UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS CO. v. ROOT
REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 48 and 64. Argued October 15, 1945.-Decided June 10, 1946.
Attorneys representing clients interested in patents involved in an
allegedly fraudulent judgment theretofore rendered by a federal
court in favor of the petitioner, offered and undertook to serve as
amici curiae in an investigation of the judgment. A master was
appointed and an investigation was conducted, but without the usual
safeguards of adversary proceedings. , Petitioner, though it had consented to a reargument of'the case in which the judgment was
rendered, objected throughout to the character of the proceedings
before the master if -rights were to be adjudicated therein. The
master found that the judgment was fraudulent, and the court set
the judgment aside and ordered the case reargued. The master's.
fees and expenses, and fees and expenses of the attorneys as amici
curiae, were taxed against petitioner. Held:
1. It was not. improper to tAx against- petitioner the master's
fees and expenses, in view of the fact that the petitioner appeared
and participated in the investigation before the master, with knowledge that the master's fees and expenses would be assessed by the
court. P.579.
2. It was inequitable and improper to tax. against petitioner
fees and expenses of the amici curiae.' P. 580.
(a) Petitioner having objected throughout to the character
of the proceedings before the master if rights were to be adjudicated therein, it was unjust to tax against petitioner attorney's
fees and expenses. P. 580.
(b) The amici curiae having already been compensated by
their clients for' their services in the investigation, it was inequitable
and inappropriate that their fees and expenses be taxed against
petitioner for reimbursement of the clients. P. 581.
147 F. 2d 259, reversed.

The Circuit Court of Appeals taxed against the peti'tioner certain fees and costs in connection with an investigation of an allegedly fraudulent judgmtnt theretofore

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

rendered by that court in favor of the petitioner. This
Court granted certiorari. 324 U. S. 839. In No. 48 the
judgment is reversed and remanded; and in No. 64 the
writ of certiorari, invoked under ยง 262 of the Judicial Code,
is dismissed. P. 581.
Ralph S. Harris argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Robert T. McCracken, John R.
McCullough and Frederick W. P. Lorenzen.
By special leave of Court, Thorley von Holst argued
the cause pro se and for the Skelly Oil Company et al.,
as amici curiae, urging affirmance. With him on the brief
were J. Bernhard Thiess, Sidney Neuman and Robert W.
Poore.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, Universal Oil Products Company, is a patent-holding and licensing company. In 1929 and 1931,
it brought suits for infringement against the WinklerKoch Engineering Co. and the Root Refining Company,
respectively. The suits were consolidated, the validity
of the patents sustained, and decrees for their infringement entered. 6 F. Supp. 763. The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, in an opinion by Judge
J. Warren Davis, affirmed the decrees, 78 F. 2d 991, and
this Court, in October, 1935, denied certiorari. Root Refining Co. v. Universal Oil Products Co., 296 U. S. 626.
Both before and after the decision in the Root case, Universal started similar infringement suits against other oil
companies. Universal invoked the Root decisions as res
judicata against some of these companies. It maintained
that, although these companies had not been parties of
record in the Root suit, they were members of a "patent
club," to which Root belonged and which had been formed

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. ROOT RFG. CO. 577
575

Opinion of the Court.

to pool money for the defense of any member of the "club"
in an infringement suit against it, and that the Root
case had been defended by the attorneys for the "patent
club." Universal contended that these circumstances
made the other oil companies substantial parties to the
Root litigation and as such bound by its outcome.
On June 2, 1941, during the pendency of these latter
cases, attorneys who had represented Root and were representing the other oil companies advised the attorneys
of the petitioner that on June 5, 1941, they would bring
to the attention of the judges of the Third Circuit Court
of Appeals the circumstances surrounding the appeal in
the Root case, and, more particularly, the relations of
one. Morgan S. Kaufman to the outcome of that appeal,
and invited petitioner's attorneys to attend. At the hearing on June 5, the moving attorneys suggested, in substance, that testimony taken at the trial of Judge Davis
pointed to bribery of Judge Davis by Kaufman to secure
a decision favorable to Universal in the Root appeal.
They urged an investigation of the questionable features
surrounding affirmance of the Root decree, but expressed
doubt as to the capacity in which they could formally
make such a request of the Court. Their difficulty was due
to the fact that after this Court had denied certiorariin the
Root case, Root had settled its controversy with Universal
and was unwilling to disturb the agreement by an
attempt to reopen the law suit. The other oil companies
who were in litigation with Root insisted that they were
neither formal nor substantial parties to the Root case.
And so their attorneys, who were the attorneys in the
Root litigation and the moving attorneys in the present
proceedings, could not move on their behalf to have the
Root decree vacated. But these other oil companies had
an interest in the Root decree since it might be used in
pending cases to their disadvantage. Universal offered

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
. Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

to consent to a reargument of the Root case and to preserve to the Root Company the benefits of the existing
agreement, even if Universal should prevail upon reargument. Throughout these proceedings Universal stood
ready to carry out this offer, but nothing ever came of it,
presumably because Root was not represented at these
hearings and the other oil companies were not parties of
record in the original litigation.
The dilemma of the attorneys who initiated these proceedings to set aside a fraudulent judgment but could not
speak for any client prepared to come before the court
as a: party in interest, was resolved by a suggestion from
the presiding judge of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
suggestion was that the court would accept the services
of these attorneys as dmici curiae. Accordingly, they
offered themselves in that role. Upon their acceptance
as such by the court, they asked for the appointment of
a master to investigate the Root appeal. While they thus
proceeded as amici they stated quite candidly that they
were also concerned with the interests of their clients,
the oil companies in pending litigation. As a matter of
law, however, their status was only that of amici, for their
clients did not subject themselves to the court's jurisdiction. The relation of these lawyers to the court, after
it recognized them as amici, remained throughout only
that of amici.
A master was appointed and he conducted an extensive
investigation. He examined records in the possession of
the United States Attorney for the Southern District of
New York, the records of proceedings before a Philadelphia grand jury, bank records, and various statements
of interested parties. From this mass of material, he
selected those documents which he .deemed appropriate
for submission to the inspection of the amici and of counsel
for Universal. Witnesses were also heard and petitioner

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. ROOT RFG. CO. 579
575

Opinion of the Court.

was given the right to cross-examine. But the investigation 'was not governed by the customary rules of trial
procedure. Petitioner's counsel duly excepted to the
manner in which the investigation was being conducted,
"if it were to involve any property rights of our clients,
including the validity of any judgment . . ."

The mas-

ter evidently did not view the proceedings in the light
of an adversary litigation. He ruled "that the investigation-for that is all it is-should [not] be conducted
strictly_ according to the rules of evidence in litigation."
At the conclusion of this investigation, the master rendered a report in which he concluded "that there was in
connection with this case such fraud as tainted and invalidated the judgments" in the Root apped.l.
On the basis of this conclusion, the Court of Appeals
.on June 15, 1944, entered an order directing that the
judgments be vacated and the cause be reargued. The
relief thus granted was that to which petitioner had consented before the investigation got under way. On July
24, 1944, the amici applied to the court below for an order
directing that the expenses and compensation of the master be taxed against Universal. In view of the fact that
Universal appeared and participated in the investigation
before the master, with acquiescing knowledge that the
master's fees and expenses would be asses.,ed by the court,
we do not disturb the taxation of the master's fees and
expenses. The aniici also asked the Court to assess
against Universal their expenses and reasonable attorneys'
fees. The court awarded $54,606.57 in expenses, part of
wlich was for the amount they had advanced in payment
to the master, and $100,000 as compensation for their
services. These amounts had in fact already been paid
to the attorneys by their oil company clients. The awards
thus constituted. an order for reimbursement of the clients
by Universal. The case was heard by the court en banc,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

and two' of the judges thought that the amici were only
entitled to a compensation of $25,000. 147 F. 2d 259.
Questions of importance in judicial administration were
obviously involved by the disposition below, and so 'we
brought the case here. 324 U. S. 839.
The inherent power of a federal court to investigate
whether a judgment was obtained by fraud, is beyond
question. Hazel-Atlas Co. v. Hartford-Empire Co., 322
U. S. 238. The power to unearth such a fraud is the
power to unearth it effectively. Accordingly, a federal
court may bring before it by appropriate means all those
who may be affected by the outcome of its investigation.
But if the rights of parties are to be adjudicated in such
an investigation, the usual safeguards of adversary proceedings must be observed. No doubt, if the court finds
after a proper hearing that fraud has been practiced upon
it, or that the very temple of justice has been defiled, the
entire cost of the proceedings could justly be assessed
against the guilty parties. Such is precisely a situation
where "for dominating reasons of justice" a court may
assess counsel fees as part of the taxable costs. Sprague
v. Ticonic National Bank, 307 U. S. 161, 167. But, obviously, a court cannot deprive a successful party of his
judgment without a proper hearing. This question is not
before us, except as it bears on the order allowing attorneys' fees and costs. But if the judgment could not be
nullified without adequate opportunity to be heard in a
proper contest, neither is it just to assess the fees of attorneys and their expenses in conducting an investigation
where petitioner throughout objected to the character of
the investigation if it was to be used as a basis for adjudicating rightsThe case may readily be disposed of on a narrower
ground.. No doubt, a court that undertakes an investi-

UNIVERSAL OIL CO. v. ROOT RFG. CO.
575

581

Opinion of the Court.

gation of fraud upon it may avail itself, as did the court
of amici to represent the public interest in the
administration of justice. But compensation is not the
normal reward of those who offer such services. After
all, a federal court can always call on law officers of the
United States to serve as amici. Here the amici also represented substantial private interests. Their clients were
interested in vacating the Root judgment though they
would not subject themselves to the court's jurisdiction
and the hazards of an adverse determination. While the
amici formally served the court, they were in fact in the
pay of private clients. Amici selected by the court to
vindicate its honor ordiharily ought not be in the service of those having private interests in the outcome. Certainly it is not consonant with that regard for fastidiousness which should govern a court of equity, to award fees
and costs of amid curiae who have already been compensated by private clients so that these be reimbursed for
what they voluntarily paid.
In No. 48, the judgment is reversed and remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the entry of a judgment
in conformity with this opinion.
In No. 64, the writ of certiorari invoked under ยง 262
of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. ยง 377, is dismissed.

-below,

. MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the narrower ground of
the opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

took

