PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
Syllabus.

PENNEKAMP ET AL. v. FLORIDA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 473.

Argued February 8, 1946.-Decided June 3, 1946.

Petitioners, the publisher and the associate editor of a newspaper,
were responsible for the publication of two editorials and a cartoon
criticizing certain actions previously takenby a Florida trial court
of general jurisdiction in certain non-jury proceedings as being too
favorable to criminals- and gambling establishments. Two of the

cases involved had been dismissed. In the third, a rape case, an
indictment had been quashed for technical defects, but a new indictment had beep obtained and trial was pending. Petitioners were
cited for contempt, the citation charging, inter alia, that the publications reflected upon and impugned the integrity of the court,
tended to create a distrust for the court, wilfully withheld and suppressed the truth, and tended to obstruct the fair and impartial
administration of justice in pending cases. In their answer, petitioners denied any intent to interfere with fair and impartial justice
and claimed, inter alia, that it was their intent to condemn and
criticize the system of pleading and practice created by the laws
of Florida, that the publications were legitimate criticism and comment within the federal guaranties of a free press, and that they
created no clearand present.danger to the administration of justice.
The court found the facts recited and the charges made in the citation to be true and well founded, adjudged petitioners guilty of
contempt, and fined them. This judgment was sustained by the
Supreme Court of Florida as being in accordance with Florida law.
Held:
1. On this record, the danger to fair judicial administration has
not the clearness and immediacy necessary to close the door of permissible public comment; and the judgment is reversed as violative
of petitioners' right of free expression in the press under the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252.
Pp. 334, 346-350.
2.This Court has final authority to determine the meaning and
application of those words of the Constitution which require interpretation to resolve judicial issues. P. 335.
3. In cases of this type, it must examine for itself the statements
in issue and the circumstances'under which they were made to see

332

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

-whether or not they carry a threat of clear and present danger to
the impartiality and good order of the courts or whether they are
of a character protected by the principles of the First and Fourteenth Amendments. Pp.'335, 336,3 46.
4. When the highest court of a State has reached a determination
upon such an issue, this Court gives most respectful attention to
its reasoning and conclusion; but the state court's authority is not
final. P. 335.
5. This Court agrees. with the Supreme Court of Florida that
,the rape case was pending at the time of the publication. P. 344.
6. This Court may accept the conclusion of the Florida courts
upon intent and motive as a determination of fact; but it is for this
Court to determine federal constitutional rights in the setting of
the facts. P. 345.
7. Discussion that follows the termination of a case may be inadequate to emphasize the danger to public welfare of supposedly
wrongful judicial conduct, but it does not follow that public comment of every character upon pending trials or legal proceedings
may be as free as similar comment after complete disposa4 of the
litigation. 'P. 346.
8. In borderline cases where it is difficult to say upon which side
the alleged offense falls, the specific freedom of public comment
should weigh heavily against a possible tendency to influence pending cases. Freedom of discussion should be given the widest possible range compatible with the essential requirement of the fair and
orderly admihistration of justice. P. 347.
9. Since the publications concerned the attitude of the judges
toward those charged with crime, not comments on evidence or
rulings during a jury trial, their effect on juries that mighteventually try the alleged offenders is too remote to be considered a clear
and present danger to justice. P. 348.
10. This criticism of the judge's inclinations or actions in pending
non-jury proceedings could not directly affect the administration
of justice, although the cases were still pending on other points or
might be revived by rehearings. P. 348.
11. That a judge might be influenced by a desire to placate the
accusing newspaper to retain public esteem and secure reelection
at the cost ol unfair rulings against an accused is too remote a
possibility to be considered a clear and present danger to justice.
P. 349.
156 Fla. 227, 22 So. 2d 875, reversed.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners were adjudged guilty of contempt of a state
court. The Supreme Court of Florida affirmed. 156 Fla.
227, 22'So. 2d 875. This Court granted certiorari. 326
U. S.709. Reversed, p. 350.
Robert R. Milam and Elisha Hanson argued the cause
for petitioners. With them on the brief were E. T. McIlvaine and Edward E. Fleming.
J. Tom Watson, Attorney General of Florida, James M.
Carson and Giles J. Patterson argued the cause for respondent. With Messrs. Watson and Carson on the brief
was Sumter Leitner, Assistant Attorney General.
William HarrisonMizell and Osmond K. Fraenkel filed
a brief for the American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus
curiae, urging reversal.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
This proceeding brings here for review a judgment of
-the Supreme Court of Florida, 156 Fla. 227, 22 So. 2d 875,
which affirmed a judgment of guilt in contempt of the Circuit Court of Dade County, Florida, on a citation of petitioners by that Circuit Court.
The individual petitioner was the associate editor of
the' Miami Herald, a newspaper of general circulation,
published in Dade County, Florida, and within the jurisdiction of the trial court. The corporate petitioner was
the publisher of the Miami Herald. Together petitioners
were responsible for the publication of two editorials
charged by the citation to be contemptuous of the Circuit
Court and its judges in that they were unlawfully critical
of the administration of criminal justice in certain cases
'then pending before the Court.
.Certiorari was granted to review petitioners' contention
that the editorials did not present "a clear and present
danger of high imminence to the administration of justice
MR.JUSTICE REED

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

by the court" or judges who were criticized and therefore
the judgment of contempt was invalid as violative of the
petitioners' right of free expression in the press. The importance of the issue in the administration of justice at
this time, in view of this Court's decision in Bridges v. Cali-.
fornia, 314 U, S. 252, three years prior to this judgment in
contempt, is apparent.
Bridges v. Californiafixed reasonably well-marked limits
around the power of courts to punish newspapers and
others for comments upon or criticism of pending litigation. The case placed orderly operation of courts as the
primary and dominant requirement in the administration
of justice. Pages 263, 265, 266. This essential right of
the courts to be free of intimidation and coercion was held
to be consonant witbh a recognition that freedom of the
press must be allowed In the broadest scope compatible
with the supremacy of order. A theoretical determinant.
of the limit for open discussion was adopted from experience with other adjustments of the conflict between freedom of expression and maintenance of order. This was
the clear and present danger rule. The evil consequence
of comment must be "extremely serious and the degree of
imminence extremely high before utterances can be punished." Page 263. It was, of course, recognized that this
formula, as would any other, inevitably had -the vice of
uncertainty, page 261, but it was expected that, from a
decent self-restraint on the part of the press and from the
formula's repeated application by the courts, standards
of permissible comment would emerge which would guarantee the courts against interference and allow fair play
to the good influences of open discussion. As a step
toward the marking of the line, we held that the publications there involved were within the permissible limits of
free discussion.
In the Bridges case the clear and present danger rule was
applied to the stated issue of vhether the expressions there

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

331

under consideration, prevented "fair ;judicial trials free
from coercion or jntimidation." Page 259. There was,
of course, no question as to the power to punish for disturbances and disorder. in the court room, Page 266.
The danger to be guarded against is the "substantive evil"
sought to be prevented. Pages 261, 262, 263.. In the
Bridges case that "substantive evil" was primarily, the
"disorderly and unfair administration of justice." Pages
270, 271,.278,1
The Constitution has imposed upon this Court final
authority to determine the meaning and application of
those words of that instrument which require interpretation to resolve judicial issues. With that responsibility,
we are compelled to examine for ourselves the statements
in issue and the circumstances under which they were
made to see whether or not they do carry a threat of clear
and present danger to the impartiality and good order of
the courts or whether they are of a character which the
principles of the First Amendment, as adopted by the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, protect.2 When the highest court of a state has reached a
determination upon such an issue, we give most respectful
attention to its reasoning and conclusion but its authority
is not final. Were it otherwise the constitutional limits
of free expression in the Nation would vary with state
lines.'
While there was a division of the Court in the Bridges
case as to whether some of the public 'expressions by edi1

Compare Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; Thornhill v.

Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 105; Carlson v. California,310 U. S. 106, 113;
Board of Educationv. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, 633.
2 Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 666; Near v. Minnesota, 283

U.S. 697, 707.
3

Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252, 267. Compare Chambers v.
Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 228;. Hooven & Allison Co. v. Evatt, 324
U. S. 652, 659.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court. ,

328 U. S.

torial comment transgressed the boundaries'of a free press
and as to the phrasing of the test, there was unanimous.
recognition that California's power to punish for contempt
was limited by this Court's interpretation of the extent
of protection afforded by the First Amendment. Bridges
v. California, supra, at 297. Whether the threat to the
impartial and orderly adminitration of justice must be a
clear and present or a grave and immediate danger, a
real and substantial threat, one which is close and direct
or one which disturbs the court's sense of fairness depends
upon a choice of words. Under any one of the phrases;
reviewing courts are brought in cases of this type to appraise the comment on a balance between the desirability
of free discussion' and the fiecessity for fair adjudication,
free from interruption of its processes.
The editorials of November 2d and 7ih, 1944, which
caused the court to issue the citation are set out- below.'
'November 2, 1944:
"Courts Are Established-,
For the People
"The courts -belong to the people. The people have established
them to promote justice, insure obedience to the law and to Punish
Those Who Willfully Violate It.
"the people maintain the courts by providing the salaries of officials
and setting up costly 6hambers and courtrooms for the orderly and
dignified procedure of. the iribunals.
"Upon the judges the people must depend for the decisions and the
judicial conduct that will insure society-as a whole and in its individuals-against those who would ufndermine or destroy the peace,
the morality and the orderly living of the community.
"In Order that the courts should not be amenable to political or
other pressures in iheir determination of matters placed before them,
Florida Circuit judges are called, fipon to face the electorate less often
than are other elective office holders.
"So long are their terms, in fact, that in Dade county no Circuit
judge, and only one judge of another court, has come to the bench by
public choice in the first instance. All the others have been named

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

337

Opinion of the Court.

Accompanying the first editorial was a cartoon which held
up the law to public obloquy. It caricatured a court by a
robed compliant figure as a judge on the bench toEsing
by a governor to fill a vacancy caused by death or resignation, or
similar circumstance.
"Judicial terms in Dade county run:
1--Six years'each for six Circuit judges.
2-Four years each for' two Civil Court of Record judges.
3-Four years for the judge of the Criminal Court of Record.
4-Four years for the judge of the Court of Crimes.
5-Four years for County judge.'
6---Four years for Juvenile court judge.
"These twelve judges represent the majesty and the sanctity of the
law. They are the first line of defense locally of organized society
against vice, corruption and crime, and the sinister machinations of
the underworld.
"It Is beyond question that American courts are of, by and for the
people.
"Every accused person has a right to his day in court: But when
judicial instance and interpretative procedure recognize and~accept,
even go out to find, every possible technicality of the law to protect
the defendant, to block, thwart, hinder, embarrass and nullify prosecution, then the people's rights are jeopardized and the basic reason for
courts stultified.
"The seeming ease and pat facility with which the criminally
charged have been given technical safeguard haye set people to wondering whether their courts are being subverted into - refuges for
lawbreakers.
"This Week the people, through their grand jury, brought into court
eight indictments for rape. Judge Paul D. Barns agreed with the
defense that the indictments were not properly drawn. Back they
went to the grand jury for re-presentation to the court.
"Only in the gravest emergency does a judge take over a case from
another court of equal jurisdiction. A padlock action against the
Brook Club was initiated last spring before Judge George E. Holt,
who granted a temporary injunction.
"After five months, the case appeared Tuesday out of blue
sky
before Judge Marshall C. Wiseheart at the time State Attorney Stanley
Milledge was engaged with the grand jury.
"Speedy decision was asked by defense counsel despite months of

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

aside formal charges to hand a document, marked "Defendant dismissed," to a powerful figure close at.his left
arm and of an intentionally drawn criminal type. At the
stalling. The State Attorney had to choose between the grand jury
and Judge Wiseheart's 'court.
"The judge dismissed the injunction against the club and its operators. The defense got delay when it wanted and.prompt decision from
the court when it profited it.
"On Oct. 10 Judge Holt had before him a suit by the state to abate
a nuisance (bookmaking) at the Tepee Club.
"Five affidavits of persons who allegedly visited the premises for
the purpose of placing bets were introduced by the state over the
objection of the defendants.
"Judge Holt ruled them out, explaining in denying the injunction
against the Tepee Club:
"'The defendant cannot cross-examine an affidavit. The court cannot determine who is testifying and whether belief can be placed upon
such testimony . . . The fact that such affidavits were taken before

the State Attorney does not give them any additional weight or
value.'
"This may be good law, exact judicial evaluation of the statutes.
It is, however, the character of legal interpretation which causes people
to raise questioning eyebrows and shake confused heads in futile
wonderment.
"If Technicalities are to be the order and the way for the criminally
charged either to avoid justice altogether or so to .delay prosecution
as to cripple it, then it behooves our coufts and the legal profession to
cut away the deadwood and the entanglements.
"Make it possible for the state's case', the people's case, to be seen.
with equal clarity of judicial vision as that accorded accused lawbreakers. Otherwise technicalities and the courts make the law, no matter.
what the will of the people and of their legislators."
November 7, 1944:
"Why People Wonder
"Here is an example of why people wonder about the law's delayg
and obstrutting technicalities operating to the disadvantage of the
state-which is the people-in prosecutions.
"After stalling along for months, the defense in the padlock case
against the Brook Club appeared before Judge Marshall C. Wiseheart

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

Opinion of the Court.

right of the bench, a futile individual, labeled "Public
Interest" vainly protests.
The citation charges that the editorials
"did reflect upon and impugn the integrity of said
Court and the Judges thereof in imputing that the
Judges of said Court 'do recognize and accept, even
go out to find, every possible technicality of the law
to protect the defendant, to block, thwart, hinder,
embarrass and nullify prosecution,' which said acts
by you tend to create a distrust for said court and
the judges thereof in the minds of the people of this
county and state and tend to prevent and prejudice
a fair and impartial action of the said Court and the
Judges thereof in respect to the said pending case [s] ."
After setting out details of alleged willful withholding and
suppression of the whole truth in the publications, the
citation further charges that
"you, by said cartoon and editorial, have caused to
be represented unto the public that concerning the
cases of (A) the eight indictments for rape, (B) the
said Brook Club case, and (C) the Teepee Club case,
that the Judges of this Court [had not] fairly and
impartially heard and decided the matters in said
editorial mentioned and have thereby represented
unto the general public that notwithstanding the
for a decision. The State Attorney was working with the grand jury.
The court knocked out the injunction. There was speed, dispatch,
immediate attention and action for those charged with violation of the
law. So fast that the people didn't get in a peep.
"That's one way of gumming up prosecution. Another is to delay
action. On March 29, Coy L. Jaggears, bus driver, was sentenced to
fifteen days in city jail by Judge Cecil C. Curry on conviction of beating up a taxicab operator.
"The arrest precipitated the notorious bus strike. As a result,
Jaggears walked out of jail after posting a $200 appeal bond. The
appeal never got further.
"There you have the legal paradox, working two ways, but to the
same purpose against prosecution. Speed when needed. Month after
month.of delay when that serves the better."

OCTOBER TERM, i945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

great public trust vested in the Judges of this Court
that they have not discharged their duties honorably
and fairly in respect to said pending cases as hereinbefore-set forth, all of which tends to obstruct and
interfere with the said Judges as such in fairly and
impartially administering justice and in the discharging of their duties in conformity with the true principles which you have so properly recognized in the
forepart of said editorial above quoted as being incumbent upon them and each of them;
Petitioners were required to show cause why they should
not be held in contempt.
Petitioners answered that the publications were legitimate criticism andI comment within' the federal guaranties of free press and created no clear and present danger
to the administration of justice. They sought to justify
the publications by stating in their return to the rule that
the facts stated in the editorials ,werecorrect, that two of
the cases used as examples were not pending when the
comments were made, since orders of dismissal had been
previously entered by the Circuit Court, and that they
as editors
"had the right if not the duty openly and forcefully
to discuss these conditions to the end that these evils
that are profoundly disturbing to the citizens of this
county, might be remedied. The publications complained of did nothing more than discuss the generally -recognized weakness and' breakdown in the
system of law enforcement and call for its
iwprovement."
It is not practicable to comment at length on each of
the challenged items. To make our decision as clear as
possible, we shall refer in detail only to the comments
concerning the "Rape Cases." These we think fairly
illustrate the issues and are the most difficult comments
for the petitioners to defend.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

,

Opinion of 'the CoUrt.

As to these cases, the editorial said:
"This Week the people, through their grand juy,
brought into court eight indictments for rape. Judge
Paul D. Barns agreed with the defense that the indictments were not properly drawn. Back they went
to the grand jury for re-presentation to the court.'"
We shall assume that the'statement, "judicial instance
and interpretative procedure . . . even go out to find,
every possible technicality of the law to protect the, defendant . . . and nullify pfosecution," refers . to the
quashing of the rape indictments as well as other condemned steps. The comment of the last two paragraphs
evidently includes these dismissals as so-called legal- technicalities. See Note 4.
The citation charged that the prosecuting officer in open
court agreed that the indictments were so defective as to
make reindictment advisable. le.indictments were returned the next day and',before the ditorial. It was
charged that these omissions were a wanton withholding
of the full truth.
As to this charge, the petitioners made this return:
"Thai as averred in the citation, a motion was made
to quash the indictment in Case 856, the ruling upon
which would control in the other cases mentioned.
Whereupon the representative of the State Attorney's
Office stated in effect that he believed the original
indictment was in proper form, but to eliminate any
question he would have these defendants immediately
re-indicted by the Grand Jury which was still then. in
session. And thereupon, the Judge of said Court did
sustain the motion to quash with respect to Case No.
856."
The record of the Criminal Division of the Circuit Court
set out in the findings of fact at the hearing on the cita-.
tion in contemptjshows that in case No. 856 the court
upheld the defendants' motion to quash "with the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

proval of the Assistant State Attorney" and quashed the
remaining indictments on his recommendation. Reindictment of the accused on the next.day, prompt arraignment and setting for trial also appears. We accept the
record as conclusive of the facts.
We read the Circuit Court's judgment to find that the
comment on the Rape Cases contained only "half-truths,"
that it did not "fairly report the proceedings" of the court,
that it contained "misinformation." The judgment said:
"To report on court proceedings is a voluntary undertaking but when undertaken the publisher who fails
to fairly report does so at his own peril.
"We find the facts recited and the charges made in
the citation to be true and well founded; .
This finding included the fact. that reindictments were
then pending in the Rape Cases. Defendants' assignments of error challenged the ruling that-the matters referred to in the editorials were pending and the Supreme
Court of Florida ruled that the cases were pending. 156
Fla. at 241, 22 So. 2d at 883:
"We also agree that publications about a case that is
closed no matter how scandalous, are not punishable
as contempt. This is the general rule but the Florida
Statute is more liberal than the rule."
Cf. Florida Statutes 1941, ยง 38.23 and ยง 932.03; see also
156 Fla. at 248, 249, 22 So. 2d at 886.
In Bridges v. California,314 U. S.252, 271-78, dissent
297-302, this Court looked upon cases as pending following completed interlocutory actions of the courts but
awaiting other steps. In one instance it was sentence
after verdict. In another, a motion for a new trial.
Pennekamp was fined $250 and the corporation,

$1,000.00.
The Supreme Court of Florida restated the facts as to
the Rape Cases from the record. 156 Fla. at 238, 22 So.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

343

Opinion of the Court.

2d at 881. It then reached a conclusion as to all of the
charges and so -as to the Rape Cases in the words set out
below.5 After further discussion of. the facts, the Court
said, 156 Fla. at 241, 22 So. 2d at 883:
"In the light of this factual recitation, it is utter folly
to suggest that the object of these publications was
other than to abase and destroy the efficiency of the
court."
To focus attention on the critical issue, we quote below
from the decision of the Supreme Court of Florida certain
excerpts which we believe fairly illustrate its position as
to the applicable law.6
5156 Fla. 227, 239, 240i 22 So. 2d 875, 882:
"So the vice in both the editorials was the distorted, inaccurate statement of the facts and with that statement were scrambled false insinuations that amounted to unwarranted charges of partisanship and
unfairness on the part of the judges.
"The record was available in all these cases and it does not reveal a
breath of suspicion on which to predicate partisanship and unfairness
on the part of the judges. It is shown rather that they acted in good
faith and handled each case to the very best advantage possible.
There was no judgment that could have been entered in any of them
except the one that was entered. If the editorials had stated the facts
correctly, nothing but a correct conclusion could have been deduced
and there would have been no basis for contempt' but here they
electea to publish as truth a mixture of factual misstatement and
omission and impose on that false insinuation, distortion, and deception and then contend that freedom of the press immunizes them from
punishment."
156 Fla. 227,244-249, 22 So. 2d 875,884-886:
"A newspaper may criticize, harass, irritate, or vent its spleen against
a person who holds the office of judge in the same manner that it
does a member of the Legislature and other elective officers, but it
may not publish scurrilous or libelous criticisms of a presiding judge
as such or his judgments for the purpose of discrediting the Court in
the eyes of the public. Respect for courts is not inspired by shielding
them from criticism. This-is a responsibility of the judge, acquired
over the years by the spirit in which he approaches the judicial process, his ability to humanize the law and square it with reason, the level

OCTOBER TERM, 1945..
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

From the editorials, th explanations of the petitioners
and the records of the court,. it is clear that the, full truth
in regard to the quashing of the indictments was not published. We agree with the Supreme Court that the Rape
of his thinking, the consistency of his adherence to right and justice,
and the degree to which he holds himself aloof from blocs, groups, and
techniques that would sacrifice justice for expediency-."
"Courts cannot function in a free country when the atmosphere is
charged with the effusions of a press designed to poison the mind of
the public against the presiding judges rather than to clarify the issues
and propagate the truth about them. The latter was the press that
Mr. Jefferson visioned when he promulgated the thesis, 'Our libertyk
depends on the freedom of the press and that'cannot be limited without being lost."'
"Freedom to'publish one's views is a phinciple of universal practice,
but when the press deliberately abandons the proprieties and sets out
sto
poison its tpabulum or to sow dragons' teeth and dispense canards
for the purpose of doing another a wrong, it is no different category
from a free man that does likewise. The most rigid safeguard thrown
around a free press would 'not protect appellants.from falsely publishing or announcing to the world that the clergy of Miami were in sympathy with the practice of polygamy or were fostering other doctrines
equally obnoxious to approved moral standards."
'"The theory of our system of fair trial is that the determination of
every case should be induced solely by evidence and argument in open
court and the law applicable thereto abd not by any outside influence,
whether of private talk or public print."
"The State Courts touch the public much more frequently than the
Federal Courts and they have many reasons t6 enforce'orderly idministration that would not arise in the Federal Courts. If that power
is to be construed by what appellants contend to be the pattern in
the Bridges and Nye cases, then more than one hundred years of state
law and decisions on the .subject are turned into confusion or set at
naught ...
"We do not think this can be the law. The Bridges case was disposed of on authority of the '"clear and present danger" cases;' which
are not analogous to most of the state cases because they arise from a
different state of' the law. The ultimate test in the Bridges case requires that the 'substantive evil must be extremely serious and the
degree of imminence extremely high before utterances can be punished.' Even if this test is to [be] the rule in the State Courts, they

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

-345
5

Opinion of the Court.

Cases were pending at the time of the editorials. We
agree that the editorials did-not state objectively the attitude of the judges. We accept the statement of the
Supreme Court that under Florida law, "There was no
judgment that could have been entered in any of them
except the one that was entered." 156 Fla. at 240, 22 So.
2d at 882. And, although 'we may feel that this record
scarcely justifies the harsh inference that the truth was
willfully or wantonly or recklessly withheld from the public or that the motive behind the publication was to
abase and destroy the efficiency of the courts, we may
accept in this case that conclusion of the Florida courts
upon intent and motive as a determination of fact.!
While the ultimate power is here to ransack the record,
for facts in constitutional controversies, we are accustomed to adopt the result of the state court's examination.'
It is the findings of the state courts on undisputed facts or
the undisputed factsthemselves which ordinarily furnish
the basis for our appraisal of claimed violations of federal
constitutional rights.'
The acceptance of the conclusion of a state court as to
the facts of a situation leaves open to this Court the determination of federal constitutional rights in the setting of
are authorized to apply it by their own law and standards and unless
the application is shown to be arbitrary and unreasonable, their judgmeat should not be disturbed. The law in Florida permits the most
liberal exercise possible of freedom of the press but holds to account
those who abuse it.
"We therefore hold that the cartoon and the editorials afford ample
support for the judgment imposed and that the issues were properly
adjudicated under Florida law.'
7See IX Wigmore, Evidence (3d Ed.) ยง 2557. Crawford v. United
States, 212 U. S. 183, 203.
8
Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Co., 312 U. S. 287, 293-94; Lisenba
v. California,314 U. S.219, 238.
9 Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S.227, 239; Ashcraft v. Tennessee,
322 U. S. 143, 152, 153, 154; Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S.401,

404.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

.128 U. S.

those facts. 0 When the Bridges case was here, there was
necessarily involved-a determination by the California
state court that all of the editorials had, at least, a tendency to interfere with the fair administration of criminal
justice in pending cases in a court of that state. Yet this
Court was unanimous in saying that two of those editorials
had no such impact upon a court as to justify a conviction
of contempt in the face of the principles of the First
Amendment. We must, "therefore,.weigh the right of free
speech which is claimed by the petitioners against the
danger of, the coercion and intimidation of courts in the
factual situation presented by this record.
Free discussion, of the problems of society is a cardinal
principle of Americanism-a principle which all are zealous to preserve 1 Discussion that follows the termination
of a case may be inadequate to emphasize the danger to
public welfare of supposedly wrongful judicial conduct.2
It does not follow that public comment of every character
upon pending trials or legal proceedings may be as free
as a similar comment after complete disposal of the litigatibn. Between the extremes there are areas of discussion which an understanding writer will appraise in the
10See

the cases in the preceding paragraph, note 8.

Murdock v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S.105,115; Board of Education
v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, 639; Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 527,
11

530.
12

Bridges v. California,314.U. S. at 269:
"No suggestion can be found in the Constitution that the freedom
there guaranteed for speech and the press bears an inverse ratio to
the timeliness and importance of the ideas seeking expression. Yet,
it would follow as a practical result of the decisions below that anyone
who might wish to give public expression to his views on a pending
case involving no matter what problem of public interest, just at the
time his audience would be most receptive, would be as effectively
discouraged as if a deliberate statutory scheme of censorship had been
adopted."

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

347

Opinion of the Court.

light of the effect on himself and on the public of creating
a clear and present danger to fair and orderly judicial
administration.' Courts must have power to protect the
interests of prisoners and litigants before them from unseemly efforts to pervert judicial action. In the borderline instances where it is difficult to say upon which side
the alleged offense falls, we think the specific freedom
of public comment should weigh heavily against a possible tendency to influence pending cases. Freedom of
discussion should be given the widest range compatible
with the -essential requirement of the fair and orderly
administration of justice.
While a disclaimer of intention does not purge a contempt, we may at this point call attention to the sworn
answer of petitioners that their purpose was not to influence the court. An excerpt appears below.". For circumstances to create a clear and present danger to judicial
administration, a solidity of evidence should be required
which it would be difficult to find in this record' Coin13"These respondents deny any intent by either said editorial or
said cartoon either in words or otherwise to interfere with fair and
impartial justice in the State of Florida and deny that the large character in the cartoon was beside the judge and on the bench and being
heard, recognized and favored, but, on the contrary, these respondents
respectfully show that it was the intention of said editorial and'said
cartoon to condemn and criticise the system of pleading and practice
and procedure created by the laws of Florida, whereby such cases
could lofig be delayed and' then could be dismissed upon technical
grounds in the mannbr herein shown."
We add Mr. Pennekamp's statement of the editorial policy of the
Miami Herald:
"'We are ourselves Free-Free as the Constitution we enjoy-Free
to truth, good manners and good sense. We shall be for whatever
measure is best adapted to defending the rights and liberties of the
people and advancing useful knowledge. We shall labor at all times
'to inspire the people with a just and proper sense of their condition,
to point out to them their true interest and rouse them to pursue it.' "

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

pare Baumgartner v. United States, 322 U. S. 665, 670;
Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118.
The comments were made about judges of courts of general jurisdiction-judges selected by the people of a populous ,and educated community. They concerned the attitude of the judges toward those who were charged with
crime, not comments on evidence or rulings during a'jury
trial. Their effect on juries that might eventually try the
alleged offenders against the criminal laws of Florida is
too remote for discussion. Comment on pending cases
may affect judges differently.- It may influence some
judges more than others. Some are of a more sensitive
fiber than their colleagues. The law deals in generalities
and external standards and cannot depend on the varying
degrees of moral courage or stability in the face of criticism which individual judges may possess any more than
it generally can depefid on the personal equations or iniividual idiosyncrasies of the tort-feasor. The Germanic,
196 U. S. 589, 596; Arizona Employers' Liability Cases,
250 U. S. 400, 422, 432. We are not willing to say under.
the circumstances of this case that these editorials are a
clear and present danger to the fair administration of
justice in Florida.' Cf. Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697,

714-15.
What is meant by clear and present. danger to a fair administration of justice? No definition could give an answer. Certainly this- criticism of the judges' inclinations
or actions in these pending non-jury proceedings could not
directly affect such administration. This criticism of
their actions could not affect their ability to decide the
.issues. Here there is only , criticism of judicial action
already taken, although the cases were still pending on
other points or might be revived by rehearings. For such
injuries, when the statements amount to defamation, a

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331 "Opinion

of the Court.

judge.has such remedy in damages for libel as do other
public servants.
.It 'is suggested, however, thatieven though his intellectual processes cannot be affected by reflections on his purposes,. a judge may be influenced by. a desire to placate
the accusing newspaper to retain public esteerh and secure
reelection presumably at the cost of unfair rulings against
an accused. . In this case too many fine-drawn assumptions against theindep'endence of judicial action must be
made to call such a possibility a clear and present'danger
to justice.. For this t ofollow, there must be a. judge of
less tharn ordinary fortitude without friends or support or
-a powerfuland vindictive newspaper bent upon a rule or
ruin policy, and apublic unconcerned with or uninterested
in the truth or the protection of their judicial institutions.
*If, as the Florida courts have held and as we haive assumed.
the petitioners deliberately distorted, the facts to abase
and destroy the efficiency of the court; those. misrepre.
sentations with ihe indicated motives. manifested: thebmselves in the language employed by petitioners in their
editorials. The Florida .courts.see in this objectionable.
language. an open effort to use purposely the power of the
press to destroy without reason the reputation of .judges
and the competence of courts. ' This is the clear and present danger'they fear to justice. Although we realize that
we do not have'the same close relations with'the people of
iFlorida that are enjoyed by -the Florida courts, we have no
doubt that Floridians in general would react to these editorials in substantially the sameway as citizens of other
parts of our common country.
As we have pointed out, we must weigh the impact of
the words againstthe. protection given by the principles
of the First Amendment, as adopted by the. Fourteenth,
to public comment on pending court cases.. We conclude

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

that the danger under this record to fair judicial administration has not the clearness and immediacy necessary,
to close the door of permissible public comment. When'
that door is closed, it closes all doors behind it.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

On the basis of two editorials and a cartoon, the Circuit
Court of Florida for the County of Dade found the publisher of the Miami Herald and one of its editors guilty
of contempt of court.' The editor, Pennekamp, was fined
$250 and 'the Publishing Company, $1,000. Deeming
Bridges,v. California, 314 U. S. 252, not controlling, the
Supreme Court of Florida,,'with two judges dissenting,
sistained the convictions. 156 Fla. 227, 22 So. 2d 875.
in -the Bridges case this Court recently canvassed constitutional aspects of Contempt of court by publication.
But it was hardly to be expected that other problems in
the large field within which the Bridges case moved would
not recur. This Court sits to interpret, in appropriate
judicial controversies, a Constitution which in its Bill of
Rights formulates the conditions of a democracy. But
democracy is the least static form of society. Its basis
The judges who tried the contempt cases were the same judges
who were criticized by the editorials. The words of caution of Mr.
Chief Justice Taft become relevant: "The delicacy there is in the
judge's deciding whether an attack upon his own judic-ial action is
mere criticism or real obstruction, and the possibility that impulse
may incline his view to personal vindication, are manifest." Craig v,
Hecht, 263 U. S. 255, 279 (concurring). But the judges who tried
petitioners were sensible, of the delicacy of their position, and offered
to retire from the case if petitioners felt they would prefer to be tried
by another judge.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

is reason not authority. Formulas embodying vague and
uncritical generalizations offer tempting opportunities to
evade the need for continuous thought. But so long as
men want -freedom they resist this temptation. Such
formulas are most beguiling and most mischievous when
contending claims are those not of right and wrong but
of two rights, each highly important to the well-being of
society. Seldom is there available apat formula that adequately analyzes such a problem; least of all solves it.
Certainly no such formula furnishes a ready answer to
the question now here for decision or even exposes its true
elements. The precise issue is whether, and to what extent, a State can protect the administration of justice by
'authorizing prompt punishment, without the intervention
of a jury, of publications out of court that may interfere
with a court's disposition of pending litigation.
The decision in the Bridges case did not explicitly deny
to the States the right to protect the judicial process from
interference by means of a publication bearing on a pending litigation. The atmosphere and emanations of -the
Court's opinion, however, were calculated to sanction anything to be said or written outside the courtroom even
though it may hurt or embarrass the just outcome of a
proceeding. But in a series of decisions which presented
most sharply the constitutional extent of freedom. of
speech, this Court had held that the Constitution did not
allow absolute freedom of expression-a freedom unrestricted by the duty to respect other needs fulfillment of
which makes for the dignity and security of man. Schenck
v. United States, 249 U. S. 47; Frohwerk v. United States,
249 U. S. 204; Debs v. United States, 249 U. S. 211.
No Justice thought more deeply about the nature of a
free society or was more zealous to safeguard its conditions
by the most abundant regard for civil liberty than Mr.
Justice Holmes. He left no doubt that judicial protection

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

of freedom of utterance is necessarily qualified by the
requirement, of the Constitution as an entirety for the
maintenance of a free" society. It does an ill-service to
the author of the most quoted judicial phrases regarding
freedom of speech, to make him the victim of a tendency
which he fought all his life, whereby phrases are made
to do service for critical analysis by being turned into
dogma. "It is one of the misfortunes of the law that ideas
become encysted in phrases and thereafter for a long time
cease to provoke further analysis." Holmes, J., dissenting, in Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347, 384, at 391.
Words which "are used in such circtimstances and are of
such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that
they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress
has a right to prevent," Schenck v. United States, 249
U. S. 47j 52, speak their own condemnation. But it does
violence to the juristic philosophy and the judicial practice of Mr. Justice 1'olmes to assume that in using the
phrase "a clear and present danger" he was expressing
even remotely an absolutist test or had in mind a danger.
in the abstract. He followed the observation just quoted
by the emphatic statement that the question is one "of
proximity and degree," as he conceived to be most questions in connection with the large, undefined rights guaranteed by the Constitution. And Mr. Justice Brandeis,
co-architect of the great constitutional structure of civil
liberties, also recognized that "the permissible curtailment
of free speech is . . .one of degree. And because it is
a question of degree the field in. which the jury may exercise its judgment is, necessarily, a wide one." Schaefer
v. United States, 251 U. S. 466, 482, at 483 (dissenting).
If Mr. Justice Brandeis' constitutional philosophy means
anything, it is clear beyond peradventure that he would
not deny to a State, exercising its judgment as to the
mode by which speech may be curtailed by punishment

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurrig.

subsequent to its utterance, a field less wide than that
which he permitted a jury in a federal court.
"Clear and present danger" was never used by Mr.
Justice Holmes to express a technical legal doctrine or to
convey a fornula for adjudicating cases. It was a literary
phrase not to be distorted by being taken from its context.
In its setting it served to indicate the importance of freedom of speech to a free society but also to emphasize that
its exercise must be compatible with the preservation of
other freedoms essential to a democracy and guaranteed
by our Constitution. When those other attributes of a
democracy are threatened by speech, the Constitution does
not deny power to'the States to curb it. "The clear and
present danger" to be arrested may be danger short of a
threat as comprehensive and vague as a threat to the
safety of the Republic or "the American way of life."
Neither Mr. Justice Holmes nor Mr. Justice Brandeis nor
this Court ever suggested in all the cases that arose in
connection with the First World War, that only imminent
*threats to the immediate security of the country would
authorize courts to sustain legislation curtailing utterance.
Such forces of destruction are of an order of magnitude
which courts are hardly designed to counter. "The clear
and present danger" with which its two great judicial exponents were concerned was a clear and present danger
that utterance "would bring about the evil which Congress
sought and had a right to prevent." Schaefer v. United
States, supra. Among "the substantive evils" with which
legislation may deal is the hampering of a court in a pending controversy, because the fair administration of justice
is one of the chief tests of a true democracy. And since
men equally devoted to the vital importance of freedom
of speech may fairly differ in an estimate of this danger
in a particular case, the field in which a State "may exercise its judgment is, necessarily, a wide one.", Therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

every time a situation like the present one comes here the
precise problem before us is to determine whether the
State court went beyond the allowable limits of judgment in holding that conduct which has been punished
as a contempt was reasonably calculated to endanger a
State's, duty to administer impartial justice in a pending
controversy.
Without a free press there can be no free society.2 Freedom of the press, however, is not an end in itself but a,
2 -...

the administration of government has become more complex,

the opportunities for malfeasance and corruption have multiplied,
crime has grown to most serious proportions, and the danger of its
protection by unfaithful officials and of the impairment of the fundamental security of life and property by criminal alliances and official
neglect, emphasizes the primary need of a vigilant and courageous
press, especially in great cities.' The fact that the liberty of the press
may be abused by miscreant purveyors of scandal does not make any
the less necessary the immunity of the press from previous restraint
in dealing with official misconduct. Subsequent punishment for such
abuses as may exist is the appropriate remedy, consistent with constitutional privilege." Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 719-20.
Not unrelated to this whole problem, however, are the technological
and economic influences that have vastly transformed the actual operation of the right to a free, in the sense of a governmentally uncensored,
press. Bigness and concentration of interest have put their impress
also on this industry. 'Today ideas are still flowing freely, but the
sources from which they rise have shown a tendency to evaporate.
.. . The controlling fact in the free flow of thought is not diversity
of opinion, it is diversity of the sources of opinion-that is, diversity
of ownerihip. .

.

. There are probably a lot more words written and

spoken in America today than ever before, and on more subjects; but
if it is true, as this book suggests, that these words and ideas are
flowing through fewer channels, then our first freedom has been
diminished, not enlarged." E. B. White, in the New Yorker, March
16, 1946, p. 97, reviewing Ernst, The First Freedom (1946). There
are today incomparably more effective and more widespread means
for the dissemination of ideas and information than in the past. But
a steady shrinkage of a diffused ownership raises far reaching questions
regarding the meaning of the "freedom" of a free press.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRA NKFURTR,

J., concurring.

means to the end of a free society. The scope and nature
of the constitutional protection of freedom of speech must
be viewed in that light and in that light applied. The
independence of the judiciary is no less a means to the
end of a free society, and the proper functioning of an
indepeident judiciary puts the freedom of the press in
its proper perspective. For the judiciary cannot function
properly if what the press does is reasonably calculated
to disturb the judicial judgment in its duty and capacity
to act solely on the basis of what is before the court. A
judiciary is not independent unless courts of justice are
enabled to administer law by absence of pressure from
without, whether exerted through the blandishments of
reward or. the menace of disfavor. In the noble words,
penned by John Adams, of the First Constitution of Massachusetts: "It is essential to the preservation of the
rights of every individual, his life, liberty, property, and
character, that there be an impartial interpretation of the
laws, and administration, of justice. It is the right of
every citizen to be tried by judges as free, impartial, and
independent as the lot of humanity will admit." I A free
press is not to be preferred to an independent judiciary,
nor an independent judiciary to a free press. Neither
has primacy over the other; both are indispensable to a
free society. The freedom of the press in itself presupposes an independent judiciary through which that.freedom may, if necessary, be vindicated. And one of the
potent means for assuring judges their independence is a
free press.
A free press is vital to a democratic society because its
freedom gives it power. Power in a democracy implies
responsibility in its exercise. No institution in a democracy, either governmental or private, can have absolute
3Article XXIX of the Declaration of Rights of the Constitution of
Massachusetts, 1780.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANxFURTER, J.,

concurring.

328 U. S.

power.' Nor can the limits of power which enforce responsibility be finally determined by the limited power
itself. See Carl L. Becker, Freedom and Responsibility
in the'American Way of Life (1945). In plain English,
freedom carries with it responsibility even for the press;
freedom of the press is not a freedom from resporisibility
for its exercise. Most State constitutions expressly provide for liability for abuse of the press's freedom. That
there was such legal liability was so taken for granted by
the framers of the First Amendment that it was not spelled
out. Responsibility for its abuse was imbedded in the
law.' The First Amendment safeguarded the right.
These are generalities. But they are generalities of the
most practical importance in achieving a proper adjustment between a free press and an independent judiciary.;
Especially in the administration of the criminal lawthat most awesome aspect of government-society needs
independent courts of justice. This means judges free
from control by the executive, free from all ties with, political interests, free from all fears of reprisal or hopes of
'That this indispensable condition for a free society was well known
to the framers of the Constitution, is the theme of Mr. Justice Brandeis
in his dissenting opinion in Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 240,.
at 293: "The doctrine of the separation of powers was adopted by
the Convention of 1787, not to promote efficiency but to preclude the
exercise of arbitrary power. The purpose was, not to avoid friction,
but, by means of the inevitable friction incident to the distribution
of the governmental powers. among three departments, to save the
people from autocracy." And see Mr. Chief Justice Taft, in Ex parte
Grossman, 267 U. S. 87, 119-22.
5 The State constitutions make it clear that the freedom of speech
and press they guarantee is not absolute. All, with the exception only
of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Vermont, and
West Virginia, explicitly provide in practically identical- language
for the right to speak, write and publish freely, every one, however,
"being responsible for the abuse of that right."

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
431

...

โข

FYANKFURTER,

J., concurrinf o

reward. The safety of society and the security of the
innocent alike depend upon wise and impartial criminal
justice. Misuse of its machinery may. undermine the
safety of the State; its misuse may deprive the individual
of'all that makes a free man's life dear.'
Criticism therefore must not feel cramped, even criticismf of the administration, of criminal justice. Weak
characters ought not to be judges, and the scope allowed
to the press for society's'sake may assume thai they are
not. No judge fit to be one is likely to be influenced consciously except by what he sees and hears in court and by
what is judicially appropriate for his deliberations. However, judges are also human, and we know better than did
*our forbears how powerful is the pull of the unconscious
and how treacherous the rational process. While the
ramparts of reason have been found to. be more fragile
than the Age of Enlightenment had supposed, the means
for arousing passion and confusing judgment have been
reinforced. And since judges, however stalwart, are
human, the delicate task of administering justice ought
not to be made unduly difficult by irresponsible print.
The English bench is justly noted for its sturdiness, and
it was no weak-kneed judge who recently analyzed the mis6 See,

e. g., the disturbing record in the case of Campbell, New'York
County Criminal Courts Bar Association, In' the Matter of the Investigation of the Conviction af Bertram M. Campbell (Feb. 22, 1946),
and the decision of the New York Court of Claims, on June 17, 1946,
awarding Campbell $115,000 for wrongful conviction, including damages for loss of 'earnings, after his pardon by Governor Dewey following the confession by another of the crimes for which Campbell had
been convicted. "He was the victim of a miscarriage of justice but
fortunately for him the State has undertaken to rectify the mistake
as far as possible...
Seven years, six months-and five days elapsed
from claimant's arrest- until he was pardoned." Campbell v. New
York, 186 Misc. 586, 591.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

chief of exposing even the hardiest nature to extraneous
influence: "...
I, think it is a fallacy to say or to assume
that the presiding judge is a person who cannot be affected
by outside information. He is a human being, and while
I do not suggest that it is likely that any judge, as the
result of information which had been improperly conveyed
to him, would give a decision which otherwise he would
not have given, it is embarrassing to a judge that he should
be informed of matters which he would much rather not
hear and which make it much more difficult for him to do
his duty. To repeat the words I have already read from
the judgment of Wills J. in Rex v. Parke [(1903) 2 K. B.
432]. 'The reason why the publication of articles like
those with which we have to deal is treated as a contempt
of court is because their tendency and sometimes their
object is to deprive the court of the power of doing that
which is the end for which it exists--namely, to administer
justice duly, impartially, and with reference solely to the
facts judicially brought before it! . . . I venture to think
that no judge with long criminal experience will fail to
be able to recall instances in. which the publication of matters such as that to which I have referred has had the effect
of making the task of a judge extremely difficult, and no
one has the right to publish matter which will have that
effect." Humphreys, J., in Rex v. Davie8, [ 1945] 1 K. B.
435, 442-43. The observations of another judge in the
same case bear quoting: ". . .. jurors are not the only
people whose minds can be affected by prejudice. One of
the evils of inadmissible matter being disseminated is that
no one can tell what effect a particular piece of information may have on his mind. Why, as my Lord has asked,
.and I can think of no better word, should a judge be 'embarrassed' by having matters put into his mind, the effect
of which it is impossible to estimate or assess? As an
illustration of this proposition, the Court of Criminal

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

Appeal has expressed, not once but many times, its thorough disapproval of evidence which is sometimes 'given
by police officers at the end of a'case when a man has been
convicted. On such occasions all sorts of allegations are
frequently made against a man's character, sometimes in
the nature of hearsay and sometimes not supported by
evidence at all. What is the ground for the disapproval
of the Court of Criminal Appeal regarding such statements? It can only be that the judge who, after hearing
the statements, has to pronounce sentence, may, quite
unconsciously, have his judgment influenced by matters
which he has no right to consider. . . . Not all defamatory matter can amount to contempt of court . ..
Whether defamatory matter amounts to contempt in any
particular case is a question in each case of fact, of degree
and of circumstances." Oliver, J., in Rex v. Davies, supra,
at 445-46. Cf. Parashuram Detaram Shamdasani v.
King-Emperor, [1945] A. C. 264. To deny that bludgeoning or poisonous comment has power to influence, or
at least to disturb, the task of judging is to play makebelieve and to assume that men in gowns are angels. The
psychological aspects of this problem become particularly
pertinent in the case of elected judges with short tenure.
"Trial by newspaper," like all catch phrases, may be
loosely used but it summarizes an evil influence upon the
administration of criminal justice in this country., Its
absence in England, at least its narrow confinement there,
furnishes an illuminating commentary. It will hardly be
claimed that the press is less free in England than in the
United States. Nor will any informed person deny that
the administration of criminal justice is more effective
there than here. This is so despite the commonly accepted view that English standards of criminal justice are
more civilized, or, at the least, that recognized standards
of fair conduct in the prosecution of crime are better ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

served. Thus, "the third degree" is not unjustly called
"the American method."' This is not the occasion to
enlarge upon the reasons for the greater effectiveness of
English criminal justice but it may be confidently asserted
that it is more effective partly because its standards are
so civilized.8 There are those who will resent such a statement as praise of another country and dispraise of one's
Compare Inquiry in Regard to the Interrogationby the Police of
Miss Savidge, Cmd. 3147 (1928); Report of the Royal Commission
on Police Powers and Procedure, Cmd. 3297 (1929), with Report on
Lawlessness in Law Enforcement, in 4 National Commission on Law
Observar,ce and Enforcement Reports (1931). See also Wan v.
United States, 266 U. S. 1; Brown v. Mississippi, 297 U. S.278;
Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S. 227.
8The recent ruling by the Speaker of the House of Commons regarding the limitation'on the right to comment even in Parliament
on the pending proceedings against the accused Nazis before the
Nuremberg tribunal bears significantly on the attitude and controlling
standards deemed appropriate in England in order to protect thejudicial process from extraneous influences:
"The Rule to which the Noble Lord has drawn my attention that
reflections cannot be made on judges of the High Court and certain
other courts, except by way of a substantive Motion, applies only to
the courts of this country. In terms, therefore, it only covers the two
British members of this tribunal. I feel that it would be worse than
invidious-indeed improper-not to extend the same protection to
their colleagues on this tribunal who represent the three other Allied
Nations.
"There is, however, another of our Rules of Debate which is relevant
to this case, the Rule that matters which are sub judice should not
be the subject of discussion in this House. This Rule again, in terms,
applies only to British courts. The court in Nuremberg is a court in
which British judges participate, and we have the same interest in
seeing that nothing is done here'to disturb its judicial atmosphere as
we have in the case of British courts-indeed, perhaps a greater interest, since the eyes of the world are upon this new and difficult procedure of international justice, and the consequences of ill-advised
interference might be incalculably rischievous.
"I think that the intention of both the Rules to which I have referred, is to preserve the House from even the appearance of inter-

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

own. What it really means is that one covets for his
own country a quality of public. conduct not surpassed
elsewhere,
Certain features of American criminal justice have long
been diagnosed by those best qualified to judge as serious
and remediable defects. On the other hand, some mischievous accompaniments of our system have been so
pervasive that they are too often regarded as part of the
exuberant American spirit. Thus, "trial by newspapers"
has sometimes been explained as a concession to-our peculiar interest in criminal trials. Such interest might be
an innocent enough pastime were it not for the fact that
the stimulation of such curiosity by the press and the
response to such stimulated interest have not failed to
cause grievous tragedies committed under the forms of
law. Of course trials must be public and the public have
a deep interest in trials. The public's legitimate interest,
however, precludes distortion of what goes on inside the
courtroom, dissemination of matters that do not come
before the court, or other trafficking with truth intended
to influence proceedings or inevitably calculated to disturb
the course of justice. The atmosphere in a courtroom
may be subtly influenced from without., See dissenting
fering in the administration of British justice-and this should include
trials for which this country has some responsibility; and I rule,
therefore, that all the members of this International Court are protected to the same extent as British judges, and that discussion of its
proceedings is out of Order, in the same way as matters under adjudication in a British court of law." 416 Parliamentary Debates (Hansard) 599-600, Nov. 22, 1945.
. 9The manner in which the Hauptmann trial was reported led to a
searching inquiry by a special committee of the American Bar Association and it reported the following recommendations:
"In the foregoing report we have tried to make a fair presentation
of salient facts. We have been moved less by spirit of censure than
by hope of remedial action. The excesses we have described differ
from practices in many other cases mainly in degree.
"The trial of a criminal case is a business that has for its sole purpose

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFUTm,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes, in Frank v. Mangum, 237
U. S. 309, 345, at 349. Cases are too often tried in newsthe. administration of justice; and it should be carried on without dis-'
tracting influences.
"Passing from the, general to the specific we recommend:
"That attendance in the courtroom during the progress of a criminal
trial be limited to the seating capacity of the room.
"That the process of subpoena or any other process of the court
should never be used to secure preferential admission of any person or
spectator; that such abuse of-process .be punished as contempt.
"That approaches to the courtroom be kept clear, to' the end that
free access to the courtroom be maintained.
"That no use of cameras or photographic appliances be permitted
in the courtroom, either during the session of the court or otherwise.
"That no sound registering devices for publicity use be permitted
to operate in the courtroom at any time.
"That the surreptitious procurement of pictures or sound records
be considered contempt of court and be punished as such.
"That the courtroom and the court house be kept free from news.
distributing devices and equipment.
"That newspa)er accounts of criminal proceedings be limited to
accounts of occurrences in court without argument of the case to the
public.
"That no popular referendum be taken during the pendency of the
litigation as to the guilt or innocence of the accused.
"That broadcasting of arguments, giving out of argumentive. press
bulletins, and every other form. of argument or discussion addressed
to the public, by lawyers in the case during the progress of the litga-.
tion be definitely forbidden.
"That bulletins by the defendant issued to the public during the
progress of the trial be definitely forbidden.
"That public criticism of the court or jury by lawyers ifi the case
during the progress of the litigation be not tolerated.
"That featuring in vaudeville of jurors or other court officers, either
during or after the trial, be forbidden.
"That the giving of palid interviews or the writing of paid articles
by jurors, either during or after the trial, be foroidden.
"That the atmosphere of the courtroom and adjacent vremises be
maintained as one of dignity and calm." (1936) 22.A. '. A. Journal
,79-80.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

363

J.,' concurring.

papers before they are tried in court, and the cast of characters in -the newspaper trial too often differs greatly from
the real persons who appear at the trial in court and who
may have to suffer its distorted consequences'.1
Newspapers and newspaper men themselves have acknowledged these practices, deplored their evils, and urged
reform." See The Attorney General's Conference on
Crime (1934) 82-111. One of the most zealous claimants
of the prerogatives of the press, the Chicago Tribune, has
even proposed legal means for the correction of these in10

See, e. g., Gilman, The Truth Behind the News (June, 1933) 29
American Mercury 139. "It is idle for such newspapers to claim that
they adopt such practices in the public interest. 'Their motive is the
sordid one of increasing their profits, unmindful of the result to the
unfortunate wretch who may ultimately have to stand his trial for
murder." Mr. Justice. Blair, in Attorney-General v. Tonks [1934]
N. Z. L. R. 141, 148, at 150. Cf. Pratt, How the Censors Rigged the
News (Feb., 1946) 192 Harper's Magazine, 97, 105.
'11-A professional defense of crime reporting has this bit of refreshing
candor:,"I will concede, however, that had it not been for popular
*feeling developed to fever heat by the newspapers, Hickman might
,,be living today behind the walls of some madhouse instead of having
met death in-the electric chair." Dewey, Crime and the Press (Dec.
30, 1931) 15 Commonweal 231,-233. Compare the statement by one
of the most experienced criminal lawyers, Clarence Darrow:
"Trial by jury is rapidly being destroyed in America by the manner
in which the newspapers handle all sensational cases. I don't know
what should be done about it. The truth is that the courts and the
lawyers don't like to proceed against newspapers. They are too
powerful. As the, law stands today there is no important criminal
case where the newspapers are not guilty of contempt of court day
after day. All lawyers know it, all judges know it, and all newspapers
know it. But nothing is done about it. No new laws are necessary.
The court has full jurisdiction to see that no one influences a verdict
or a decision. But everyone is afraid to act." Quoted by Perry, in
The Courts, the Press, and the Public (Trial by Newspaper) (1931)
30 Mich. L. Rev. 228, 234; (1932) 66 U. S. Law Rev. 374, 379; (1932)
11 Phil. L. J. 277, 282.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.,
FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

328 U. S.

roads upon the province of criminal justice: "'The Tribune advocates and will accept drastic restriction of this
preliminary publicity. The penetration -of the police
system and the courts by journalists must stop. With
such a law there would be no motivation for it. Though
such a law will be revolutionary in American journalism,
though it is not financially advisable for newspapers, it
still is necessary. Restrictions must come.'" 1
It is not for me to express approval of these views, still
less, judgment on the constitutional issues that would
arise if they were translated into legislation. But they
are relevant to an understanding of the nature of our
problem. They serve also to emphasize that the purpose of the Constitution was not to erect the press into
a privileged institution but to protect all persons in their
right to print what they will as well as to utter it. "....
the liberty of the press is ho greater and no less than the
liberty of every subject of the-Queen," Regina v. Gray,
[1900] 2 Q. B. 36, 40, and, in the United States, it is no
greater than the liberty of every citizen of the Republic.
The right to undermine proceedings in court is not a special prerogative of the press..
12

30 Mich. L. Rev. at 232; 66 U. S. Law Rev. at 377; 11 Phil.

L. J. at 280. In an address before the 1936 meeting of the American
Bar Association Delegates, Sir Willmott Lewis, the veteran Washington correspondent of The Times (London) expressed these views:
"The point I would make is that neither the tradition of orderly
legal procedure, nor the obligation which the press should recognize
to the maintenance of that tradition, can, in themselves, be enough
amid the pressure and vulgarity of the modern world.
"Tradition and obligation must be buttressed by rules, and those
rules must be enforced in the domain of their immediate application,
by the court itself. ...
"I think it intolerable, and I cannot think that it should not be
punishable, that a charge lying against any citizen should be irresponsibly tried in the public prints, whose plain duty is the reporting,
and not the hearing, of causes ... " (1936) 20 J. Am. Jud. Soc.
84, 86.

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

365

J., concurring.

The press does have the right, which is its professional
function, to criticize and to advocate. The whole gamut
of public affairs is the domain for fearless and critical
comment, and not least the administration of justice.
But the public function which belongs to the press makes
it an obligation of honor to exercise this function only
with the fullest sense of responsibility. Without such a
lively sense of responsibility a free press may readily become a powerful instrument of injustice. 3 It should not
and may not attempt to influence judges or juries before
they have made up their minds on pending controversies.
Such a restriction, which merely bars the operation bf
extraneous influence specifically directed to a concrete
case, in no wise curtails the fullest discussion of public
issues generally. It is not suggested that generalized discussion of a particular topic should be forbidden, or run
13 See the skeptical remarks of H. L. Mencken, a stout libertarian,
on the efficacy of journalistic self-restraint:
"Journalistic codes of ethicsare all moonshine. Essentially,
they are as absurd as would be codes of street-car conductors,
barbers or public jobholders. If American journalism is to be
purged of its present swinishness and brought up to a decent level
of repute-and God knows that such an improvement is needed-it must be accomplished by the devices of morals, not by those
of honor. That is to say, it must be accomplished by external
forces, and through the medium of penalties exteriorly inflicted."
Quoted by LeViness, in Law and the Press, The Daily Record,
Baltimore, MIarch 11, 1932, p. 3, col. 1, 4.
The author of the article, Mr. LeViness, a Baltimore Sun reporter
turned lawyer, followed the quotation from Mr. Mencken with this
comment:
I "Thiยง puts the problem, as far as Court and police news goes,
squarely back where it belongs: in the lap of the judiciary. The
Courts must set the standards; the better journals will follow
joyously and the gumchewers' sheets must be whipped into line.
The solution is fearless jurists, not afraid of the double-edged
sword of contempt process; intelligent jurists, able to exercise
this power in the best, enlightened public interest." Ibid.

. 366

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

the hazard of contempt proceedings, merely because some
phases of such a general topic may be involved in a pending litigation. It is the focused attempt to influence a
particular decision that may have a corroding effect on the
process of justice, and it is such comment that justifies
the corrective process.
The administration of law, particularly that of the criminal law, normally operates in an environment that is not
universal or even general but individual. The distinctive
-circumstances of a particular case determine whether law
is fairly administered in that case, through a disinterested
judgment on the basis of what has been formally presented
inside the courtroom on explicit considerations, instead of
being subjected to extraneous factors psychologically calculated to disturb the exercise of an impartial and equitable judgment.
If men, including judges and journalists, were angels,,
there would be no problems of contempt of court. Angelic
judges would be undisturbed by extraneous influences and
angelic journalists would not seek to influence them. The
power to punish for contempt, as a means of safeguarding
judges in deciding on behalf of the community as impartially as is given to the lot of men to decide, is not a privilege accorded to judges. The power to punish for contempt of court is a safeguard not for judges as persons but
for the function which they exercise. It is a condition of
that function-indispensable for a free society-that in
a particular controv trsy pending before a court and awaiting judgment, human beings, however strong, should not
be torn from their moorings of impartiality by the undertow of extraneous influence. In securing freedom of
speech, the Constitution. hardly meant to create the right
to influence judges or juries., That is no more freedom
of speech than stuffing a ballot box is an exercise of the
right to vote.

PENNEKAMP v., FLORIDA.
331

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

Due regard for these general considerations must dispose
of the present controversy. Since at the core of our~problem is a proper balance between two basic conditions of
our constitutional democracy-freedom of utterance'and
impartial justice-we cannot escape the exercise of judg-1
ment on the particular circumstances of the particular
case. And we must always bear in mind that since a
judgment from a State court comes here as the voice of.
the State, it must be accorded every fair intendment that
in reason belongs to action by a State.
According to the Florida Supreme Court, the charge
against petitioners was that "both the editorials and the
cartoon were predicated on inaccurate, distorted, incomplete and biased reports of pending litigation, that the
purpose and effect of the editorials and the cartoon were
to impute partisanship and favor on the part of the circuit
judges to those charged with crime and that.such partisanship was so pronounced that they refused to heed the voice
of the people's representatives. . . . So the vice in both
the editorials was the distorted, inaccurate statement of
the facts and with that statement were scrambled false
insinuations that amounted to unwarranted charges of
partisanship and unfairness on the part of the judges." 14
The tenor of the first editorial was complaint of the technicalities and delays of the law which seem to give excessive protection to defendants. It makes no suggestion
which could be construed, as an attempt to influence the
court's decision in a matter actually pending before it.
All the questions discussed in the editorial had been acted
on by the trial judges. The editor merely indulged in
general criticism of those acts as exempli'ying an oversolicitous concern for defendants by the law and by the
judges who interpreted it. Nor was the cartoon directed
toward a particular pending case. Indeed, it partly serves
Pennekamp v. State, 156 Fla. 227, 239, 240, 22 So. 2d 875, 881, 882.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

328 U. S..

to interpret the editorial as one concerned with a general,
situation. One suspects that only judicial hypersensitiveness would find in it an animus specifically directed. The
opinion of the court illustrates the danger of confusing
correction of interference with judicial action with concern over a court's dignity. Instead of treating lightly a
cartoon indistinguishable in type from scores of such
ephemeral products, the court saw in it wholly undeserved
significance.
Again, the second editorial referred to a particular case
only as an example. In that case, too, the court had made
its decision. What the editor criticized was the speed of
disposition and other features of procedure which attended
the case. His allowable concern was that the people have
a chance to give their argument, that the prosecution in
criminal cases be treated as fairly as the defense. Inaccurate and even false comment on litigation no longer pending may not be dealt with by punishing for contempt
as a means of assuring the just exercise of the judicial
process.
The Florida Supreme Court referred to the cases criticized as "pending." But it did not define the scope of
"pending" nor did the grounds of its decision have any
particular dependence on the requirement that a case be
pending. The finding by a State court that a case is
"pending" in the sense relevant to the power to punish
for contempt does not, of course, bar its review here.
Otherwise a State court could foreclose our protection of
the constitutional right of free speech by putting forth as
a non-federal ground of decision that which is an essential
aspect of the federal question. Union Pacific R. Co. v.
Public Service Conmi'n, 248 U. S.67, 69-70; Ward v. Love
County, 253 U. S. 17,22: Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S.22.
If it is contemptuous to bring the courts of a State into
disrepute and generally to impair their efficiency, then it

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

MuRPHY, J., concurring

can make no difference on what occasion or with reference
to what event that effect is achieved or attempted. But
when it is understood what is meant by a "pending" case,
it becomes plain that for purposes of punishing for contempt as interference, the cases were not actively pending.
"Pending" is not used with the technical inclusiveness
that it has in the'phrase lis pendens. In the situations in
which that phrase has meaning and applicability, the important considerations are whether any proceedings have
been taken to put the issue into court and whether it is
still there. Where the power to punish for contempt is
asserted, it is not important that the case is technically
in court or that further proceedings, such as the possibility
of a rehearing, are available. "When a case is pending
is not- a technical, lawyer's problem, but is to be determined by the substantial realities of the specific situation."
Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252, 279, at 303-304 (dissent). The decisive consideration is whether the judge
or the jury is, or presently will be, pondering a decision
that comment seeks to affect. Forbidden comment is such
as will or may throw psychological weight into scales which
the court is immediately balancing. Cf. L. Hand, J., in
Ex parte Craig, 282 F. 138, 159-60. In the situation
before us, the scales had come to rest. The petitioners
offended the trial court by criticizing what the court had
already put in the scales, not by attempting themselves
to insert weights.
The petitioners here could not have disturbed the trial
court in its sense of fairness but only in its sense of perspective. The judgment must, I agree, be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring.

Were we to sanction the judgment rendered by the court
below we would be approving, in effect, an unwarranted
restriction upon the freedom of the press. That freedom

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J., concurring.

328 U. S.

covers something more than the right to approve and condone insofar as the judiciary and the judicial process are
concerned. It also includes the right to criticize and disparage, even though the terms be vitriolic, scurrilous or
erroneous. To talk of a clear and present danger arising
out of such criticism is idle unless the criticism makes it
impossible in a very real sense for a court to carry on the
administration of justice. That situation is not even remotely present in this case.
Judges should be foremost in their vigilance to protect
the freedom of others to rebuke and castigate .the bench
and in their refusal to be influenced by unfair or misinformed censure. Otherwise freedom may rest upon the
precarious base of judicial sensitiveness and caprice. And
a chain reaction may be set up, resulting in countless
restrictions and limitations upon liberty.
MR. JUsTIcE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

One can have no respect for a newspaper which is careless with facts and with insinuations founded in its carelessness. Such a disregard for the truth not only flouts
standards of journalistic activity' observed too often by
I See the following codes of ethics published in Crawford, The
Ethics of Journalism (1924) App. A.: Canons of Journalism, adopted
by the American Society. of Newspaper Editors in 1923, Art. IV;
The Oregon Code of Ethics, adopted by the Oregon State Editorial
Association in 1922, Art. I; -South Dakota Code of Ethics, adopted
by the South Dakota Press Association in 1922, "Truth and Honesty";
Missouri Declaration of Principles and Code of Practice, adopted by
the Missouri Press Association in 1921, "Editorial." And see in the
same volume the extracts from rules and suggestions prepared by
the following newspapers for the guidance of their staffs: The Brooklyn Eagle, The Christian Science, Monitor, The Springfield Union,
The Detroit News, The Hearst Newspapers (personal instructions
given by William Randolph Hearst to his newspapers), The Sacramento Bee, The Kansas City Journal-Post, The Marion Star (written

PENNEKAMP v. FLORIDA.
331

RUTLEDGE,

.371

J., concurring.

breach, but in fact tends to bring the courts and those who
administer them into undeserved public obloquy.
But if every newspaper which prints critical comment
about courts without justifiable basis in fact, or withholds
the full truth in reporting their proceedings or decisions,
or goes even further and misstates what they -have done,
were subject on these accounts to punishment for contempt, there Would be few not frequently involved in such
proceedings. There is perhaps no area of news more inaccurately reported factually, on the whole, though with
some notable exceptions, than legal news.
Some part, of this is due to carelessness, often induced
by the haste with which news is gathered and published,
a smaller portion to bias or more blameworthy causes.
But a great deal of it must be attributed, in candor, to
ignorance which frequently is not at all blameworthy.
For newspapers are conducted- by men who are laymen
to the law. With too rare exceptions their capacity for
misunderstanding the significance of legal events and
procedures, not to speak of opinions, is great. But this
is neither remarkable nor peculiar to newsmen. For the
law, as lawyers best know, is full of perplexities.
In view of these facts any standard which would require
strict accuracy in reporting legal events factually or in
commenting upon them in the press would be an impossible one. Unless the courts and judges are to be put
above criticism, no such rule can obtain. There must be
by president Harding when editing The Star). See also Sharkey,
The Ethics of Journalism, An Address Delivered before the Press
Cpnference of the World,- Geneva, Switzerland, September 15, 1926,
p. 10; Wicks, Ideals and Methods of English Newspapers, published
in Journalistic Ethics and World Affairs, Addresses -Delivered at the
Fifteenth Annual Journalism Week at the University of Missouri,
1924, 25 U. of Mo. Bull. (No. 32) 25, 26; Gibbons, Newspaper Ethics
(1926) 16 et8eq.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

328 U. S.

some room for misstatement of fact, as well as for misjudgment, if the press and others are to function as critical
agencies in our democracy concerning courts as for all
other instruments of government.
Courts and judges therefore cannot be put altogether
beyond the reach of misrepresentation and misstatement.
That is true in any case, but perhaps more obviously where
the judiciary is elective, as it is in most of our states, including Florida. See Storey v. Illinois, 79 Ill. 45, 52;
(1927) 41 Harv. L. Rev. 254, 255. The question, and the
standard, must be one of degree and effects. It cannot
be placed at mere falsity, either in representation or in
judgment. The statement, whether of fact or of opinion,
must be of such a character, whether true or false, as to
obstruct in some clear and substantial way the functioning
of the judicial process in pending matters. Bridges v.
California, 314 U. S. 252.21 It is not enough that the
judge's sensibilities are affected or that in some way he is
brought generally into obloquy. After all, it is to be remembered that it is judges who apply the law of contempt,
and the offender is their critic.
The statements in question are clearly fair comment in
large part'. Portions exceed that boundary. But the
record does not disclose that they tended in any way to
block or obstruct the functioning of the judicial process. Accordingly I concur in the Court's opinion and
judgment.
21"Nor

does the fact that the letter was false, while it greatly'affects

the moral quality of the act, determine its criminality It is punishable only if it interferes with justice, and in that respect truth is harder
to meet than falsehood." L. Hand, dissenting in Ex parte Craig, 282
F. 138, 161, aff'd sub nom. Craigv. Hecht, 263 U. S. 255. See also the
dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes, 263 U. S. at 281. But cf.
In re Providence Journal Co., 28 R. I. 489, 68 A. 428; In re San Francisco Chronicle, 1 Cal. 2d 630, 36 P. 2d 369.

