OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion in Chambers

478 U. S.

MIKUTAITIS v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-195.

Decided September 17, 1986

An application to stay the District Court's order (and the Court of Appeals'
mandate) requiring that applicant report for custody pursuant to the
District Court's earlier order finding him in contempt for refusing to
testify at a deposition hearing in connection with denaturalization proceedings in another District Court against a third person-applicant having refused to testify despite a grant of immunity and an order sealing
his deposition-is granted. Applicant contended that his testimony
would tend to prove that he cooperated with the Nazi Government, committed war crimes, and engaged in treasonous activity against the Soviet
Union during World War II; that his testimony could be used by the Soviet Union in a criminal proceeding against him if he were denaturalized
and deported there and his testimony came to the Soviet Government's
attention; and that, because the grant of immunity and the sealing order
did not adequately protect against the use of his testimony in a foreign
criminal prosecution, he had a Fifth Amendment privilege against testifying. The question raised by this application, concerning the adequacy
of the sealing order is sufficiently similar to the question identified in
Araneta v. United States, ante, p. 1301 (BURGER, C. J., in chambers),
to make it appropriate for the full Court to consider this application at
the same time it decides whether or not to grant certiorari in Araneta.

Circuit Justice.
The United States District Court for the Northern District
JUSTICE STEVENS,

of Illinois is holding applicant, Mecislovas Mikutaitis, in civil
contempt of court because he refuses to testify at a deposition
in Chicago despite a grant of immunity by the United States

District Court for the Middle District of Florida, where
denaturalization proceedings against one Jurgis Joudis are
pending. The papers before me indicate that the testimony
the Government seeks from Mikutaitis will tend to prove that
he, as well as Joudis, cooperated with the Nazi Government,
committed war crimes, and engaged in treasonous activity
against the Soviet Union after it invaded Lithuania during

MIKUTAITIS v. UNITED STATES
1306

World War II.

1307

Opinion in Chambers

Mikutaitis asserts that the testimony the

Government seeks to compel may be used by the Soviet
Union in a criminal proceeding against him in the event that
he is denaturalized and deported there and his testimony
comes to the attention of the Soviet Government. Thus, he
contends that because the grant of immunity does not adequately protect against the use of his testimony against him
in a criminal prosecution by a foreign sovereign, he has a
Fifth Amendment privilege against testifying.
In support of his theory, Mikutaitis argued before the District Court that there is a probability that he too will eventually be denaturalized and deported since his deposition testimony may be used against him in such a civil proceeding. In
this regard, a lawyer for the Government's Office of Special
Investigations testified that the United States is actively
engaged in seeking to denaturalize and deport those who
cooperated with the Nazi Government and concealed their
involvement to obtain entry into the United States. Mikutaitis also presented an expert in Soviet law, who testified
that the Soviet Union is likely to prosecute Mikutaitis for
treason if he is deported there. The District Court recognized that Mikutaitis has a "realistic fear of prosecution,"
but nonetheless found Mikutaitis in contempt. The District
Court held that the court order sealing the deposition sufficiently protected him from the risk that his testimony would
ever be disclosed to the Soviet Union. See United States
v. Joudis, 800 F. 2d 159, 161 (CA7 1986). The District
Court allowed Mikutaitis to remain free on bail pending
appeal.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed the contempt order, concluding that "the sealing order [was] adequate to protect Mikutaitis from Soviet
acquisition of his testimony and thus override his Fifth
Amendment claim." Id., at 162. In light of this conclusion, it was not necessary for the court to decide whether the

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion in Chambers

478 U. S.

constitutional privilege against self-incrimination provides
any protection against compelled testimony when there is
a substantial risk that a foreign sovereign will prosecute
the witness. See Zicarelli v. New Jersey Investigation
Comm'n, 406 U. S. 472, 478 (1972) (declining to reach constitutional issue since there was no "real and substantial"
danger that witness' testimony would be used against him in
a foreign prosecution).
On September 5, 1986, a panel of the Court of Appeals
granted the Government's motion for immediate issuance of
the mandate, and on September 10, the District Court ordered Mikutaitis to surrender himself to the custody of the
United States Marshal on the following day. Mikutaitis
complied with that order. He now asks me, in my capacity
as Circuit Justice, to stay the issuance of the Court of
Appeals' mandate and the District Court's order requiring
him to report for custody, thereby allowing him to remain
free on bond pending his filing a suggestion for rehearing
to the Court of Appeals, or a petition for certiorari to this
Court.' Pursuant to my request, the United States has filed
a memorandum in opposition to the application.
In my opinion the question raised by this application is
sufficiently similar to the question identified by THE CHIEF
JUSTICE in Araneta v. United States, ante, p. 1301 (BURGER,
C. J., in chambers), to make it appropriate for the full Court
to consider this application for a stay at the same time it decides whether or not to grant certiorari in Araneta.2 In

Araneta, THE CHIEF JUSTICE granted a stay of the contempt
order pending a petition for certiorari, based in part on his
prediction that it is "more likely than not" that five Justices
IA suggestion for rehearing en banc was filed with the Court of Appeals
on September 16, 1986.
2A petition for certiorari was filed in Araneta on August 4, 1986, and
the Court should be able to act upon it during its conference later this
month.

See Araneta, ante, at 1305.

MIKUTAITIS v. UNITED STATES
1306

1309

Opinion in Chambers

will agree with the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit that the sealing of the grand jury testimony
under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e) in that case
did not provide adequate protection against future disclosure
of testimony to the Government of the Philippines. Ante, at
1304. That conclusion was supported by the risk that the
testimony might be disclosed inadvertently, the fact that the
order did not forbid disclosure of evidence derived from the
testimony, and the possibility that the grand jury record
might be opened at a later date. See United States v.
(Under Seal), 794 F. 2d 920 (CA4 1986). All of these factors
are relevant in this case as well.
It does not appear that the Government will be significantly prejudiced by an additional short delay in obtaining
Mikutaitis' deposition. 4 On the other hand, it is possible
that continued enforcement of the contempt order may have
the practical consequence of rendering the proceeding moot if
Mikutaitis is pressured into testifying because of the prospect
of lengthy imprisonment pending consideration of his petitions for review by the en banc Court of Appeals or this
Court. In light of these considerations, I have decided
to grant the application. Accordingly, the enforcement of
IRecognizing that two courts have now ruled that the sealing order
eliminates Mikutaitis' substantial fear of disclosure, I nonetheless believe
that the legal question of whether sealing orders adequately protect
against disclosure for Fifth Amendment purposes is one of the two key
issues presented in Araneta, and that the full Court should have the opportunity to consider this stay application in light of its action on the petition
in Araneta. As it stands, some of the United States Courts of Appeals
appear to have reached differing conclusions on this issue. See United
States v. (Under Seal), 794 F. 2d, at 925 (acknowledging that three Circuits have deemed Rule 6(e) orders sufficiently protective, but holding that
the "contrary authority [is the] more compelling").
4The Government initially sought to depose Mikutaitis in 1983, the
order requiring him to testify was issued in October 1985, and he was found
to be in contempt on March 11, 1986.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion in Chambers

478 U. S.

the contempt order entered by the District Court on March
11, 1986, which had been stayed until September 5, 1986, is
stayed until further order of this Court.5

5

The entry of this order shall not in any way affect the jurisdiction of
the Court of Appeals to take whatever action it deems appropriate in
response to the pending suggestion for rehearing. Nor does this order
preclude the District Court from entering whatever orders it deems appropriate to insure that Mikutaitis will be available to testify in the event that
the judgment of the panel of the Court of Appeals is ultimately upheld.
Finally, issuance of this order is in no way intended to discourage either
Mikutaitis or the Government from seeking a broader sealing order. See
United States v. Joudis, 800 F. 2d 159, 163 (CA7 1986).

