OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

ARANETA ET AL. V. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-18.

Decided July 19, 1986

An application by a daughter and son-in-law of former President Marcos of
the Philippines to stay the District Court's contempt order, requiring
their incarceration if they failed to testify on July 22, 1986, before a
federal grand jury investigating alleged corruption relating to arms
contracts made with the Philippine Government, is granted, conditioned
upon applicants' filing a petition for certiorari by August 5, 1986. Applicants contended that requiring them to testify would violate their Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination because their testimony
might be used against them in related criminal proceedings currently
pending in the Philippines. The District Court granted the United
States' motion to give applicants use and derivative use immunity as to
criminal prosecutions in the United States and also entered a restrictive
order to protect the secrecy of their testimony, holding that the constitutional question was not presented because they had not demonstrated
a real and substantial danger of prosecution abroad. The Court of
Appeals affirmed on different grounds, finding that applicants faced a
substantial possibility of prosecution in the Philippines; that the District
Court's restrictive order was insufficient to protect against disclosures to
the Philippine Government; that therefore the constitutional question
was presented; and that the Fifth Amendment privilege was not violated
simply because compelled testimony might be used in a foreign prosecution. The application for a stay is granted because (1) there is a reasonable probability that four Justices will vote to grant certiorari to consider
the issue whether the Fifth Amendment privilege protects a witness
from being compelled to give testimony that may later be used against
him in a foreign prosecution; (2) there is a fair prospect that a majority of
the Justices will decide the issue in applicants' favor; and (3) a balancing
of the equities weighs in applicants' favor.

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion in Chambers

CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

478 U. S.

Circuit Justice.

Applicants, a daughter and son-in-law of former President
Ferdinand Marcos, ask that I stay a contempt order of the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia requiring their incarceration if they fail to testify before
a grand jury on July 22. They contend that requiring them
to so testify would violate their Fifth Amendment privilege
against self-incrimination because their testimony might be
used against them in related criminal proceedings currently
pending in the Philippines. They assert they will file a petition for certiorari on this issue.
Soon after their arrival in the United States, applicants
were served with subpoenas requiring their testimony before
a grand jury sitting in the Eastern District of Virginia to investigate alleged corruption relating to arms contracts made
with the Government of the Philippines. The District Court
denied the applicants' motion to quash the subpoenas on Fifth
Amendment grounds, and granted instead the Government's
motion to give the applicants use and derivative use immunity as to prosecutions in the United States. The court also
entered a restrictive order designed to protect the secrecy
of their testimony and held that no constitutional question
was presented because the applicants had not demonstrated a
real and substantial danger of prosecution abroad.
The Court of Appeals affirmed, 794 F. 2d 920 (1986), but on
different grounds. It acknowledged that applicants faced a
substantial possibility of prosecution in the Philippines. It
also found the District Court's restrictive order insufficient to
protect against disclosures to the Philippine Government because, inter alia, the order itself contemplates permitting
disclosure of applicants' testimony at a future date, and because the order does not prohibit the United States from revealing evidence derived from that testimony. The court
therefore reached the constitutional question, and held that
the Fifth Amendment privilege is not violated simply because

ARANETA v. UNITED STATES
1301

Opinion in Chambers

compelled testimony might be used in a foreign prosecution.
The court denied rehearing on July 3.
The requirements for obtaining a stay pending certiorari
are well established. Such a stay should be granted only
when (1) there is a reasonable probability that four Justices
will vote to grant certiorari; (2) there is a fair prospect that
a majority of the Justices will find the decision below
erroneous; and (3) a balancing of the equities weighs in the
applicant's favor. See, e. g., National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. v. Board of Regents, 463 U. S. 1311, 1313 (1983)
(WHITE, J., in chambers); Gregory-Portland Independent
School District v. United States, 448 U. S. 1342 (1980)
(REHNQUIST, J., in chambers); Rostker v. Goldberg, 448
U. S. 1306, 1308 (1980) (BRENNAN, J., in chambers). In assessing whether each of these factors has been met, a Circuit
Justice acts as a "surrogate for the entire Court." Holtzman
v. Schlesinger, 414 U. S.1304, 1313 (1973) (MARSHALL, J., in
chambers).
As to the first requirement, I conclude that four Justices
will likely vote to grant certiorari on the issue that presumably will be presented in the applicants' petition, namely,
whether the privilege against self-incrimination protects a
witness from being compelled to give testimony that may
later be used against him in a foreign prosecution. Substantial confusion exists on this issue.* Moreover, this Court
voted to consider the question in Zicarelli v. New Jersey
State Comm'n of Investigation, 406 U. S.472, 478 (1972), but
did not reach it because, in the view of the majority, the appellant there "was never in real danger of being compelled to
disclose information that might incriminate him under foreign
*Compare Mishima v. United States, 507 F. Supp. 131, 135 (Alaska
1981); United States v. Trucis, 89 F. R. D. 671, 673 (ED Pa. 1981); and In
re Cardassi,351 F. Supp. 1080, 1085-1086 (Conn. 1972), with In re Parker,
411 F. 2d 1067, 1070 (CA10 1969), vacated and remanded, 397 U. S. 96
(1970); and Phoenix Assurance Co. of Canadav. Runck, 317 N. W. 2d 402,
413 (N.D.), cert. denied, 459 U. S. 862 (1982).

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion in Chambers

478 U. S.

law," id., at 480. We did, however, reserve the issue, observing that if the appellant should later be questioned about
"matters that might incriminate him under foreign law and
pose a substantial risk of foreign prosecution, . . . then a constitutional question will be squarely presented." Id., at 481.
Against this background, it is more likely than not that at
least five Justices will agree with the Court of Appeals that
the applicants face the kind of risk found lacking in Zicareli,
and will therefore reach and decide the question reserved in
that case. And although such matters cannot be predicted
with certainty, I conclude there is a "fair prospect" that a
majority of this Court will decide the issue in favor of the applicants. Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of New York Harbor, 378 U. S. 52 (1964), contains dictum which, carried to
its logical conclusion, would support such an outcome. That
case held only that the privilege against self-incrimination
protects a witness against compelled disclosures in state
court which could be used against him in federal court or vice
versa. However, the Court also discussed with apparent approval several English cases holding that the privilege protects a witness from disclosures which could be used against
him in a foreign prosecution. See id., at 58-63, 77; United
States v. McRae, 3 L. R. 79 (Ch. App. 1867); Brownsword v.
Edwards, 2 Ves. sen. 244, 28 Eng. Rep. 157 (Ex. 1750-1);
East India Co. v. Campbell, 1 Ves. sen. 246, 27 Eng. Rep.
1010 (Ex. 1749).
Finally, I conclude that the equities weigh in applicants'
favor, particularly if the stay is appropriately conditioned.
Applicants clearly will suffer irreparable injury if the Court
of Appeals is right about the likelihood of prosecution and the
inability of the District Court's restrictive order to prevent
disclosure. Cf. Garrison v. Hudson, 468 U. S. 1301, 1302
(1984). If that secrecy order is enforceable under all circumstances, it may afford applicants protection should they later
be extradited for trial in the Philippines; however, that will

ARANETA v. UNITED STATES
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

depend, in part, on what protection is afforded to accused
persons under Philippine law.
The Government and the public plainly have a strong interest in moving forward expeditiously with a grand jury
investigation, but on balance the risk of injury to the applicants could well be irreparable and the injury to the Government will likely be no more than the inconvenience of delay.
Accordingly, I grant the stay, conditioned upon applicants'
filing their petition for certiorari by August 5, 1986. This
should permit the Court to act on the petition during its first
conference of the coming Term.

