1329

WISE v. LIPSCOMB
Opinion in Chambers

WISE ET AL. V.

LIPSCOMB BT

AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-149. Decided August 30, 1977
Application for stay of the Court of Appeals' judgment directing the
District Court to require the exclusive use of single-member districts
m the election of the Dallas, Tex., City Council, and for recall of the
mandate, pending review by this Court, is granted, where it appears
that there is a reasonable probability that at least four Members of this
Court will vote to grant certiorari, and that if a stay is not granted
the issues would become moot and the incumbent City Council's capacity
to function effectively might be impaired.
See: 551 F 2d 1043.

MR. JUsTIcE POWELL, Circuit Justice.

This is an application for a stay of the judgment and recall
of the mandate of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit. That judgment directs the District Court
for the Northern District of Texas to require the exclusive use
of single-member districts in the election of the Dallas City
Council. Applicants, the Mayor and City Council of Dallas,
contend that any redistricting pending review by this Court
could have the effect of mooting the case and defeating this
Court's jurisdiction.
I
Before 1975 the 11 members of the Dallas City Council
were elected by an exclusively at-large system of voting.
Eight places on the ballot were reserved for candidates who
resided in one of the city's eight residential districts. Three
seats, including the Mayor's, were open to candidates regardless of residence. Voting for all 11 seats was citywide. For
many years Council elections have been nonpartisan, involving
slating groups rather than political parties. Electoral success
has depended in major part upon support of one such group,
the Citizens' Charter Association.

1330

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

Plaintiffs representing Negro citizens of Dallas challenged
this election system in 1971. Certain Mexican-Americans
intervened, but were dismissed from the case for failure to
respond to interrogatories. In 1975, the District Court concluded that the at-large election system unconstitutionally
diluted the vote of Dallas' Negro citizens. The court rested
this conclusion on findings dealing with the geographic concentration of Negroes within the city, the effect of slating
groups, and the city's history of de 3ure discrimination.
Instead of formulating its own districting plan, the court
afforded the City Council an opportunity to enact a valid plan.
The Council duly adopted an ordinance that provides for election of a Council member from each of eight single-member
districts, the remaining three to be elected from the city at
large. After careful examination of this plan, the District
Court approved it. The court observed that single-member
districts generally are preferable, but concluded that several
facts weighed in favor of the city's new system. First, the
court noted that any plan which did not consider the effect on
Mexican-American voters might itself be constitutionally suspect. Indeed, detailed consideration of the plan's effect upon
those voters, who were more geographically dispersed than
Negro citizens, convinced the District Court that their electoral
power would be enhanced. Second, the new plan permitted
some citywide representation in a body that functioned as a
legislature for the entire city At-large voting in Dallas dated
back to 1907, and there was no showing that its use in the new
plan would have adverse effects on any minority The court
found a recent marked improvement in the political participation and general posture of minority groups in Dallas.'
On appeal, the Court of Appeals reversed. 551 F 2d 1043
Relying primarily on East CarrollParzsh School Bd.
(1977)
noted in the opinion of the District Court, the racial composition of
the Dallas City Council in 1975 was two Negroes, one Mexican-American,
and eight whites. 399 F Supp. 782, 787 n. 5 (1975)
1 As

WISE v. LIPSCOMB
1329

Opinion in Chambers

v Marshall, 424 U S. 636 (1976), and apparently drawing no
distinction in this respect between court-ordered and legislatively enacted redistricting, the court held that absent unusual
circumstances single-member districts are to be preferred. It
concluded that no such circumstance existed. The case thereupon was remanded with instructions that the city redistrict
itself into an appropriate number of single-member districts.
A rehearing was denied, and a requested stay of mandate was
refused.
II
Applicants level three charges of error at the judgment
below
First, they contend that the Court of Appeals
improperly ignored the distinctions drawn by this Court
between state-enacted and court-ordered reapportionment
plans. Applicants further argue that the court erroneously
held that the city, in fashioning a remedy to correct unconstitutional dilution of the voting rights of one minority group,
cannot consider the remedy's impact on other groups in the
absence of an adjudication that the other groups' rights also
were impaired unconstitutionally Applicants' final claim is
that the court below erred in failing to consider the city's
need for some citywide representation.
This Court has declared repeatedly that the standards for
evaluating the use of multimember and at-large voting plans
differ depending on whether a federal court or a state legislative body initiated the use. E g., Chapman v Mezer, 420
U S. 1, 18 (1975), see Connor v Finch, 431 U S. 407, 414
(1977) When a federal court imposes a reapportionment
plan upon a State, single-member districts are preferable in
the absence of unusual circumstances. East Carroll Pansh
School Bd., supra., at 639. But "legislative reapportionment
is primarily a matter for legislative consideration and determination," Reynolds v Sims, 377 U S. 533, 586 (1964)
When the State accepts this responsibility, its decisions as to
the most effective reconciling of traditional policies should not

OCTOBER TERM, 1977

1332

Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

be restricted beyond the commands of the Equal Protection
Clause. Burns v Rtchardson, 384 U S. 73, 85 (1966), cf.
Connor v Finch, supra, at 414-415.

The Court of Appeals,

by holding the Dallas City Council to the "unusual circum-

stances" test of East Carroll Parsh School Bd., appears to
have confused these two standards.2 While we have never
explicitly held that municipal election plans are entitled to the
same respect accorded those of state legislatures, there is
reason to believe that they should be. We indicated as much
in Chapmanv Meter, supra,at 27
"[R]eapportionment is primarily the duty and responsibility of the State through its legislature or other body,
rather than of a federal court." (Citing Reynolds v Sims,
supra.)

See also Dusch v Dams, 387 U S. 112, 116-117 (1967)
The two additional errors advanced by applicants also may
have merit.

The view of the court below that a plan's effect

on various minority groups can be considered only after an

adjudication of unconstitutional impairment as to those
groups may be incompatible with the rationale of our recent
decision in United Jeunsh Orgs. v Carey, 430 U S. 144 (1977)
2 The distinction is between a court-orderedplan, which may or may not
have been proposed by a legislative body, and a court-approved plan,
which has been initiated and promulgated as law by the legislative body
East Carroll ParishSchool Bd. involved the former, and this Court noted
that "in submitting the plan to the District Court, the [police] jury did
not purport to reapportion itself in accordance with the 1968 enabling
, which permitted police juries and school boards to adopt
legislation
at-large elections." 424 U. S., at 639 n. 6. Here, by contrast, "[t]he
district court approved the City's plan for relief, which was enacted as a
city ordinance following the court's decision that the prior system was
unconstitutional." 551 F 2d 1043, 1045 (CA5 1977). Thus, a rule of
limited deference to local legislative judgments is appropriate in this case,
for as we held m Burns v Richardson, 384 U S. 73, 85 (1966), "a State's
freedom of choice to devise substitutes for an apportionment plan found
unconstitutional, either as a whole or in part, should not be restricted
beyond the clear commands of the Equal Protection Clause."

WISE v. LIPSCOMB
1329

Opinion in Chambers

See also Gaffney v Cummings, 412 U S. 735, 752-754 (1973) 1
Moreover, no apparent weight was given the express findings
of the District Court with respect to the legitimate interest of
the city in "having some at-large representation on [its] City
Council." 399 F Supp. 782, 795 (1975) 1 I had thought it
clear that a federal court reviewing a reapportionment plan
should consider and give appropriate weight to any valid state
or municipal interest found to be furthered by the plan under
consideration. See, e. g., Reynolds v Sims, supra, at 578-581.
Citywide representation appears to be such an interest. Cf.
Dusch, supra, Fortsonv Dorsey, 379 U S. 433, 438 (1965)
III
The general principles that guide a Circuit Justice with
respect to stay applications are well settled. The judgment
of the court below is presumed to be valid, and absent unusual
circumstances we defer to the decision of that court not to
stay its judgment. Moreover, the party seeking a stay bears
the burden of advancing persuasive reasons why failure to
grant could lead to irreparable harm. In light of the foregoing considerations, the Circuit Justice must make a judgment whether there is a "reasonable probability that four
members of the Court will consider the issue sufficiently
3 The opposition to the new plan of certain Mexican-American voters

does not render the District Court's findings in this respect automatically
invalid. Those intervenors were never certified as the representatives of
any class.
4After alluding to the evidence and to the concession by the plaintiffs
(who themselves had proposed a plan involving the citywide election of
the member of the Council designated as Mayor), the District Court found:
"The Court believes and so finds that there is a legitimate governmental
interest to be served by having some at-large representation on the Dallas
City Council; that this governmental interest is the need for a city-wide
view on those matters which concern the city as a whole, e. g., zoning,
budgets, and city planning; and that three at-large members do not render
the city's plan constitutionally infirm." 399 F Supp., at 795 (footnote
omitted).

1334

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opimon in Chambers

434 U S.

meritorious to grant certiorari." Graves v Barnes, 405 U S.
1201, 1203 (1972) (PowELL, J., in chambers).
I think there is a reasonable probability that at least four
Members of the Court will vote to grant certiorari in this case.
The case involves a major city that has adhered to its tradition
of at-large elections since 1907 ' As indicated above, the Court
of Appeals may well have thought that the princilales applicable to a state legislative redistricting did not apply with full
force to such action by a city council. It also appears likely
that established principles of general application in the redistricting cases were not applied correctly Applicants also
claim irreparable injury unless a stay is granted. Although
the next regular election is not scheduled until April 1979, if
the judgment of the Court of Appeals is not stayed, experience
indicates that respondents will press promptly for a special
election. In their response to this application, they comment
that a stay "would unjustifiably prolong" an appropriate
remedy If the remedy ordered by the Court of Appeals were
effectuated, the issues presented here probably would be
mooted. In any event, in a situation of this kind the capacity
of the incumbent Council to function effectively in the public
interest may be impaired if the judgment is not stayed.
I will, therefore, enter an order recalling the mandate and
staying the judgment of the Court of Appeals pending disposition of the petition for certiorari.

5 The District Court found:
"[A]t-large voting, especially on the municipal level has been an
integral part of Texas local governments [since 1907 in Dallas] and
at large voting schemes have their genesis in reasons other than those
racially motivated." Id., at 797

