1354

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 T. S.

NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO., INC., ET AL. v. NIEMI,
A MINOR BY AND THROUGH HER
GUARDIAN AD LITEM
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-652. Decided February 10, 1978
Application to stay the commencement of the California Superior Court
trial of a tort action in which applicants are defendants so that they
may apply for a writ of certiorari in this Court to review, on federal
constitutional grounds, the California Court of Appeal's judgment reversing the Superior Court's dismissal of the action and remanding for
a trial is denied, absent a sufficient showing by applicants of irreparable
injury resulting from the Court of Appeal's judgment if the stay is
not granted.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQuIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicants have requested that I stay the commencement
of a civil trial in the Superior Court of the City and County of
San Francisco in which they are defendants in order that they
may have an opportunity to apply for and obtain a writ of
certiorari from this Court to review the judgment of the Court
of Appeal of the State of California filed October 26, 1977
That court reversed the judgment of dismissal rendered by the
Superior Court in a case wherein respondent sought damages
from petitioners for injuries allegedly inflicted upon her by
persons who were acting under the stimulus of observing a
scene of brutality which had been broadcast in a television
drama entitled "Born Innocent." Applicants contend that the
First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States
Constitution prevent their being subjected to liability and
damages in an action such as this, and intend to petition this
Court for certiorari to review the judgment of the Court of
Appeal remanding the case for trial.
I find it unnecessary to determine whether four Justices of
this Court would vote to grant a petition for certiorari by these

NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO. v. NIEMI
1354

Opinion in Chambers

applicants to review a California judgment sustaining a judgment for damages against them on the basis described above
in the face of their claim that the First and Fourteenth
Amendments prohibit the rendering of such a judgment. The
only question before me is whether those same constitutional
provisions would be thought by at least four Justices of this
Court to call for the granting of a writ of certiorari to review
the interlocutory judgment of the state Court of Appeal which
did no more than remand, the case for a trial on the issues
joined. I am quite prepared to assume that the Court would
find the decision of the Court of Appeal sought to be stayed a
"final judgment" for purposes of 28 U S. C. ยง 1257 (2) pursuant to its holding in Cox BroadcastingCorp. v Cohn, 420 U S.
469 (1975). But the mere fact that the Court would have
jurisdiction to grant a stay does not dispose of all the prudential considerations which, to my mind, militate against the
grant of the application in this case. Every year we grant
petitions for certiorari or note probable jurisdiction in cases in
which we ultimately conclude that a state or federal court has
failed to give sufficient recogmtion to a federal constitutional
claim, and have as a consequence reversed the judgment of
such court rendered upon the merits of the action. But this
is a far cry from saying that this Court would have stayed
further proceedings in the same cases at an interlocutory stage
comparable to the case now before me.
True, m the case of double jeopardy, we have held that the
subjecting of the defendant to the second trial itself is a violation of the constitutional right secured by the Sixth Amendment, Abney v United States, 431 U S. 651, 660-661 (1977),
even though any judgment of conviction rendered in that trial
would be subject to ultimate reversal on appeal. The same
doctrine is found in cases more closely resembling this such as
Miami Herald PublishingCo. v Tornillo, 418 U S. 241 (1974),
and Cox, supra. But in both Tornillo and in Cox the First
and Fourteenth Amendment claims were far more precisely

1356

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

drawn as a result of the decisions of the state courts than is the
case here. A reading of the opinion of the Court of Appeal
indicates that it might have been based on a state procedural
ground, by reason of the fact that the trial judge, himself, after
denial of a motion for summary judgment but before the empanelment of a jury, viewed the entire film and rendered
judgment for applicants because he found that it did not
"advocate or encourage violent and depraved acts and thus,
did not constitute an 'incitement.' " The Court of Appeal
held that this was a violation of respondent's right to trial by
jury guaranteed her by the California Constitution, and went
on to state that:
"[I] t is appropriate to acknowledge that, if the cause had
proceeded properly to trial before a jury and a verdict
awarding damages to appellant had been the result, it
would have been the responsibility of the trial court, or
perhaps of this court on appeal, to determine upon a
reevaluation of the evidence whether the jury's fact
determination could be sustained against a First Amendment challenge to the jury's determination of a 'constitutional fact.' (Rosenbloom v Metromedia, supra, 403
)" Olivia N v National Broadcasting
U S. 29, 54
Co., Inc., 74 Cal. App. 3d 383, 389, 141 Cal. Rptr. 511,
514 (1977)
The contours of California tort law are regulated by the
California courts and the California Legislature, subject only
to the limitations imposed on those bodies by the United States
Constitution and laws and treaties enacted pursuant thereto.
In the principal case relied upon by applicants in support of
their stay, United States v Shipp, 203 U S. 563 (1906),
"a sheriff allowed appellant to be lynched pending appeal to
this Court of his conviction." A requirement to defend an
action such as applicants are now required to defend in the
Superior Court, and if unsuccessful there to post a supersedeas
bond and prosecute their constitutional claims through the

NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO. v. NIETMI
1354

1357

Opinion in Chambers

normal appellate process to this Court, is scarcely a comparable example of irreparable injury Since I find that applicants' claims of irreparable injury resulting from the judgment of the Court of Appeal in this case are not sufficient
to warrant my granting their application, I accordingly deny
the stay
So ordered.

