NATIONAL SOCIALIST PARTY v. SKOKIE

1327

Opinion in Chambers

NATIONAL SOCIALIST PARTY OF AMERICA BT AL. V
VILLAGE OF SKOKIE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-162. Decided August 26, 1977
Application for stay of Illinois trial court's munction preventing applicants from displaying swastika "in the course of a demonstration,
march, or parade," pending the Illinois Supreme Court's review of the
Appellate Court's decision modifying the original injunction and upholding the above portion, is denied, where it does not appear that the controversy will become moot pending appeal or that the Illinois courts
failed to comply with this Court's order for "immediate appellate
review," and where a stay would be tantamount to a decision on the
merits in applicants' favor.

Circuit Justice.
Following the entry of this Court's order of June 14, 1977,
432 U S. 43, the Illinois Appellate Court reviewed and
substantially modified the injunction entered against applicants by the Circuit Court of Cook County, upholding only
that portion of the injunction that prevented applicants from
displaying the swastika "in the course of a demonstration,
march or parade." Thereafter, the Illinois Supreme Court
scheduled an expedited review of the Appellate Court's decision, but it denied an application for a stay of the injunction
pending that review On August 18, 1977, a similar application was submitted to me as Circuit Justice. I requested a
response from the village of Skokie and have now decided to
deny the application.
Applicants have not demonstrated that a stay is necessary
to protect this Court's appellate jurisdiction. There appears
to be no danger that the controversy will become moot while
the appeal is pending in the Illinois Supreme Court. Nor have
applicants demonstrated that the Illinois courts have failed to
comply with the "immediate appellate review" requirement of
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS,

1328

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

this Court's order of June 14, 1977 After the entry of that
order, both the Illinois Appellate Court and the Illinois
Supreme Court expedited their consideration of the case, and
I am confident that the Illinois Supreme Court will make its
decision without any unnecessary delay Even "immediate"
appellate review of an important and difficult issue necessitates
appropriate deliberation. Considering these facts, the fact
that the injunction has been substantially modified, and the
fact that the entry of the stay would be tantamount to a
decision on the merits in favor of the applicants, it seems clear
that a stay should not be granted.
The application submitted to me as Circuit Justice is denied.

