MINCEY v. ARIZONA

1343

Opinion in Chambers

MINCEY v. ARIZONA
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-302 (77-5353).

Decided October 6, 1977

Where the Arizona Supreme Court reversed applicant's convictions on
murder and assault counts because of erroneous jury instructions but
affirmed his convictions on related drug counts, his application for stay,
pending disposition of his pending petition for certiorari to review the
drug convictions, of his second trial on the murder and assault counts,
based on claims that illegally obtained evidence will be admitted at the
second trial, is denied, since such clais must be asserted through normal
post-trial review procedures.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant was convicted of murder, assault, and related
drug offenses growing out of an incident which occurred at
an apartment leased by him in Tucson, Ariz. The Supreme
Court of Arizona reversed the murder and assault convictions
because of erroneous jury instructions, but affirmed the judgments of conviction on the drug counts. Applicant now
requests a stay of his second trial on the murder and assault
counts, presently scheduled to take place on November 4,
for the reason that evidence which he claims was obtained in
violation of his rights under the United States Constitution
will be admitted at that trial. The evidence in question was
found by the Supreme Court of Arizona to have been properly
admitted in his first trial, but applicant is seeking review of
that determination in a petition for certiorari presently pending before this Court. He asks that the stay of his retrial
be effective until his petition for certiorari is finally disposed
of here.
The petition for certiorari is less than precise as to how
much of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona applicant wishes this Court to review I think his constitutional
claims with respect to the admission of evidence at his trial
can be reviewed here only insofar as they pertain to those con-

1344

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

victions affirmed by the Supreme Court of Arizona (the drug
counts) Indeed, the application does not seek a stay of
the judgments affirming those convictions, but refers only to
the murder and assault counts. Since the judgments of conviction on those counts have been reversed by the Supreme
Court of Arizona, they are not final under 28 U S. C. ยง 1257
But the constitutional claims which applicant seeks to assert
in his petition for certiorari are, so far as I can tell, common
to all counts. I assume for purposes of this motion that
reversal by this Court of applicant's convictions on the drug
counts would require reversal of a conviction obtained on the
retrial of the murder count if the same evidence were admitted
in that proceeding.
I find it unnecessary to engage in the usual speculation as
to whether the petition will commend itself to four Justices
of this Court, because I think that even if the petition is
granted the present application should be denied. The federal constitutional right asserted by applicant is not one
such as is conferred by the Double Jeopardy Clause of the
Fifth Amendment where the protection extends not only to
incarceration following trial in violation of the prohibition
but to the subjection of the defendant to a second trial at all.
Applicant's constitutional claims are based on constitutional
prohibitions against the admission of certain evidence at trial,
and will be sufficiently vindicated if he be freed from incarceration as a result of a conviction had in reliance on such
evidence. Such claims must be asserted through normal
post-trial avenues of review Cf. Younger v Harms, 401 U S.
37 (1971), Stefanelli v Minard, 342 U S. 117 (1951)
I therefore conclude that even though this Court were to
grant the petition for certiorari to review applicant's conviction on the drug counts, he would not be entitled to have
his presently scheduled trial in the Arizona court stayed
pending our determination of the merits of the claims made
in the petition. I accordingly deny his motion to stay the
trial.

