OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
ET AL. v. BRITISH AMERICAN COMMODITY

OPTIONS CORP

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAYS

No. A-86 (77-96)

Decided August 8, 1977

The Court of Appeals entered stays of mandate preventing enforcement
of a certain regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
pending this Court's disposition of petitions for certiorari by respond-

ents, a commodity options dealers association and several of its members. The Commission's application to vacate the stays is denied, since
it appears that the risk of harm from deferring enforcement of the
regulation for a few more months is outweighed by the potential injury
to respondents if the regulation were allowed to go into effect, and since
four Justices conceivably will vote to grant certiorari.
MR.

JUSTICE

MARSHALL,

Circuit Justice.

The Solicitor General, on behalf of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and its members, has applied to me as
Circuit Justice to vacate stays of mandate entered by the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit pending
applications for certiorari by the respondents herein. The
stays have the consequence, for their limited duration, of preventing a Commission regulation that has yet to be enforced,
Rule 32.6, 17 CFR § 32.6 (1977), from going into effect. The
regulation, promulgated under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974 (CFTA), 88 Stat. 1389, 7 U S. C.
§§ 1-22 (1970 ed. and Supp. V), would require commodity
options dealers to segregate in special bank accounts 90% of
the payments made by each of their customers until such time
as the customer's rights under his options are exercised or
expire. Having examined the written submissions of the
Solicitor General and the responses thereto, I have concluded
that this case does not present the exceptional circumstances
required to justify vacation of the stays.

COMMODITY FUTURES COMM'N v BRITISH AM. CORP
1316

1317

Opinion in Chambers

I
Prior to the enactment of CFTA, trading in options on
certain agricultural commodities was prohibited under § 4c of
the Commodity Exchange Act, 49 Stat. 1494, 7 U S. C. § 6c,
but options transactions in other commodities were wholly unregulated. Unsound and fraudulent business practices developed with respect to the unregulated options, and at least
one major dealer went bankrupt, causing substantial losses to
investors. In order to prevent such abuses in the future,
OFTA created the Commission as an independent regulatory
body and gave it the power to prohibit or regulate options
transactions in the previously unregulated commodities. See
7 U S. C. § 6c (a) (1970 ed., Supp. V)
Pursuant to this authority, the Commission immediately
adopted an antifraud rule, and on November 24, 1976, after
informal rulemaking proceedings, the Commission promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations that included the
segregation requirement at issue in this application. The
latter set of regulations also included provisions requiring
options dealers (1) to be registered with the Commission,
(2) to maintain certain minimum amounts of working capital,
and (3) to provide customers with disclosure statements
setting forth information about commissions and fees and
explaining the circumstances under which customers would
be able to make a profit. The segregation requirement was
to go into effect on December 27, 1976, the other regulations
were to take effect variously on December 9, 1970, and
J nuary 17, 1977
Respondents, the National Association of Commodity
Options Dealers (NASCOD) and a number of its members,
brought suit in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, seeking pre-enforcement
review of the November 24 regulations. The Commission
defended the segregation requirement as a reasonable means
of protecting investors in the event that a dealer holding

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion m Chambers

434 U. S.

options on their behalf becomes insolvent or otherwise unable
to execute the options, presumably, the investors could at
least recoup most of their initial outlay from the segregated
fund. But respondents argued that the rule would drive them
out of business,* was unnecessary in light of other existing
safeguards, and might not even be effective in facilitating
return of customers' investments should a dealer go bankrupt.
The District Court concluded that the segregation rule
threatened respondents with irreparable harm and that
respondents had a reasonable likelihood of success in having it
overturned as arbitrary and capricious. Accordingly, on
December 21, 1976, six days before the rule was to go into
effect, the District Court preliminarily enjoined its enforcement. At the same time it granted summary judgment in
favor of the Commission as to the remainder of respondents'
claims, and the other regulations went into effect as scheduled.
On cross-appeals, the Court of Appeals reversed the order insofar as it granted a preliminary injunction, holding "that the
Commission's decision to impose a segregation requirement
was a reasonable exercise of its discretion in an effort to protect the public," and affirmed the District Court in all other
respects. British American Commodity Optwns Corp. v
This decision was
Bagley, 552 F 2d 482, 490-491 (1977)
*Respondents deal in "London options," which are options on futures
contracts traded on various exchanges in London, England. American
customers make cash payments to individual respondents, in amounts
equal to the sum of the "premium" (the price charged for the option in
London) and the respondent's commission and fees. The respondents then
forward the premium to a "clearing member" of the London exchange, who
purchases the option for the account of the respondents. When the customer wishes to exercise the option, he informs the respondent dealer, who
in turn informs the clearing member in London.
The customers' cash payments can be segregated or used to pay the
premiums in London, but not both. Since respondents apparently cannot
supply the additional cash from internal sources, they would have to
borrow They claim that they would be unable to obtain such loans and
would consequently be forced out of business.

COMMODITY FUTURES COMM'N v BRITISH AM. CORP
1316

1319

Opinion in Chambers

announced on April 4, 1977, and rehearing was denied on
June 6, 1977 Respondents then moved the Court of Appeals,
under 28 U S. C. § 2101 (f) and Fed. Rule App. Proc. 41 (b),
to stay its mandate pending applications to this Court for
certiorari. On June 14, 1977, the members of the panel that
had decided the case granted stays to respondents NASCOD,
British American Commodity Options Corp. (British American), and Lloyd, Carr & Co. (Lloyd, Carr), conditional in the
cases of British American and Lloyd, Carr on the posting of
bonds in the amounts suggested in their motion-$250,000
for British American and $100,000 for Lloyd, Carr. On
June 15, the Commission moved the Court of Appeals to
reconsider the amounts of the bonds set in the June 14 order,
but this motion was denied by the panel on June 24. On
July 8 the panel granted stays of mandate to four additional
NASCOD members, again conditional on posting of security,
and this time the court ordered amounts greater than had
been suggested with respect to three of the four firms. The
instant application to vacate the stays entered on June 14 and
July 8 was filed on July 25.
II
There is no question as to the power of a Circuit Justice to
dissolve a stay entered by a court of appeals. See, e. g., New
York v Kleppe, 429 U S. 1307, 1310 (1976) (MARsHrALL, J.,
in chambers), Holtzman v Schlesinger, 414 U S. 1304, 1308

(1973)

(M-ARsHrALL,

J., in chambers), Meredith v Fair, 83

S. Ct. 10, 9 L. Ed. 2d 43 (1962) (Black, J., in chambers)
"But at the same time the cases make clear that this power
should be exercised with the greatest of caution and should be
reserved for exceptional circumstances." Holtzman v Schlesmnger, supra, at 1308. Since the Court of Appeals was quite
familiar with this case, having rendered a thorough decision on
the merits, its determination that stays were warranted is
deserving of great weight, and should be overturned only if the
court can be said to have abused its discretion. See, e. g., 414

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1977

Opinion m Chambers

434 U. S.

U S., at 1305, Magnum Import Co. v Coty, 262 U S. 159,
163-164 (1923).
It is well established that the principal factors to be considered in evaluating the propriety of a stay pending application for certiorari and, correspondingly, whether to vacate
such a stay granted by a court of appeals, are the "balance of
equities" between the opposing parties, and the probability
that this Court will grant certiorari. See, e. g., Beame v
Friends of the Earth, ante, p. 1310 (MARSHaALL, J., in chambers), Holtzman v Schlesinger, supra, at 1308-1311, Meredith
v Fair, supra. The relative weight of these factors will, of
course, vary according to the facts and circumstances of each
case.
As to the equities here, it is important to note that the
stays entered by the Court of Appeals merely preserve the
regulatory status quo pending final action by this Court.
Options dealers were never in the past required to segregate
customer payments, and the rule in question here has yet to be
enforced. If and when the regulation does go into effect,
respondents may well be driven out of business, and on this
basis the District Court expressly found that respondents are
threatened with irreparable harm.
Arrayed against this irreparable harm to respondents is the
contention of the Solicitor General that the segregation requirement must be placed into effect immediately, in order
to protect customers from loss in the event that respondents
become insolvent or unable to execute their customers' options
during the time before this Court disposes of the case. The
Solicitor General argues, quite correctly of course, that the
Commission enacted the regulation because it felt the public
needed the protection, and the Court of Appeals upheld the
Commission's judgment as reasonable.
But the same panel which sustained the regulation also
deemed it appropriate to enter stays of mandate. Undoubtedly, the court recognized that during the time in which the

COMMODITY FUTURES COMM'N v BRITISH AM. CORP
1316

1321

Opinion in Chambers

case is pending before this Court customers will be guarded
at least to some degree by the other Commission regulations,
which were not enjoined and which have already gone into
effect. More importantly, the court secured interim protection
for investors by ordering bonds to be posted by respondents.
Although the Solicitor General now complains that the bonds
are not large enough to guarantee adequate insurance against
loss, and that nothing short of the amounts that would have
to be segregated under the terms of the regulation will suffice,
these same arguments were made to, and rejected by, the
Court of Appeals when it granted the stays and when it denied
the Commission's motion to reconsider the amount of bond
which had been set for respondents British American and
Lloyd, Carr. No significant change in circumstances is offered
to justify re-evaluation of the Court of Appeals' determination
that the posted sums are adequate. See Jerome v McCarter,
21 Wall. 17, 28-31 (1874) With the case in this posture,
the risk of harm from putting off enforcement of the regulation for a few more months certaifily appears to be outweighed
by the potential injury to respondents if the regulation were
allowed to go into effect.
If I were certain that this Court would not grant certiorari,
the fact that the balance of equities clearly favors respondents
would not be a sufficient justification for leaving the stays in
force. But, without in any way expressing my own view as
to the merits, it is not entirely inconceivable to me that four
Justices of this Court will deem respondents' attack on the
segregation requirement worthy of review Although the
question of whether that requirement is arbitrary and capricious is rather fact intensive, and is thus the type of matter
that is normally appropriate for final resolution by the lower
courts, see New York v Kleppe, supra, .at 1311, it does appear
that the regulation would fundamentally alter the ground
rules for doing business in a substantial industry, with potentially fatal consequences for a number of the firms currently

1322

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

in the trade, and this case presents the first opportunity for
this Court to pass on action taken by the recently created
Commission.
In these circumstances, I cannot say that the Court of
Appeals abused its discretion by staying its mandate. The
application to vacate the stays must accordingly be denied.
It is so ordered.

