ARLINGTON COUNTY BOARD v. RICHARDS
Per Curiam

COUNTY BOARD OF ARLINGTON COUNTY,
VIRGINIA, ET AL. v. RICHARDS ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
OF VIRGINIA

No. 76-1418.

Decided October 11, 1977

Arlington County, Va., zoning ordinance prohibiting automobile commuters
from parking m designated residential neighborhoods and providing for
free parking permits for residents of such neighborhoods held not to
violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
distinction drawn between residents and nonresidents of a neighborhood is not invidious and rationally promotes the ordinance's stated
legitimate objectives of reducing air pollution and other adverse consequences of automobile commuting, and of enhancing the quality of
life m residential areas such as by reducing noise and traffic hazards.
Certiorari granted, 217 Va. 645, 231 S. E. 2d 231, vacated and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

The motion of D C. Federation of Civic Associations et al.
for leave to file a brief as amwz curwe and the petition for
a writ of certiorari are granted.
To stem the flow of traffic from commercial and industrial
districts into adjoining residential neighborhoods, Arlington
County, Va., adopted zoning ordinance ยง 29D The ordinance
directs the County Manager to determine those residential
areas especially crowded with parked cars from outside the
neighborhood.' Free parking permits are then issued to residents of the designated areas for their own vehicles, to persons
doing business with residents there, and to some visitors. To
3This condition is met when "the average number of vehicles [operated
by persons whose destination is a commercial or industrial distnct] is m
excess of 25% of the number of parking spaces on such streets and the
total number of spaces actually occupied by any vehicles exceeds 75% of
"
the number of spaces on such streets on the weekdays of any month

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Per Curiam

434 U. S.

park an automobile without a permit in a restricted area
between 8 a. m. and 5 p. m. on weekdays is a misdemeanor.
Acting under the ordinance, the County Manager designated
a restricted area in Aurora Highlands, a residential neighborhood near a large commercial and office complex. Commuters
who worked in this complex and had regularly parked in the
area sued in the Circuit Court of Arlington County to enjoin
the enforcement of the ordinance on state and federal constitutional grounds. The Virginia Supreme Court ultimately
held that the ordinance violated the Equal Protection Clause
2
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
As stated in its preamble, the Arlington ordinance is
intended
"to reduce hazardous traffic conditions resulting from the
use of streets within areas zoned for residential uses for
the parking of vehicles by persons using districts zoned
for commercial or industrial uses
, to protect those
districts from polluted air, excessive noise, and trash and
refuse caused by the entry of such vehicles, to protect the
residents of those districts from unreasonable burdens in
gaining access to their residences, to preserve the character of those districts as residential districts, to promote
efficiency in the maintenance of those streets in a clean
and safe condition, to preserve the value of the property
in those districts, and to preserve the safety of children
and other pedestrians and traffic safety, and the peace,
good order, comfort, convenience and welfare of the
inhabitants of the County"
Conceding the legitimacy of these goals, the Virginia Supreme
Court found that the ordinance's discrimination between residents and nonresidents "bears no reasonable relation to [the
2 Although the state trial court found the ordinance invalid under the

State and Federal Constitutions, the State Supreme Court rested its decision solely on the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

ARLINGTON COUNTY BOARD v. RICHARDS
Per Cunam

5

regulation's] stated objectives," and, therefore, that "the ordinance on its face offends the equal protection guarantee of
the 14th Amendment." 217 Va. 645, 651, 231 S. E. 2d 231, 235.
We disagree.
To reduce air pollution and other environmental effects of
automobile commuting, a community reasonably may restrict
on-street parking available to commuters, thus encouraging
reliance on car pools and mass transit. The same goal is
served by assuring convenient parking to residents who leave
their cars at home during the day A community may also
decide that restrictions on the flow of outside traffic into particular residential areas would enhance the quality of life there
by reducing noise, traffic hazards, and litter. By definition,
discrimination against nonresidents would inhere in such
restrictions.3
The Constitution does not outlaw these social and environmental objectives, nor does it presume distinctions between
residents and nonresidents of a local neighborhood to be
invidious. The Equal Protection Clause requires only that the
distinction drawn by an ordinance like Arlington's rationally
promote the regulation's objectives. See New Orleans v
Dukes, 427 U S. 297, 303 (1976), Village of Belle Terre v
On its face, the Arlington
Boraas, 416 U S. 1, 8 (1974)
ordinance meets this test.
3

Restrictions on nonresident parking have sparked considerable litigation.
See, e. g., South Termrmal Corp. v. EPA, 504 F 2d 646, 671-676 (CAI
1974) (restrictions upheld), Friends of the Earth v EPA, 499 F 2d
1118, 1125 (CA2 1974) (restrictions upheld), Commonwealth v. Petralia,
362 N. E. 2d 513 (1977) (restrictions upheld), State v.
Mass. -,
Whisman, 24 Ohio Misc. 59, 263 N. E. 2d 411 (Ct. Com. Pleas, 1970)
(restrictions invalidated), Georgetown Assn. of Businessmen v Dzstrict of
Columbia, Civ No. 7242-76 (D. C. Super. Ct., Aug. 9, 1976) (restrictions
prelimnarily enjoined). The United States as amwus curiae notes that
parking restrictions to discourage automobile commuting have been recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency to implement the Clean
Air Amendments of 1970. See 38 Fed. Reg. 30629 (1973)

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Per Curiam

434 U. S.

Accordingly, the judgment is vacated, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL would grant the petition for certiorari and set the case for oral argument.

