1340

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

MECOM v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR REDUCTION OF BAIL PENDING APPEAL

No. A-222.

Decided September 20, 1977

Application for reduction of allegedly excessive $750,000 bail pending
applicant's appeal to the Court of Appeals from his conviction of conspiring to possess marihuana with intent to distribute it, is denied,
where it appears that applicant was involved in a large-scale marihuana
smuggling enterprise from Mexico, that his wife, a coindictee and his
"connection" in Mexico, is a fugitive from justice there; that another
associate in the enterprise is also a fugitive; that applicant and his
associates were frequently in possession of large amounts of cash, and
that he paid $100,000 for the murder-unsuccessfully attempted-of
an associate suspected of cooperating with the authorities.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL,

Circuit Justice.

This is an application for reduction of bail pending appeal
to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Following a
jury trial in the District Court for the Southern District of
Texas, applicant was convicted of conspiracy to possess
marihuana with intent to distribute it, in violation of 21
U S. C. ยง 846. He was sentenced to five years' imprisonment
to be followed by a special parole term of five years. Applicant's appeal from that conviction is pending in the Court of
Appeals.
Before trial, bail was set at $1,000,000. Upon applicant's
motion, this was reduced to $750,000. The District Court
provided no statement of reasons for setting bail at so high an
amount, despite the requirements of 18 U S. C. ยง 3146 (d)'
ITitle 18 U. S. C. ยง 3146 (d) provides in pertinent part as follows:
"A person for whom conditions of release are imposed and who after
twenty-four hours from the time of the release hearing continues to be
detained as a result of his inability to meet the conditions of release, shall,
upon application, be entitled to have the conditions reviewed by the judicial
officer who imposed them. Unless the conditions of release are amended

MECOM v. UNITED STATES
1340

Opinion in Chambers

Bail was continued at the same amount pending appeal, and
again no statement of reasons was provided, although one is
required by Fed. Rule App. Proc. 9 (b) 2 The Court of
Appeals denied applicant's motions for reduction of bail.
Unable to raise the required amount, he remains incarcerated
pending appeal.
Applicant argues that his bail has been set in an excessive
and unreasonable amount, citing Sellers v United States, 89
S. Ct. 36, 21 L. Ed. 2d 64 (1968) (Black, J., in chambers) He
insists that neither the District Court nor the Court of Appeals
made a specific finding that applicant would fail to appear.
In particular, he alleges that he has substantial roots in the
community, that he had never before been charged with a
criminal offense, and that his interests in a local laundromatgrocery store and a shrimp boat business will serve to keep
him from fleeing the jurisdiction.
Decisions of the District Court with respect to bail are
entitled to "great deference." Harms v United States, 404
U S. 1232 (1971) (Douglas, J., in chambers). A Circuit
Justice, however, has a responsibility to make an independent
determination on the merits of the application. Ibid. Beand the person is thereupon released, the judicial officer shall set forth in
writing the reasons for requiring the conditions imposed."
See United States v Bnggs, 476 F 2d 947 (CA5 1973) (defendants entitled
to know reasons for imposition of conditions of release).
2
Rule 9(b) provides as follows:
"(b) Release Pending Appeal from a Judgment of Conviction. Application for release after a judgment of conviction shall be made m the first
instance m the district court. If the district court refuses release pending

appeal, or imposes conditions of release, the court shall state in writing the
reasons for the action taken. Thereafter, if an appeal is pending, a
motion for release, or for modification of the conditions of release, pending
review may be made to the court of appeals or to a judge thereof. The
motion shall be determined promptly upon such papers, affidavits, and
portions of the record as the parties shall present and after reasonable
notice to the appellee. The court of appeals or a 3udge thereof may order
the release of the appellant pending disposition of the motion."

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

cause of the District Court's failure to adduce reasons for its
decision, 3 it was necessary to obtain from the Government a
response to applicant's allegations.4
According to the Government response, the evidence at
trial indicated the following- Applicant was involved in a
large-scale smuggling enterprise, which imported marihuana
into Texas from Mexico in loads of 200 to 700 pounds, the
marihuana was then distributed to locations as far away as
Indiana, applicant's wife, a co-indictee, acted as his "connection" in Mexico and is currently a fugitive there, another
associate in the enterprise is also a fugitive, and applicant
and his associates were frequently in possession of large
amounts of cash. The Government further states that at the
bond hearing there was evidence that applicant paid $100,000
for the murder-unsuccessfully attempted-of an associate
suspected of cooperating with the authorities.
Under these circumstances, there is certainly no reason to
disturb the rulings of the courts below Accordingly the
application for reduction of bail is denied.

3 Applicant has raised no ob3ection to the District Court's failure to
provide a statement of reasons.
4 Compliance with the requirements of ยง 3146 (d) and Rule 9 (b) not
only facilitates review in this Court of bail decisions, but also may serve to
focus the attention of the District Court upon the relevant elements of
such decisions.

