PACIFIC UNION CONF v. MARSHALL

1305

Opinion in Chambers

PACIFIC UNION CONFERENCE OF SEVENTH-DAY
ADVENTISTS ET AL. V MARSHALL ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No..A-81.

Decided August 2, 1977

Application by institutional bodies of Seventh-Day Adventist Church for
stay of the District Court's discovery orders, pending applicants' filing
of a petition for certiorari m this Court for review of the District
Court's order denying applicants' motion for summary judgment in
respondent Secretary of Labor's action against them to enforce the equal
pay provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, wherein applicants
contended that the First Amendment principle of separation of church
and state forbids application of such provisions to them, is denied, where
it does not appear that at this stage of the case certiorari would be
granted to review the Court of Appeals' order refusing to grant relief
by way of mandamus against the District Court's orders.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicants are conferences and other institutional bodies of
the Seventh Day Adventist Church which operates some 150
religious schools and colleges in California. They request that
I stay enforcement of three discovery orders entered by the
District Court for the Central District of California pending
their filing of a petition for certiorari in this Court. The
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit refused to grant relief by way of mandamus against the District Court's discovery orders and the District Court's order denying applicants' motion for summary judgment. The action in which
these orders were entered was brought by respondent Secretary of Labor against applicants to enforce the equal pay
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U S. C. § 206
(d) The District Court, in denying applicants' motion for
summary judgment, noted that the Secretary was seeking to
apply these provisions only to the lay employees of the
applicants and not to their clergy

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

Applicants contend that the principle of separation between
church and state embodied in the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution forbids Congress from applying
to them this statute which requires in substance that men and
women be paid equally for the same work, because such application would be contrary to their religious principles.
They claim that even the presence on church school premises
of representatives of the Secretary, pursuant to the District
Court's authorization of discovery, for the purpose of examinmg payroll records m aad of the prosecution of this lawsuit
is an "intrusion" forbidden by that Amendment.
While I am not prepared to say that four Members of this
Court would not vote to grant certiorari to consider such a
claim if it were squarely presented by a final order or decision
of the District Court affirmed by the Court of Appeals, see
Wisconsm v Yoder, 406 U S. 205 (1972), Sherbert v Verner,
374 U S. 398 (1963), I do not think certiorar would be
granted to review the order of the Court of Appeals denying
mandamus at this stage of the case. I have therefore decided
to deny the application for a stay without attempting to inquire further as to what irreparable injury would be suffered
by applicants in the event of such denial.
The order denying summary judgment which the applicants
seek to have reviewed here, although they do not request that
it be "stayed," is not even appealable to the Court of Appeals
under 28 U S. C. § 1291, to say nothing of being directly
appealable to this Court. Because it is not a "final order or
decision" within the meaning of that section, it is reviewable
only pursuant to the provisions for interlocutory appeal set
forth in 28 U S. C. § 1292 (b) These provisions require as
a first step in that procedure that the District Court certify
the question as appropriate for interlocutory appeal. The
District Court, however, in this case declined to make such
a certification.
In their petition to the Court of Appeals, applicants

PACIFIC UNION CONF v. MARSHALL
1305

1307

Opinion in Chambers

requested that court "to require respondent Court to dismiss
said action or to enter summary judgment for defendants
therein." So far as I am aware, such relief is not available,
pursuant to statute or otherwise, in the Court of Appeals.
Since the Court of Appeals issued no opinion in this matter,
it could have construed the petition as a request to order the
District Court to certify the question for interlocutory review
It would necessarily be this order of the Court of Appeals
denying the requested relief which would be presented for
review in applicants' petition for certiorari to that court.
Before any First Amendment claim would be reached upon
such review, it would be necessary for this Court to decide that
the Court of Appeals had authority by a writ of mandamus to
require the District Court to certify a question for interlocutory appeal, and that it abused its discretion in refusing to do
so in this case. While there have been differing views expressed by the Court of Appeals as to the availability of mandamus to require certification under § 1292 (b), the order of
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this case does
not seem to me to present the question in a way which would
warrant review by this Court. The Court of Appeals did not
indicate whether the writ was refused because of lack of
authority, or by reason of that court's exercise of its discretion
even though the authority was thought to exist. Shrouded
as it is in these vagaries of certification procedure pursuant
to 28 U S. C. § 1292 (b), the First Amendment claim would
not be squarely presented in any petition for certiorari at this
time.
Applicants' request for a stay of the discovery orders pending review here of the Court of Appeals' refusal to interfere
with them by mandamus stands on a somewhat different footing than the request to review the District Court's denial of
summary judgment. While discovery orders are not themselves appealable, in extraordinary circumstances interlocutory
review of them may be had by way of mandamus. Schlagen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

hauf v Holder, 379 U S. 104 (1964), Kerr v United States
In Schlagenhauf, howDistrct Court, 426 U S. 394 (1976)
ever, where this Court reversed a denial of mandamus by the
Court of Appeals, it was careful to point out that the case
was the first opportunity it had been afforded to construe the
provisions of Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 35 (a)
In the present case applicants sought mandamus in the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to review at least the
first of the discovery orders which they request that I stay *
The Court of Appeals declined to issue the writ. Unlike the
situation in Schlagenhauf, supra, the Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit was not presented with any novel interpretation or first-impression question concerning the discovery rules
themselves, there seems to be no question that if respondent
is correct as to the underlying merits of the dispute over the
applicability of the equal pay provisions, the discovery ordered by the District Court was entirely orthodox. Applicants' objection to the discovery orders is therefore impossible
to separate from their underlying claim that they should not
have been required to defend against the Secretary's action
beyond the summary judgment stage. The discovery orders
do require a degree of physical intrusion into applicants' records, but so long as that intrusion is within the normal bounds
of discovery, I do not think this Court would grant certiorari
to review the Court of Appeals' refusal of relief from that discovery by way of mandamus.
While Schlagenhauf, supra, opened the door a crack to per*After the writ had been denied by the Court of Appeals, the District
Court on July 18 issued a discovery order amounting to a reinstatement of
its original order of June 6. The Solicitor General contends that the last
order, issued July 20, involves a substantially different phase of the litigation and is not properly before this Court, not having been considered by
the Court of Appeals. In view of my conclusion that a stay is mappropnate under the circumstances disclosed by this application, if the
Solicitor General's argument is factually correct it amounts to an additional reason for denying the stay

PACIFIC UNION CONF v. MARSHALL
1305

1309

Opinion in Chambers

mit review of a discovery order under the special circumstances of that case, to grant such review here would permit
an application for review of a discovery order to serve in effect
as a vehicle for interlocutory review of the underlying merits
of the lawsuit. The policy against piecemeal interlocutory
review other than as provided for by statutorily authorized
appeals is a strong one, see Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v Wetzel,
I think that this Court would be
424 U S. 737 (1976)
disposed to review applicants' constitutional claims, if at all,
only after a full record is compiled in the course of the
present litigation in the District Court followed by statutory
appeal to the Court of Appeals.
The application to stay the orders of the District Court
entered on June 6, July 18, and July 20, respectively, are
accordingly
Denzed.

