RICHMOND v. ARIZONA

1323

Opinion in Chambers

RICHMOND v. ARIZONA
ON APPLICATION TO SUSPEND ORDER DENYING CERTIORARI OR TO
STAY EXECUTION

No. A-108 (76-6720).

Decided August 8, 1977

Application for suspension of this Court's order denying certiorari on
applicant's petition attacking constitutionality of Arizona death penalty
statute, or for a stay of execution of such penalty against applicant,
pending action on his petition for rehearing, is denied, where it is
unlikely that the petition for rehearing will be granted.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant Willie Lee Richmond requests either a suspension
of our order denying certiorari, 433 U S. 915 (1977), or a stay
of execution pending action on his petition for rehearing.
The Supreme Court of Arizona has fixed September 14, 1977,
as the date of execution of applicant and has denied his
application for a stay Because the petition for rehearing
seems to me to demonstrate nothing that would indicate any
reasonable likelihood of this Court's reversing its previous
decision and granting certiorari, I have decided to deny the
application.
On appeal of his conviction and death sentence to the
Arizona Supreme Court, applicant argued that the Arizona
capital punishment statute, Ariz. Rev Stat. Ann. ยง 13-454
(Supp. 1973), was unconstitutionally ambiguous in not specifically limiting mitigating circumstances to the four factors
enumerated in ยง 13-454 (F) After the Arizona Supreme
Court ruled that only the enumerated factors could be taken
into account, 114 Ariz. 186, 560 P 2d 41 (1976), applicant
moved for a rehearing on the ground that the statute as so
limited failed to allow consideration of the character of the
defendant in determining whether the death penalty should
be imposed. While the statute includes in its list of miti-

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

gating circumstances significant impairment of a defendant's
capacity to tell right from wrong or to conform to the law, it
fails to take into account other factors such as age, lack of
prior criminal history, and intellectual level. Rehearing was
denied.
Applicant renewed his constitutional attack against the
Arizona death penalty statute in his petition for certiorari
before this Court, again on the ground that it failed to allow
consideration of the character and record of the individual
offender. While specifically noting that the statute does not
allow consideration of the defendant's age or prior criminal
history, the applicant did not suggest that such factors were
relevant in his case. Certiorari was denied by this Court
on June 27, 1977, with JUSTICES BRENNAN and MARSHALL

dissenting.
Applicant in his petition for rehearing here continues his
attack on Arizona's failure to adopt a more expansive list of
mitigating circumstances. Applicant argues that our grant of
certiorari in Bell v Ohio, 433 U S. 907 (1977), is an intervening circumstance that demands as a matter of "justice and
judicial economy" that we also grant certiorari in his case.
Certiorari was granted in Bell v Ohwo, however, on the same
day in which we denied certiorari in this case. Applicant's
assertion attributes a degree of irrationality to the Court in
simultaneously granting Bell's petition and denying his in
which I cannot join. In my opinion, the cases are quite
different. The Ohio and Arizona death penalty statutes are
similar in that their lists of mitigating circumstances do not
include such factors as age and lack of prior criminal convictions, which are included in the Florida statute approved in
Applicant, unlike
Proffitt v Florida,428 U S. 242 (1976)
Bell, however, does not allege that he would be aided by an
expansion of the statutory list of mitigating circumstances.
The petition in Bell pointed out that the defendant was 16 at
the time of the penalty trial, had a low IQ, was considered

RICHMOND v. ARIZONA
1323

Opinion in Chambers

emotionally immature and abnormal, had cooperated with the
police, and had no significant history of prior criminal activity
What evidence is alluded to in the applicant's papers does not
suggest that any of the factors that applicant contends must
be considered in imposing capital punishment would be relevant to his case. There is no indication in any of the applicant's papers as to his age at either the time of the offense or
trial. It is doubtful, particularly after our grant of certiorari
in Bell, that applicant would have failed to include this fact in
his petition for rehearing if he had been a minor at these times.
The record also indicates that applicant had previously been
convicted of kidnaping a victim at knifepoint. The only
mitigating ground apparently suggested by applicant before
the Arizona courts was psychological testimony characterizing
applicant as a sociopath.
Applicant raises a second argument in his petition for rehearing that was not raised either before the Arizona Supreme
Court or in his earlier petition for certiorari. Applicant
argues that the Arizona statute violates the Sixth, Eighth, and
Fourteenth Amendments in failing to provide for jury input
into the determination of whether aggravating and mitigating
circumstances do or do not exist. Such jury input would not
appear to be required under this Court's decision in Proffitt.
In summary, I conclude that there is no reasonable likelihood that applicant's petition for rehearing would be granted
by the full Court. I am fortified in this view by consultation
with my colleagues. Applicant's argument as to mitigating
factors was before us in his initial petition for certiorari. He
does not suggest any new reason why our initial decision to
deny certiorari was wrong. Applicant's jury contention
appears to have been rejected in Proffitt. A motion for rehearing of an order denying certiorari does not automatically
suspend the order during the Term, unlike a petition for
rehearing after full consideration of the case on the merits.
The petitioner must apply to an individual Justice for a sus-

1326

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

pension of the order denying certiorari. Cf. this Court's
The question under such circumRules 25 (2) and 59 (2)
stances must be whether there is any reasonable likelihood of
the Court's changing its position and granting certiorari. As
elaborated above, there does not seem to me to be any such
likelihood here. The application for a suspension of our
order denying certiorari or, in the alternative, a stay of
execution is therefore denied.

