344

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey'Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

main in full force and virtue, the said judgment of the said High
Court notwithstanding, -and that. this cause be and the same is
herebyiremanded to the said High Court of Errors and Appeals,
to be -preeeded with in conformity to the opinon of this court,
and as to law and justice shall appertain.

THE NEw JERSEY STEAm NAVIGATION CoMrANY, RESPONDENTS AND
APPELLANTS, V. TE MERCHANTS' BAHx oF BOSTON, LIBELLANTS.
A decree of the Circuit Court of R ode Island affrmed, which was a judgment
upon a libel in pmrsonan pganst a steamboat company forthe loss of specie carried In their boat by one of te persons called"' express carriers," and lost by
fire in Long Island Sound.

THiS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Rhode Island, in the exercise of admiralty jurisdiction.
In February, 1839, the State of New Jersey chartered a
company by the n~une of the New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company, with a capital of five hundred thousand dollars, for
the purpose of purchasing, building, repairing and altering any
vessel or vessels propelled by steam, and in the navigation of
the same, &c., &c., under which charter they became propnetors of the steamboat Lexington.
On the 1st of August, 1839, the following agreement was
made "This agreement, made and entered into this 1st day of
August, A. D. 1839, in the City of New York, by William F
Hamden, of Boston, Massachusetts, on the one part, and Ch..
Overing Handy, President of the New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company, of the other part, witnesseth
"That the said-William F Hamden, for and in considera-tion of the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars per month, to
be paid monthly to the said New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company, is-to, have the privilege of transporting m the steamers of said company, between New York 'and Providence, via
Newport and Stonington, not to exceed once on each day, from
New- York and from Providence, and as less frequently as the
boats may run between and from said places, one wooden crate,
of the dimensions of five feet by five feet in width and height,
and six feet in length (contents unknown), until the 31st of
December, A. D. 1839., and from this date.
"1The following'conditions are stipulated and agreed to, as

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

345

New lersey Steam -Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

said crate, with its conpart of this contract, to wit -The
tents, is to be at all -tunes exclusively at the risk-of the said
William F Hamden, and the New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company will not, in any event, be responsible, either to him
or his employers, for the loss of any goods, wares, merchandise,
mouey, notes, bills, evidences of debt, or property of any and
every description, to-be conveyed ox transported by-him in said
crate, or otherwise, in any manner, in the boats of the said
company
"Further, that the said Hamden is to attach to Ins advertisements, to be inserted in the public. prints, as a -common carner, exclusively responsible for his acts and doings, the followmg notice, which he is also to attach to his receipts or bills- of
lading, to be given in all .cases for goods, wares, and merchandise, and other property committed to his charge, to -be transported in said crate-or otherwise "'Take -notice. - William F Hamden is alone responsible
for the loss or injury of any articles or property committed. to
his care , nor is any risk assumed by, nor can any be attached,
to, the proprietors of the steamboats in which his -crate may
be, and is transported, in respect to it or its contents, at any
time.'
"1Further, that the said Hamden is not to violate any provisions of the post-office laws, nor to interfere with the New
Jersey Steam Navigation Company in its-transportation of letters and papers, nor to carry any powder, matches, or other
combustible materials of any kid, calculated to endanger the
safety of said boats, or the property or persons on board of
them.
".And that this contract may be at any time terminated by
the New Jersey.Steam Navigation Company, or by the said
Harnden, upon one month's notice given in writing.
" Further, that a contract made by the said Hamden with
the Boston and New York Transportation Company, on the 5th
day of July, A. D. 1839, is hereby dissolved by mutual consent.
,"In witness whereof, the' said William F Hamden has hereunto set his hand and seal, and the President of the said New
Jersey Steam Navigation Company has hereto affixed his signature and the corporate seal of the company
"WM. F HARNDEN,
[L. s.]
CH. OYERING HANDY, Presdent.
"Sealed and delivered in presence of
RoswELL E. LocKwooD."
It is proper to remark, that, prior to the date of -this agreement, Hamden had made a similar one with the Boston and

8

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchints' Bank.

New York-Transportation Company which became merged in
the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company on the 1st of August, 1839. Harnden, having begun to advertise in the newspapers in July, 1839, whilst his contract with the Boston company was in force, continued to use the name of that company
in the following advertisement, which was inserted in two of
the Boston newspapers until the end of the year 1839.
"Boston and New York Express Package Car. -Notice to
Merchants, Brokers, Booksellers, and .all Business Men.
"Win. F. Hamden, havmg-made arrangements with the
New York and Boston Transportation, and Stonington and
Prbvidence Railroad Companies, ri run a car through from
Boston to New York, and nce versd, via Stonington, with the
mail tram, daily, for the purpose of transporting specie, small
packages of goods,, and bundles of all kinds. Packages sent
by this line will be delivered on the following morning, at any
part of the city, free of charge. A responsible agent will accompany the car, who will attend to purchasing goods, collectmg drafts, n6tes, and bills, and will transact any other business
that may be intrusted to his charge.
"Packages for Philadelphia, Baltinore, Washington, New
Haven, Hartford, Albany, and Troy, will be forwarded immediately on arrval, in New York.
" N. B. Win. F Hamden is alone responsible for any loss
or injury of any articles or property committed to his care, nor
is any risk assumed by, or can any be attached to, the Boston
and New York Transportation Company, in whose steamers his
crates are to be transported, in respect to it or its contents, at
any time. ' ,
The above-mentioned contract with the New Jersey Steam
Navigation Coripany being about to expire, Hamden addressed
letters, on the 7th and"16th of December, fo the President, expressing a desire to renew it, and, on the 31st of December,
received a letter from Mr. Handy, the President, renewing the
contract for one year from -the 1st of January, 1840.
The New Jersey Company also published the following notice. "Notice to Shippers and Consignees.
"All goods, freight, baggage, bank-bills, specie, or any other
kind of property, taken, shipped, or put on board the steamers
of the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, must be at the
risk of the owners of such goods, freight, baggage, &c., and
all freight consisting of goods;.wares, and merchandise, or any
other property landed from the steamers, if not taken away

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company s. Merchants' Bank.

from the wharf without delay, will be put under cover at the
risk of the owners of said goods, freight, baggage, &c., m all
respects whatsoever."
The bills of lading, or receipts given by the company, were
m the following form. CC
New

Jersey Steam Navigation Company

"Received of

on board the steamer
master
marked and numbered as in the margin, to be transported to
and there to be delivered to
or assigns, danger of fire, water, breakage, leakage, and all -other accidents excepted, and no package
whatever, if lost, injured, or stolen, to be deemed of greater
value than two hundred dollars.
"Freight as customary with the steamers on this line.
"N. B. The company are to be held responsible for ohdinary
care and diligence only in the transprtation of merchandise,
and other property, shipped or put: on board the boats 6f this
line.
"1Dated at
the
18
"(Contents unknown.)"
In January, 1840, Mr. Hamden received from the Merchants"
Bank in Boston a large amount of checks and drafts upon New
York, which he was to. collect in specie, and transmit the proceeds to Boston.
Qn the 13th of January, 1840, the sum of .eighteen thousand
dollars, in gold and silver corn, was shipped by William F
Harnden, and received on board of the steamboat Lexington,
said boat being the property of the New -Jersey Steam Navigation Company,' and employed in making regular trips between
New York and Stonington in Connecticut, The shipment was
made at New York. The boat left New York about half past
four o'clock-in the afternoon, and in the course 6f a few hours
a fire broke out, which totally destroyed the boat, the lives of
nearly all the passengers and crew, and the property on board.
The. money, amongst the other property, was lost. As the circumstances under which-the loss took place were much commented on in the argument, it may be proper to insert the.narrative of Stephen Manchester, the pilot, who was examined as
a witness "To the third-interrogatory he saith - She was near Huntington lighthouse, some four miles east of the light; and between forty and fifty miles from- New York. It was about

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

half past seven o'clock in the evening. I know the hour, because we always take down on a slate the hour that we pass
every lighthouse. This was the business of the pilot. I was
in the wheel-house when I heard that the boat was on fire.
Some one came to the wheel-house, and told the wheel-man
and myself that the boat was on fire. I stepped out of the
wheel-house and went up to the smoke-pipe. I saw the fire
blazing up through the promenade deck, around the smokepipe. The promenade deck was on fire, and was blazing up
two or three feet. I looked down a scuttle which went through
the promenade deck, and which was. about three or four feet on
the larboard side, a little abaft of the smoke-pipe, it was not
exactly abreast of it or abaft of it, but quartering. The scuttle led down between the after part of the boiler and the forward part -of the engine. In looking through the scuttle I
saw blaze and smoke, as if she was on fire there. I can't- say
whether or not the main deck was on fire at that time. I next
returned to the wheel-house, and hove the wheel hard over
a-port, which would sheer the boat to the southward, for the
purpose of nining -the boat ashore to the nearest land, which
was Long Island shore. Just as I got the wheel hove a-port,
Captain Childs came in and put his hand on the spoke of the
wheel. As he took hold of the wheel, the starboard wheelrope gave way Within an instant from that time, the smoke
broke into the wheel-house, so that we were obliged to leave
it. Captain Childs went out of the wheel-house and went aft,
and I did not see any thing of hin after that. I then stepped
out, and called to some of our people on the forecastle to get
out the fire-engine. They got it out. I then told them to get
out the hose and the-fire-buckets. The fire then spread so between decks that they could not get at the hose or buckets. I
then went to the life-boat, and found some men there casting
off the lashings with which she was fastened to the promenade
deck. I caught hold of the lashings, and told them not to cast
them off till we had attached a hawser to the boat. I sang out
to some one on the forecastle to pass up a hawser to attach to
the boat, which was done. I then told them to take the hawser
attached to the boat, and to fasten-it to the forward part of the
steamer. The fire then was burning up through the deck and
around the life-boat, !nd I cut the lashings, and told the men
to throw the boat overboard, I then jumped down on to the
forward deck, caught hold, of the hawser, and found that it was
not made fast tQ the steamboat, as directed. I found the boat
was getting awayt from us, and I sang out to the people about
there to hang on to the hawser, or we should lose her. They
let go of the hawser, one after another, until they let the boat

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

349

New Jersey Steam Navigatton Company v. Merchants' Bank.

go. The promenade deck was at that time all of a blaze to
the bulkhead. It was about fifteen or twenty minutes after I
first heard of the.fire that the life-boat was let go. The lifeboat was somewhat burnt before she was thrown over. The
next thing I, With the others on the forecastle, did, was to
empty the baggage-cars, and attach lines to them, and throw
them overboard for any one to save humself that could. Some
of those on the forecastle drew water with what buckets we
had, and .threw it on the fire. I .then-took the flagstaff and
another spar that we had knocked off, the bulwarks, and fastened them to those two spars to make a raft to get on to. I
threw the raft overboard, and several persons, some two or
three, got on to it-; but it was not buoyant enough to hold
them up. That was all-we could do, excepting to throw water, which we did as long as we could. The boat was then
nearly burnt to the water's. edge, and the forward deck was
burnt and had fallen in. We then got cornered up so that we
had no chance tothrow water, and were obliged to leave the
boat to bum. Those left on the forecastle, some eight or ten in
number, then asked me what they could do to save themselves.
I then told them that I saw. no chance, that we had done all
that we could do. We. then began -to get overboard, some
hung on to the crates at the forward part of the boat, and some
got on to the guard. I got down on to the raft I have before
mentioned. I found it sinking under me, and I lifted myself
up again by a piece of rope-which I had, and which I whipped
over a spike. Then I jumped from the raft on to the piece of
guard, and from this guard I got on to a bale of cotton. I
found a man by the name of McKinney on the bale. After I
had got on, a man standing on this piece of guard asked if
there was room on the bale of cotton for another man. I made.
hun no answer. Hef jumped to get on to it, and in doing so
knocked off McKinney I hauled McKinney on to the bale
again, and the man returned to the guard. I found the bale
was lashed to this piece of guard, and I took my knife and cut
away the lashings, I took up a piece-of board which Was floatmg by, and shoved the bale clear of the guard, and let it drift
down the Sound before the wind. *McKinney froze to-death
about daylight the. next morning, and fell .off the bale. Between eleven and twelve o'clock the next day, I was pickedup by the sloop Merchant, Captain Meeker. When I first heard
that the boat was on fire, I had been in the wheel-house, after
.taking my tea, for about twenty-five or thirty minutes."
On the 10th of February, 1842, the Merchants' Bank filed a
libel m the District Court of the United States for the District
bf Rhode Island, against the New Jersey Steam Navigation
30
voL. vi.

50

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

Coimpany, as the owners of the Lexington, for "1a cause of bailment, civil and maritime." As the libel is not long, and the
circumstances of this case are peculiar, it is deemed proper, to
insert it.
"To the Honorable John Pitman, Judge of the District Court
of the United States within and for the District of Rhode
Island.
"The libel and complaint of the President, Directors, and
Company of the Merchants' Bank of Boston, a corporation incorporated by the legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, against the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company,
a corporation incorporated by the legislature of the State of
New Jersey, owners of the steamboat Lexington, for a cause
of bailment, civil and maritime
"And thereupon the said President, Directors, and Company.
of the Merchants' Bank of Boston do allege and articulately
propound as follows "First. That the respondents, in the month of January, m
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty,
were common carriers of merchandise on the hih seas from
the city of New York, in the State of New York, to Stonington, in the State of Connecticut, and were then owners of the
steamboat Lexington, then lying at the port of New York, in
the State of New York, and which vessel was then used by
the respondents as common carriers, as aforesaid, for the transportation of goods, wares, and merchandise on the high seas
from the said port of New York to the said port of Stonmgton,
in the State of Connedticut.
"Second.
That the complainants, on the high seas, and
-wthin the ebb and. flow of -the tide. and within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction ;f the United States and of this
court, on the thirteenth day of January, A. D. 1840, contracted
with the respondepits for the transportation, by water,. on board
of the said steamboat Lexington, from the said port of Ne*
York to the said port of Stonmgton, of certain gold coin,
amounting to fourteen thousand dollars, and of certain silver
coin, amounting to eleven thousand dollars, to the libellants
belonging , and the said respondents then -and there, for a reasonable hire and reward, to be paid by the libellaits therefor,
contracted with the libellants that they. would receive said gold
coin and silver corn on boara of the said steamboat Lexington,
and transport the same therein on the high seas from said New
York to said Stonngton, and safely deliver the same to the
fibellants.
"Third. That the libellants, on the said thirteenth day of

JANUARY TERM,1 1848.

851

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

January, A. -D. 1840, at said New York, delivered to the sd
respondents on board of the said steamboat Lexington, then
lying at said New York, and within the ebb and. flow of the
tide, and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
Urnted States-and of this court, and the-respondents then and
there received on board of said steamboat the said gold corn
and silver corn, for the purpose of transporting the same by
water on the high seas from said New York to said Stonington,
and to deliver the same to the libellants as aforesaid.
"1Fourth. That the steamboat Lexington sailed from said
port of New'York, with the- said gold corn and silver coin on
board, on said thirteenth day of January, A. D. 1840, and bound
to said port of Stonngton, yet the respondents,. their officers,
servants, and agents, so carelessly and improperly stowed the
said gold corn and silver corn, and the engine, furnace, machinery, furniture, rigging, and equipments of the said steamboat
were so imperfect and insufficient, and the said respondents,
their officers, servants, and agents, so carelessly, improperly,
and negligently managed and conducted the said steamboat.
Lexington-during her said voyage, that, by reason of such improper stowage, imperfect and insufficient engine, furnace, machinery, furniture, rigging, and equipments, and of such careless, inproper, and negligent conduct, the said steamboat, together with the said gold corn and silver coin. to the libellants
belonging, were destroyed by fire on the high seas, and wholly
lost.
"Fifth. That by reason of the destruction of the said
steamboat Lexington, and of the said gold corn and silver-corn,
the libellants have sustained damage to the -amount of twentyfive thousand dollars.
"Sixth. That the said New Jersey Steam Navigation Company are possessed of certain personal property within the said
Rhode- Island district, and within the ebb and flow of the sea,
and within the maritime and admiralty jurisdiction of this
court, to wit, of the steamboat called the Massachusetts, her
tackle, apparel, furniture, and appurtenances, and of other personal property.
"Seventh. That all and singul r the premises are true, and
-within the admiralty and martime jurisdiction of this court,
m verification whereof, if denied, the libellants crave leave to
refer to the depositions and other proof to be by them exhibited in the cause. Wherefore, the libellants pray that process,
m due form of law, according to the course of admiralty and
of this court in causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
may issue against the respondents, and against the said.steamboat Massachusetts, her tackle, apparel, furniture, and appurte-

352

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation -Company v. Merchants' Bank.

-nances, or any other property to the respondents -belonging
within the said Rhode Island district, and that the said property, or any part thereof, may be attached and held to enforce
the appearance of the respondents in this court, to answer the
matters so articulately propounded, -and to answer the damages
which may he awarded to the libellants for the causes aforesaid, and. that this court would be pleased to pronounce for
the damages aforesaid, and to decree such damages to the libel]ants as shall to law and justice appertam."
On the same day, a momtion and attachment were issued,
directing the steamboat MassachusEtts, her tackle, apparel, furiture aid appurtenances, or any other-property to the respondents belonging, within the Rhode Island district, to -beattached.
All of which was done.
In May, 1842, the respondents filed their answer, which is
too long to be- inserted. The substance of it was, 1st. They admitted the ownership of- the Lexington, and
her being used for the transportation of passengers, goods,
wares, and merchandise between New York and Stomngton.
2d. They demed any contract whatever with the libellants.
3d. They demed that the libellants ever shipped, or that the
respondents received from the libellants, any gold and silver
corn whatever.
4th. They asserted that whatever goods were received on
board the Lexington-were received under the advertisements
and notices mentioned ina previous part of thi statement.
5th. That the usage and custom of the company was to be
held responsible for ordinary care and diligence only, and that
this usage, being well known to the libellants, constituted a
part of the contract of shipmrnt.
6th. That the bill. of lading, heretofore mentioned, was a
copy of all the bills of lading given by the company, which
was well known to the libellants.
7th. That the notice above mentioned was posted up on
board the steamboat, and on the wharf, and m the office of the
company, of which facts the libellants were informed.
8th. That the Lexington was accidentblly destroyed by fire.
9th. They denied that the cotton was improperly stowed,
that the engine, machinery, &c., were imperfect and insufficient, that the officers carelessly, improperly, or negligently
managed the boat,, or that by reason of these things the boat
was lost. The contrary of all -these things was averred, and
they further averred, that they -had complied with the requisitions of the act of Congress passed on the 7th of July, 1838.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

353

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

In verification of tins last averment, they filed the mspection certificate, dated on September 23d, 1839.
On the 18th of October, 1842, the District Court pronounced
a pro forma decree, dismissing the libel with costs, from which
an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court:
Under the. authority of the Circuit Court, commissions to
take testimony were issued, under winch a vast mass of evidence was taken on both sides.
The libellants offered evidence to prove the following positions: -. that the furnaces were unsafe and insufficient, that
there was no proper casing to the steam-chimney, nor any safe
lining of the deck where the chimney passed through, that
dry pine wood was habitually kept in a very exposed situation,
that, especially, there was a very improper stowage or disposition of the cargo on board, considering what that cargo was,
that the boat had no tiller chain or rope, such as the act of
Congress, as well as common prudence, required, that there
were on board- no fire-buckets, properly prepared and fitted with
heaving-lines, that the fire-engine was in one part of the boat,
while the hose belonging to it was kept or left 'in another, and'
*here it was inaccessible when the fire broke out, and that in
other respects the respondents were guilty of negligence the
more culpable, as the same boat had actually taken fire in her
last preceding voyage, and no measure of caution had been
taken to prevent a recurrence of the accident.
The respondents, on the contrary, offered evidence to- rebut
that adduced m support of the above, and particularly that the
boat, hull, engine, boiler, and general equipment were good, that
the most expeiienced'men had been employed, without regard
to expense, in putting her into complete order, that she had -a
captain, pilot, and crew equal to all ordinary, occasions, and
that respondents -were not liable if they did not prove fit for
emergencies which might appall -the stoutest, that the boat was
well found in tool-chests ;' that ihere were on board a suctionhose, fire-engine, and hose, as required by the act of Congress,
that they were stowed in a proper place, that sufficient reasons
were shown 'why they" were not available at the fire, that there
were three dozen and a half of fire-buckets on board, that the
steering apparatus was good, that the loss of, the boat did not
result from her not having "iron rods and chains" instead of
"wheel or tiller.ropes", that the parting of the wheel-ropes,
if occasioned by the fire, did not:contribute at all to her loss.
At November term, 1843; the cause came on to be heard before the Circuit Court, when -the court pronounced the f6lowing decree.
"This cause came on to be heard upon the libel, .the answer
30*

354

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

of the respondents, and testimony in the case. The respondents submitted to a decree.
"Whereupon it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
said libellants have and recoverlof the said respondents the sum
of twenty-two thousand two hundred and twenty-four dollars,
and costs of sit, and that execution issue therefor according
to the course of the court."
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this
court.
It was argued by Mr Ames and Mr Wfhipple, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr R. W Greene and Mr Webster, for the
defendants. The arguments extended over a wide field, and
it is impossible to give them en extenso. All that can be done
will*be to place before the.reader the-leading views of the respective counsel, and the reasons in support of them.
The brief filed by Mr Ames and Mr Wkhpple appears to
contain these views and authorities. It was as-follows.
The libel, after stating that the respondents, as common carriers of merchandise from the city, of New York to Stonington,
in the State of Connecticut, were owners of the steamboat Lexington, used by them for carrying on their said business, states,
in articles second and third "Second.
That the complainants, on the high seas, and
within-the ebb and flow of the tide, and within the admiralty
and mantime jurisdiction of the United States and of this
court, on the 13th day of January, A. D. 1840, contracted with
the respondents for the transportation by water, on board of the
said steamboat Lexington, from the said port of New York to
the said port of Stonington, of certain gold coin amounting .to
fourteen thousand dollars, and of certain silver coin amounting
to eleven thousand- dollars, to the libellants belonging, and the
said respondents, then and there, for a reasonable hire and reward, to be paid by the libellants therefor, contracted with the
libellants that they would receive said gold and silver coin
on board of the said steamboat Lexington, and transport the
same therein, on the high seas, from said New York to said
Stonington, and safely deliver the same to the libellants.
"Third; That the libellants, on the said 13th day of"January, A. D. 1840, at said New York, delivered to the said respondents, on -board-of the said steamboat Lexington, then
lying at said New York, and within the ebb and flow of the
tide, and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
Umted States and of this court, and the respondents then and
there received on board of said steamboat, the said gold coin
and silver coin, for the purpose of transportink the same by

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

355

New Jersey Steam NavigatLon Company v.Merchants' Bank.

water, on the high seas, from said New York to said Stonington, and. to deliver the same to the libellants, as aforesaid."
*Thelibel then proceeds to state the loss of the Lexington,
wQiist on her voyage from New York to Stonigton, on the
13th of: January, 1840, and of the gold and. silver coin on
board, by fire, and attributes the loss to the improper stowage
of the gold and silver corn,, the imperfect and insufficient engine, furnace, machinery, furniture, rigging, and equipments
of the boat, and her careless, improper, and negligent management and conduct. by the officers, servants, and agents of the
respondents, and by reason thereof -claims damages to the
amount of twenty-five thousand dollars.
The proceeding is rn personam, the process being a warrant
of attachment and moition, 1oth the attachment and momtion
being special.
The appellants contend that the decree of the Circuit Court
for the Rhode Island district should be reversed,, and the libel
dismissed, on the following grounds First. That the contract set forth in the libel, and claimed
to be proved, and for breach of. which damages are sought
therem, -to wit, a contract to carry the gold and silver coin
of the libellants, in the steamboat of the respondents, from the
city of New York to Stonington, in the State of Connecticut,
.-is not a contract withinthe admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the courts of the United States,_ and hence that this
court, sitting as a court of admiralty; has no jurisdiction of this
cause.
Second. That, in fact, the libellants did not deliver to the
.respondents, and the respondents did not receive from the libellants, the said gold and silver corn to carry, but that the contract of the libellants was wholly with one William F Hamden, a carner and forwarder-on his own a:count and risk, and
as such contracted with and paid by the libellants, and hence,
that if the libellants have any cause of action for the loss of
their said coin, it is against Hamden, and not against the respondents, there being no pnvity of contract between the libellants and respondents.

Third.

That if,
in their own name, which we deny, the

libellants could pursue the. respondents, it could only be by
virtue of and under the contract of Harnden and the respondents, for the -transportation on board of the boats of the respondents of Hamden's express crate, and that, by virtue of
this contract, Hamden was. the insurer of his own crate, whilst
on board the respondents' boats, usmg said boats as his own.
Fourth. That although, under these circumstances, we can-

356

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

not be liable for any degree of negligence, or for want of sufficiency in our boat and equipments, to the libellants, with
whom we did not contract, and for whom-we did not carry, we
deny, as a matter of fact, the charge made against us in the
libel in this respect, 'and contend that our boat was stanch and
strong, and well equipped, and that her loss by fire was not occasioned by any deficiency in her equipments, or any unskilfulness or negligence in her conduct.
First point. We say that this court, as a court of admiralty,
has no jurisdiction of the contract set forth in the libel, -a carrying contract, stated and claimed to have been made in the city
and within the body of the county of New York, aid to be performed by the respondents by a trip of their boat, in which she
passed round the head of New York harbour, up the East River, through a portion of Long Island Sound, to Stonmgton, infrafauces terrwe, - land-locked the whole way
It is well settled, that this court will judicially notice geographical facts relating to causes before them. In United
States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dallas, 297, this court took judicial
notice of the position of Sandy Hook. See, too, The Apollon,
9 Wheat. 374. In Steamboat Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, and m
Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 342, this court took judicial notice of the fact that the tide ebbed and flowed at New Orleans.
The general question of the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States as courts of admiralty, "and especially in relation
to contracts, has been much discussed, and we refer the court,
for the general learning and argument upon this subject, to the
late Judge- Winchester's opinion in The Sandwich, 1 Peters's
Adm. Dec. 233, note, Hall's Adm. Prac., Introduction, and to
the opinions of the late Mr. Justice Story, in De Lovio v. Boit,
2 Gall. 398, &c., and The Schooner Volunteer, 1 Sumner, 550,
in which a very enlarged admiralty junsdiction is contended
for, and to the very able and critical opinions of Mr. Justice
Johnson, late of this court, in Ramsay v. Allegre, 12 Wheat.
611, and of Mr. Justice Baldwin, late of this court, in Bains
v. The Schooner James and Catharme, 1 Baldwin, 544, and
to 1 Kent's Comm. -367 - 377, 5th ed., where a very restricted jurisdiction over contracts is held to have been given to
the courts of the United States by the provisions of the Constitution.
Upon this subject, and in relation to the case at bar, we submit to, the court the following points and considerations.
The Constitution of the United States provides, article 3,
sec. 2, that "the judicial power shall extend to all cases in law
and equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the
United States, and the treaties made, or which shall be-made,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

35/

(New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

under their authority, to all cases affecting ambassadors, other
public ministers, and consuls, to all cases of admiralty and maritime.junsdiction, to controversies to which the United States
shall be a party, to controversies between two or more States,
between citizens of different States, between citizens of the
same State claiming lands under grants of different States, and
between a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens, or subjects."
By this clause, the judicial power of the United States is to
extend to "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction"
and whether, considering the letter of the clause, or the nature
of the cases embraced in it; the jurisdiction of the courts of the
Umted States is held to be exclusive. The Sandwich, 1 Peters's Adm. Dec. 233, note (Judge Winchester), Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 333, Barns v. Schooner James and Cathanne, 1 Baldwin, 544, 1 Kent's Comm. 377, 5th ed.
If this jurisdiction be not imperatively exclusive, by force of
the Constitution, it may, at least, become exclusive at the op.tion of Congress, and hence the question of its extent becomes
greatly interesting, both as to the jurisdiction of the States andof the common law, or, in other words, to the rig-t of trial
by ury.
The jurisdiction is given over "all cases," without reference
to the citizenship of the parties, which indicates the extent,
and it is not given over "all admiralty and maritime cases,"
but over "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,"
which indicates the limit of the jurisdiction.
The word "jurisdiction" is necessarily used in direct reference to some court, and the reading of the clause, therefore, is,
"all cases of which admiralty and maritime courts have been
accustomed to exercise jurisdiction", the words "admiralty"
and "maritime" being synonymous, - the one describing
the. jurisdiction by the name of the court, the other by the
nature of the causes tried in it.
The jurisdiction of :courts is necessarily a matter of artificial
law, dependent upon convemence, circumstances, policy, and is
usually parcelled out by positive regula ions.
With regard to the Continental maritine courts, and the courts
of admiralty in England, this has been specially the case.
Though founded on the customs and usages of the Mediterranean Sea, collected in the Consulat, these customs and usages
were adopted and modified to suit the different, countries of
Europe, byk positive regulation, and- courts established with jurisdiction and rules of decision marked out by the code of each
state or commercial city. Us et Coustumes de la Mer, published at Bordeaux, 1681, Sea Laws, 254-256, 376, 377

358

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey -Steam Navigation Company

.

'Merchants' Bank.

Though some matters are within the jurisdiction of all maritime courts, yet it is obvious that on a great variety of subjects
the codes differ, and that there is no universal martune law
ixing with precision the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty or
maritime courts.
To what source, then, are we to go to ascertain what cases
are committed to the courts of the United States by the terms
"cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," used in the
Constitution ?
We submit,, first, that -we are not to go to the codes or laws
of France, Spain, Holland, the Hanse Towns, &c., - to countries of the civil law, - to ascertain the meaning of these terms,
thus adopting a varying standard of jurisdiction, but, as in
.other cases, to the law of the parent country, England, - thp
country from whence this was settled, and from whence we derive, in general, all our laws and institutions.
Second. That, except as a matter of curious speculation, it
is of no importance - to the question before us it is of no nportance - to ascertain what was anciently or originally the
jurisdiction of the English admiralty,, but that the question is,
as a matter of fact, what was it, at earliest, at the settlement of
the country, or, latest, at the period of the American Revolution, and from the course and practice of courts of admiralty
in this country, what was understood to be the extent of admiralty jurisdiction at. the tune of the adoption of the Constitution of the Umted States, when the -words referred to were
used in that instrument.
Third. That, to .the question before the court, it is of no importance whether, in the struggle between the courts of common law and admiralty, the former, carrying out acts of Parliament, or, by their own inherent power of prohibition to inferior
tribunals, transgressing their rightful jurisdiction, restricted the
jurisdiction of the English admiralty within narrower limits
than it anciently or originally claimed and exercised, so that,
as a matter of fact, it was restricted in its jurisdiction within
those limits at 'the periods above referred to.
Fourth. Tht it is of no importance to consider the question, whether ,the terms of the statutes of Richard II. render
them applicable, as statutes, to this country, inasmuch as they,
with the decisions under them, formed a part of the law of
England, fixed the relative jurisdiction of the courts of adinralty and c~mmon law, and had fixed it centuries before the
settlement of this country
We might with much more reason contend, that the royal
order of King Edward I. and his lords, and of King Edward
III.,,and of his solemn convocation of judges, which were in-

JANUARY TBRM, 1848.

359

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

tended to restrain the courts of common law, or the inferior
manoral jurisdictions, were of no binding force upon this country, as invasions of the ancient law of England, than can be
contended 'on -the -other side, that solemn acts of .Parliament,
passed so many years ago, are to be disregarded, as showing
the aicient state of the English law
Fifth. That at the settlement of this country, and at the
Revolution, it is perfectly notorious that the courts of admiralty
in England not onlydid 'not exercise, but did not claim to exercise, jurisdiction over such contracts as the one set forth in
the libel.
We do not refer to the claims of civilians in their treaties, m
which they claimed every thing in general terms. Sea Laws,
208, extracts from Godolphin's View of the Admiral's Jurisdiction.
From such contracts as that set forth in the libel, the courts
of admiralty were expressly excluded by the terms of the acts
of Richard H., confirmed and explained by the acts of Henry
IV and Elizabeth. See Acts, Sea Laws, 229, 234, 235, and
in 6 Vin. Abr. 520, 521.
These acts were plainly and pointedly intended to restrain
the jurisdiction of admiralty on waters within' the body of a
county, and especially within all ports and havens. See Brownlow, part 2, p. 16, Ia Laws, 333. See cases collected in 2
Gall. 429, 447, and 6 Vin. Abr. 523- 527
Dr. Browne admits, what some other civilians deny, that
ports, creeks, and havens are within the restraining acts of
Richard II. and Henry IV., and -thatthe admiralty jurisdiction
was excludedfrom.these places by those acts. 2 Browne, Civ
and Adm. Law, 92, 3 )Dunlap, 33. See, too, opinion of Sir
Chris. Robinson, in The Public Opinion, 2 Haggard, 398.
Indeed, the whole criticism by Judge Story, in De Lovio V.
Boit, of the decisions under the statutes..of Richard, is intended
to show rather that they were decided wrongly, than that they
did not decide that the admiralty had no jurisdiction over contracts made in ports and havens.
The undoubted doctrine of the common law courts, since
these statutes- at least, has ever been, that the jurisdiction of
admialty over contracts is confined to contracts made upon the
hzgh sea, to be executed upon the hzgh sea, of matters in their
own nature maritime. 2 Gall. 437
One great point of dispute between the common lawyers and
the civilians, in the construction of the statutes of Richard II.,
was the meaning ofthe words "things done upon the sea," in
stat. 13 Richard H., and "things done and arsmg within the
bodies of counties," mistat. 15 Richard II.'

360

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Kerchants' Bank.

The civilians, and with them agrees Judge Story, contended
that the words "things dope upon the sea" meant "things
done touching the sea", i. e. maritime affairs and transactions.
They liken these words to the words of the French ordinance of 1400, which gives the admiralty of France "connoissance et jurisdiction de tos les faits de la mor," &c., and
to the words of the French ordinance quoted by Selden, "pour
raison on occasion de faict de la mer", that is, Selden says,
"ab aliquam causam a re maritima ortam", and because "tons
les faits de la mer "1means maritime transaction, in the French
ordinance, the argument is, that the words "choses faits sur
la mer" mean the same thing in the English statute. 2 Gall.
439.
Unlike the French admiralty jurisdiction, the English admiralty jurisdiction, over contracts at least, originally depended
upon the place where made or transacted, and even, it would
seem, upon the occupation of the parties to them. See Order
of King .Edward I., 2 Gall. 402, n. 16, Black Book of Adnnralty quoted by Judge Story, 2 Gall. 405.
Sixth. That, as a matter of fact, the courts of aImIralty in
this country, previous to the adoption of the Constituion of the
United States, so far as their decisions have been considered-of
value enough to be published, never did exercise jurisdiction
over contracts of the character of that set forth in the libel, but
held themselves confined to the limits of the jurisdiction of the
English courts of admiralty Clinton v. Brig Hannah, Bee's Adm.
R. 419, decided by Judge Hopkinson in 1781 Shrewsbury
v. Sloop Two Friends, Bee's Adm. R. 435, decided by Judge
Bee in 1786. See also The Brig Eagle, Bee, 78, and'Pritchard
v. The Lady Horatia, Bee, 168, the former decided in 1796, and
the latter in 1800, after the adoption of the Constitution, m
the latter of which, the ground of the jurisdiction of the court
in the case before it is noticed, and the English cases relied
on and reviewed.
Seventh. The terms of the commissions of courts of viceadmiralty in this country, in former times, and of the judges
of admiralty in England, afford no index to the true limits of
their jurisdiction. They were mere matters of form, and Lord'
Stowell. speaking of his own commission as judge of the High
Court of Admiralty, says, -" It is universally known, that a
great part of the powers given by that commission are totally
inoperative." The Apollo, 1 Haggard's Adm. R. 312. 313.
See, too, Schooner Volunteer, 1 Stunner, 564, 565.
Eighth. No case has yet been decided by the Supreme
Court of the United States, affirming the admiralty jursdiction
of the court over a contract of this character.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

361.

Vew Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

The decisions of the Supreme Court upon the subject of
their admiralty jurisdiction- may be arranged in four classes 1. Cases of material men, proceeding 'n rem, for repairs done
or materials furnished.
The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438, was -the. case of a material man proceeding--n rem m -the domestic pert of the ship.
The libel was dismissed upon the- ground, that upon a ship, in
a domestic port, the maritime law gave no lien for materials
found, &c., the credit being personal, and hence, that the proteeding en rem could not be maintained. See the obiter dictum
of Mr. Justice Story in this case, -in substance, that, if the libel
had been en pesonarn, it would have been sustained, commented on by Mr. Justice Johnson in Bomsay v. Allegre, 12
Wheat. 611.
The case of Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 324, was a libel
in rem against i domestic vessel in the port of New Orleans,
brought by a material man, to enforce a lien given by the local
law of Louisiana in such cases.
These decisions conform to the decisions of Clinton v. Brig
Hannah, Shrewsbury v. Sloop Two Friends, and.Pritchard v.
The Lady Horatia, before cited from Bee, which suppose that
the remedy in admiralty depends upon the fact of a lien.
The third resolution of the agreement of February 4th,,1632,
between the judges of the King's Court of Westminster and
the judge 'of the Court of Admiralty and the attorney-general,
concerning the jurisdiction of the English admiralty, was in
these words "If suit be in the Court of Admiralty -for building, amending, saving, or necessary victualling of a ship, against the ship
itself, and not- against any party by name, but such as, for his
interest, makes himself a party, no prohibition is to be granted,
though they be done within the-realm." Dunlap's Adm. Prac.
14, Hall's Adm. Prac. 24, 25, Introduction.
In the .tune of Charles I., it seems that the English admiralty had jurisdiction to enforce a lien in favor of material men,
by a proceeding i rem. 6 Vin. Abr. 527
2. Cases of possessory, and, perhaps, petitory suits concerning vessels.
The case of' the Steamboat Orleans v. Phoibus, 11 Peters,
175, 184, was a libel en rem, in the nature of a possessory suit,
brought by one part-owner of a vessel against the others, praying that the vessel might be sold, and he paid his advances and
freight in account with the other part-owners, and his propo.
tion of the proceeds of the sale. The court below, strangely
enough, decreed an account and sale. It being shown that the
boat was employed'm plying between New Orleans and Maysz
31
VOL. VI.

362

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank..

ville, on the Ohio River,-i. e. her substantial employment
being in waters without the ebb and flow of the tide, though
she touched waters where the -tide ebbed and flowed at one
termmnus of her trips, New Orleans, - the libel was dismissed
by this court for-want of jurisdiction.
Undoubtedly, had her substantial employment been on waters where the tide ebbed and flowed, the court would have
entertained the suit so far as to decree a stipulation in favor of
the part-owner, for Ins security, though the account and sale
were out of the course of admiralty
Possessory suits, in relation to vessels, have always been entertained by the English Courts of Admiralty without prohibition.
"1Until some tiume after the RestoratiQn," says Lord Stowel,
"the courts of admralty exercised jurisdiction over petitory
suits, when it was found by other courts that it belonged exclusively to them, since which it has been very cautious not
to interfere at all in questions of this sort." The Aurora, 3
Rob. 133, 136.
Pursuing the same subject in the case of The Warrior, 2 Dodson, 288, he reaffirms the above m regard to petitory suits, and
"I
I The jurisdiction over causes of possession was still
adds
retained, and although the higher tribunals of the country denied the right of this court to iiterfere in mere questions of
disputed titles, no insinuation was ever given by them that the
court must abandon its jurisdiction over causes of possession."
See, too, 2 Browne's Civ and Adm. Law, 113, 114, 397, Dunlap's Adm. Prac. 24, 29, 30.
3. Cases of mariners' wages.
The Steamboat Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 429, was a libel in
rem for wages earned on board a steamboat plying between
Shippmgport, in Kentucky, and places up the Missouri River,
which was dismissed by this court for want of jurisdiction over
the contract, as one not relating to service performed on waters
in which the tide ebbed and flowed.
If the service had been substantially performed on tide-waters, the admiralty would have had jurisdiction, such contracts-being within the acknowledged jurisdiction of the English
admiralty. 2 Browne's Civ and Adm. Law, 36, 37, Dunlap,
26, -27
4. Cases of salvage.
Hobart et al. v. Drogan et al., 10 Peters, 108, 119, 120, 121,
was a case of salvage.
Salvage has always been deemed within the jurisdiction of
the English admiralty See the case of The Joseph Harvey, 1
Rob. 306, in which Sir William Scott say s, - "It is allowed

JANUARV TERM, 1848.

363

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

that the court may, in case of pilotage as well as salvage, direct
a proper remuneration to be made."
Andrews v. Wall, 3 Howard, 568, was also a case of salvage,
the proceeds being in possession of the court, and ordered to
be distributed according to an agreement of consortshnp between the salvors. As his Honor, Judge Story, observed, m
delivering the opinion of the court, it has always been held in
the English adminalty, as incidental to the jurisdiction of the
court over the subject of salvage, that the court has power to
entertain supplementary suits in relation to the proceeds in
their.possession, and to order them to be paid over to the parties interested according to their right.
Ninth. We know of no case, out of the first circuit, m
whdh the jurisdiction of the court in admiralty over such- a
contract as this has been affirmed.
The Sloop Mary, 1 Paine, 671, was a libel to enforce a bottonry bond, executed by the owner and master m the West
Indies, to enable him to purchase a cargo. One question was,
whether the case was within the admiralty jurisdiction of the
court, the bond being made by the owner as owner of the vessel, since as master he could'not have made such a bond for the
mere purchase of cargo, but only for necessary supplies and repairs. The court sustained their jurisdiction, upon the ground
that tins was a maritime contract, the vessel being hypothecated for the payment of the sum loaned, and the payment being
contingent upon the safe arrival of the vessel.
In Wilmer v. Smilax, 2 Peters's Adm. Dec. 295, the District
Court of Maryland sustained jurisdiction of a libel on a bottonary deed executed by the owner m a home port. This is
going farther than-this court has intimated it felt authorized to
go. 4 Cranch, 328.
That the English admiralty has always had undisputed junsdiction over bottomry bonds, and of all contingent hypothecations of cargo and freight, is well settled, the jurisdiction
depending, not upon the consideration of the contract, but upon
whether the payment be contingent upon the' arrival of the
vessel. The Barbara, 4 Rob. 1, The Zodiac, 1 Haggard, 325,
The Atlas, 2 Haggard, 48, The Murphy, 2 Browne's Civil and
Adm. Law, 530; Dunlap's Adm. Prac. 27, 28.
Second point. That, in fact, the libellants did not deliver
to the respondents, and the respondents did not receave from
the libellants, the said gold and silver coin to carry, but that
the contract of the libellants was wholly with one Wm. F
Harnden, a carrier and forwarder on his own account and risk,
and as such contracted with and paid- by the libellants, and
hence, that if the libellants have any cause of action for the

364

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

loss of said coin, it is against Harden, and not against the respondents, there being no pnvity of contract between the libellants and respondents.
Hamden was the collector of drafts, &c., for the Merchants'
Bank, in the city of New York, and carrier- of the specie in
qupstion.
His business was that of a carrier and forwarder of specie,
small packages, &c., collector of drafts, purchaser of goods, &c.f
carried on in offices kept by him in New York and Boston, and
how he did his business as a carrier is proved by Hamden, 118,
121, Lockwood, 102, 105.
His mode of carrying between New York and Stonmgton'is
.shown by his agreements with the respondents, owners of boats
plying between those places.
The agreement of August, 1839, provides, "1that the said
William F Hamden, for and in consideration of the sum of
$250 per month, to be paid monthly to the said New Jersey
Steam Navigation Company, is to have the privilege of transporting in the steamers of said company, between New York
and Providence, via Newport and "Stonmgton, not to exceed
once in each day, from New York and from Providence, and
as less frequently as the boats may run between .and from said
places, one wooden crate, of the dimensions of rive feet by fi)y
feet in width and height, and six feet in length (contents unknown), until the 31st December, A. D. 1839, and from this
date.
"The following conditions are stipulated and agreed to, as
part of this contract, to wit - The said crate, with its contents, is to be at all times exclusively at the risk of the said
William F Harnden, and the New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company will not, in any event, be r -sponsibl , either to him
or his employers, for the loss of any goods, wales, merchandise,
money, notes, bills, evidences of debt, or property of any and
every description, to be conveyed or transported by hun in said
crate, or otherwise, in any -manner, on the boats of said company.
"1Further, thai-'the said Hamden is to attach to his advertisements, to be imserted m the, public prints, as a common carrier, exclusively responsible for higacts and doings, the followng notice, which he is also to attach to his receipts or bills of
ltding, to be given in al cases for goods, wares, and merchandise, and other property committed to his.charge, to be transported in said crate or otherwise
" 'Take notice. -William F Hamden id alone responsible for
the loss or injury of any articles or property committed to his
care, nor is any risk assumed by, nor can any be attached to,

JANUARY TERM, .1848.

865

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

the proprietors of the steamboats in which his crate may be,
and is transported, in respect to it or-its contents, at any time.'"
Schedule I, printed zec. 128. Handen applies for renewal of
contract, by letter, of date Boston, December 7, 1839, schedule
I, printed rec. 129, Handy replies, by letter, of date New York,
December 9, 1839, schedule K, printed rec. 130, Hamden's
letter, of date Boston, December 16,.1839, schedule L, printed
rec. 130, Handy's letter, of date New York, December 31,
1839, schedule M, printed rec. 130, 131. To this Harmden
makes no reply, waitirg until he came to New York, Hamden's deposition, printed rec. 121, answer to third cross-interrogatory. He was kept back by bad weather (Lockwood's
deposition, printed rec. 104, answer to twenty-second-mterrogatory), but under same contract, with same advertisements,
continues to transport his-crate in the boats of the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, as before, and on coming to
New York, on the 24th of February, 1840, fornally renews the
contract as proposed by Handy in his letter of December 31,
1839. During the interval between the date of this letter and
the 24th of February, 1840, the Lexington was lost. See Hamden's deposit1ii, 120, Brigham's, 28, answers to first, second,
third, and fourth cross-interrogatories, ib. 141, Lockwood's,
104, twenty-third interrogatory, schedule N, printed rec. 131,
132. Hamnden had acted as earner for the bank before this
transaction. Harnden's deposition, 120, answers to thirteenth,
seventeenth, and eighteenth interrogatories, and to tenth crossinterrogatory.
He was not our agent, but did business for himself. They
employed him, and not us, and were bound to know in what
character he acted, the presumption being, that he who is employed is alone responsible for his acts and contracts.
The burden is upon the libellants to show that Hamden's
acts and contracts bind us, he doing business as a carrier, on
his own account, an fact and appearance.
We are not bound, therefore, to bring home to the libellants
knowledge of the terms of his contract with us, and. his notices of these terms are not our notices, but his own, stipulated for, it is true, in our contract with him, ex abundanti cautela, but our exemption from responsibility coming from our
relation to Hamden and our contract with him, and not from
the fact that his notices were brought home to his employers.
But the Merchants' Bank actually knew that Harnden did
business for himself, and was alone to be responsible. He distributed ten thousand notices to that effect, and especially sent
them to the Boston banks. Hamden's deposition, 119, answers to fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth inter31*

366

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

rogatories, page 121, answer 121, answer to tenth cross-interrogatory
He advertised to that effect in the Boston newspapers, some
-of which this bank took. Curtis's. deposition, 153, Champney's, 153, Nichols's, 154, advertisement, 155, Conant's, 153
.155.
Hamden was not the agent of the Merchants' Bank to ship
-their corn with us. He was their agent to collect their drafts
in New York, but their. carrier to transport the proceeds to
them at Boston. He used our boats under general express arrangements, for the carrying on of his own business, made be:.
tween-him and ourselves, by which both are bound, and which
necessarily excluded all taeit agreements between us and his
customers.
We carried Hamden's crate for hur , - not its contents for
his employers. We are, therefore, no carriers for the Merchants' Bank ;-there is no contract - no privity of contract
between them and us.
Hence, we cannot be liable to the Merchants' Bank, but,
if at all, only to Harnden, on our contract with him. Reynolds v. Toppan, 15 Mass. Rep. 370, King v. Lenox, 19
Johns. 235, 236, Walter v. Brewer, 11 Mass. Rep. 99, Ward
v. Green, 6 Cowen, 173, Allen v. Sewall, 2 Wendell, 327, S.
C. in error, 6 ib. 335, Halsey v. Brown, 3 Day, 346, Portugal
coin case, Abbott on Slip. 119, Cas. Temp. Hardw 85, 194,
Butler. v. Basing, 2 Car. & Payne, 613, Citizens' Bank v. Nantucket Steamboat Company, 2 Story, 32- 34, 46.
Again, in case of valuables, as jewels and precious stones,
gold and silver coin, earned either by land or sea, it not being
the custom of the carrier to carry such things without a special
acceptance, he shall not be liable- for their loss, unless he accepts them and is paid for them. Kenng v. Eggleston, Aleyn,
93, commented on by Lord Mansfield, in Gibbon v. Paythton,
4 Burr. 2301. Cases of baggage decided by Lord Holt, and
collected in 1 Yin. Abr. 220 , and see 1 Wheat. Selwyn, 301,
No. 1, and cases cited. Orange Countv Bank v. Brown et al.'
9 Wend, 85, Pardee v.Drew, 25 ib. 459, Citizens' Bank v.
Nantucket Steamboat Company, 2 Story, 32- 34, 46, Statutes
11 Geo. 4, and 1 Win. 4, ch. 38, 68, found in 2 Kent's Comm.
609, note c 1 2 Stephens's N. P., art. Carmer, in relation to
land-carriers. Statutes 7 Geo. 2, ch. 15 , 26 Geo. 3. ch. 86,
53 Geo. 3, ch. 159, found in 2 Kent's Comm. 606. Abbott on
Shipping, part 3, ch. 4, sect. 8, 9, and in chap. 5, on Limitation of Responsibility of Ship-owners. See Hinton v. Dibbm,
2 Adol. & Eli. (N. S.) 646, reviewing obiter dicta in Boys v.
Pink, 8 Car. & Payne, 361, and in Owen v. Burnett, 2 Cromp.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

"S

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchant&' Bank.

& Mees. 353, S. C., 4 Tyrwhtt, 133, in construction of statutes 11 Geo. 4 and 1 Win. 4, ch. 68.
We neither received, were paid for, nor carried, with our
knowledge, the gold and silver coin of the Merchants' Bank.
The warranty of sufficiency of boat, eqmpments, &c., is implied in the contract of carriage in favor of him whose goods
are contracted to be carried. It follows, that, if we did. not
contract to carry for the Merchants' Bank, we did not warrant
the suffi6lency of our means of carriage to them.
Third point. That if in their own name, which we deny,
the libellants could pursue the respondents, it could only be by
virtue of and under the, contract of Handen and the resp~ndents for the transportation on board of the boats of the respondents of Hamden's express -crate, and that, by virtue of this
contract, Hamden was the insurer of his own crate whilst on
board -therespondents' boats, using said boats as his own.
The contract between Hamden, by its terms, throws the
whole risk of the carnage of his. crate and contents exclusively
on him, - m any event, at any time. No policy forbids such
a contract.
In England it is well settled that a carrier may limit his responsibility by a special acceptance. Kenrig v. Eggleston,
Aleyn, 93, Rolles, Ch. J., Southeote's case, 4 Coke, Rep. 84,
Coke, Ch. J., Slue v. Morse, 1 Vent. 190, 288, Hale, Ch. J.,
Lyon v. Mells, 1 Smith, 484, S. C., 5 East, 428 - Abbott on
Ship., part 3, ch. 4, sec. 8, p. 296, ed. 1822.
See old and new form of bill of lading. Abbott on Ship.,
part 3, ch. 2, sec. 3, p. 216, ed. 1829, 1 Bell's Comm. 454,
471, 4th ed., Gibbon v. Paynt6in, 4 Burr. 2301, see Yates, J.,
Peake's N. P Cases, 150, 2 Taunt. 271, 1 Bell's Comm. 380,
384, 4th ed., book 1, part 1, ch. 4, sec. 3, Amerscan Bills of
Lading, see Gordon v. Buchanan, 5 Yerger, 71, Johnson v.
Friar, 4 ib. 48, Atwood v. RelianceTransp. Co., 9 Watts, 87,
Relf v. Rapp, 3 Serg. & Watts,-35.
It is well settled in Eigland, that a common carrier may
limit his responsibility by notices brought home to the knowledge of his customers. Nicholson v. Willan, 5 East, 513,
Gibbon v. Paynton, 4 Burr. 2301, Yates, J., and Aston, J.,
Evans v. Soule, 2 M. & S. 1, Latham v. Ratley, 2 B. & C.
20 ,. Harry v. Packwood, 2 Taunt. 264, Leeson v. Holt, 1
Starkie, 186, Mawing v. Todd, ib. 72, Lowe v. Booth, 13
Price,329, Riley v. Horne, 5 Bingh. 217, Brooke v. Pickwick,
4 Bingh. 218.
.The same doctrine prevails in America. Gordon v. Little, 8
Serg. & Rawle, 533, Atwood v. Reliance Transp. Co., 9 Watts,
87, Orange County Bank v. Brown, 9 Wend. 115, Nelson, J.;
Phillips v. Earle, 8 Pick. 182, Bean v. Green, 3 Fairf. 422.

WS

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants" Bank.

As to the extent of a carrier's liability under such notices.
Smith v. Home, 8 Taunt. 144, Lowe v. Booth, 13 Price, 329,
Brooke v. Pickwick, 4 Bingh. 218- Owen v. Burnett' 2 Cromp.
& Mees. 360, Wyld v. Pickford, 8 Mees. & Wels. 443.
By special contract a carrier may dispense with all respons1bility, and, in this respect, a special agreement differs from notice. 1 Bell's Comm. 380 - 384, 4th ed., book 1, part 1, ch. 4,
sect. 2.
The cases of Cole v.. Goodwin, 19 Wend. 280, Nowlen v.
Hollister, ib. 246, 247, Clark v. Faxton, 21 ib. 153, and Gould
v. Hill, 2 Hill, 623, are cases of lost baggage of passengers or
goods carried by land. See Schieffelin v. Harvey, 6 Johns. 180,
McArthur "v.Sears, 21 Wend. 194, which show that, as common carrers by water, under a contract for the carnage of
goods, and especially valuables, deliberately made, we should
be entitled to the benefit of the terms of our special agreement
with Harnden, 'under which the libellants must claim, if at all.
See 2 Kent's Comm. 601, 608.
But we were not common carners of this crate and its contents. A common carrier as to some things is not necessarily
a common carrier as to others. Citizens' Bank v. Nantucket
Steamboat Co., 2 Story, 32- 34, 46, &c.
The agreement between us, as the owners of steamboats, and
Harnden, a carner, was a permanent arrangement, byvirtue
of which he was to have the privilege of sending his crate by
our boats, and to carry on his business in our boats.
This he could not exact of us as a common carner for him,
and we did not perform as a common earner. Story on Bailments, 512,  508., ibid. 483,  476, Jencks v. Coleman, 2
Sumner, 224, 225, Story on Bailments, 581- 583,  591, a,
583, n. 1, 1 Vin. Abr. 220, and cases cited.
In New York it is perfectly well settled that any other
bailees, except common carriers, may make what contracts, vad
provide for what limitations of responsibility, they will, and
the courts will fairly carry out the contract. Alexander v.
Greene, 3 Hill, 1, 2 Kent's Comm. 608, note a.
In New York a bailee, under such a contract as that between
Harnden and ourselves, is liable only for fraud. Ibid.
It is like a case of charter-party, in which the charter-partysettlea the responsibilities of the parties to it. Abbott on Ship.,
part 3, oh. 1, Contract of Affreightment.
Fourth point. That, although under these circumstances
we cannot be liable for any degree of negligence, or. for want
of sufficiency in our boat and equipments, to the libellants,
with-whom we did not contract, and for whom we did not carry, nor to Harnden for any misconduct short of fraud or wil-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

369

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

ful injury, yet we deny, as a matter of fact, the charge made
against us in this respect, and contend that our boat was stanch
and strong, and well equipped, and that her loss by fire was not
occasioned by any deficiency in her equipments, or any unskilfulness or negligence in her conduct.
Admitting that we could be liable to them on this ground,
the burden, as in case of every other breach of contract, is upon him who alleges and claims for a breach, - the libellants
here. They must prove, 1st. The insufficiency, &c.
2d. That their loss was caused by that insufficiency, and not
merely its abstract existence. 1 Bell's Comm. 460, 4th ed.,
book 3, part 1, ch. 5, sec. 2, paragraph 499, L. B. 3, Pothier,
Chartre Partie, vol. 1, p. 319, Havelock v. Geddes, 10 East,
555, Sharp v. Grey, 9 Bingh. 459, Alderson, J., Bremner v.
Williams, 1 Car. & Payne, 414 ;.Best, J., Jones v. Boyce, 1
Starkie, 495, Bell v. Reed, 4 Binney, 127, Hart v. Allen, 2
Whart. 120, Reed v. Dick, 8 Watts, 479, Anies v. Stevens,
1 Stra. 128.
The question has been, whether a carrier is ever liable for a
secret defect. Pothier, Chartre Partie,-vol. 1, p. 319, Sharp v.
Grey, 9 Bingh. 459, Alderson, J., Christie v. Griggs, 2 Camp.
81, Brenimer v. Williams, 1 Car. & Payne, 414, Story on
Bailments, % 509, 562, 571, a,-592, and authorities cited.
However this may be, as a.general question, we contend that,
'under a contract by which all risk was excluded from us, we
are not to be liable for secret defects in our boats, machinery,
&c.
Our boat, hull, engine, boiler, and general equipment were
good, by, the proof. (Here the counsel entered into a minute
examination of the testimony.)
The act of 1838 is a penal act, imposing new duties upon
carners, and does not apply to a boat engaged in the waters in
which the Lexington was employed, when lost, but only to
boats voyaging "at sea,? or in the specifie4 larger lakes. See.
8th and 9th sections of the act of 1838.
Compare the 8th and 9th sections of the act'with the 3d,
4th, 5th, and 6th sections, and it will be seen that the word
CC
sea," iii the act, does not mean "bay, river, or other navigable waters of the United States," but "1altum mare," " high
or open sea," in the common sense of the term.
But, finally, the loss of the Lexington did not result from
her not having "1iron rods and chains," instead of "wheel or
tiller ropes," required by the statute.
The boat. when found to be on fire, should have been stopped, and this seems to have been the captain's attempt, at one

370

SUPREME COURT.
,

New Jerse~y Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

tne. The parting of the wheel-ropes, if occasioned by the
fire, did not contribute at all to her loss.
The want of the steering apparatus required by the statute,
not being the cause of her loss, is no ground for damages, within the authorities above cited.
Mr R. W Greene, for the defendants in error, argued the
question of jurisdiction first, and then the following points
1. That the respondents were common carriers.
2. That common carriers are liable for all losses, except those
which arise from the act of God, the public enemies, or the fault
of the owner of the goods.
3. That common carrers cannot limit their liabilities by notice.
4. That even a special' agreement to exempt a common
carrier from the legal liabilities of his employment would be
void. One cannot be a common carrier, receiving the compensation of common carriers, and yet be exempted or excused
from the proper responsibilities of his employment.
5. That if there be any doubt of the correctness of the foregoing propositions, according to the law of England or other
countries, there is none according to the law of New York,
where the shipment in this case was made.
6. Bat if the libellants be wrong on the general point (viz.
that common carriers cannot, m New York at least, limit their
responsibility at all by notice), still the effect of notice, if any
effect whatever be given to it, can only be to relieve the carner from liability for artraordinarylosses or occurrences. He
isstill liable for losses within his own warranty, express or implied, or occasioned by his own negligence or misconduct.
The libellants contend, therefore,
7 That there is no sufficient proof of notice an this case,
and, 8. That if notice be proved, it does not relieve the respondents from their implied warranty with regard to the vessel, her
seaworthiness, her equipment, the competency of her crew and
commander, the mode of stowing cargo, and the navigation
and general management of her as a carrying vessel.
And the libellants will maintain, as a rule of evidence fit to
govern this case, that if a vessel be lost an fair weather, without the presence of any external cause or occurrence adequatp
to the production of the loss, the legal presumption is that she
was either unseaworthy or was improperly navigated, conducted, or managed, and to discharge the respondents, this presumption must be met, answered, and overtlrown, by clear and
satisfactory proof.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

371

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

The li]ellants contend that there is in the case no such clear
and satisfactory proof as is sufficient to overcome the legal presu.mption, and they insist, further, that there is proof that, alt
point of fact, the respondents' warranty was not complied with
in various respects, and among others in these, viz. - that the
furnaces were unsafe and msufficient, that there was no proper
casing to the steam-chnney, nor any safe lining of the deck
wheke the chimney passed through, that dry pine wood was
habitually kept in a vert exposed situation, that, especially,
there was a very improper stowage or disposition of the cargo
on board, considering what that cargo was, that the boat had
no tiller chain or rope, such as the act of Congress as well as
common prudence required, that there were on board no firebuckets, properly prepared and fitted with heavng-lines, that
the fire-engine was m one part of the boat, while the hose belonging to it was kept or left in another, and where it was inaccessible when the fire broke out, and that in other respects
the respondents were guilty of negligence, the more culpable,
as the same boat had actually taken fire in her last preceding
voyage, and no measure of caution had been taken to prevent
a recurrence of the accident.
1st point. As to the question of jurisdiction.
The counsel upon the oiher side have argued this question
as if it were the decision of the court which vested the junsdiction in it, immediately under the Constitution, without the
intervention of an act of Congress, and that if the court were
to decide with us, the jurisdiction must remain in its, fll extent until an alteration of the Constitution. But the Constitution vests in Congress the power to distribute this jurisdiction
amongst the courts of the Umted States, as the public good
may require. The courts only take what Congress confers.
Congress may confer a jurisdiction as large as the grant contamed in the Constitution, as they have done in the Judiciarr
Act of 1789, or they may abridge and restrict the jurisdiction.
within such limits as they think proper. They may enact the
statutes of Richard, with my Lord Coke's construction. They
may even take away the jurisdiction over seamen's wages and
bottomry bonds. Congress can also regulate the forms of process and the modes of proceeding in the courts of admiralty,
and can provide for the trial by jury of all issues.
Upon such a construction of the grant, the people retain the
whole subject under their own control, to be regulated as experience and the progress. of events may render expedient. If
they find it too large under the Judiciary Act of 1789, they can
limit'it, if they prefer that the remedy should be confined to
cases-,n rem, they can so restrict it, if they wish a process mn
personam as well as sn
,they can leave the law as it is.

372

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey -Steam Navigation Company v. Aferchants' Bank.

Whereas, by the construction contended for by our adversaries, the court are urged to disable Congress, and the people
through Congress, from conferring such jurisdiction as their
interests may require. The statutes of Richard, with my Lord
Coke's construction of.them, become a part of the Constitution
of the United States, and impose upon the people and Congress a perpetual disability to enlarge the jurisdiction, however
much their interests may require it, without an alteration of
the-Constitution. The members of the Convention were statesmen, civilians, and common lawyers, they were engaged in
framing an instrument of government, which they hoped, and
which we hope, will endure for ages. The great objects of
the confederacy were commerce and union. Is it not absurd
to suppose that men, engaged in such a work, would have incorporated into the compact of government such distinctions
as to remedies in rem and in personam as are contended for
by the counsel for the respondents ? Would they not have
conferred the larger power upon Congress. and thus left the
subject to be regulated as experience should show was most
expedient
It is said, however, in answer to this, that, if the court
-should now decide that it does not possess the jurisdiction,
Congress can hereafter enlarge the jurisdiction. But the present -grant is coextensive with the grant of power to Congress
itself in the Constitution. The words used are the same m
both instruments. If, then, Congress have already exhausted
their power by vesting the courts with the whole of it, how
can any fund remain in reserve upon which Congress can draw
for a fresh supply?
But it is contended, by the counsel upon the other side, that
the English system of' admiralty, as it existed in 1787, became
bodily transferred, just as it then stood, into the Constitution
of the United States. Without inquiring, for the present,
into the absurd5 contradictory, and mconsistent principles upon
which the common lawyers of England had placed the system, let us examine how far it -would be suitable and appropriate to the United States, -how far it would be adapted to our
condition, and adequate to carry out one of the great objects
for which the people adopted the Constitution. This object
was to- promote commerce. The preamble indicates this. The
United States was a maritime nation, with an immense extent
of sea-coast, indented with bays, rivers, and harbours, the navigation of which was dangerous. A few considerations will
serve to show -that the limited construction contended for by
the other side would eminently fail in promoting this essential
object of the union.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

373

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

As to pilotage.
The English admiralty had no jurisdiction over pilotage, except upon the high seas, where it was not needed.
(Mr.. Greene here illustrated the necessity of the supervision
of the federal government over the subject of pilotage, because of its importance, its peculiar applicability to admiralty
jurisdiction, the meritorious character of the services rendered,
&c., &c., also over the subject of material men, inasmuch as
the States were foreign to each other as to jurisdiction, also
over the subject of salvage,, inasmuch as the English admiralty
had jurisdiction over salvage only where the property of the
ship wrecked was not cast ashore, see 5 Howard, 452, also
over the subject of collisions in bays, harbours, and navigable
rivers, which are purely a -maritime subject, and more apt to
occur than collisions on the high seas.)
The subject tf affreightment is not within the admiralty jurisdiction of England, although the subject of seamen's wages
is so. But freight is the mother- of wages. The whole subject of affreightment is purely maritime, and within the jurisdiction of all the Continental courts, and of Scotland, to this
day. 1 Sumner, 555, 558, 559.
What are the history and principles of English admiralty jur, sdiction, as settled by the common law courts? The princiPC is, that if a contract be made upon land, to be performed
a.on the sea, or made upon the sea, to be performed upon land,
the courts of admiralty have no jurisdiction. But they can
only interfere where contracts are made upon the sea, to be
performed upon the sea, - such as a note of hand, given at sea,
to be paid at sea, or an agreement to. convey real estate, to be
executed upon the voyage. Lord Kenyon admitted this to be
absurd. In 3 T R.-267, he says, -" If the admiralty have jurisdiction over the subject-matter, to say that it is necessary for
the parties to go. upon the sea, in order to execute the mstrument, bordeis upon absurdity ' The common law, as to. all
other than mariLme contracts, is,that the law .of the place of
performance is to govern, but this rule is set aside as to admiralty The general rule which governs all courts, as to theif
jurisdictic't, is the subject-matter. This is the rule m chancery, in the ecclesiastical courts, and the common law courts,
upon every branch of jurisdiction except the admiralty, and in
that case alone the inquiry is, not whether the. contract be- of
a maritime nature, but whether it was made within the body
of a county. The statutes of Richard are relied upon for this
rule, and these statutes are declared, by Lord Coke to be in
affirmance of the common law From -whatever source this
rule of jurisdiction was derived, -whether from the statutes
32
VOL. VI.

374

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersoy.Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

of Richard or from the common law, -if
it be an arbitrary
rule, and not founded in any just principle, it is unreasonable
to suppose that the people of the United States meant to make
it a part of their federal compact. But neither the common
law nor the statutes of Richard are jjistly chargeable with this
absurd rule of jurisdiction. It rests entirely upon the authority of Lord Coke, who was a great common lawyer, but no
civilian.
(Mr Greene then cited the ancient commissions in admiralty, the ordinance of Edward I., confirmed by ordinance of
Edward III., the statutes. of Richard II. and Henry IV., to
:show that the object of all of them was to place the admiralty
jurisdiction in the same position where Edward III. had placed
it, which did not justify the rule in question.)
The history of Lord Coke's controversy with Lord Chancellor Ellesmere shows the extent to which he desired to push
the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of common law 3 B1.
Comm. 44. Lord Coke's enmity to the 'admiralty has-been a
subject of comment by the common law judges in later times,
particularly by Mr. Justice Buller, but they were bound by the
authority of his decisions, however much they may have condemned the principle on which they were founded.
And
now, at this late day, this court are called upon to incorporate
these decisions- into the American Constitution, and. thus deprive the American people of. the power, through their representatives in Congress, so to regulate this jurisdiction as their
interests may require.
The preservation of the trial by jury is said to be -the great
object for which these decisions were made. It was alleged
that the admiralty had no trial by jury, that the judge was the
immediate representative of the crown, and that the subject
had'no -participation in the proceedings of his court. This
was very plausible in England, but it has no application to
this country, and even in England itself the reason is not
sound. If the trial by jury be of such importance as to exclude the admiralty jurisdiction from' certain classes of cases
of..a maritime character, why is the jurisdiction of the Lord
Chancellor allowed in that country ? His jurisdiction extends
over the whole kingdom, and controls and annuls the judgments of the common law courts. He is the immediate adviser of the king, and keeper of his conscience. He is a
member of the Privy Council, a politician, appointed and removed as his party succeeds or falls. There is no jury trial in
his court, except at his discretion, and he never orders an issue
to be tried before a jury, except when the evidence is so doubtfut that he can come to no satisfactory conclusion, and he then

JANUARY TERM, '1848.

375

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

puts upon a jury the responsibility of guessing. The United
States courts are invested by the Constitution with this power,
and they exercise it, sitting as circuit courts in the different
States.
How have the common law courts of England extended
their own jurisdiction, whilst so scrupulous respecting that of
others? The*venue was originally local in cases of contracts
and personal torts, as well as in real actions. The jury must
come from the -vicinage, and therefore, where the transaction
occurred at sea, no jury could try the case. But a videlicet
gave to these courts jurisdiction over the ocean, and the defendant was not allowed to deny the fiction. This was, in
fact, an encroachment upon the admiralty The Court of
King's Bench had originally no jurisdiction over contracts, but
was confined to cases of trespass. But a fiction which was not
permitted to be denied gave jurisdiction over matters of contract, and a similar fiction enlarged the jurisdiction of the Court
of Exchequer also..
Two arguments are urged against the jurisdiction over the
present case 1st. It takes away the trial by jury
2d. It encroaches upon the jurisdiction of the State tribunals.
1st. It takes away the trial by jury.
'Nothing can be clearer than- that our ancestors attached a
high value to the righl of trial by jury. - But there, is a wide
difference between an English admiralty judge and one appointed under the Constitution of the United States. The
reasons for entertaining a jealousy against the former do not
apply to the latter. In the United States, admiralty judges, as
well as common law judges, are appointed by and responsible
to the people, in some form or other. There is, therefore, no
political reason for restraining the jurisdiction of a court of admiralty If our American ancestors were jealous of the jurisdiction of the vice-admiralty courts of the colonies, the reason
for that jealousy ceased when we became an independent people.. A vice-admiralty judge of the colonies was the,representative of the crown, the people of the colonies had no voice
nor participation in his proceedings. It was a foreign tribunal,
enforcing, amongst other things, the obnoxious laws of trade.
But when the people of the United States came to frame a
government for themselves, and to establish a judiciary which
should be ultimately responsible to them, nothing can more
clearly show how well the Convqnt,-on and Congress understood
their change of position, than the insertion into the Judiciary
Act of 1789 of the clause which makes seizures upon tide-wa-

376

SUPREME COURT.

NeW Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

ter, for breaches of the revenue laws, cognizable in the courts
of the United States, as courts of adinnilty No trial by jury
was provided. This branch of the vice-admiralty jurisdiction
was most bitterly complained of by the colonies, and. yet the
first Congress WThch sat under the Constitution-invested the
courts of the United States with the same power. It was composed of many of the same men who, in the Convention, had
framed the Constitution, and who had also been members of
the Congress whose measures led to the Revolution. The jurisdiction thus given, for penalties and forfeitures upon tidewater, is in direct contradiction to the English system. But
it was known to the members of the Convention that a jury
trial could be prescribed by an act of Congress in the courts
of admiralty It was so in the colonial vice-admiralty of Yirgima.
It may be mentioned, also, that chancery jurisdiction was
given to the courts of the United States by the Constitution.
There is here no trial by jury, and yet it controls and annuls
the judgments of common law courts. Chancery courts existed in most of the colonies, - in New York, Virginia, &c., and their existence was never complained of, because they were
established by the colonies themselves.
2d. It encroaches upon the jurisdiction of the State tribunals.
This argument begs the question. It assumes that such jurisdiction would be an encroachment. We deny it. The
words of the grant in the Constitution are, "to all cases of adimralty and maritime jurisdiction." They are words of the
most comprehensive import, and from the language used, as
well as from the reasonableness of the thing, we say that the
people must be presumed to have intended a jurisdiction which
was needful and proper to carry out, or to aid in carrying out,
the great commercial purposes of the Constitution. In adopting.the Constitution, the people intended to confer upon the
federal government all the powers needful to accomplish the
purposes for which it was formed. State courts are governed
by the common law, and not the law maritime. The decisions
of one Etate, moreover, are not binding on another, and thus
there would be no uniformity Whilst the regulation. of the
commerce of the country was in the hands of the federal goverment, if its courts had no jurisdiction over commercial
questions which might arise out of that commerce, there would
be one law iin
New York, another in Massachusetts, and a third
an some other State.
(Mr Greene continued much further his illustrations of tins
matter. But for them, or for his arguments upon the other
points of the case, there is not room.)

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

377

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

Mr Webster, upon the same side with Mr Greene, laid
down the following propositions, which he illustrated at considerable length.
This court has decided,
First. That the admiralty jurisdiction of this government
is not limited to the admiralty jurisdiction as it existed in
England in 1789. The English rules, therefore, are not to be
regarded. Warng v. Clarke, 5 Howard, 441.
Second. That a suit in admiralty lies for a tort committed
on the high seas, or elsewhere within the ebb and flow of the
tide. Waring v. Clarke, 5 Howard, 441.
Third. That in cases of tort, the proceeding may as well
be in personam as in rem. Manro v. The .Almeida, 10
Wheaton, 473.
Fourth. That in case of contract where there is a lien, the
admiralty jurisdiction arises, though the contract may be made
on land. Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 324, The General
Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438.
Fifth. That the true question in cases of contract. is this,
to wit, whether the service agreed to be performed, and performed, be in its nature a maritime service. This excludes
policies of insurance, but includes affreightment and all contracts to carry over and upon tide-waters. 7 Peters, 324,
Lord Mansfield and other English judges, Hall's Admiralty, 1.
Sixth. In cases of contract, the proceeding may be in personam, as well as in rem. There would be a great mconsistency if this were not so. In cases .where nothing more is
sought than damages for the non-fulfiment of a contract,
there are two objects, and two only, in proceeding by way of
seizure of the rem. One to compel an appearance in the litigation, the other to obtain security Both these are identical
with the proceeding by way of attaching the defendant's goods,
as in the case in 10 Wheaton. But it is important to remember, that, in cases of the seizure of the rem, the judgment or
satisfaction is not limited to the proceeds of the sale thereof.
If a balance remain unsatisfied, execution process, goes against
the defendant in personam, if he has appeared and contested
the suit. In this case, therefore, the plaintiff ,proceeds in personam with as much regularity as belongs to any proceeding
in rem. Besides, as the res went to the bottom, how could
there be any proceeding in rem. If -there were another case
exactly like this, except that in such case a spar, or a sail, or
the caboose-house, having been found floating, should have.
been seized, would this court ha e taken jurisdiction in one
case and not in the other ? 10 Wheaton, ubt supra.
32*

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

Seventh. The court laving decided that the constitutional
grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction to the government of the United States is not to be limited by the rules
which restrained the English admiralty in 1789, it follows of
course, that the jurisdiction of the courts of the Umted States
should naturally be coextensive with the*granted power, unless
Congress has otherwise declared, and as the Judiciary Act
of 1789, section ninth, expressly vests in the District Courts
of the United States original cognizance of all civil causes of
admirally and maritime jurisdiction, then whatever this court
adjudges to be a case of admiralty and maritime jurlsdiction
belongs originally to the District Court, and invests that court
necessarily with the power of all process and proceedings fit
and pr6per for the exeicise of its jurisdiction, subject to regulation by Congress.
Eighth. It is not, probably, doubted that the grant of ad-.
miralty and maritime jurisdiction to the government of the
United States is exclusive, or that no state now retains any
such power, and so absolutely indispensable has such a jurisdiction been-found to-be on. the interior lakes and rivers, that
Congress has been obliged.to provide, and ha provided, for its
exercise on those waters. See Act of 1845.
The only objection to this necessary law seems to be, that
Congress, in passing it, was shivering and trembling under the
apprehension of what might be the ultimate consequence of
the decision of this court in the case of the Thomas Jefferson.
It pitched the power upon a wrong location.
Its proper home was in the admiralty and maritime grant,
asm all reason, and in the common sense of all mankind out of
England, admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ought to extend,
and does extend, to all navigable waters, fresh or salt.
The Reporter understands that Mr. Chief Justice Taney,
Mr. Justice McLean, and-Mr. Justice Wayne, concirred in the
-following opinion.
Mr. Justice NELSON.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, held in and for the District- of Rhode Island, in a suit
-originally commenced in the District-Court in admiralty, and
in which the Merchants' Bank of Boston were the libellants,
and the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company the respondents.
The suit was instituted upon a contract of affeightment, for
the purpose of recoveritng a large amount, of specie .lost in the
Lexington, one of the -steamers of the' respondents running

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

-379

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

between New York and Providence, -which took fire- and was
consumed, on the night of the 13th of January, 1840, on Long
Island Sound, about four niles off Huntington lighthouse,
and between folty and fifty miles from the former city
The District Court dismissed the libel proform , and entered
a decree accordingly. An appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court, where this decree of dismissal was.reversed, and a decree entered for the libellants for the sum of $ 22,224, with
costs of suit.
The case is now before this court for review
William F Hamden, a resident of Boston, was engaged in
the business of carrying for-hire small packages of goods, specie, and bundles of all kinds, daily, for any persons choosing to
employ him, to and from the cities of Boston and New York,..
using the public conveyances between these cities as the mode
of transportation. For this purpose, he had entered -nto an
agreement with the respondents on the 5th of August, -1839,
by which, in consideration of $ 250 per month, to be paid
monthly, they agreed to allow him the privilege of transporting
in their steamers between New York and Providence a wooden
crate of the dimensions of five feet by five feet. in width and
height, and six feet in length, (contents unknown,) until the
31st of December following, subject to these conditions 1. The crate with its contents to be at all times exclusively
at the risk of the said Hamden, and the respondents not in any
event to be responsible, either to hun or his employers, for the
loss of any goods, wares, merchandise, money, &c., to be conveyed or transported by him in said crate,, or otherwise in the
boats of said company
2. That he should annex to-his advertisements published in
the public prints the following notice, and which was, also, to
be annexed to: his receipts of goods or bills of lading ,1 Take notice. - William F Harmden is alone responsible
for the loss or injury of any articles or property committed to
Ins care, nor is any risk assumed by, nor can any be attached
to, the proprietors of the steamboats in which hIs crate may be
and is transported, in respect to it or its contents, at any -time."
This arrangement. expired on the 31st of December, 1839,
but was on that day-renewed for another year, and was in
existence at the tune of the loss in question.
A few days previous to the loss of the Lexington3 the libellants employed.Harnden in Boston to collect from the banks in
the city of New York checks and drafts to the amount of about
$46,000, which paper was received by.him and forwarded to his
agent in that city, with directions to collect and send home the
came in the usual why .Eighteen thousand dollars of this sum.

380

SUPREME COIqRT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation, Company v. Merchants' Bank.

was put in the crate on board of that vessel on the 13th of January, for the purpose of bing conveyed to, the libellants, and
was on board at the time she was lost, on the evening of that
day.
Upon this statement of the case, three objections have been
taken by the -respondents to the -right bf the libellants to recover
1. That the suit is not maintainable in their names. That,
if accountable at all for the loss, they are accountable to Hamden, with whom the contract for carrying the specie was made.
2. That if the suit can be maintained in the name of the libell-ants, they must succeed, if at all- through the contract with
Hamden, which contract exempts them from all responsibility
as carriers of the specie, and,
3. That the District Court had no jurisdiction, the contract
of affreightment not being the subject of admiralty cognizance.
We shall examine these several objections in their order.
I. As to the right of the libellants to maintain the suit.
They had employed Hpnden to collect checks and drafts on
the banks in--the city of New York, and to bring home the proceeds in specie. He had no interest in.
the money, or inethe
contract with the respondents -for its conveyance, except what
was derived from the possession in the execution of his agency.
The general,'property remained in the libellants, the real owners, subject at-all tines to their direction and control , and any
loss that might happen to it in the course of the shipment
would fall upon them.
This would be clearly so if Harnden is to be regarded as a
private agent, and even if in the light of a common carrier of
this description of goods, the result would not be changed, so
far as relates to the right of property
The carrier has a lien on the goods for his freight, if not paid
in advance., but subject to this claim he can set up no right of
property or of possession against the general owners. (Story
on Bailments,  93, g )
The- carrier, says Buller, J, is considered in law the agent
or servant of the owner, and-the possession of the agent is the
possession of the owner, .(4T R.' 490.)
Under these circumstances, the contract between Iamden
and the respondents for the transportation of th specie was, in
contemplation of law, a contract between them and the libellants , and although made in his own name, and without disclosing his employers at the time, a sit iiiay be maintained directly upon it in their names.
It would be otherwise, an a court of law, if the contract was
under seal. (Story-' Agency,  160.)
It rested in parol, ii this case, at the tine of the loss.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

381

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' 'Bank.

In Sims v. Bond, 5 Barn. & Adol 393, the court observed
that it was a well-established rule of law, that, where a contract, not -under seal, is made by an agent m his own name for
an undisclosed principal, either the agent or the principal may
sue on it, the defendant in the latter case being entitled to be
placed in the same situation, at the time of the disclosure of the
real principal, as if the agent had been the contracting party.
The same doctrine is affirmed by Baron Parke, in deliverng
the jtdgment of the court in Higgins v. Senior, 8 Mees. &
Wels. 834, 844, in the Court of Exchequer. Ii that case, it
was held that the suit might be maintained on the contract,
either in the name of the principal or of the agent, and that,
too, although required to be in writing by the statute of frauds.
The rule is. also, equally well established in this country, as
may be seen by a reference to the cases of Beebee v. Robert, 12 Wend. 413, Taintor v. Prendergast, 3 Hill, 72, and
Sanderson v. Lamberton, 6 Binney, 129.
The last case is like the one before us. It was an action by
-the owners directly upon the sub-co~tract made by the first
with the second carrier for the coTiveyance of the goods, m
whose hands they were lost.
The cases are numerous in which the general owner has sustained an action of tort against the wrong-doer for injuries to
the property while in the hands of the bailee. The above
cases show that it may be equally well sustained for a breach
of contract entered into between the bailee and a third person.
The court look to the substantial parties m interest, with a
view to avoid circuity of action , saving, at the same tine, to
the defendant all the rights belonging to him if the suit had
.been in the name of the agent.
We think, therefore, that the action was properly. brought in
the name of the libellants.
II. The next question is as to the duties and liabilities of
the respondents; as carriers, upon their contract.with Harnden.
As the libellants claim through it, they must affirm its provisions, so far as they/may be consistent with law
The general liability of the carrier, independently f d/ny
special agreement, is familiar. He is chargeable.as an insurer
of the.goods, and accountable for any damage or loss that may
happeni to them in the course of the conveyance, unless arising
from inevitable accident, - in other words, the act of God or
the public enemy The liability of the respondents, therefore,
would be undoubted, were it not for the special agreement under which the goods were shipped.
The question is, to what extent has this agreement qualified
the common law liability.)

382

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

We lay out of the case the notices published by the respondents, seeking to limit their responsibility, because, 1. The carrier cannot in this way exonerate himself from
duties which ihe law has annexed to his employment, and,
2. The special agreement with Haruden is quite as comprehensive in restricting their obligation as any of the published
notices.
A question has been made, whether it is competent for the
carrier to restrict his obligation even by a special agreement.
It was very fally considered m the case of Gould and others
v. Hill and others, 2 Hil, 623, and the conclusion arrived at
that he could not. See also Hollister v. Nowlen, 19 Wend.
240, and Cole v. Goodwin, ib. 272, 282.
As the extraordinary duties annexed to Is employment concern only, in the particular instance, the ,parties to the transaction, involving simply rights of property, - the safe custody and delivery of the goods, - we are unable to perceive
any well-founded objection to the restnction, or any stronger
reasons forbidding it than exist in the case of any other insurer of goods, to which his obligation is analogous, and
which depends altogether upon the contract between the
parties.
The owner, by entering into the contract, virtually agrees,
that, in respect to the particular transaction, the earner is not
to be regarded as m the exercise of his public employment;
but as a private person, who incurs no responsibility beyond
that of an ordinary bailee for hire, and answerable only for
misconduct or negligence.
The right thus to restrict the obligation is admitted in a
large class of cases founded on bills of lading and charterparties, where the exception to the common law liability
(other than that of inevitable accident) has been, from time to
time; enlarged, and the risk diminished, by the express stipulation of the parties. The right of the carner thus to limit his
liability in the shipment of goods has, we think, never been
doubted.
But adntting the right thus to' restrict his obligation, it by
no means follows that he can do so by any act-of his own.
He is in the -exercise of a sort of public office, and has public
duties to perform, from which he should uot be permitted to
exonerate himself without the assent of the-parties concerned.
And this is not to be implied or inferred from a general notice
to the public, limitng his obligation, which may or may not
be assented to. He is bound to receive and carry all the goods
offered for transportation, subject to all the responsibilities inciderit to his employment, and is liable to an action in case of

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

88

New Jersey Steam Navigation Compiany v. Merchants' Bank.

refusal. And we agree with the court in the. case of Hollister v. Nowlen, that, if any implication is,
to. be indulged from
the delivery of the goods under the general notice, it is as
strong that the owner intended to insist upon his rights, and
the duties of the carrier, as it is that he assented to their
qualification.
The burden of proof lies on the carrier, atid nothing short
of -an express stipulation by parol or in writing should be permltted to discharge him from duties which the law has annexed to his employment. The exemption from these duties
should not depend upon implicationlor inference, founded on
doubtful and conflicting evidence, but should be specific and
certain, leaving no room for controversy between the parties.
The special agreement, in this case, under w'hich- the goods
were shipped, provided that they should be conveyed at the
risk of Hamden, and that the respondents were not to. be accountable to him or to. his employers, in any event, for loss or
damage.
The language is general and broad, and might very well
comprehend every description of risk incident to the~shipment.
But we think it would" be going farther than the intent of the
parties, upon any fair and reasonable construction of the agreement, were we to regard. it as stipulating for wilful nisconduct, gross negligence, or want of ordinary care, either in the
seaworthiness of the vessel, her proper equipments. and furmture, or in her management by the master and hands.
This is the utmost effect that was given to -a general notice,
both in England and in this country, when allowed to restrict
,the carrier's liability,-.although as broad and absolute in its
terms as the special agreement before us (Story on. Bailn.
 570), nor was it allowed to exempt him from accountability
for losses occasioned by a defect in the vehicle, or mode of
conveyance used in the transportation. (13 Wend. 611, 627,
628.)
Although he was -allowed to exempt himself from losses
arising out of events and accidents against which he was a.sort
of insurer, -yet, inasmuch as he.had undertaken to carry the

goods from one place to another, he. was deemed to have incurred the same degree of responsibility as that which attaches
to a private person, engaged casually in the like occupation,
and was, therefore, bound to use ordinary care in the custody
of the goods, and in their delivery, and to provide proper vehicles and means of conveyance for their transportation.
This rule, we think, should' govern the construction of the
agreement in question.
If it is competent at all for the, carrier to stipulate for the

384

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company-r. Mferchants' Bank.

gross negligence of himiself, and his servants or agents, in the
transportation of the goods, it- should be required to be done,
at least, in terms that would leave no doubt as to the meamng
of the parties.
The respondents having succeeded in restricting their liability as carriers by the special agreement, the burden of proving that the loss was occasioned by the want of due care, or
by gross negligence, lies on the libellants, which would be
otherwise in the absence of any such restriction. We have
accordingly looked into the proofs in the case with a view to
the question.
There were on board the vessel one hundred and fifty bales
of cotton, part of which was stowed away on and along side
of the boiler-deck, and around the steam-chimney, extending
to within a foot or a foot and a half of. the casing of the
same, which was made of pine, and was itself but a few
inches from the chimney The cotton around the chimney
extended from the boiler to within a foot of the upper deck.
The fire broke out in the cotton next the steam-chimney,
between the two decks, at about half past seven o'clock in the
evening, and was discovered before it had made much progress.
If the vessel had been stopped, a few buckets of water, M all
probability, would have extinguished it. No effort seems to
have been made to stop her, but, instead thereof, the wheel was
put hard a-port, for the purpose of heading her to the land. In
this act, one of the wheel-ropes parted, being either burnt or
broken, in consequence of which the hands had no longer any
control of the boat.
Some of them then resorted to the fire-engine, but it was
found to be stowed away in one place in the vessel, and the
hose belonging to it, and without which it was useless, in another, and which was inaccessible m consequence of the fire.
They then sought the fire-buckets. Two or three only, m
all, could be found, and but one of them properly prepared and
fitted with heaving-lines, and, in the emergency, the specieboxes were emptied. and used to carry water.
The act of Congress (5 Statutes at Large, 306,  9) made it
the duty, at the time, of these respondents to provide, as a part
of the necessary furniture of the vessel, a suction-hose and fireengine, and'hose suitable to be worked in case of fire, and to
carry the same on every, trip, in good order, and further provided, that irorf rods or chains should be employed and used in
the navigation of steamboats, instead of wheel or tiller ropes.
This latter provision was wholly disregarded on board the
vessel during the trip in question, and the former also, as we
have seen, for all practical or useful purposes.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

385

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

We think there was great want of care, and which amount
ed to gross negligence, on the part of the respondents, in the
stowage of the cotton, especially, regarding its exposure to fire
from the condition of the covering of the boiler-deck, and the
casing of the steam-chimney The foriier had been on fire on
the previous trip, and a box of goods partly consumed. Also,
for the want of proper furniture and equipments of the vessel,
as required by the act of Congress, as well as by the most prudential considerations.
It is,.indeed, difficult, on -studying the facts, to resist the
conclusion, that, if there had been no fault on board in the
particulars mentioned, and the emergency had been met by the
officers and crew with ordinary firmness and deliberation, the
terrible calamity that befell the vessel and nearly all on board.
would have been arrested.
We are of opinon, therefore, that the respondents are liable
for the loss of the specie, notwithstanding the special agreement under which it was shipped.
III. The remaining question is as to the jurisdiction of the
court.
By the second section of the third article of the Constitution, it is declared that "the judicial power shall extend" "to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
The ground of objection to the jurisdiction, in this case,
rests upon the assumption, that this provision had reference to
the jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty in England, as
restrained by the statutes of 13 and 15 Richard II., or as exercised in the colonies by the courts .of vice-admiralty, which,
as their decisions were subject to the appellate power of the
High Court at home, with few exceptions, and those by act of
Parliament, were confined within the same limits.
This is the foundation of the argument in support of the
restricted jurisdiction, and which, it is claimed, excludes the
contract in question.

Under the statutes of Richard, as expounded by the common
law courts, in cases of prohibition against *the admiralty, its
jurisdiction over contracts was confined to seamen's wages,
bottomry bonds, and- contracts made and to be executed on the
high seas.
If made on land, or within the body of an English county,
though to .be executed, or the service to be performed, upon
-the sea. or if made upon the sea, but to be executed upon
the land, in either case it was held by the comriion law courts
that the admiralty had no jurisdiction. In the first, because
the place where the contract was made, and in the second,
where it was to be -performed, was within the body of the
33
voL. V1.

386

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

county, and, of course, within the cognizance of the common
law courts," which excluded the admiralty
It is not to be denied, therefore, if the grant of power in the
Constitution had reference to the jurisdiction of..the admiralty
inEngland at the time, and is to be governed by it, that the
present suit cannot be maintained, as the District Court of
Rhode Island had no jurisdiction.
But in answer. to this view, .and to the ground on which it
rests, we have been referred to the practical construction that
has been given to the Constitution by Congress in the Judiciary
Act of 1789, which established the courts of admiralty, and
assigned to them their jurisdiction, and also to the adjudications of this, and of the Circuit aud -District Courts, in adiniraltycases, which not only reject the very limited jurisdiction
in England, but assert and -uphold a jurisdiction much more
comprehensive,. both an respect to contracts 'and torts, and
which has been exercised ever since the establishment of these
courts. And it is insisted, that, whatever may have been the
doubt, originally, as to the true construction of the grant,
whether it had reference to the jurisdiction in England, or to
the more enlarged "one that existed in other maritime countries, the question has become settled by legislative and judicial
interpretation, which ought not now to be disturbed.
We are reclined to concui'in this view, and shall proceed to
state some of the grounds -m support of it.
By the ninth sedtion of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which
established the admiralty courts, it is declared that the District Courts "1shall have, exclusive original cognizance of all
civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including
all seizures under the laws of szpost, navigation, or trade of
the United Statesi where the seizures are made on waters
which.are navigable from the sea hy vessels of ten or more
tons burden, within their respective districts, as well a upon
the high seas, saving to suitors, sn all cases, the right of a
common law remedy, where the common law ts competnt to
give it."
The High Court of Admiralty m Ehgland never had original
jurisdiction of causes arising under the revenue laws, or laws
concerning the navigation and. trade of' the kingdom. They
belong; exclusively, to the jurisdiction of the Court of Exchequer, in which the proceedings are conducted as at common
law
That court exercises an appellate power over the decisions
of the vice-admiralty courts in revenue cases in the' colomes,
even that' power was doubted, till affirmed by the Court- of
Delegates, on an appeal from a decision of the vice-admiralty

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

387

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank,

court in South Carolina, in 1754. Shice then, it has been exercised, but this is the extent of its power over revenue cases,
or cases arsing under the navigation laws.
Thus it will be seen that a very wide departure from the
English limit of admiralty jurisdiction took place within two
years after the adoption of the Constitution, and that, too, by
the Congress called upon to expound the grant with a view to
the establishment of the proper tribunals to carry it into ex-ecution.
The constitutionality of this act of Congress, and, of course,
the true construction of the grant in the Constitution, became
a subject of discussion before this court, at a very early day,
on several occasions, and received its particular consideration;
The first case that involved the question was the case of
The Vengeance, in 1796, nine years after the adoption of the
Constitution. (3 Dallas, 297)
The vessel was seized by the marshal in the port of New
York, as forfeited under an act of Congress, prohibiting the exportation of arms, and libelled and condemned in the District
Court. On appeal, the Circuit Court reversed the decree and
dismissed the proceedings, upon which an appeal was taken
to this court.
On the argument, the Attorney-General took two grounds
for reversing the decree. The second was, that,. even if the
proceeding could be considered a civil suit, it was not a suit -of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and therefore the Circuit
Court should have remanded it to the District Court, to be tried
before a jury. He'referred to the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, which declared, that "the trials of issues of fact in
the District Courtq, in all causes except cvil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, shall be by jury," and insisted, that
a libel for a violation of the navigation laws was not a civil
suit of admiralty junsdiction, that the principles regulating the
admiralty jurisdiction in this country must be such as were
consistent with the common law of England at the period of
the Revolution, that there admiralty causes must be causes
arsing wholly upon the sea, and not within the precincts of
any county; that the act of exporting arms must have commenced on'land, and if done part on land and puart on the sea,
the authorities held that the admiralty had no jurisdiction.
The court took, time to consider the question, and on a subsequent day gave judgment, holding that. the suit was a- civil
cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and therefore
rightfully tried by the District Court without a jury, that the
case was one coming -within the general admiralty powers of
the court, and, for a like .reason, it was held that the appeal to
the Circuit Court was regular, and properly disposed of.

388

3UPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

It will be observed .that the seh:-re, in this case, was m the
port of New York, and within the body of the county, which
extends to Sandy Hook.
The next case that came before the court was the case of
The Schooner Sally, in 1805, which arose in the Maryland district, and involved the same question as in the case of the Vengeance, and was decided in the same way
But the most important one, as it respects the question before us, was the case of The Schooner Betsey, in 1808 (4
Cranch, 443). This vessel was seized fof a violation of the
non-intercourse act between the United States and St. Domingo, in the port of Alexandria, in this District. She was condemned in the District Court, but on appeal the Circit Court
reversed the decree, from which an appeal was taken to this
court.
Mr. Lee, who had argued the case of the Vengeance, appeared for the claimant, and requested permission to argue the
point again more at large, namely, whether the case was one
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and in this argument
will be found the ground and. substance of all the arguments
which have been since urged in favor of the limited construction of the admiralty power under the Constitution.
He referred ,to the terms of the grant in the Constitution,
and denied that Congress could make cases of admiralty jusdiction nor could it confer on the federal courts jurisdic*.
tion of a case which was not of admiralty and maritime cognizance at the time of the adoption of the Constitution.
That the seizure of a vessel within the body of a county, for
a breach of a muncipal law of trade, was not of admiralty
cognizance, - that it was never so considered in England, that all seizures in that country for a violation of the revenue
and navigation acts were tried by a jury, in the Court of Exenequer, according to the course of the common law, - that
the High Court of Admiralty in England exercised no jurisdiction in revenue cases, - and msisted, that if the ninth section
of the Judiciary Act was to be construed as including revenue
cases and seizures under the navigation acts as civil causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, the act was repugnant to
the Constitution, and void.
The court rejected the argument, and held thiat the case was
not distinguishable from that of the Vengeance, and which
they had already determined belonged properly to the jurisdiction of the admiralty They observed, that it was the place
of seizure, and not the place of committing the offence, that determined the jurisdiction, and regarded it as clear that Congress
meant-tu- discruninate between seizures on waters navigable

JANUARY TERM,- 1848.

-289

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v.Merchants' Bank.

from the sea, and seizures on land or on waters not navigable,
and to class the former among the civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction.
Similar objections were taken to the jurisdiction of the court.
in the cases of The Samuel and The Octavia (1 Wheat. 9 and
20), and received a similar answer from the court.
We have been more particular in referring to these cases,
and to the arguments of counsel, because they show, 1. That the arguments used m the present case against the
jurisdiction, and in favor of restricting it to the common law
limit in England at the Revolution, have been heretofore presented to the court, on several occasions, and at a very early
day, and on -each, after full consideration, were rejected, and the
-judgment of the court placed upon grounds altogether inconsistent with that mode of construing the Constitution, and,
2. They affirm the practical construction given to the Constitution bv Congress -inthe act of 1789, which, we have seen,
assigns to the District Courts, interms, a vast field of admiralty jirisdction unknown to that cout in England.
The jurisdiction in all these cases is maintained on the broad"
ground, that the subject-matter was of admiralty cognizance,
as the causes of actron arose out of transactions that had occurred upon the high seas, or within the ebb and flow of the
tide, expressly rejecting the common law test, which was attempted to be applied, namely, that they arose within the body
of a county, and therefore out of the limits of the admiralty
In answer to an argument that was pressed, that the offence
must:have been committed upon land, such as in case of an exportation of prohibited goods, the court say that it is the place
of seizure, and not the place of .committing. the offence, that
decides the jurisdiction, - a seizure upoif the high seas or
within tide-waters, although the fide-waters may be within the
body of a county
All the cases thus arising under the revenue and navigation
laws were held to be civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction within the words of the Constitution, and, as such,
were properly assigned to the District Court, in the act of 1789,
as part of its admiralty jurisdiction.
They were so regarded, as well in respect to the subjectmatter as in respect to .the place where the causes of action
had arisen.
The clause in the act of-1789," saving to suitors in all cases
the nght-of a common law remedy where the common law is
competent to give it," was referred to on the argument in support of the restricted jurisdiction. And it was insisted that the
remedy is thus saved -to both parties, plaintiff and defendant.
33*

390

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey. Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

and is, in effect, an exception from the admiralty power conferred upon the District Courts of all causes in winch a remedy
night be had at common law
The language is certainly peculiar, and unfortunate, if this
was the object of the clause, and besides, the construction
would exclude from the District Court cases which the sternest
opponent of the. admiralty, will admit properly belonged to it.
The common law courts exercise a concurrent jurisdiction in
nearly all the cases of admiralty cognizance, whether of tort or
.contract (with the exception of proceedings in rem), which,
upon the construction contended for, would be transferred from

the admiralty to the exclusive cognizance of these courts.
The meaning of the clause we think apparent.
By the Constitution, the entire admiralty power of the country is lodged in the federal judiciary, and Congress intended by
the-ninth section to invest the District Courts with this power,
as courts of original jurisdiction.
The term " exclusive original cognizance" is used for this
purpose, and is intended tobe exclasive of the State, as well
as of the other federal courts.
The saving clause was inserted, probably, from abundant
',caution, lest the exclusive terms in which the power is conferred-on the District Courts might be deemed to have taken away
the concurrent remedy which had before existed.
This leaves the concurrent power where it stood at common
law
The clause has no application to seizures arismg under the
revenue laws, or laws of navigation, as these belong exclusively to the District Courts. (Slocum v. Mayberry, 2 Wheat. 1,
Gelston v.Hoyt, 3 ib. 246.)
If the thing seized is acquitted, then the owner may prose-

cute the wrong-doer for the taking and detention, either m admiralty o at common law The remedy is concurrent. (Ibid.)
2. Another class of cases in which jurisdiction has aiways
been exercised by the admiralty courts in this country, but
which is denied in England, are suits by ship-carpenters and
material men, for repairs and necessaries, made and furnished
to ships. whether foreign or in the port of a State to which
they do not belong, or in the home port, if the mnmicipal laws
of the State. give a lien for the work and materials. (1 Peters's Adm. R. 227,'233, note, Bee's Adm. R. 106 4 Wash.
C. C. R. 453, 1 Payne, 620, Gilpin, D. C. R. 203, 473 1
Wheat. 96, 4 ib. 438 , 9 ib. 409, 10 ib. 428, 7 Peters, 324,
11 ib. 175.)
The principle stated in the case of The General - Smith, 4
Wheat. 438, and which has been repeated in all the subse-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

891

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

quent cases, is, that where repairs have been made or necessaries furnished to a foreign ship, or to a ship in the ports of a
State to which she does not belong, the general maritime lawgives a lien on the ship as security, and the party may maihitain
a suit in admiralty to enforce his right. But as o repairs or
necessaries in the port or State to which the ship belongs, the
case is governed altogether by the local law of the State, and
no lien is implied unless recognized by that law But if the
local law gives the lien,.it may be enforced in admiralty
Thejurisdiction .m these cases, as will be seen from the authorities referred to, appears to have been exercised by the Distnct Courts from the time of their earliest organization, and
which was afirmed by this court the first time the quesfioncame before it.
The District Court of South Carolina, in 1796, in the case
of North and Vesey v. The Brig Eagle, Bee's R. 79, maintained
a libel for supplies furnished a foreign vessel, and considered
the question as a very clear one at that day. See also Pritchard
v. The Lady Horatia, p. 169, decided in 1800.
Judge Winchester, district judge of the Maryland district;
maintained the jurisdiction, in a most able opinion, at a very
early day. (1 Peters's Adm. R. 233, note.)
The same opinion was also entertained by Judge Peters, of
the Pennsylvama district. (1 Peters, 227 )
Since then, the jurisdiction appears to have been undisputed.
We refer to these 'nunions, not so much for the authority
they afford, though entitled to the highest respect as such,
but as evidence of the line of jurisdiction exercised, at that
early day, by learned admiralty lawyers, in direct contradiction
to the theory, that the constitutional limit is to be determined
by the jurisdiction in England. They are the opinions of
men of the Revolution, engaged. in administering admiralty law
as understood in the country soon after the adoption of the
Constitution, fresh from the discussions which every provision
and grant of power in that instrument had undergone. The
opinions may -be well referred to as affording the highest evidence of the law on this subject in their day.
3. Another class of cases in which jurisdiction is entertained
by the courts in this coimtry, on contracts, but which is denied
in England, are suits for pilotage. (10 Peters, 108). It is
denied in England on the ground of locality, the contract havmg been made within the body bf a county
- We shall pursue the examination no farther.
The authorities, we think, are decisive against expounding the constitu tional grant according to the jurisdiction of the Englfsh admiralty, and in favor of a line of jurisdiction which fully
embraces the contract in question.

392

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

Before jurisdiction can be withheld in the case, the court
must not only retrace its steps, and take back several of its
decided cases, but must also disapprove of the ground which
has heretofore been taken, and maintained m every case, as the
proper test of admiralty jurisdiction.
Some question was made on the argument founded on the
circumstance, that this was a suit enpersonam.
The answer is, if the cause is a maritime cause, subject to
admiralty cogmzance, jurisdiction is complete over the person,
as well as over the ship, it must, in its nature) be complete,
for it cannot be confined to one of the remedies on the cbntract, when the contract itself is within its cognizance.
On looking into the several cases in admiralty which have
come before this court, and in which its jurisdiction was involved or came under its observation, it will be found that
the inquiry has been, not into the jurisdiction of the court of
admiralty in England, but into the nature andf subject-matter
of the contract, - whether it was a maritime contract, and
the service a maritime service, to be performed upon the
sea, or upon waters within the ebb and flow of the tide.
And, again, whether the service was to be substantially performed upon the sea, or tide-waters, although it had commenced and had terminated beyond the reach of the tide, if
it was, then jurisdiction bhs always been maintained. But if
the substantial part of the service under the contract is to be
performed beyond tide-waters, or if the contract relates exclusively to the interior navigation and trade of a State, jurisdiction is disclaimed. (10 Wheat. 428, 7' Peters, 324, 11 ib.
175, 12 ib. 72, 5 Howard, 463.)
The exclusive jurisdiction in admiralty cases was conferred
on the national government, as closely connected with the
grant of the commercial power.
It is a maritime court instituted for the purpose of adminstering the law of the seas. There seems to be ground, therefore, for restraining its jurisdiction, in some measure, withm
the limit of the grant of the commercial power, which would
confine it, in cases of contracts, to those concerning the navigation and trade of the country upon the high seas and tidewaters with foreign countries, and among the several States.
Contracts growing out of the purely internal commerce of
the State, as well as commerce beyond tide-waters, are generally domestic in their origin and operation, aiid could scarcely
have been intended to be drawn within the cognizance of the
federal courts.
Upon the whole, without pursuing the examination farther,
we are satisfied that the decision of the Circuit Court below
was correct, and that its decree should be affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

.293

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

Mr. Justice CATRON.
1. In my judgment, the -NewJersey Steam Navigation Company were entitled to all the benefits of Hamden's contract
with them, in regard to the property of others with which he
(Harnden) was intrusted, for the purpose of transporting it in
his crate. And though the company can rely on all the defences
which they could have relied upon if Harnden had sued them,
still I think the libellants can maintain this suit.
Had a trover and conversion been made of the money sued
for, or an open trespass been committed on it by throwing it
overboard, by the servants or agents of the company, then
either Harnden, the bailee of the bank, might have sued the
company, or the bank might have sued. As to the right to
sue, in the case put, by the bank, there can be no doubt, as
such acts were never contemplated by the contract, nor covered
by it.

The Navigation Company were responsible to Harnden (and
to those who employed him), notwithstanding the contract, for
acts of gross negligence in transporting the property destroyed,
as, for instance, if the servants of the company, in navigating
the vessel, omitted to observe even slight diligence, and failed.
mn the lowest degree of prudence, to guard against fire, then
they must be deemed in a court of justice to have been guilty
of gross negligence, by which expression I mean, that they
acted reckless of consequences as respected the safety of the
vessel and the lives and property on board and in their charge,
that such conduct was contrary to common honesty, and that
the master and owners were liable for loss by reason of such
recklessness, as they would have been in case of an affirmative
and meditated fraud that had occasioned the same loss, and
that this burmng was a tort.
Whether it is evidence of fraud in fact, as Sir William Jones
intimates, or whether it is not, as other writers on bailments
declare, is not worthy of discussion. The question is this.
Is the measure of liability the same where a ship is burned
because the master and crew did not observe the lowest degree
of prudence to prevent it, and in a case where she is wi fully
burned? This is the question for our consideration. In the
civil law, I apprehend no distinction in the cases put exists i
nor do I believe any exists at common law But by the laws
of the United States, such gross and reckless negligence as
that proved in the case before us was a fraud and a tort on the
shippers, and the fire that occurred, and consequent loss of
life, a crime on'the part of the master.
By the twelfth section of the act of 1838, chap. 491, every
person employed on any steamboat or vessel, by whose negli-

_W4

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam. Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank:

gence to his respective duty the life of any person shall be
destroyed, shall be dce med guilty of manslaughter, and subject
to conviction and imprisonment at hard labor for a time not
exceeding ten years. 5 Statutes at Large, 306. RHere the
,legislature have put gross negligence m the category of crimes
of a igh grade, and of frauds of course, nor can this court
assume a less stringent principle, in a case of loss of property,
than Congress has recognized as the true one, if life be destroyed by such negligence. From the facts before us, I feel
warranted m saying, that, had the captain survived the destruction of the ship and the loss of many lives by the disaster,
he would have been clearly guilty according to the twelfth
section.
One single circumstance is decisive of the culpable negligence. By section ninth of the above act, it -is made "the
duty of the master and owner of every steam-vessel employed
on the sea, to provide, as a part of the necessary furniture, a
suction-hose and fire-engine and hose suitable to be worked on
said boat m case of fire, and carry the same upon each and
every voyage, m good order." This vessel, had something of
the kind, but it was in no order for use, and a mere delusion,
and a sheer fraud on the law and the public. Had there been
such an-engine and hose, the fire could have been extinguished
n all probability,, as I apprehend.
2. There was only a single rigged bucket on board, and
nothing else to reach the water with, and the -money of libellants was thrown from the boxes, and they used to lift water.
3. The flue from the furnace ran through three decks, and
was red-hot through the three decks, and the cotton was
stowed within eighteen inches on all sides of this red-hot flue,
and the bales pressed in, three tiers deep, from the boiler-deck
to the next deck, so that it would have been with much difficulty that the cotton could have been removed should-a fire
occur, there the fire did occur, and the cotton was not removed, - wherefore the vessel was burnt. And fromthe mode
of stowage a fire could hardly be avoided, and was to be expected and guarded against.
Then as.to the jurisdiction. The fire occurred on the high
sea, It was a tort there. The case depends not on any contract, but on mere tort standing beyond the contract. The
locality of the tort is the locus of jurisdiction. Locality is
the strict limit. 2 Bro. Adm. Law, 110, 3 131. Comm. 106.
The conflict between the Luda and De Soto, m Louisiana,
1847; 5 Howard. But especially 2 Bro. Adm. Law, 144, which
lays down the true doctrine as follows "We have now done with the effect of the master's con-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

395

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

tracts or violence, as to his owners, and proceed to consider
how he and they are affected by his negligence. And, first, as
soon as merchandises ajid other commodities be put on board
a ship, whether she be riding in a port or haven, or upon the
high sea, the master is chargeable therewith, and if the same
be lost or purloined, or sustain any damage, hurt, or loss,
whether in the haven or port before, or upon the seas after., she
is upon her voyage, whether it-be by manners or by any other
through their permission, the owner of the goods has his
election to charge either master or owners, or both, at his pleasure, - though he can have but one satisfaction, - in a court of
common law, if the fault be committed enfra corpus comitatus,
in the admiralty, if super altum mare, and if it be on a place
where there is divzsum smperum, then in one or the other,
according to the flux or reflux of the sea."
I think the libel in this case covers my view of it. It sets
out the facts of how the money was shipped in general terms,
but avers it was lost by fire, and by reason of an insufficient
furnace i insufficient machinery, furniture, nggmg, and equipments, and the careless, negligent, and improper management of said steamboat Lexington by the servants and agents
of the Navigation Company
If this techmcal objection had been addressed to the court
below, it could have been easily remedied, and cannot be favorably heard here, now, no doubt, made for the first tne.
I therefore. think there was jurisdiction in the Circuit Court
to try the libel, and, secondly, that the decree was proper, and
ought to be affirmed, without alteration.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
The inquiries presented for consideration in this cause resolve themselves into two obvious or natural divisions, the
one involving the rights of the parties as growing out of their
alleged undertakings, the other the right of the .libellant to
prosecute his claim in the mode adopted in the court below,
and the power of the court to adjudicate it in, that or in any
other mode whatever. This latter inquiry, embracing as it does
the nature and extent of the admiralty powers of the government of the United States, and by consequence the construction of that article of the Constitution by which alone those
powers have been invested, challenges the most solemn, deliberate, and careful investigation. I approach that investigation
with the diffidence which its wide-spread interest and importance, and a deep conviction of my own deficiences, cannot but
awaken.
The foundation, nay, the whole extent and fabric, of the ad-

8&

SUPREME bOURT.

New Jersey -Steam Navigation CoInpany v. Merchants' Bank.

niralty power of the government are to be found m that
portion of the second section. of the third article of the Constitution, which declares that the judicial power shall extenfl
(amongst other subjects of cognizance there enumerated)"' to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
The distribution of this admiralty power so created by the
Constitution, with reference to the tribunals by which, and the
modes in which, it shall be executed, is contained in the act
to establish the judicial courts of the United States of 1789,
section ninth, which constitutes the District Courts of the
United States courts of exclusive original cognizance of all
civil causes of dmiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and of certain seizures under the laws of imposts, concluding or qualifying this investment'of power with these plain and signifi6ant
terms .--" saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of a common
law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it."
Looking now to the provisions of the third article of the Constitution, and to those of the ninth section of the Judiciary Act,
we recur to the inquiry, What is this civil and maritime junsdiction derived from the Constitution, and vested by the Judiciary Act inthe District Courts, - what the standard by which
its scope and.power, its "space -nd verge," are to be measured,
-what the rules to be observed m the modes of its execution? Although the Constitution and act of Congress do not
precisely define nor enumerate the former, nor prescribe in forms
and precedents the latter, yet it will hardly be pretended, that
either the substance or the forms of admiralty jurisdiction were
designed by the founders of our jurisprudence to be left without limit, to be dependent on surmise merely, or controlled by
fashion or caprice. They were both ordained in reference to
some known standard in the knowledge and contemplation of
the statesman and legislator, and the ascertainment of that
standard by history, by legislative and judicial records, must
furnish the just response to the inquiry here propounded.
' In tracing the origin, existence, and progress of the colonial
institutions, or in seeking illustrations or analogies requisite for
the comprehension of those institutions down to the period of
separation from the mother country, it is to the laws and
policy of the latter that we must chiefly look as guides to my
thing like accurate results in our investigations. For the necessity here intimated, various and obvious causes will at once
be perceived. As instances of these may be exemplified, 1st,. similarity of education and opinion, strengthened by intercourse and habit, 2d, national pride, and the partiality -which
naturally creates in the offspring admiration and initation of
the parent, 3d, identity of civil and political rights in the

JANUARY TERM,'"1848.

397

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merch-ants' Bank.

people of both regions, 4thly, and chiefly, perhaps, the jealousy of the mother country with regard to her national unity,
power, and greatness, -a principle which has ever prompted
her to bind in the closest practicable system of efficient unformity and conformity the various members of her extended
empire. These causes have had their full effect in. regulating
the rights of person and of property amongst British subjects
,everywhere within the dominions of England. There is not,
and never has been, a question connected with either, in which
we do not find every Englishman appealing .to the common
law, or to the charters and statutes of England, as defining the
nature and as furmishmg* the best protection of his rights.
He uniformly clings to these as constituting at once his birthVide 1 Bl. Comm. 127,
right, Is pride, and his security
128. Would it not be most strange, then, with this strong
tenacity of adherence to their peculiar national polity and
institutions, that we should suppose the government or the
people of England disposed to yield their cherished laws and
customs in matters which peculiarly affedt them in a national
point of, view, to wit, the administration of their maritime and
commercial rights and interests ? It would seem to me equally
reasonable to expect that the admiralty courts of England, or
of any part of .the dominons of England, in order to define or
settle their jurisdiction, would as soon be permitted to adopt, as
the source and foundation and measure of their power, the
ordinances, if such there be, of China or 'Thibet, as those of
France, Genoa, or Vemce, or of any other portion of the-continent of Europe, whether established by the several local
governments on the continent, Qr based upon the authority
of the civil law With respect to the realm of England, the
origin and powers of the court.of admiralty are placed upon
a footing which leaves them no longer -subjects of speculation
or uncertainty. Sir 'William Blackstone, in his Commentaries,.
Vol. Ill. chap. 5, p. 69, informs us, -upon the authority of Sir
-Henry Spelman, Glossary, 13, and of Lambard, Archeion, 41,
-that the Court of Admiralty was first erected by King Edward III. Sir Matthew Hale, in his History of the Common
Law, Vol..I. p. 51 (London edition of 1794; by Runnington),
speaking of the court of admiralty, says, -" This court is'not
bottomed or founded upon the authority of the civil law, but
hafh both its powers and jurisdiction-by the law and custom of
the realm in -such matters as are proper for its cognizance."
And in a note (mn) by the editor to the page just cited, it is
said, The original jurisdiction of the admiralty is either by
the conniance or permission of the common law courts. The
statutes are only sn afirmance of the common law, and to pre34
voL. VI.
.

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v.Merchants' Bank.

vent the great power which the admiralty had gotten in consequence of the Laws of Oleron. That, generally speaking, the
courts of admiralty have no jurisdiction in matters of contracts
done or made on land, and the true reason for their jurisdiction m matters done at sea is, because no jury can come from
thence, for if the matter arse in any place from which the
.pass can come, the common law will not suffer the subject to
be drawn ad aliud examen." And for this doctrine are cited
12 Reports, 129, Roll. Abr. 531, Owen, 122, Brownlow, 37 a,
Roll. Rep. 413, 1 Wilson, 101, Hobart, 12, and Fortescue,,
De Laudibus, 103, edit. 1775. Again, Lord Hale, Vol. I. pp. 49
-. 51, speaking of the jurisdiction of the admiralty, lays down
-the following limits to its power - " The jurisdiction of the
admiralty court, as to the matter of it is confined by the laws
of the realm to things done upon the high sea only, 'as depredations and piracies upon the high sea, offences of masters
and mariners upon the high sea, maritime contracts made and
to be executed upon the igh sea, matters of prize and reprisal
upon the high sea. But touching contracts or things made
-within the bodies of the English counties, or upon the land
beyond the sea, though the execution thereof be in some
measure upon the high sea, as charter-parties or contracts
made even upon the high sea, -touching
things that are not
in their own nature maritime, as a bond or contract for the
payment of money, -so also of damages in navigable rivers,
within the bodies of'counties, things done upon the shore at
low-water, wreck of the sea, &c., -these things belong not to
the admiral's jurisdiction. And thus the common law and the
statutes of 13 Richard II., cap. 15, and of 15 Richard H., cap.
3, confine and limit their jurisdiction to matters maritime, and
-such only as are done upon the high sea."
In this cursory view of' Lord Hale of the admiralty jurisdiction, there is one feature which cannot escape the most superficial observation, and that is, the extraordinary care of this
learned judge to avoid every implication from uncertainty or
obscurity of 'terms, which might be wrested as a pretext for the
assumption of power not clear, well founded, and legitimate.
In the extract above given, it will be seen that the sea, as the
theatre of the admiralty power, is mentioned in eight different
instances, in every one of which it is accompamed with the
adjunct high. Altum mare is given as the only legitimate
province of the admiral's authority, and then, as if to exclude
the possibility of improper implication, are placed in immediate
and striking contrast the transactions and the situations as to
which, by the common law and the statutes of England, the
interference of the admiralty was utterly inhibited. "But,"

JANUARY TERM; 1848.

399

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

he proceeds to say, "touching contracts or things made within
the bodies of the English counties or upon the land beyond
the sea, though the execution thereof be in some measure upon
-the high sea, as charter-parties or contracts made even upon
the high sea, -. touching things that are not in their own nature maritime, as a bond or contract for the payment of-money,
- so also of damages in navigable rivers, within the bodies
of, English counties, -things done upon the shore at low-water,
wreck of the sea, &c., - these things belong not to the admiral's jurisdiction."
Sir William Blackstone, treating of the cognizance of private
wrongs, Book 3, chap. 7, p. 106, speaks of injuries cognizable
by the maritime or admiralty courts. "These courts," says
this wnter, "have jurisdiction and power to try and determine
all maritime causes, or such injuries as, although they are in
their nature of common law cognizance, yet, being committed
on the high seas, out of the reach of our ordinary courts of
justice, are therefore to be remedied in a peculiar court of their
.own. All admiralty causes must, therefore, be- causes arising
wholly upon the sea." He then cites the statutes 13 and 15
Rich. H., Co. IAtt. 260, Hob. 79, and 5 Reports, 106, for the
positions thus asserted. I shall, in-the prdgress of this opinion,.
have occasion further to remark -upon this language, "courts
maritime or admiralty courts," here used by this learned commentator, when I come to speak of an interpretation placed
upon the second section of the third 'article of the Constitution, as implying an enlargement of the powers conferred, from
a connection of the terms admtralty and maritime in the section just mentioned. What I would principally advert to here
is, the description of the causes denominated maritime, and
as falling solely and peculiarly within the admiralty jurisdiction, and to the reason why they are thus denominated marstime, and as such assigned to the admiralty .They are, says
.this learned. commentator, "maritime, or such injuries as, although they are in their nature of common law cognizance,
yet, being committed on the high seas, out of the reach of our
ordinary courts of justice, are therefore to be'remedied'in a peculiar court of 'iheir own. All admiralty dauses must, therefore, be causes arising wholly upon the sea, and not within the
precincts of any county" Here, then, is the explicit declaration, that it is the theatre, the place of their origin and performance, exclusively, not -their relation to maritime subjects, which
determines their forum, for they are causes, says he, which in
their nature may be of common law cognizance. In this'connection it seems not out, of place to advert to the discrimination made by the same author between the pretensions to power

400

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

advanced by certain tribunals which subsisted and grew up
rather by toleration than as forming any fundamental and regular portions of the British constitution. Thus, in Book 3,
chap. 7, pp. '6, 87, speaking of the ecclesiastical, military, and
maritime courts, and the courts of common law, he says, C Aiid with regard to the three first, I must beg leave, not
so
much to consider what hath at any time been claimed or pretended to belong to their jurisdiction by the officers and judges
of those respective courts, but what the common law allows
and permits to be so. For these "eccentncal tribunals (which
are Drincipally guided by the rules of the imperial and canon
law,), as they subsist and are admitted in England, not by any
right of their own, but upon bare sufferance and toleration from
the municipal laws, must have recourse to the laws of that
country wheren they are thus adopted to be informed how
far their jurisdiction extends, or what causes are permitted and
what forbidden to be discussed or drawn in questioa before
them. It matters not what the Pandects of Justinian or the
Decretals of Gregory have ordained, they are of no more intrinsic authority than the laws of Solon or Lycurgus, curious,
perhaps, for their antiquity, respectable for their equity, and
frequently of admirable use in illustrating a point of history
Nor is it at all material in what light other nations may consider this matter of jurisdiction. Every nation must and will
abide by its own municipal laws, which various accidents conspire to render different in almost every country in Europe.
We permit some kinds of suits to be of ecclesiastical, cogmzance which other nations have referred entirely to the temporal courts, as concerning wills and successions to intestates'
chattels, and perhaps we may, in our turn, prohibit them from
interfering in some controversies which, on the Continent, may
be looked upon as merely spiritual. In short, the common law
of England is the one uniform rule to determine the jurisdiction of our courts, and if any tribunals whatsoever attempt to
exceed the limits so prescribed* to them, the king's courts of
common law may and do prohibit them, and in some cases
punish their judges." So far, then, as the opinions of Hale
and Blackstone are entitled to respect,- so far as the writings
and decisions of the venerable expounders of the. British constitution to which they refer may be regarded as authority, the origin and powers of the admiralty in England, the subjects
permitted to its peculiar cognizance, the control exerted to restrict it to -that peculiar cognizance by the common law tribunals, would seem Dot to be matters of uncertainty Sir William Blackstone, too, is a writer-of modern date, and, as such,
his opinions may clain exemption from the influence of conflict

JANUARY

TERM, 1848.

401

New Jersey Steam Navigaflon Company v. Merchants' Bank.

of bigotry or prejudice, which the aalvocates of the admiralty
seem disposed to attribute to the opinions or the times of Spelman, of Fortescue, and Coke.
Passing from the testimony of the writers already mentioned,
let us call in a witness as to the admiralty powers and jurisdiction, as existing in England for a century past, at least, whom
no one will suspect of disaffection to that jurisdiction. I alhlde to Mr. Arthur Browne, Professor of'Civil Law in the

University of Dublin, in whose learned book scarcely any assertion of power ever made by the admiralty courts, however
reprobated and denied by the common law tribunals, is not
commended, if not justified, and scarcely one retrenchment or
denial of power to the former is not as zealously disapproved.
Let us hear what this witness is compelled, though multo cum
gemitu, to admit, with respect to the jurisdiction of -the instance court in cases civil and maritime, - cases identical m
their character with that now under consideration. After dilating upon the resolutions of 1632, and upon what by hin are
designated as the irresistible arguments of Sir Leoline Jenkins
in favor of the powers of his own court, Professor Browne
is driven to the following concessions. Of the common law
courts he.says (Vol. II. p. 74),- " Adhering on their part. to the
strict letter of the rule, that the business of the admiralty was
only with contracts made upon the sea, they here took locality
as the only boundary, though in the instances before mentioned, of contracts ffaade on sea, they refused this limit, and
having insisted, as indeed Judge Blackstone has even of late
done, that contracts upon land, though to be executed on the
sea, and contracts at sea, if to be executed .on land, were notcognizable by the admiralty, they left to it the idle power of
trying contracts.made upon the sea to be also executed upon
the sea, of which one instance might not happen in ten years."
Again (p. 85), speaking of what he .characterizes as "the torrent of prohibitions which poured forth from the common law
courts," he tells us, that 1'little was left for the authority of the
admiral to operate upon, in the subject of contracts, amidst
those curbs so eagerly- and rapidly thrown upon him in the last
.century, save express hypothecations of ship or goods made at
sea or in foreign ports, and suits for seamen's wages." At the
close of this chapter on the jurisdiction of the instance courts,
Mr. Browne presents his readers with the general conclusion
to which his investigations on this head had conducted him,
in the following words - " The result of our inquiries" vi the
present chapter, as to the exten:t of the jurisdiction of the instance court of admiralty which is at present seemingly allowed
by the common law courts, is, that it is confined m matters of

34*

402

SUPREME COVURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

contract to suits for seamen's wages (on all hands admitted to
be an exception to the rule restricting the admiralty to the sea),
or. to those on hypothecations. In matters of tort, to actions
for assault, collision, and, spoil, and in quasi contracts; to actions
by part-owners for security, and actions of salvage, but if a
party,"' says he, "institute a suit in that court on a charter-party,
for freight,-in a cause of average and contribution, or to decide
the property of a ship, and be not prohibited, I do not see how
the court could refuse to retain it." In this concluding passage
from Mr. Browne's chapter on the jurisdiction of the instance
courts, there are two circumstances which inpres themselves
upon our attention, as seemingly, indeed palpably, irreconcilable with the law or with each other. The first is the concession (a concession said to be made upon a general survey of the
subject) as to the limit imposed by -the common law tribunals
upon the admiralty, the second, the opinion, in the very face
of this concession, that the admiralty, if it should not be actually prohibited, if it could only escape the vigilance of the
common law courts, might proceed, might make an incursion
within this established, this prohibited, nay, conceded boundary Opinions like these evince an adherence to the admiralty
apparently extreme, and almost contumacious, and. it may be
owing to this devotion, that decisions have been pressed into
its support, which, to my appehension, do'not, come directly
up to the point they are called to fortify, or, if they did, are too
few an number and too feeble to remove the firmly planted
landmarks of the law Thus the case of Menetone v. Gibbons, 3 T I. 267, is cited as authorty that the admiralty
has cognizance over contracts; though executed on land and
under seal., This case, it is true, is somewhat anomalous in its
features, but yet it is thought that no fair exposition of it can
viarr~nt the conclusions attempted to be deduced from it. Notwithstanding some expressions which may have fallen from
some of the' judges arguendo,-it is certainly true, that every
justice who decided that case put his opinon essentially upon
these foundations -that the. case was one of a hypothecation
of the ship, in the course of a foreign voyage, by the master,
who had a right to hypothecate, that the contract provided for
or gave no remedy except zn rem, whereas the common law
courts proceed against the parties only; that if the court should
decide against the admiralty jurisdiction (and this, too, after a
sentence of condemnation and sale of the ship), being unable
to give any redress under the contract by proceeding in rem,
the party making the advances would be irreparably injured.
This case should be expoi ded, too, in connection with that
of Ladbroke v. Crickefi, decided by the same judges twelve

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
New Jersey Steam

403

Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

months previously (2 T R. 649), in which a natural- distmction is taken between the extent of the right to prohibit the
jurisdiction -of the admiralty before sentence, and the right
to impeach its proceedings after they are consummated and
carried into execution without interference. In the latter case,
Buller, whose remarks have been quoted from Menetone v. Gibbons, says (p. 654) -" 1 There is a great difference between applications to this court for prohibitions to the admiralty pending
the suit and after sentence in the first case, this court will
examine the whole case, and see the grounds of the proceedings in the admiralty but the rule is quite the reverse after
sentence is passed in such a case, they will not look out of
the proceedings, for the party who applies for a prohibition
after sentence must show a nullity of jurisdiction on the face
of the proceedings, therefore the plaintiff in this case could not
go into evidence at the trial to impeach the decree of the court
of admiralty. The case states, in general terms, that that court
did pronounce a decree for the sale of the ship in question, and
that a warrant issued out of that court for seizing and selling
the ship. So that we must take it that they had jurisdiction,
for nothing appears on the face of the decree to show that they
had not." Showing conclusively, that this case determined
nothing as to the original legitimate powers either of the common law or admiralty tribunals, but positively refusing to institute a comparison between tnem. The next case adduced by
Mr. Browne,.and the last which I shall notice, is that of Smart
v. Wolff, 3 T. R. 323. The first remark whichlis pertinent to
this case is, that it was a case of prize, one of a class universally admitted to belong peculiarly and exclusively to a court
of admiralty, and the question propounded in it, and the only
question, was as to the proceeding practised by the court for
carrying into effect this its undoubted jurisdiction. There the
goods had been, by an interlocutory order, delivered to the
captors, upon a stipulation to respond for freight, if allowed on
the final decree, and the amount of freight ultimately allowed
being greater than that covered by the stipulation, the court,
by a proceeding substantially zn rem, ordered the ..captors to
bring in so much of the cargo as would be equal to the excess
of the allowance beyond the amount of the stipulation. A
rule for a prohibition obtained from the Ring's Bench was,
upon full argument, discharged, and the. grounds of the court's
decision are fully disclosed in the opimon of all the judges, in
accordance with the reasoning of Mr. Justice Buller, who is
here particularly quoted because he has been referred to as favorable to the doctrines of Mr. Browne, and who thus expresses hnmself Every case that I know on. the subject is a

404,

SUPREME COURT.

New Jerse-y-Steam -Navigation Company

.Merchants' Bank.

clear authority to show that questions of prize and their consequences are solely and exclusively of the admiralty junsdiction. After the cases of. Lindo v. Rodney, Le Caux v. Eden,
and Livingston v. McKenzie, it would only be a wastb of time
to enter into reasons to show that this court has no jurisdiction
over those subjects. Still less reason is there for saying, that
the admiralty shall be prevented from proceeding after ithas
made an iiiterlocutory decree., because that would be to say,
that the admiralty has jurisdiction at the beginning of the suit,
and not at the end of it." The case of Smart v. Wolff, then,
is 'assuredly no direct authority, if authority at all, to sustain
the theory or the partialities of Professor Browne. Indeed, the
utmost that can be drawn from this case m favor of those theories is an expression. 6f belief, by Justice Buller, that my Lord
Coke entertained not only a jealousy of, but an ennty against,
the admiralty, a belief which, whether well or ill founded,
must be equally unimportant, - equally impotent to impugn
an inveterate, a confirmed, nay, an admitted course and body
of: jurisprudence. Upon a review of all the authorities to
which I have had access, the conclusion of my mmd is certain
and satisfactory, that, with some temporary deviations or irregularities, such as the resolutions of 1632, the jurisdiction
of the instance court of the admiralfty,both. by the common
law and by the statutes of 13 and 15 Richard II., down to the
penod at which, during the reign of the present queen, that
jurisdiction was enlarged, was, in matters of contract (with the
known exception of seamen's wages), limited to maritime contracts made and to be executed upon the high sea, and to cases
of hypothecation of the ship upon her voyage, and in matters
-of civil tort, to cases also occurring upon the sea, without the
body of the county But this restriction upon the jurisdiction
of the instance courts of England, so uniformly maihiamed by
the common law courts of that country, - acknowledged; how.ever condemned, by Mr. Browne, and admitted re'argument m
this case, -it is contended, does not apply to the powers and
jurisdiction of the like courts ir'the *Umted States, and did not
apply at the period when- the Federal Constitution was adopted,
but that a jurisdiction more varied and enlarged, as practiged
in the British colonies in North.America, and under the general confederation at the adoption of the Constitution, was in the
contemplation of the framers of this Constitution, and must
therefore be referred to as-the measure.-of the powers conferred
in the language of the second section of the third article, "-all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." In testing
the accuracy of these positions, it would be asking too much
of this.court to receive as binding authority the decisions of

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

405

Now Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

tribunals inferior to itself, farther than they rest upon indisputable and clear historical truths in our colomal history, truths,
too, which shall sustam a regular and recognized system of jurisdiction. It will not be sufficient to allege- some obscure,
eccentric, or occasional exertions of power, if they could-be adduced, and upon these to attempt to build up an hypothesis or
a system, - nay, more, to affirm them to be conclusive proofs
of a system established, general, well kffown to and understood
by the framers of the Constitution, and therefore entering
necessarily into their acceptation of the terms "admiralty and
maritime.jurisdiction.11 The danger of yielding to such scanty an4 inadequate~testimony must .be obvious to every-mind.
The still greater danger of theorizing upon words not of precise or definite import, freed from, the restraints of settled acceptation, has been rexemplified in our own tine and country,
in an able, learned, and ingenious effort to confer on the admiralty here powers not merely coextensive with "the most
ambitious pretensions of the English admiralty at any period
of its existence, but powers that may be derived from the laws
and institutions of almost every community of ancient or modern Europe, and covering, not only seas and navigable waters,
but men and their transactions having no necessary connection
with waters.of any description, viz. shipwrights, material men,
and insurers (rde 2 Gall. 397), and this upon the assumption,
that the term haritime implied more than the word admralty,
when unassociated with it, and that this was so understood by
the framers of the Constitution, who designed it as an enlargement of the admiralty power. Yet if we turn to the'language of
Mr. Justice Blackstone, Vol. III. p. 106, he tells us that the courts
maritime are the admiralty courts, using the terms maritime
and admralty as convertible., and that the mjuns triable in
the admi-alty (or maritime causes) are such as are of common
law cognizance, yet, being comnnittad on the high seas, are
therefore to be tried bya peculiar court. Agam, p. 68, he says,
-"
The maritime courts, or such as have power and jurisdiction to determine all .maritime injuries -ising upon the seas,
or in .parts out of the reach of the common law, are only the
court of admiralty and its court of appeal." So, likewise, Sir
Matthew Hale, p. 50, in charactenzing maritime contracts to
be those made and to be executed upon the sea, .certamly excludes duy implication beyond these, and this must be taken
as the English interpretation of the term mnrwtime, by which
it is understood as identical with admrraity.
And here it seems proper to remark, that I cannot subscribe
to the opmi6n, either from the bench or the-bar, that the decisions of inferior courts, which it is not merely the right, but

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v.Merchants' Bank.

the duty, of this tribunal to revise, should, by their intrinsic authonty as decisions, be recognized as binding on the judgment
of this court. They are entitled to that respect to which their
accuracy, when examined, may give them just claims, but it
is surely a perversion of our judicaP system to press them as
binding merely because they have been pronounced. If these
decisions can be appealed to upon the mere force of their language, I would quote here the words of Judge Washington,
in the case of the Umted States v. Gill, 4 Dall. 398, where he
declares, that "the words of the Constitution must be taken to
refer to the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of England,
from whose code and practice we derive our systems of jurisprudence, and obtain the best glossary." Nor am I disposed to
consider the doctrine of the civil law which has been mentioned, to escape from the silence of our own code or that of
England upon the subject.
I do not contest the position, that the established, welldefined, regular, and known civil jurisdiction of the admiralty
-courts of England, or of the vice-admiralty courts of the
American colonies, was in the contemplation of the men who
achieved our independence, and was adopted -by those who
framd the Constitution. I willingly concede this position.
That which I do resist is what seems to me an effort to assert,
through the colonial vice-admiralty courts, powers which did
not regularly inhere in iheir constitution, powers which, down
to the date of the quarrel with the mother country, were
never bestowed on them by statutory authority, powers which
to their supenor - from whom they emanated, and to whom
they were inferior and subordinate, the High Court of Admiralty- had long been conclusively denied, as has been already
abundantly shown. With respect to the establishment and
powers of these courts, we are informed by Browne, 2 Civ
and Adm. Law, 490, that "all powers of the vice-adminalty
courts within his Majesty's dominions are derived from the
high admiral, or the commissioners of*the admiralty of England, as inherent and incident to that office. Accordingly, by
virtue of their -commission, the lords of the admiralty are
authorized to erect vice-admiralty courts in North America,
the West Indies, and the settlements of the East India Company", "and in case any person be aggrieved by sentence or
interlocutory decree -having the force of a .sentence, he may
appeal to the High Court of Admiralty'" Blackstone, also, says
(Vol. III. p. 68),
from the vice-admiralty courts in
America, and our other plantations and settlements, may be
brought before the courts of admiralty m England, as being a
branch of the admiral's jurisdiction." Stokes, m his View of
-"Appeals

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

407

New Jersey, ,Steam NavLgation Cbmpany v. Merchants' Bank.

the Constitution of the British Colonies n North America,
speaking of the vice-admiralty courts, says (chap. 13, p. 271),
"In the first place, as to the juisdiction exercised in the courts
-of -vice-Admiralty in the colonies, in deciding all maritime
causes, or causes arising on the high seas, I have only to ob-serve, that. it proceeds in the same manner that the High Court
of Admiralty in England dbes." Again (p. 275), he says, "From the courts, of vice-admiralty in the colonies, an appeal
lies to the High Court of Admiralty in England." Mr. Browne,
in his second volume of Civ and Adm. Law, p. 491, accounts
for the jurisdiction of the vice-admiralty courts in America, in
revenue causes, by tracing it to the statute of 12 Charles II.
commonly called the Navigation Act, and to statutes 7th and Sth
of William Ill., c. 22, and designates this as totally foreign to
the original jurisdietion of the admraliy, and unknown to it.
With this view of the origin and powers of the vice-admiralty
courts of the colomes, showing them to be mere branches,
parts of the admiralty, and emanating from and subordinate to
the latter, it would seem difficult to perceaqve on their part
powers more comprehensive than those existing in their creator and superior, vested, too, with authoity to supervise and
control them. The existence, of such powers certainly cannot rest upon correct logical induction, but would appear to be
at war equally with common apprehension and practical execution. Power can never be delegated which, the authority
said, to delegate itself never -possessed, nor can such power be
indirectly exercised under a pretext of controlling or supervismg those to whom it could not be legitimately delegated.
The colonial vice-admnralty courts, as regular parts of the
English admiralty, created by its authority, could by their
constitution, therefore, be invested only with the known and
restricted jurisdiction of the former. If a more extended junsdiction ever belonged to,. or be claimed for, these colonial
tribunals, it must ret on some peculiar and superadded ground,
which it is incumbent on the advocates of this jurisdiction
clearly to show Has any thing of the kind been adduced in
the argument of this cause? Beyond the provisions of the
statutes of Charles 11. and William IH., relative to cases of
revenue, has there been shown any enlargement by statute of
these vice-admiralty powers, any alteration by judicial decision
in England of the constitution and powers of -the vice-admiralty courts, as emanating from, and limited by, the jurisdiction
of the admiralty in the mother country ? Strongly as authority for the-affirmative of these inquiries has been challenged,
nothing satisfactory to my mind, nothing, indeed, having the
appearance of authority, has been adduced, because, I take it

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

for granted, from the distinguished ability of the counsel,
such authority was not attainable. The learned and elaborate.
investigations of the counsel for the appellants have brought
to light a series of proofs upon the jurisdiction of the viceadmiralty courts, all in strict accordance with the positions
laid down in Blackstone, Stokes, and Browne, and exemplifyimg beyond these the actual and practical extent and modes to
which and in which that jurisdiction was permitted and carried into operation in the Colonies. These developments are
valuable as illustrations of our early history, but they are still
more so-to the' jurist seeking to ascertain the boundaries of right
amidst contested limits of power. A recapitulation of them
here would require an inconvement detail. They well deserve,
nevertheless, to be pxeserved and remembered, as showing incontestably, with the exception of revenue cases arising under
the statutes of Charles and of William, and designated on all
hands as "totally foreign to the original jurisdiction of the
admiralty, arid unknown to it," that the constitution and functions of the vice-admiralty courts, from the earliest. notices of
their existence, in the American colonies, were modelled upon
and strictly limited to those of the mother country (of which
they were branches or portions), that, so far from there having
grown up a more enlarged and general jurisdiction in the colonial vice-admiralty courts, -a jurisdiction known and acquiesced in, - every effort on their part to transcen I the boundary
prescribed to their superior in the mother country was watched
with jealousy by the common law tribunals,-and by them umiformly suppressed.. Coming down to the periods immediately
preceding the Revolutionary conflict, and embraced by -the
war, and during the existence of the Confederation, the volumes of testimony poured forth in the forms of essays,
speeches, and resolutions prove that the pretensions then advanced by the British government, -through the medium of the
admiralty jurisdiction, extending that jurisdiction beyond its
legitimate province as an emanation from the admralty at home,
so far from .iemg regarded as pertaining to a known and established system, were received as novelties and oppressions,- as
abhorrent to the genius of the people, to the British constitution itself, and. worthy to be repelled even by an appeal to
arms. It would seem, then, reconcilable neither with reason
nor probability, that the men who made these solemn protests,
- that a community still warm from the contest induced by
them, - should, upon their emancipation from evils considered
intolerable, immediately, by a species of political suicide, rivet
those same evils indissolubly upon themselves. Much more
reasonable does it appear to me, that the statesmen who framed

JANUARY TE-RM, 148.

409

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company r. Merchants' Bank.

our national charter, when conferring the admiralty and mantime jurisdiction, had in their contemplation -that jufisdiction
only'which was familiar to themselves and their fathers, was,
venerable from time, and m practice acceptable to all, they
could not have intended to sanction that whose -very existence
they denied. This view of the question: is further fortified by
the opinion of two able American jurists, both of them contemporaneous with the birth of our government. I allude.-to
the opinion of Chancellor Rent, expressed at page 377 of the
first volume of his Commentaries, 5th edit., and to that of Mr.
Dane, found in volume sixth of his Abridgment, p. 3t3. It is
in close conformity to, aid congenial with the seventh amendment of the Constitution, and with the saving in the Judiciary
Act of the right to a remedy at common law, wherever the
common law should be competent to give it. An able illustration- of the construction here-.contended for- may, also-be
seen in the elaborate opinion of the late Justice Baldwin m
the case of- Bans v. The Schooner James and Catharine,
Baldwin's Reports, 544, wherethe learned judge, int support.
of his conclusions, with great strength of reasoning, and upon
authority, expounds the term "suits at common law," in the
seventh amendment of the Constitution, and the phrase, "the
right to a common law remedy where the common law is competent to give it," containedim the.saving m the ninth section
of the Judiciary Act, showing their just-operation in limiting
the admiralty-within proper bounds. I deem it wholly irregular to attempt to -adduce general admiralty powers from the
cognizance vested in the courts as to seizures, these are purely
cases of revenue, are treated in. England as anomalous, and
as not investing general admiralty jurisdiction, but as unknown
to it, or jurisdiction in cases of contract, as between private
persons. This'interpretation disposes at once of all. the conclusions which it-is attempted to draw from the several cases
of seizure decided in this court. The obiter dictum m the case
of the General Smith ought not to be regarded as authority at
all, much'less as laying the foundation of a system. From the
best lights I have been able to bring to the inquiry before us,
reflected either from the jurisprudence of the mother country,
from the history of the colonial government, or the. transactions
of the general Confederation, I am satisfied that the civil, admiralty, and maritime jisdiction conferred by the second section of -the third article of the Constitution was the-restricted
jurisdiction 'known to be, that of the English admiralty, insisted
upon and contended for by the North American colonies, limited
in matters of contract (seamen's wages exc.epted) to thihgs
agreed upon and*to be performed upon the sea, and cases-of hy" VOL. V.
35
...

410

SUPIkME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

pothecation, and in civil torts to injuries occurring on the same
theatre, and excluded as to the one and the other from contracts made, or torts committed, within the body of a county
It has been urged m argument, that* the restriction here
proposed is altogether unsuited- to and unworthy the expanded
territory and already great and increasing commerce of our
country. To this may be replied the fact, that it was thought
sufficiently broad for a nation admitted even at this day to be
the most commercial on the globe. In the next place, I am by
no means prepared to concede that the interests of commerce,
and. certainly other great interests in society, are to be benefited by incursions upon the common law jurisprudence of the
country Recurring, as a test, to the mstituti~ns and to the
condition of various nations, a very different and even opposite
conclusion would be impressed by it. But even if it be admitted that a power in the admiralty such as would permit
encroachments upon the venerable precincts of the common
law would be ever so beneficial, the reality of such advantage,
and the right or power to authorlize it, are essentially different
concerns. An argument in favor of power founded upon calculations of advantage, in a government of sti-ctly delegated
powers, is scarcely legitimate when addressed to the legislature,
addressed to the judiciary, it seems to be especially out of place.
In my view, it is scarcely reconcilable with government in any
form, so far as this term may signify regulated power, and
ought to have influence nowhere. If a restricted admiralty
jurisdiction, though ever so impotent for good or prolific .of
mconvemence, has been imposed by the Constitution, either or
both those .evils must te of far less magnitude than would be
attempts to remedy them by means subversive of the Constitution itself, by unwarranted legislative assumption, or by violent judiciaLconstructions. The pressure of any great national
necessity' for amendments of that instrument will always insure
their adoption.
To meet the obeetion urged in this case to the jurisdiction
deduceil from the character of the contract sued on, it has
been insisted that the foundation of this suit may be treated
as a marine tort, which, having beep committed on Long Island
Sound, and therefore not within the body of any county, is
-exempt from objection on~the score of locality If the pleadings and proofs in this cause presented a case of simple or substantial tort, occurriig without the body of a county, no just
objection could be made to the jursdiction. It is, therefore,
proper to inquire whetber a case of marine tort, in form or in
substance, is presented upon this record. There is a class of
vases known tor the common law, in which a plaintiff having

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
New Jersey Steam Naviga

411

on Company %.Merchants' Bank,

a right of action arising upon contract may waive his remedy
directly upon the contract in form, and allege his gravamen as
originating in tort, produced by a violation or neglect of duty.
The cases in which this alternative is permitted are, in the first
place, those in which, independently of the rights of the plaintiff arising from express stipulations with the defendant, there
are duties or obligations mcumbent on the latter resulting from
the peculiar position he occupies with respect to the public,
giving the right to redress to all who- may suffer from the vie-.
lation or neglect of these public obligations. Such are the
instances of attorneys, surgeons, common carriers, and other
bailees. The wrong in these instances is rather the infringement of these public and general obligations, than the-violation
of the private direct agreementbetween the parties, and agreement, contract, is not the foundation of the demand, nor can
it be properly taken as the measure of redress-to be adjudged,
for I presume it is undeniable, that, if the relations of the parties are the stipulations of their contract exclusively or essentially, their remedies must be upon such stipulations strictly.
Secondly, they are cases in which a kind of quas? tort is supposed to arise from a violation of the contract immediately between the parties. These cases, although they are torts in
form, are essentially cases of contract. The contract, therefore,
must be referred to, and substantially shown, to ascertain the
rights of the parties, and to measure the character.and extent
of the redress to either of them. It can in no material feature
be departed from. This I take to be the rationale of the practice, and the view here taken appears to be suttained by authority Thus, in Boorman v. Brown, 3 Adolph. & Ellis, 525,
New Series, Tindal, C. J., delivering the opinion of all the
court, saysy.-" That there is a large class of cases in which
the foundation of the action springs out of the privity of -contract between the parties, but in which,, nevertheless, the
remedy for the breach or non-performance is indifferently in
assumpsit, or in case upon tort, is not disputed." Again (p.
526), the same .judge says, - 1-The principle ni all these cases
would seem to be, that the contract creates a duty, and the
neglect to perform that duty, or the non-performance, is a ground
of action upon tort." In the case of Winterbottom v. Wright,
10 Mees. & Wels. 114, Lord Abinger thus states the law "1Where a party becomes responsible to the public by undertaking a public duty, he is liable, though the injury may have
arisen from the negligence of his servant or agent, so, in cases
of public nuisances, whether the act was done by the party or
a servant, or in any other capacity, you are liable to.an action
at the suit of any person who suffers. These; however, are

412

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steram Navigation Company v. Merchantk' Bank.

cases where the real ground of the liability is the public duty,
or the commission of the public nuisance. There is also a
class of-cases, in which the law permits a contract to be turned
into a tort, but unless there has been some public duty undertaken, or.public nuisance committed, they are all cases in which
an action might have been maintained upon the contract, but
there is no instance in which a party who was not a privy to the
contract entered into with him can maintain any such action."
And Alderson, Baron, in the same case says, -11 The only safe
rule is, to confine the right to recover to those who enter into
the contract. If we go one step beyond that, we may go
fifty." So, too, in Tollit v. Sherstone, 5 Mees. & Wels. 283;
a case in tort, Maule, Baron', says, -"
It is clear that an action
of contract cannot be maintained by a person who is not a
party to the contract, and the same principle extends to an
action arising out of the contract." In farther proof that
these actions in form ex delicto, founded on breach of contract,
are essentially actions of contract, it is clear that, in such
wtions, an infant could not be debarred the privilege of his
-nonage, nor-could the operation of the statute of limitations
-upon the true cause of the action be avoided, both these defnces would apply, according to the real foundation of the
action.
With respect to -these cases ex deZicto quasiz exv contractu,
as they have been called, it has been ruled, that if the plaintiff
states the custom, and also relies on an undertaking general or
special, the action is in reality founded on the contract, and
will be treated as such, Vide Orange County Bank v. Brown,
3 Wendell, 158.
If the practice of the common law courts above considered
be at all 'applicable to suits in the adniralty, how would'-t
operate upon the case before us 7 Ic this casei as presented on
the face of the libel, or upon the proofs adduced in its support,
either formally or substantially a case founded solely on public
duty, or upon contract between the parties 7 It -would seem
to be difficult, in any form of words, to state a contract more
express than is set out in the libel in this cause. It is true
that in the first article there is a statement that the respondents were common carriers of merchandise between the city
of New York and the- town of Stonington in Connecticut,
but it is nowhere alleged that the property of the complainarts was d6livered to the respondents as common carriers, or
was received by them in that character, or under any custom
or obligation binding them as carriers. So far from this, it is
averred in the second article of the libel, that the complainants
contracted on a particular day, and at a particular place, and

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

413

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchgnts- Bank.

that at that very place, and on that very day, the respontents
contracted with the libellants, for a certain reward and hire to
be paid, to transport the said merchandise, &c., - mutual- and.
express stipulations set forth. Is this the statement of a geiieral
custom, a responsibility accruing from implied public duties, or
is this not rather the exclusion of every thing of 'the kind?
Again, article third of the libel'avers, that on the day and at the.
place mentioned in the second article, viz. on the 13th day of
July, 1840, at the city of New York, the'libellants delivered
to the respondents their merchandise, and it -was received by
the latter, to be transported according to the agreement between
them. If, then, the power of proceeding im tort for a breach
of the *contract, known to the common law courts, -can be extended to th. admnalty, it would still, as in the ?ormer tribunals according to the authorities, present every question for
decision as -a question of contract-, .between patties (and- because they were so) to. the contract, by the stipulations according to which alone the rights .and wrongs of all must -be
adjusted. This election- of the proceeding in tort arising ex
contractu, if permitted to the admiralty, would leave the-subject of jurisdiction just where it would' stand independently
of such election. In the exercise of such election, you are
necessarily driven to the contract to ascertain, the existence,
the nature, and extent of the assumed tort, in other words, the
infraction or fulfilment of the contract,.and the investigation
develops inevitably an agreement- of which, with respect to partires, to locality, or su~bject-matter or to all these, the admiualty
can have no cogmzance.
But after all, I would mquire for -the. authority under which
the admiralty has' been allowed to assume, under an artificial.
rule of common law pleading, jurisdiction of matters not falling naturally, directly, and appropriately within its cogmzance. Indeed, its admirers and advocates, from Sir Leoline
Jenkins to Professor Browne, have zealously defended it against
every imputation of attempts at assumption, insisting that thesubjects claimed for its cognizance, and its modes of claiming
them, were such only as naturally and appropriately belonged
to it. They have as zealously complained of abstractions by
the common law courts, by means of uncandid and unreasonable fictions, of matters naturally and familiarly belonging to
the admiralty *If a single precedent exists showing that, by
the artificial rules of pleading practised in the common law
courts, partaking in some degree of fiction, the admiralty has
ever obtained jurisdiction over matters which otherwise would
not have fallen within its cognizance,.that precedent is unknown to me, and it is equally certain that I am unwilling, to
35*

414

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation 'Company v. Merchants' Bank.

create one. And it is remarkable, that, in direct opposition to
this effort to give jurisdiction to the admiralty by borrowing a
license from the common law courts, we have the explicit declaration of Professor Browne himself, amidst all ins partiality,
that in matters of tort the jurisdiction of the admiralty is limited to "actions for assault, collision, and spoil," - instances of
pure tort, excluding every idea of fiction, and equally excluding
one single attribute of contract. 'Fide Vol. II, chap. 4, p. 122.
I am extremely diffident as to the wisdom and safety of enlarging a jurisdiction, (and especially by the force of implication,) winch from the earliest traces of its existence (whatever
has been said in this case about the power of reform in this
rgspect) has always been exercised by rules and principles less
congenial with our institutions thm are the principles and
proceedings of the common law, winch, by the mere force ofimplication in the terms "admiralty and maritime," overrides
the seventh amendment of the Constitution, and the important saving'in the ninth section. of the Judiciary Act, which
by a like implication frees itself altogether from all restriction
imposed, b6th-by the second section of the third article of theConstitution, and by the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act,
with respect to controversies between citizens of the same
State. A jurisdiction substituting, too, for the invaluable safeguard to truth secured by confronting the witness with court
and jury; E'm inery by winch the aspect and the force of
testimony are graduated rather by the address and skill of the
agent! employed to fabricate it, than by its own intrinsic
worth, and transferring- the trial of. facts resting upon credibility to a tribunal often remote and mconvement,'and constrained to decide on-atatements that may be merely colorable,
often entirely untrue.
Again, to decide this -case upon the ground of liability of
the owners for a tort committed by the master, would present
this strange incongruity
Although, by the common law,
owners of vessels were responsible for losses occasioned by the
misconduct of masters as their. agents, to the full amount of
such losses, yet as long since as the statute of 7 George II.,
passed in 1734, nearly forty years before our independence,
tis responsibility was expressly limited-in extent to the value
of the vessel and the freight. The laws of Oleron and Wisby,
we are told by tord Tenterden (mde Treatise on Shipping,
p. 395), contain no pfovision on this subject, though this writer
Informs us, upon the authority of Vinnius, that such a provis'ion was contained in the laws of Holland, and that by. the
laws of Rotterdam, as early as 1721, the owners wpre exempted from liability for the acts of the mast.ir done without their

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

41'

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

order farther than their part of the-ship amounted. to. By-th
French Ordonnance of the Marine, Book 2, tit. 8, art. 2, .the
rule is thus given -" Les propnetaires des navires seront responsable des faits du maitre, naisils en demeureront dechargis
en abandonnant leur batiment et le fret." So, too, BoulayPaty, in his work entitled Cours de Droit Commercial Maritime,
VoL 1. pp. 270 et seq., after interpreting the wordfait of act.of
thwomaster as inclusive of delicta quas delieta, acts of negligence or Imprudence, as well as his contracts or-engagements,
upon a comparison of the opinions of vanus authors, -Valin;
Emerigon, Pothier, &c.,- comes to the following.conclusions :
"Maintenant, disons-donc que le capitame, soit par emprunt,
soit par vente de marchandises, soit par dclit ou ,quasi-dAlit,
n'a que le pouvoir d'engager le navire et le fret, sans qu'itlm
solt possible de compromettre la fortune, de terre de ses armateurs. Ceux-ci se degagent de toutes les obligations contractes
par.le maitre, en cours de voyage, par Pabandon dujiavire et
du fret." This same writer, pages 275 and 27-6, hlys, down
the following doctrines, which he quotes from-Grotius, from
Emerigon, from Pothier, and- from the Consulat de Ia Mer- " L'obligation oi les prop6taires sont de garantir les faits
de leur capitaine, est plus re'elle quq personnelle.
Pendant
le cours du voyage, le capitame -pourra prendre demers- sur le
corps, mettre des apparaux en gage, ou vendre des mardhandises de son chargement. Voile-tout. Son pouvoii legal ne
s' tend pas au-delb des limites du navire dont il est maitre,
c'est-&-dire admiinstrateur, il ne pout engager la fortune de
terre de ses armateurs qu'autant que ceux-ci y ont consenti
d'une.mani~re sp6ciale.
De sorte que si le navire p rit, ou
qu'ils abdiquent leur mt~r~t, ils no sont garans de nen.
En
effet, le Consulat de la Mer, cap. 33, apr~s avoir dit que Pint~ret
que les armateurs ont sur le. corps, est engage au paiement des
dettes contractees par le- capitaine, en courg de voyage, ajoute
que la personne m les autres- biens des coproprietaires -ne sont
obliges, k-moms qu'ils ne lul eussent donn6i .e suj~t, un pouvoir suffisant.
"Au ch. .236-il est dit que si le navire p6ritj c'est assezquo
cette porte soit pour le compte des quirataires.!)
From this view of the law as existing in England and on
the European continent, it is manifest, that, in the -former
country, the responsibility of the owners, prior to the statute
of 7 Geo. H., was a common law liability, and was acknowledged and allowed to the full extent. that the demand: could be
proyen, embracing both-the persons. and all the-property of the
owners, that since the statute of Geo. II., this liability is limited to -the value of the ship and freight, but stifl to be en-

416

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

forced in the courts of common law or equity, that, by the
'mariime law of the Continent, the liability of the owners was
always limited to the ship and freight, and that, from this restricted liability, the owners were entirely released by an abandonment -of ship and freight, or by a total- loss of the former
at sea, whether the-claim was made on account of the contract,
or tort, or delictum of the master. But, in this case, the court
have sanctioned a liability, resting upon commont law prnclples, irrespective of any limit -imposed either by statute or by
the rules of the maritime law, and this by means, too, of artificial or fictitious constructions, -practised upon only in the
courts of common law, relative to the forms of actions prosecuted in those courts, and, for the accomplishment of this object, have permitted the adbption of modes and proceedings
peculiarly and solely appertammg to. the maritime law, - a
system- of jurisprudence essentially dissimilar, a system which
-recognizes no such claim as the present, but under whose anthority-the owners would be wholly absolved by the total loss
of.the vessel, and under which they would be permitted to
stipulate for their -own exemption from liability on account of
the barratry or dishonesty of their agents. Vide Abbott on
Shipping, p. 294. The incongruity here pointed out might
have been avoided, Dy confining the parties to their- proper
-forum.
My conclusions, then, upon the question of jurisdiction, are
these -that the case presented by the'libel is palpably a proceeding in personam upon an express contract, entered" into
between the parties in the city of New York, that it is therefore a case properly cognzable at a common law court, for any
breach of that contract which may have beemcommitted, and
consequently is not a case over which the admiralty court can,
under the Constitution and laws of the U3nited States, have jurisdiction, either
personam or m rem.
Having felt myself bound to treat at some extenit what
seemed to me the decisive, and what may, too, be called the
public or constitutional question involved in this cause, - the
question of jurisdiction, - as to -what may be the merits of
tis controversy, the obligations sustained by the -parties to
each other, and the extent to which these have been fulfilled
or violated, I shall content myself with simply giving the conclusions to which my mmd has been conducted, without pretending to reason them out fully upon the facts or the'law of
the case, because those conclusions would not -be the grounds
of a formal dissent, though isaffirmed by a- majority of. my
brethren.
Whilst I amimpressed with the strong necessity that exists

JANUARY TERM,1848.

417

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

for guarding against fraud-or neglect in those who,'by holding
themselves forth as fitted to take charge of the lives, the health,
or the, property of the community, thereby invite the public
trust and reliance, I am not prepared to say that there can be
no limit or qualification to the responsibility of those who embark m these or similar undertakings, -limits which may be
implied from the inherent nature of those undertakings themselves, or which may result from express stipulation.. It seems
to me undemable, that a carrier may select the particular line
or description of business in which he engages, and that, so
long as he with good faith adheres to that description, he cannot be responsible- for any thing beyond or inconsistent with it.
The rule which makes him an insurer against every thing but
the act of God or the public enemy makes him an insurer as
to performances only which are consistent with his undertaking
as carrier. A common carrier of travellers is bound to the
preservation of the accustomed baggage of the traveller, because of the known custom that travellers carry with them
articles for their comfort and accommodation, and the price for
which the transportation is undertaken is graduated on that
presumption, but the carrier would not therefore be responsible for other articles, of extraordinary value, secretly transported upon his vehicle, because by this secrecy he is defrauded of
a compensation commensurate with the value of the subject
transported, and with the increased hazards to which it is attempted to commit him without his knowledge or assent. But
to render him liable, he must have received the article for transportation, and it must be a subject falling fairly within the
scope of his engagement. Within this range he is an insurer,
with ;ffhe exceptions above statdd. But a carrier may, in a
given case, be exempted from liability for loss, without fraud,
by express agreement with the person for whom he undertakes,
for I cannot well imagine a principle creating a disability in a
particular class of persons to enter into acontract fraught with
no criminal or immoral element, - a disability, indeed, extending injuriously to others, who might.find it materially beneficial
to make a contract with them. A carriermay also be exempted
from liability by the conduct of the owner of property, in keeping the exclusive possession and control of it, and thereby withholding it from the care and management of the carrer. -Upon
applying the principles here succinctly stated to -the evidence
in this cause, it is not made out in proof, to my mind,-that the
respondents-ever received, as carriers, from the libellants, or indeed in any other capacity, property of any species or description, or ever knew that property of the libellahts was, directly
or indirectly, within the possession of the respondents, or on

418

SUPREME COURT.

New. Jersey'Stiam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

board their vessel. It is not n proof that Hamden, in his contract with the respondents, acted as the agent of the libellants
or for their benefit, or that, at the time of the agreement or
of the shipment made by Hamden, the libellants and respondents were known to -each other by-transactions as-sipper and
carrier. It is established by proof, that Hamden contracted, in
his own name and behalf alone, with the respondents-for a separate compartment on board their vessel, to be, with its contents (the latter .unknown to the respondents), at all- tnes
under his exclusive control, that the property alleged to have
been lost was, if in this separate compartment, placed there
without certain knowledge of its character or value on the
part of the respondents, was under the exclusive direction of
Harmden, who accompaied it, and who, up to the time of the
conflagration, of the vessel,, held the property under lock and
key, and could alone, without violence and a breach of the engagement, have had access to it. Were this controversy directly between Hamden and the respondents, from the peculiar
nature of the contract between these parties, and from the possession of the subject reserved to and exercised by the former,
any liability of the respondents, even then, nght be a matter
of doubt, but there should, I think, be no difficulty in concluding that no kind of liability could attach to the respondents in favor of persons for whom they had undertaken no
duty, and who, in reference to the transaction in question, were
strangers, entirely unknown to them. Upon the ments of this
case, as well as upon the question of jurisdiction, I think the
decree of-the Circuit Court ought to 'be reversed, and the libel
dismissed.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY
On most of the facts involved in this libel, little controversy
exists. It is certain that the respondents took the property of
the plaintiffs on board, their steamboat, the Lexington, to carry
it, on her last calamitous voyage, the 13th of January, 1840,
-from New York to Stonington. It is equally certain that it
was lost, on that voyage, in Long Island Sound, at a place
where the tide ebbed and flowed strongly, and several miles
from shore, and probably withoit the limits of any State or
county It is certain, likewise, that the property was lost m
consequence of a fire, w'hich broke out in the boat in the night,
and consumed it, with most of the other property on board.
The value of it is also sufficiently certain, and that it was put
oni board, not by an officer of the bank, but by Harmden, a forwarding agent for the community, generally, and under a special contract between Hamden and 'the respondents, that the

.JANUARY TERM, 1848.

419

New Jersey Steam Navigatron Company v. Merihants' Bank.

latter were not to run any risk, nor be responsible for any losses
of property thus shipped by him.
But some other facts are not so certain. One of that character is, whether the fire occurred by accident, without any
neglect whatever by the respondents and their agents, or in
consequence of some gross neglect by one or both. It-would
not be very material to decide this last fact, controverted as it
is and in some degree doubtful, if I felt satisfied that the plaintiffs could-recover anywhere, and more especially in admiralty, on the contract made by Harmden with the respondents,
for the breach of the contract to carry and deliver this property.
The first objection to such a recovery on the contract anywhere is, that it was made with Hamden, and not with the
bank. Butler v. Basing, 2 Car. & Payne, 613, 15 Mass. 370,
2 Story, 32. Next, that he was acting for himself, in this contract, on his own duties, liabilities, and undertakings, and not
for them, and that the bank, so far as regards any contract,
looked to himu and his engagement with. them, and not to the
respondents or their engagement with him. 6 Bingh. 131.
Next, that the articles, while on board the boat, were to be 'in
the care and control of Hamden, and not of the master or
owners, and hence no liability exists on the contract even to
him, much less the bank.. Story on Bailments, p. 547,  582.
And this same conclusion is also urged, because Hamden, by
his contract, made an express stipulation, that the property
carried should be at his risk, as well as in his care. See 5
East, 428, 1 Ventris, 190, 288. It is contendea further, that,
if the bank can sue on Hamden's contract made with the respondents, it must be on the principle of his acting in it as
their agent, and not for himself alone, and if so, and they, by
suing on it, adopt its provisions, they must be.bound by the
stipulation in it made by him, not to hold the respondents liable for any risk or loss.
It is, however, doubted, whether, with such a stipulation,
the respondents are'not, by public policy, to be still liable on a
contract like this, in order to insure greater vigilance over all
things intrusted to their -care (Gould v. Hill, 2 Hill, 623), and
on the ground, that the parties could not mean by the contract
that the earners were to.be exonerated for actual.misbehaviour,
but only for accidents otherwise chargeable on them as quass
insurers. Atwood v. Reliance Insurance Company, 9. Watts,
87, 2 Story, 32, 33.
It is insisted, next, that, as the unusual nature of the property carried, m this case, was not made known to the carfiers,
nor a proportionate price raid for its transportation, the owner

420
New

SUPREME COU~TT.
Tersev,%Steam Navigation Company r. Merchants' Bank.

cannot xecover beyond the usual value of common merchandise
of such a bulk. Citizens' Bank v. Steamboat Nantucket, 2
Story, 32, 25 Wend. 459, Gibbon v. Paynton, 4 Burr. 2301..
But, giving no decisive .opinion on the validity of any of
these objeqtions, as not necessary m the view hereafter taken,
yet they are enumerated to show some of the difficulties in
sustaining a recovery on-this contract, notwithstanding their
existence.
Another'- important objection remains to be considered. It
is, that no jurisdiction exists over this contract in a court of
admiralty where these proceedings originated. The contract
was made on land, and of course within the body of the county of New York. It was also not a contract for a freight of
goods abroad, or to a foreign country, the breach of which has
been here sometimes prosecuted in courts of admiralty Drinkwater ,et al. v. The Spartan, Ware, D. C. 149, by a proceeding
-n rem. 155), -De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gall. 398, The Volunteer,
1 Sumner, 551 ,. Logs of Mahogany,*2 Sumner, 589, 6 Dane's
Abr. 2, 1, Charter-parties. See a case contra, in the records
of Rhode Island, A. D. 1742.
But the law of England is understood to be, even in foreign
charter-parties, against sustaining such suits, ex contractu, in
admiralty 3 D. & E. 323; 2 Lord Raym. 904, 1 Hag. Ad.
226; and cases cited in 12 Wheaton, 622,-623.
By agreement of the judges in A. D. 1632, admiralty was not
to try such cases, if the charter-party was contested. Dunlap's Adm. 14, 4 Instit. 135, Hobart, 268.
It seems, however, to be doubted by Browne (2 Browne's
Civ and Adm. Law, 122, 535), whether the libellant may not
proceed in admiralty,. if he goes to recover freight only, and
not a penalty It is also believed, that, in this country, contracts to carry freight between different States, or within the
same State, if it be on tide-water, or at least on the high seas,
have sometimes been made the subject-matter of libels in admiralty Dunlap's Adm. 487, 1 Sumner, 551, 3 Am. Jur.
26, 6 Am. Jur. 4, King et al. v. Shepherd, 3 Story, 349, in
point, Gilp. D. C. 524, Conkling, Pra. 150, De Lovio v. Bolt,
2 Gall. 448. I am inclined to the opinion, too, that, at the
time the Constitution of the United States was adopted, and
the words "cases of admiralty and maritime" were introduced
into it, and jurisdiction over them was subsequently given in
civil proceedings, in the act of 1789, to the District Courts, the
law in England had in some degree become changed in its general principles in respect to jurisdidtion in admiralty over contracts. Their courts had become inclined to hold, that the place
of performance of a contract, if maritime in its subject, rather

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

421

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

than the place of its execution, was the true test as to its construction and the right under it. This conformed, also, to the
analogy as to contracts at common law See cases in Towne
v. Smith, 1 Woodbury & Minot, 135.
It is not unusual for the place to which. the parties look for
fulfilling their duties to be not only different from the place of
making the contract, but for the parties to regard other laws
and other courts, applying to the place of performance, as controlling and as having jurisdiction over it.- Bank of the United
States v. Donnally, 8 Peters, 361, Wilcox v. Hunt, 13 Peters,
318, Bell et al. v. Bren, 1 Howard, 169.
Hence, for a century before 1789, Lord Kenyon says, admiralty courts -had sustained jurisdiction on bottomry bonds,
though executed upon the land, because, "if the admiralty has
jurisdiction over the'subject-matter, to say that it is necessary
for the parties to go upon the sea to execute the instrument
borders on absurdity" See Menetone v. Gibbons, 3 D. & E.
267-269, 2 Lord Raym. 982, 2 H. B1..164, 4 Cranch, 328,
Paine's C. 0. 671. On this principle, the admiralty has gradually been assuming junsdiction over claims for pilotage on the
sea, both the place of performance and the subject-matter being
there usually maritime. 10 Wheat. 428, 7 Peters, 324, 10
Peters, 108, 11 Peters, 175, 1 Mason, C. C. 508. Because,
on the general principle just referred to,-as to the object of
the contract, if "it concerned the. navigation of the -sea," and
hence was in its nature and character a maritime contract,
it was deemed within admiralty jurisdiction, though made on
land. Zane v. The Brig President, .4Wash. C. C. 454, 4
Mason, C. C. 380, The Jerusalem, 2 Gall. 191, 465, 448,
The Sloop Mary, Paine, C. C. 671, Gilp. D. C. 184, 477,
429, 2 Sumner, 1.
This is the principle, at the bottom, for recovering seamen's
wages in admiralty Howe v. Nappier, 4 Burr. 1944.
Not that the consideration merely was maritime, but that the
contract must be to do something maritime as to place or subject. Plummer v. Webb, 4 Mason, C. C. 380, Berni v. The
Janus et al., 1 Baldw C. 0: 549, 552 "A New Brig," Gilp.
D. C. 30b. But we have already seen there are several direct
precedents in England against sustaining these proceedings in
admiralty on the contract, such as a charter-party or bill of
lading, and strong doubts from some high authorities against
it in this country Chancellor Kent seems to think a proceedmg in admiralty, on a chafter-party like this, cannot be sustained, except by what he cqlls "the unsettled doctrine laid
down in De Lovio v. Bolt." 3 Kent, Comm. 162. See likeVOL. VI.
36

422

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

wise Justice Johnson's opinion to the like effect in Ramsey
v. Allegre, 12 Wheat. 622.
Looking, then, to the law as held in England in 1789, and
not considering it to be entirely clear in favor of sustaining a
suit in admiralty on a charter-party like this, and that it is very
doubtful whether any more settled or enlarged rule on this subject then prevailed in admiralty here, or has since been deliberately and generally adopted here, in respect to charter-parties
or bills of lading, I do not feel satisfied in overruling the objection to our jurisdiction which has been made on this ground.
The further arguments and researches since Waring v. Clarke
(5 How ) tend also, in my view, to repel still more strongly any
idea that admiralty jurisdiction had become extended 'here, at
the Revolution, in cases either of contracts or torts, more
broadly than in England.
But it is not necessary now to'go into the new illustrations
of this cited in the elaborate remarks of the counsel for the
respondents, or discovered by myself; m addition to those
quoted in the opinion of the minority in Waring et al. v.
Clarke, and in The United States v. The New Bedford Bridge,
I Woodbury & Minot. Among mine is the declaration by
Lord Mansfield himself, December 20th, 1775, that the colomes wished "that the admiralty courts should never be made
to extend there," instead of wishing their powers enlarged
(6 American Archives, 234,. Annual Register for 1776, pp. 99,
100), and there is likewise the protest of the friends of America, the same year, in the House of Lords, that the increase
of admiralty power by some special acts of Parliament was a
measure favored at home rather than here, and was not acceptable here, but denounced by them as an inroad on the
highly prized trial by jury 6 American Archives, 226. Among
those cited is the conclusive evidence, that in some of the
colonies here before the Revolution, the restraining .statutes
of Richard II., as to the admiralty, were eo noino and expressly adopted, instead of not being in force here. See in
South Carolina, 2 Statutes at Large, 4.46, in 1712, and in Massachusetts, Dana's Defence of New England Charters, 49- 54,
in Virginia, ", the English Statutes" passed before James I.,
9 Henmg's Statutes, 131, 203, Commonwealth v. Gaines,
2 Virg. Cases, 179, 185, in Maryland, 1 Maryland Statutes,
Kilty's Report, 223, and in Rhode Island, her records of a case
in 1763, at Providence.
But I pass by all these, and much more, because, notwithstanding the course of practice here the last half-century in some
districts, and the inattention and indifference exhibited in many
others as to the true line of discrimmation between the juris-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

423

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

diction belonging to the common law courts and that in admralty, enough appears to induce me, as at -present advised, not
to rest jurisdiction in admiralty over a transaction -like ti on
contract alone. I shall not do it, the more especially when a
ground less doubtful in my apprehension exists and can be
relied on for recovering all the loss, if the damage was caused
by a tort.
I have turned my attention to ascertain whether the facts in
this case exhibit any wrong committed by the respondents, of
such a character as a tort, and in such a locality as may render
our jurisdiction in admiralty clear over it, looking to the pnnciples of admiralty law in England, and also in this country,,
so far as can now be discovered to have existed at the time of
our Revolution.
First, as to this, it is argued, that, in point of fact, gross negligence existed in the transportation of this- property If -so,
this conduct by the respondents or their agents may be sufficient to justify a proceeding ex delicto for the nonfeasance or
misfOasance constituting that neglect, and causing the-loss of
this property, entirely independent of the contract or its form,
or the risks under it, or the want of notice of the great value of
the property. Particularly might this be sufficient, if the injury
was caused in a place, aid under circumstances, to give a court
of admiialty undoubted jurisdiction over it as a marine tort.
The question of fact,, then, as to neglect here, and the extent of it, may properly be investigated next, as in one view
of the subject it may become highly important and decisive
of the right to recover, and as it is our duty to settle facts in
-an admiralty proceedingi when they are material to thej merits.
As before intimated, it is here'virtually conceded, that the
property of the plaintiffs, while in charge of the respondents
as common carriers on the sea, was entirely lost, by the burnmg of the boat in,which it was transported.
The first inference from these naked facts would be, that the
fire was produced by some cause for which the owners were
responsible, being generally negligence, and that pmma facze
they were chargeable. 6 Martin, 681; Story on Railments,
- 533, 538.
Indeed, the common carrier who receives propbrty to transport, and does not deliver it, is always held !pr tm facte liable.
Abbott on Ship., ch. 3,  3, 1 Ventris, 190, 6 Johns. 169,
8 Johns. '213, 19 Wendell, 245, Story on Bailments,  533,
3 Kent, Comm. 207, 216, 3 Story, 349, 356, 5 Bingh. 217,
220, 4 Bingh. 218.
If they would have this inference or presumption changed,
so, as to exonerate themselves, it mu8t be done by themselves,

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey.Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

and not the plaintiffs, and by proof removing strong doubts,
or, in other words, turning the scales of evidence in their favor
in this attempt. This idea- is fortified by the express provision
establishing a presumption, by the act of .Congress, in case of
damages by explosions of steam. 5 Stat. at Large, p. 305,  13.
Independent of this presumption, when we proceed to examine the evidence on both sides as to the contested pomts of
fact connected with the loss, it is found to, be decidedly against
the conduct of the respondents and their agents, and, so far from
weakening the presumption against them from the actual loss,
it tends with much strength to confirm it. There had, to be
sure, been recent repairs, and certificates not long before obtam:ied of the good condition of the boat. But on the proof,
she does not seem to have been in a proper state to guard
against accidents by fire' when this loss occurred. Her machinery was designed: at first to burn wood, and had not long
before been changed to consume anthracite coal, which created
a higher heat. And yet there was a neglect fully to secure the
wooden portions of the boat, near and exposed to this higher
heat, from the natural and dangerous consequences of it. So
was there an omission to use fire-brick and new sheet-iron for
guards, nigh the furnace. On one or two' occasions, shortly
before this accident, the pipe had become reddened by the intense heat so as to attract particular attention, and shortly before, the boat actually caught fire, it is probabl,., from some of
those causes, and yet no new precautions had been adopted.
In the next place, the act of Congress (5 Stat. at Large,
pp. 304, 305) requires the owners of steamboats "to provide,
as a part of the necessary furniture, a suction-hose and fireengine and hose suitable to be worked in said boat, in case of
fire, and carry the same upon each and every voyage in good
order." (See. 9.) And it imposes also a penalty of $ 500 for not
complying with any condition imposed by the act.. (Sec. 2.)
The spirit of this requisition is as much violated by not havmg the hose and engine so situated as to be used promptly and
efficiently, as by not having them at all, or not having them
"in -good order."

The hose and engine were not kept together, and hence
could not be used on that fatal night. One was stowed away
in one part of the boat, and the other elsewhere, so as not to
be in a situation to be brought promptly into beneficial use.
Again, it was an imperative provision in the act of Congregs
before referred to (sec. 9), -and the neglect of it was punished by a fine of $ 300, on the owner as well as master, Ithat iron rods or chains shall be employed and used in the
navigating of.all steamboats, instead of wheel.or tiller ropes."

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

425.

,New Jersey Steam -Navigation Company v.*Merchants' Bank.

Yet this was not complied with, and renders their conduct
in fis respect, not only negligent, but illegal.
Though, in fact, this accident may not have proved more
fatal than otherwise from this neglect, the non-compliance
with the provisipn was culpable, and throws the burden of
proof on the owners to show it did not contribute to the loss.
Waring et- al. v. Clarke, 5 Howard, 463. It is true, that
Congress, some years after, March 30, 1845, dispensed with a
part of this provision (5 Stat. at Large, 626), under certain
other guards. Yet in this case even 'those other guards were
wholly omitted.
Nor does there appear to have been any drilling of the crew
previously, how to use the engine in an emergency, or any dis6ipline adopted, to operate as a watch to prevent fires from
occurring, or,, after breaking out, to extinguish- them quickly. Indeed, the captain, on this occasion, checked the efforts
of some to throw the ignited cotton overboard, so as, to stop
the flames from spreading,, by peremptorily forbidding 'it to
be done.
The respondents, to be sure, prove that. several buckets were
on board. But the buckets, except in a single instance, were
not rigged with heaving-lines, so as to be able to draw up
water, and help to check promptly any fire which might break
out. And an consequence of their fewness or bad location,
some of the very boxes containing, the specie of the plaintiffs
were broken open and emptied, in order to hold water. Lastly,
when discovered, the officers and crew~do not-appear generally
to have made either prompt or active exertions to extinguish
the fire, or to turn the vessel nearer shore, where this property,
and the passengers, would be much more likely to be preserved, eventually; than by remaining out mnthe deep parts of
the Sound.
The extent and nature of the liability thus caused are well
settled at law The property of the plaintiffs was destroyed by
fire, through great neglect by the defendants and their agents.
Common carriers are liable for losses -by fire, though guilty of no
neglect, unless it happen by lightning. 1 D. & E. 27, 4 D. &
E. 581; 3 Kent, Comm. 217, 5 D. & E. 389, Gilmore v. Carman, 1 Smedes & Marsh. 279, King et al. v. Shepherd, 3 Story,
Rep. 360, 2 Browne, Civ and Adm. Law, 144, 2 Wend. 327,
21 Wend. 190. These respondents were common carriers, n
the strictest and most proper sense of the law' King et al.
v. Shepherd, 3 Story, Rep. 349. See other cases, post.
They would, therefore, be liable in the present case without
such neglect, if this view of it applied to a recovery on the
ground of a tort as well as of a contract. But as it may not,

36*

42W

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Compony v. Merchants' Bank.

the next inquiry is if the facts disclose a breach of duty, a
culpable neglect, either by the officers or owners of the vessel,
amounting to a tort, and for which the defendants are responsible.
It is well settled, that a captain is bound to exercise a careful supervision over fires and lights in his vessel, ordinarily
Malynes, 155, The Patapsco Ins. Co. v. Coulter, 3 Peters,
237, 228, 229, Busk v. The Royal Ex. Ass. Co., 2 Barn. &
Aid. 82.
He is required in all things to employ due diligence and
skill (9 Wend. 1, Rice's R. 162), to act "with most exact diligence" (1 Esp. Ca. 127), or with the utmost care (Story on
Bailin. ' 327). But how much more so in a steamboat, with
fires so increased in number and strength, and especially when
freighted with very combustible matenals, like this, chiefly
with cotton I
His failure to exert himself properly to extingush any fire
amounts to barratry. 3 Peters, 228, 234, Waters v. Merch.
Lomsville Ins. Co., 11 Peters, 213, 10 Peters, 507 And if
the property be insred against barratry, the owners may then
recover.
To be sure, in one case the owners of a steamboat were exonerated from paying-for a loss by fire. But it was only under
the special provision of the local laws, rendering them exempt,
if the fire occured "by accidental or uncontrollable events."
See. Civil Code of Lousiana, 63d article, Hunt v. Mormis,
6 Martin, 681.
So the written contract for freight, as well as that for msurance, sometimes does not cover fire, but specially exempts a loss
by it; 3 Kent, Comm. 201-207
In such case there may be no liability for it on the insurance, and doubtfully on the charter or bill of lading, unless it
was caused by gross neglect, crassa negligentia. But in -case
of such neglect, liability exists even there. 3 Kent, Comm.
217, 3 Peters, 238, 1 Taunton, 227 In this view the owners
seem liable for all damages -which they or their servants could
have prevented by care. 8 Serg. & Rawle, 533. As an illustration of what -are meant by, such damages, they are those
which happen, if on land, from unskilful drivers, "from vicious
and unmanageable horses, or when occasioned by overloading
the coaches, as these. would nnily npgligence or want of care."
Beckman v. Shouse, 5 Rawle, 183.
From the above circumstance, the conclusion is almost lrresistible, that what constitutes a gross neglect by the respondents and -their agents, as to the condition of the. boat and its
equpments, existed here, and by the deficiencies 'and inperfec-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

427

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

tion of them contributed much to the loss of this property,
and beside this, that want of diligence and skill on board, after
the fire broke out, as well as want-of watchfulness and care to
prevent its happening or making much progress, was manifest.
If any collateral circumstance can warrant the exaction of
greater vigilance than usual, on occasions like these, or render
neglects more culpable, it was, that the lives of so many par
sengers were here exposed by them, and became their victims.
This Iist consideration is imperative, in cases Qf vessels devoted both to -freight and passengers, to hold the owners and
their servants responsible for the exercise of every kind of diligence, watchfulness, and skill which the principles of law may
warrant. Beside the great amount of.property on board on this
occasion, they had in charge from one to two hundred passengers, including helpless children and females, confiding for safety
entirely to their care. and fidelity All of these, except two or
three, were launched into eternity, during that frightful night,
by deaths the most painful and heart-rending. Had proper attention been devoted to the guards *aamst fire, such as prudence and duty demanded, or due vigilance and energy been
exercised to extinguish it early, not only would large amounts
of property probably have been saved, but the tragic sufferings
and loss of so many human beings averted.
In view of all this, to relax the legal obligations and duties
of those who are amply paid for them, or to encourage careless
breaches of trusts the mogt sacred, or to favor technical niceties
likely to exonerate the authors of such a calamity, would be
of most evil example over our whole seaboard, and hundreds
of navigable rivers and vast lakes, where the safety of such
immense property and life depends chiefly on the due attention
of the owners and agents of steamboats, and is, unfortunately,
so often sacrificed by the want of it. To relax, also, when
Congress has made such neglect, when followed by death, a
crime, and puishable at least as manslaughter, would be unfaithfulness to the whole spirit of their legislation, and to the
loudest demands of public.policy
Their enactment on this subject is in these words (see statute before cited, see. 12) -" 1 That every captain," &c., " by
whose misconduct, negligence, or inattention to his or their
respective duties, the life or lives of any person on board said
vessel may be destroyed, shall be deemed guilty of manslaughter," &c.
Showing, then, as the facts seem to do here, wrongs and
gross neglect by both the owners and officers of the boat, the
next step in our inquiries is, whether any principles or precedents exist against their being prosecuted in admiralty as a

428

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

'tort, and by a proceeding which sounds ex delicto, and entirely
independent of any contract.
The recovery, in cases like this, on the tort, counting on tlhe
duty of the carrer and its breach by the negligent loss of the
property, is common, both in this country and abroad, in the
-courts of- common law
*Whether it -be redressed there m trespass or case, when suing ex delicto, is immaterial, if, when case is brought, the facts,
-as here, show neglect or consequential damage, rather than those
-wvhich are direct and with force. And if case lies at common
law on such a state of facts, there seems to be no reason why
a libel in admiratymay not lie for the wrong, whenever, as
here, it was committed on the sea, and clearly within admiralty jurisdiction over torts. For the admiralty is governed by
like principles and facts, as to what constitutes a tort, as prevail
in an action at law for damages, -and its- ingredients, are the
same, whvther happening on land or water. But case will lie
at law, on facts like those here, for -reasons obvious and important in the present inquiry. Indeed, on such facts the ancient
action was generally in case, and counted on -the duty of the
arrier to transport safely the property received, and- charged
hiin with tortious negligence in not doing it. 1 Price, 27, 2
Kent, Comm. 599, 3 Wend. 158. Ih such proceedings at
common law, the .difference was in some respects, when ex delicto, more favorable to the owners, as then .some neglect, or
violence, or fraud, or guilt of some kind, must be shown,
amounting to a breach of public duty by -the carner or his servants. Hinter v. Dibdin et- al., 2 Adol. & Ell., N. S. 646, 2
New R. 454, 2 Chit. R. 4. While in the action of assumpsit,
more modern, but by no means exclusive, the pronise or contract alone need be shown, and a breach of that, though without any direct proof of neglect, as carriers are, by their duties,
m law, insurers against all losses except by the king's enemies
and the act of God. 3 Brod.& Bingh. 62; 63, 19 Wend. 239;
Forward v. Pittard, 1 D. & E. 27, 1 Esp. Ca. 36, 2. Chit. R.
1, Ashmole v. Wainwright, 2 Adol. & Ell., N. S. 663.
So, it is well settled that these rules of law, and all others
as to common carrers by land, apply to those by water, and
to those boats carrying freight, as this one did. 10 Johns. 1,
1 Wils. 281, 3 Esp. Ca. 127, 2.Wend. 327, 3 Story, 349.
What, then, in principle, operates against a recovery?
Somle would seem to argue, that a.proceeding ex delicto-must
be trespass, and that case -s not -one. But when it proceeds, as
here, for consequential damages, and those caused by gross neglet, and not a mere breach of contract, it :ounds es delicto
as much-as trespass itself. 1 Chin. P1. 142, 3 East, 593,,2
Saund. 47, b.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

r 429

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

The misconduct complained of here amounted to a tol, as
much as if it had been committed with force. A tort means
only a wrong, independent of or as contradistmguished from amere breach of a contract. The evidence here, in my apprehension, shows both misfeasance and nonfeasance, and a consequential loss from them, which it is customary to consider as
tortious. It was here, to be sure, not a trespass = et. armss,
and perhaps not a conversion of the property so as to justify
trover, though all the grounds for the last exist in substance,
as the plaintiffs have lost their property by means of the conduct of the defendants, into whose possession it came, and who
have not restored 'it on demand, nor shown any good justification.for not doing it.
It is altogether a mistake, as some seem to argue, that force
and a direct injury are necessary to sustain proceedings in tort,
either at law or in admiralty, for damages by qommon carers.
So little does the law regard, in some cases, the distmction
between nonfeasance and misfeasance, in creating, a tort and
giving any peculiar form of action for it, that in some.instances
a nonfeasance is considered as becoming misfeasance, such as
a master. of a vessel leaving.his register behind, or his compass,
or anchor. 3 Peters, 235. And "torts of this nature," as 1h
the present case, may be committed either by "nonfeasance,
misfeasance, or malfeasance," and often without force. 4 D.
& E. 484 , 1 Chit. P1. 151, Bouvier's Dict., Tort. And even
where mala fides is necessary to sustain the proceeding, gross
negligence is evidence of it. 4 Adol. & Ell. 876, 1 Howard,
71, .1 Spence's Eq. Jur. 425, Jones on Bailments, 8, Story on
-Bailments, %419, 20. The action in such case is described as
"upon tort," and arises ezc delicto. 2 Kent, Comm. 599. In
most instances of gross negligence, misfeasance is involved
(2 Cromp. & *M. 360), as a delivery to a wrong person, or
carrying to a wrong place, or carrying in a wrong mode, or
leaving, a carnage unwatched or unguarded. 2 Cromp. & M.
360'; 8 Taunt. 144. Where case was brought for damage by
overloading and sinking a boat, it was called an action "for
"a tort," and sustained, though 1he injury was wholly consequential. 1 Wils. 281.
Again, it has been argued, that if direct force be not a
necessary mgredient to recover in this form of action, it must
in some degree rest on the contract which existed here with
Iarnden, and be restrained by its limitations. But the books
are full of actions on the case where -contracts existed, 'which
were brought and which count entirely independent of any
contract, they being founded on some public duty neglected, to the injury of another, or on some private wrong or

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Mferchants' Bank.

misfeasance, without reference to any promise or agreement
broken. 12 East, 89, 4 Howard, 146, Chit. P1. 156, Forward v. Pittard, 1 D. & E. 27, 2 N. Hamp. 291, 2 Kent,
Comm. 599., 3 East, 62, 6 Barn. & Cres. 268, 5 Burr. 2825,
6 Moore, 141, 9 Price, 408, 5 Barn. & Cres. 605- 609.. Some
of the cases cited of this character are precisely like this, being
for losses by non-delivery of property by common carriers, and
sued -for as torts thus committed. 5 D. & E. 389. They go
without and beyond the contract entirely
Nor is intent to do damage a necessary ingredient to sustain
either case or trespass. 2 New R. 448. Though the wrong
done is not comntted by force or design, it is still treated as
ex delicto and a tort, if it was done either by a clear neglect
of duty, by an omission to provide safe and well-furnished carriages or vessels, by carelessness in guarding against fires and
other accidents, by omitting preparat'ons and precautions enjoined expressly by law, or by damage, consequent on the negligent upsetting of carriages, or unsafe and unskilful navigation
of vessels. See cases of ifegligent defects in carriages and vessels themselves, 2 Kent, Comm. 597, 607, 6 Jurist, 4, The
Rebecca, Ware, D. C, 188, 10 East, 555, 1 Johns. Cas- 134,
a East, 428. Or in machinery, Camden and Amboy Railroad v.
Burke, 13 Wend. 611, 627, 5 East, 428, 9 Bingh. 457 Even
if the defect be latent, 3 Kent, Comm. 205. See those of care,
less attention, The Rebecca, Ware, D. C. 188. See those of
non-conformity to legal requisitions, as hose and engifie here
not in good order, Waring et al. v. Clarke, 5 Howard. See
those consequent on negligent driving, 4 Barn. & Cres. 223,
Bretherton v. Wood, 3 Brod. & Bingh. 54. If damage or loss
happen by neglect or wrong of a servant of a common carrer,
the principal is still liable. 13 Wend. 621, Story on Partnership,  489, Dean et al. v. John Angus, Bee's Adm. 369, 239,
Story on Bailments,  464, 2 Browne, Civ and Adm. Law, 136.
This is necessary to prevent fraud, if such neglect be not evidence of fraud or misfeasance. The owner should be liable for
employing those negligent. Story on Agency,  318 and note.
There is another important consideration connected with
this view of the subject, and relieving it entirely from several
objections which exist to a proceeding founded wholly on a
contract rather than a 'tort. It is this. Where the injury is
caused by a tort or fraud, no question arises as to any special
agreement or notice, as with Harnden here, not to assume any
risk. In short, the agreement, of that kind here, does not exonerate, if "malfeasance, misfeasance, or gross negligence '
happens by owners or their servants. 13 Wend. 611, 19
Wend. 234, 251, 261,. 5 Rawle. 179, 189, 2 Crompt. & 1W.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

431

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

353, 2 Kent, Comm.  40; Brooke v. Pickwick, 4. Bingh. 218,
3 Brod. &.Bingh. 183. Because the wrong is then a distinct
cause of action from the breach of the contract, and the ex-.
ception in it as to the risk was intended to reach any'loss not
happening through tortious wrong. "Even with notice, stageproprietors and carriers of goods would be liable for an injury
or.loss .arismg from the insufficiency of coaches, harness, or
tackling, from the drunkenness, ignorance, or carelessness of
drivers, from vicious and unmanageable horses, or when occa'sioned by overloading the-coaches, as these would imply negligence or want of care." 3 Rawle, 184. It.is further settled,
m this class of cases, that the principle of not being liatle for
jewels, moneyi and other articles of'great value, unless notice
was given of it and larger freight paid in consequence of it,
does not apply 4 Bingh. 218, 5 Bingh. 223, 2 Crompt. &
M. 353. Because here the liability is not. that of an insurer
against many accidents and many injuries by third persons of
the property earned, and which it may be right to limit to such
values as were known and acted upon in agreeing to carry.
But it is for the wrong of the carrier himself, or his agents,
their own misfeasance or nonfeasance, and hence gross neglect,
renders them-responsible for the whole consequential damages,
however valuable the property thus injured or lost. 2 Barn. &
Ald. 356, 8 Taunt. 174, 4 Binn. 31, 2 Adol. & EII. 659,
5 Barn. & Aid. 341, 350, 16 East, 244, 245.
Some think the neglect in such case, so as to be liable for
valuables, must amount to misfeasance. 2 Adol. & Eli. 659,
2 Myl. & Craig, 358. It must be "misfeasance or gross negligence."
2 Kent, Comm. 607, note, 13 Price, 329, 12 B.
Moore, 447, 5 Bingh. 223 - 225, 8 Mees. & Wels. 443. By
a -recent statute in England, under William IV., though the
carrier has been exonerated from the liability and care of valuables, without notice, yet he cannot be if gross neglect happens. 2 Adol. & Ell. 646.
All this being established at law, what is there to prevent this
wrong from being deeme4 a tort, in connection with maritime
matters, -or, in other vords, "a marine tort," - and subject
to be prosecuted in admiralty
I am not aware that a marine
tort differs from any other tort in its nature-or incidents, except
that it must be committed, as this was, on the high seas. See
cases cited in Waring et al. v. Clarke, 5 Howard. There it was
held sufficient to constitute a marine tort, -and one actionable
in admiralty, if the wrong was committed only on tide-Wrater.
We have already suggested, also, as to the gist of the wrong,
that gross neglect, the elements and' definition of it, are the
same on the water as on land, and consequential or direct dam-

4

SUPREME COURT.
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

ages by a wrong are regarded in the same light on both. The
actions of case, as well as trespass, at common law, in illustration of this, are numerous, as to torts on the water. (See ante.)
Force, too, is no more necessary to constitute this kind of
tort at sea than on.land, or in admiralty than in a common law
court. 3 Story, 349,. That is the gist of this branch of the
case. It is true, that most of the libdls in admiralty for torts
are for such as were caused by force, like assaults and batteries
(4 Rob. Adm. 75), or for collision between ships, on the,sea, to
the injury of person or 'property (2 Browne's (iv.. and Adni
Law, 110, Dunlap's Adm. 31, Moore, 89), or for wrongfUl
captures (O Wheat. 486, Bee's Adm. 369, 1 Gall. 315, 3
Cranch, 408), or for carrying off a person zn snvitum (Dunlap's Adm. 53), or for any "violent dispossession of property
on the ocean" (1 Wheat. 257, L'Invincible, 1lWheat. 238,
3 Dal. 344). And though, where trespass is brought at common law, or a. tort is sued for in admiralty" as-" a marine trespass," there must usually have been force and an immediate
injury (1 Chit. P1. 128, 11 Mass. 137, 17 Mass. 246, 1 Pick.
66, 8 Wend. 274, 3 East; 293, 11 Wheat. $6,argu., 4 l1616.
Adm. 7&), yet it need not be implied or proved in tzespass on
the case at law, or in a libel in admiralty for consequential
damages to property. Such a libel: lies"ah well for a tort. to
property- as to the person, on the sea (2 Browne's Clv and
Adm. Law, 109, 202 ;.Doug. 594, 613, note, 4 Rob. Adm. 734
76, Maxtin v. Ballard et al., Bee's Adm.50,1239), bad for consequential injury by a tort there, as well as direct "ijury Sloop
Cardolero, Bee's Adm.51, 60; 3 Mason, 242, 4 Mason 385388, -2 Browne's Adm.108 2 Story, 188, 2 Sir Leoline Jenkins, 777' It was even doubted once, wheth~er, for such torts
at sea, any remedy existed elsewhere than in adiniralty. 2
Browne's Civ and Adm. Law, 112. Indeed, 1 Browne's Civ.
and Adm. Law, 397, shows, that, beside rights a.smg from
contract, there were "obligati bns or rights arising o. the mjured party from the torts or wrongs done by another." And
these were divided. nito, those arsing -z delicto and -those quasi
e.delicto, and the former mclud a damage" to -property, as,
In this case. -It meant injury to property by'destroyig, spoilrag, or. detenorating -it, and implied "faultmess -or injustice"
(401), but not necessarily force. -Either trespass or case some'times lies for a marine tort, even in the collision of vessels,.
where at times the only force is that of winds and tides, anti
the efforts of the master were to avoid, rather than commit, an:
injury 1"Chit. P1. 145, 2 Story, 189,. 11 Price. 608., 3 Car..
& Payne, 554 Damages -by- insuficient equipments, ropes,
&e., must; be paid by the owners of the vessel to the merchant,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

433

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

even by the Laws of Oleron (art. 10). Sea Laws, 136, Laws
of Wisby, art. 49. And nothing is more consequential, or less
with force, than that kind of injury
Finallyi the principles applicable to the definition of the
wrong or tort being here in favor o a recovery in admiralty,
and there being no precedents in opposition, but some in support of it, the inference is strong, that this destruction of the
property of the plaintiffs may well be regarded and prosecuted
in admiralty as a marine tort.
Though I admit there are no more cases in point abroad, in
1789, for sustaining a suit for a consequential injury by a carner as a tort, than on the contract, in admiralty, yet the principles are most strongly in favor of relying on the tort, without
any opposing decision, as there is to a libel on the contract.
Beside this, other difficulties are avoided, and more ample justice attained, by the libel here for the tort, than by one for the
contract.
A moment to another objection,- that the libel in this
case does not contain allegations in proper form to recover
damages in admiralty, as if for a maritime tort.
This libel is in several separate articles, rather than in a single count. In none of them is any contract specifically set out,
though in one of them something is referred to as "contracted." The libel avers, that the respondents were common carrers, that a public duty thus devolved on them, that they
received the property on board to transport it, and so negligently. conducted, it was lost. The breach is described throughout,
not of what had been ",contracted" or promised but as a wrong
done, or 'tort, and specifies several- misdomgs. Ii is in these
woras "OYet the respondents, their officers, servants, and agents, so
carelessly and improperly stowed the said gold coin and: silver.
coin, and the engine, firnace, machinery, furniture, rgging,
auid equipments of the said steamboat were so imperfect and
insufficient, and the said respondents, their officers, servants,
and agents, so car6lessly, improperly, and negligently managed
and conducted-the said steamboat Lexmgton, durng her said
voyage, that by reason of such improper stowage, imperfect
and insufficient engine, furnace, machinery, fuirmture, ngging
and equipments, and of such careless, improper, and negligent
conduct, the said steamboat, together with the gold coin and
silver coin to the libellants. belonging, were destroyed by fire
on the high seas, and-wholly lost."
Where contract.and tort, in the forms of declaration at common- law in actions of the case, are with difficulty discriminated, the general test adopted is, if specific breaches- are asvoL. V1.
37

SUPREME COURT.
New'Jersey Steam Navigation Company, v. Merchants' Bank.

signed, sounding ex delicto, it is case on the tort. Jeremy on
Carriers, 117 Here this is done.
The same technical minuteness is not necessary m a libel as
in a declaration at common law 5 Rob. Adm. 322; Dunlap,
Adm. 438, 439, Ware, D. C. 51. Only the essential facts
need be alleged, without regard to particular forms, either in
contract or tort. Hall's Prac. 207, 138, Dunlap, Adm. A27
And in the same libel between the same parties, unlike the
rule at common law, it is held by some that both contract and
tort may be joined, though it is Troper to state them m separate articles in the libel, like separate counts. Semble in
3 Story, R. 349, Dunlap, Adm. 89. And in some cases it is
clearly better not to umte them. Ware, D. C. 427 Here,
if the libel is considered as but separate paragraphs of one
article, it is a good one in tort. Dunlap, Adm. 114, 115;
4 Mason, C. C. 541. And if as separate articles, one of them
is valid in tort.
The forms of libels for maritime torts include those which
caused only consequential damages, as well as those which
caused. direct damages. Dunlap, Adm. 49, 3 Story, R. 349,
one count seems to be for the wrong.
There are cases of this kind merely for improper usage to
passengers, by bad words, and neglect, but no force existed, or
was alleged. 3 Mason, C. C. 242.
Others are libels for seducing or carrying away a minor son
of the plaintiff to his damage, like the actions on the case at
common law Plummer v. Webb, 4 Mason, 0. C. 380. Yet
they are called, as they are in law, "tortious abductions."
So a libel lies for loss of goods " carelessly and improperly
stowed." Ware, D. C. 189.
But if the libel here was less formal in tort, the liberality
practised in admiralty pleadings, regarding the substance chiefly, as in the civil law, would allow here any necessary amendments. Dunlap, Adm. 283, 4 Mason, C. C. 543, 3 Wash.
C. C. 484. Or would allow them in the court below, by reversing the judgment, and sending the -case back with . directions
to permit them there. 4 Wheat. 64, 63, 4 Howard, 154,
1 Wheat. 264, 13, 9 Peters, 483.
The amount of damages which can be awarded in admiralty, in a case like this, has'been agitated by some of the court,
but was not argued at the bar. It is- not without difficulty,
but can in a minute or two be set right. By the ancient practice in admiralty., in case of contracts of freight made by the
master, it is true that the owners were liable, whether ex contractu or ex delicto, and whether sn personam or sn rem, for
only the value of the vessel or the capital used in that busi-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

425

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

ness. Dunlap, Adm. 31. And" if the vessel was lost, the
remedy against the owners was entirely lost in admiralty
Ware, D. C. 188. Yet it is a conclusive answer, that here, as
well as abroad, the rule of the divil and common law is to give
the whole loss. 2 Kent, Comm. 606, 3 Kent, Comm. 217
And that this rule of full damage in a libel in admiralty has
been adopted here after much consideration. Livingston, Jitstice, in Paine, C. C. 118, says, that C1 it had long been regarded as a general principle of maritime law" to make the
owners liable for a tort by the master, and that now the whole
injury was the measure, of damage, -without reference to the
value -of the vessel and freight. See also Del Col V.Arnold,
3 Dali. 333, The Appollon, .9Wheat. 376, 3 Story, R. 347,
2 Story, R. 187
T1 is is modified by some- State laws, under certain circumstances. See The Rebecca and Phebe, Ware, D.. C. And
England, by 53 Geo. III. ch. 99.
But even there the owner is still liable beyond the value of
the vessel and freight, if the damage or neglect was " committed or occasioned"1with "1the fault or privity of such
owner." See Statutes at Large of that year, Phebe, Ware, D. C.
269. See for this and other statutes, 2 Bro. Civ and Adm. Law,
45, excusing owners if the pilot. aloneis in fault. See 6 Geo.
IV ch. 125,  55, 1 Wm.Rob. 46, 1 Dod. Adm. 467 So
the -whole injury must be paid now on the contract, and the
owners cannot escape by abandoning the vessel which did the
wrong. 2 Bro. Civ and Adm. Law, 206, note.
On principle, also, this is the right rule in admiralty, clearly,
where the owners themselves at home, and not the master
abroad, made the contract, or where they were guilty of any
neglect in- properly furnishing the vessel, and not he. Phebe,
Ware, D. C. 269, 203-206.
The principle of his binding them only to the extent of the
property confided to him to act with, or administer on, does
not apply to that state of facts (Abbott on Ship. 93), but only to
his doings abroad.
The contracts made abroad are usually in his name, as well
as by him, and not by the owners, and he only to sue or be
sued. Abbott on Shipp., pt. 2, ch. 2,  5.
In Warmg et al. v. Clarke, which was a tort by the master at home, in a collision of two boats, the whole amount
of the injury was awarded. See also 1 Howard, 23, 3 Kent,
Comm. 238. So principle, no less than precedent, requires it
now, in admiralty as well as common law, when the master is
usually not a part-owner, but a mere agent of the owners, and
doing damage, as here,' by unskilfulness or neglect, and not by

436

SUPREME COURT.

New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.

wilful misconduct. Ware, D. 0. 208) 1 East, 106. For this,
surely, those should suffer who selected him respondet superiorz. 1 East, 106, Abbott on Ship., pt. 2, ch. 2,  9, 2 Kent,
Comm. 218.
It is a mistake, likewise, to suppose, as some have, that the
rule of damage is thus higher in admiralty than at common
.law, or when counting on the tort rather than contract. The
only difference is, that in admiralty,. if counting on the contract, doubts exist whether a recovery can be had on the
precedents, while, if counting on the tort, no doubt exists, the
place of the tort being clearly on the sea, and within adinralty jurisdiction. Nor do I see any sound reason for not sustaining this case in admiralty, when jurisdiction exists there
over the subject, because this proceeding is -n personam and
not -in rem. 6 Am. Jur. 4-; 2 Bro. Civ and Adm. Law, 396,
2 Gall. 461, 462, Hard. 173.
The jurisdiction is one thing, the form of proceeding another , and it is only when the vessel itself is pledged, and no
personal liability created, so as to lay a foundation for an
action at law, that the form of proceeding seems to help to
give jurisdiction m admiralty, where alone the libel sn rem
m such case can be followed. 3 D. & E. 269.
But even then, I apprehend, the subject-matter must be
proper for admiralty, or it could not be prosecuted there sn rem,
because, if the subject-matter is a carriage or horse, rather than
a ship or its voyage, or something maritime, admiralty woulu
get no jurisdiction by the' thing itself being pledged, or to be
proceeded' against. The Fair American, 1 Peters, Adm. 87,
Duponceau on Jurisdiction, 22, 23.
Indeed, the rule in England to this day seems to be adverse
to proceeding in: admiralty at all, even n rem, to recover
freight. Abbott on Shipp. 170. King et al. v. Shepherd et al.,
3 Story, 319, was a libel, s personam, against a common carrier by water, and held that the liability was the same as on
land, and an act of God to excuse must be immediate. and that
the burden of the excuse rests on the respondents, and they are
not discharged by a wreck, but must attend to the property
till safe or restored.
So it has been adjudged by this court to be proper to prosecute in admiralty for marine torts, -in personam as well as -in
rem. Manro v. Almeida, 10 Wheat. 473, The Appollon,
9 Wheat. 362, Bee, Adm. 141, The Cassius, 2 Story, R.
81., 14 Peters, 99. See. also the rules of this court (1845),. for
admiralty practice, the 14th, 16th, and 17th (3 Howard, 7,
Preface), and which expressly allow in libels for freight proceedings in rem or %npersonam, and in some trespasses to
property either mode.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

437

Hogg et,al. v. Emerson.

I concur, therefore, in the judgment of the court, affirming
the decree for full damages, but on the ground of a recovery
for the wrong committed as a marine tort, rather than on any
breach of contract which can be prosecuted by these plaintiffs,
and in admiralty.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United 'States for the
District of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit- Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs, and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

PEmR Hon AMW

CORNELIUS

H.

DELAxIATER, PLAINTIFpS IN -ERROR,

v. JOHN B. EMERSON.
When a case is sent to this court under the discretion conferred upon the court below by the seventeenth section of the act of July 4, 1836 (Patent Law), 5 Stat.
at Large, 124, the whole case comes up, and not a few points only.
The specification constitutes a part of a patent, and- they must be construed together.
Emerson's patent for " certain improvements in the steam-engine, and in the mode
of propelling therewith either vessels on the wafer or carriages on the land,"
decided not to cover more ground than one patent ought to cover, and to be
sufficiently clear and certain.
Apatentee, whose patent-right has been violated, may recover damages for such
infringenient for the time which intervened between the destruction of the patentoffice by fire, in 1836, and the restoration of the records under the act of March
3, 18W7.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of NeW
York. It was a suit for the violation of a patent-right, and
the writ of error was allo~ed uhder the seventeenth section
of the act of 1836.
On the 8th of March, 1834, John B. Emerson, the defendant in error, obtained the following letters-patent, (which were
recorded anew on the 5th of March, 1841),"viz. :
The United States of America, to all to whom - these letterspatent shall come:
Whereas John B. Emerson, a citizen of the United States,
hath alleged that he has invented a new and useful improvement in the steam-engine, which improvement he states has
not been known or used before his application; hath made
37*

