122

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v, Clarke

HE

y MATuzWSON, RrSPONDENT AM

CL-ARUI ADMINISTUTOR OF WIL

APPELLANT, V, JOHN H.

XAD W. WETMORE,

A.PPELLEE.

Although a new member cannot be admitted into a partnership without the con.
sent of all parties, yet a person who has obtained a share in the concern can,
after
roft.the partnership ha expired, maintain Asuit in chancery for his share of the
Tfe language of the complainant in his bill, ithat he became interested in a ship
and cargo at and from Gibraltar," is decisive of the question of time when hm
Intereat commenced, and shows that he had no ititereat until she rived at Gib.
raltar.
Where a master and supercargo was to receive a certain sum per month as wages,
and a commission of five per cent., and also one tenth of all the profits, and it
was agreed that these were to be in full of all services and privileges, the master
and supercargo had no right to traffic upon his own account, for his own benefit.
If 4he master and supercargo, after the loss of his first vessel, charters another and
uses the capital of his partners in prosecuting his trade, informing his owners
thereof and expressing -is willingness to continue the business upon the same
terms as before, to which they did not object, such continuance of the btisiness
must be governed by the same rules which regulated the transactions in the first
abip.

Tins was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Rhode Island.
The record -was very voluminous, -being a printed volume of
more than five hundred pages, which contained numerous letters and accounts relating to trading voyages to different and
distant parts of the world, from October, 1820,'to November,
1806. There were three reports from masters in chancery in
the court below, and a supplemental report made to this court
by agreement of counsel and sanction of the court. The ar.
guments of counsel'referred to a great number of these transactions, of which it is impossible to give any other than. a gen.
eral outline.
, In the year 1820, there were in Providence, Rhode Island,
tw rerceantile houses, one known by the name and firm of
Edward Carrington & Co., and the other by that of Cyrus Butler. The house of Edward -Carrington & Co. was composed
of Edward Carrington and Samuel -Wetmore.
In October 1820, these two houses made the following
agreement with I enry Mathewson, the present appellant.
"This agreement witnesseth: That whereas Messrs. Lynch,
Hill, & Co., of the republic of Chili, have contracted and
agreed with his Excellency General .San Martin, commanderin-chief of said republic, to fwnish to him, or said government,
a quantity of military stores, which contract has been assigned
to-Cyrus Butler and Edward Carfingion & Co., who have undertaken to furnish the same. Wherefore the said Cyrus Butler and Edward Carrington & Co. on the one part, and Captain
Henry Mathewson on the other part, all of Providence, in the

JANTARY TERM, 1848.

". M

Mothewson r, Clark ,

State of lRhode Island, on the 12th day of October, A. D. 1820,
make and enter into the following agreement and stipulations,
Viz.

-

"1st. The said Henry Mathewson agrees to take the command of the ship or vessel the said Butler and Carrington &
Co. shall provide for said expedition, and.at all times to act as
captain and supercargo thereof.
"12d. The said Mathewson is to proceed to Europe, attend to
the purchase of said .military stores, proceed therewith in said
ship to Chili ind Peru, deliver the same, receive the payment
therefor, and do all and every thing that may be necessary and
advisable for the faithful accomplishment of said contract, both
as regards the delivery of the military stores and the receiving
the payment therefor, whether the said payments shall be incash
or in produce of the republics; and with the said paymients,
proceed to such ports in China- l3rope, or the -United-States
as may be considered most advantageous and according to the
ipstmctions and recommendations of said Butler and Carrington
& Co. Providing, further, that should any circumstance have
occurred, or should occur, to prevent the contract being complied with on the part of the Chilian or Peruvian govemment,
or by General San Martin or his successor, then the said Mathewson is to use his best abilities and exertions to dispose of
said military stores in the most advantageous manner, and .to
[the] best profit; and the proceeds of such sale embark on
board said ship, and proceed therewith to sdch ports in China1
Europe, or the United States' as may be considered most. advantageous, and according to the recommendations and instruce.
tions of said Carrington & Co. and 0.Butler.
"3d. .The said. Butlef ".ndCarrington & Co., on their part,
promise to allow and pay the said Mathewson fifty dollars per
month, as wages as navigator and master'of the ship, and also
the sum of seven hundred dollars as commission for attending
and procuring the purchase of said military stores in Europe,
for delivering and making the sale of the same in Chili or Pe-.
ru, receiving the .payment either in cash or produce of the
republics, and delivering the same in China, Europe, or the
United States, - he conforming always to the instructions. and
recommendatibus of said Butler and Carrington & Co. The
said Mathewson is to have allowed him all troveUing expenses
and charges that attach to business.
"It is further mtitually-agreedbetween the aforesaid parties,
that after delivering or depositing the ' oceeds of the aforesaid
military stores, and completing and finishing the aforesvid
agreement, according to the tenor thereof, a'new voydge and
adventure is to be begun in the following manner: -

124

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson r. Clarke.

"1st. The"sa14 Henry Mathewson is then to be admitted an
owner in said ship of one tenth part, at the rate of her first
cost in the United States, including repairs on hull, sails, and
rigging, that may be put on her after her purchase, either in [the]
United States, Europe, or elsewhere; and also owner of one
tenth part of her cargo, on such new voyage and adventure.
"12d. Said Butler and Carrington & Co. agree to sell said
Mathewson, and, he agrees to purchase, one tenth of the ship,
on the terms heretofore described in article .first.
"13d. Said Cyrus Butler and E. Carrington & Co. agree to
furnish the sum of fifty thousand dollars (as a cargo for said
ship) at the port where the said ship shall deliver and deposit
the proceeds of said military stores.
" 4th. The said Mathewson is to allow said Butler and E.
Carrington & Co. interest, at the rate of six per cent. per annum, for his one tenth of ship and cargo, from the time the
proceeds of the military stores (heret6fore mentioned) are de.livered or deposited in manner as heretofore stipulated.
"15th. The said Mathewson is, in this new voyage, to have
liberty to proceed tq such ports, countries, and places, backward
and forward, for trade,-freight, or other employment of the ship
and cargo, as he may think most for the interest and advantage
of the concern in said ship and cargo.
" 6th. In this new voyage, as before described, it is mutually
agreed, the said Mathewson shall have fifty dollars per month,
as wages as commander and navigator of said ship, to commence with the new voyage, and as supercargo a commission
of five per cent, on the net amount [of] all property safely returned to the United States, Canton, or Europe, proceeding
from the original stock of fifty thousandd dollars, together with
one tenth of allthe profits and earnings made in the voyage or
voyages, freights or otherwise.
" 7th, It is agreed that the.wages and commissions specified
and agreed for in the-sixt] article are to be in full of all services and privileges to Captin Mathewson, as~master and supecargo during the voyage or voyages. heretofore specified or
otherwise.
11It is understood, the said MNathewson N to hav&no privilege
in the first voyage heretofore specified, and that the wages and
commissions of seven hundred dollars allowed on that voyage
are to bepaid in the United States at the end of voyage.
CRUs BuTLEn,
(Signed,)
EDWARD CARRINGTON & CO.,
HiNRty

MATHFwsolq2'

In -pursuance of this agreemuent, Nathewpon repq.ired .to

JANUARY TERM,, 1848.

125

Mathewson v. Glarke,

Europe, and in December, 1820, at the Texel,. received the
ship Mercury and her cargo from the other parties. He also
received two sets of instruction's, one genuine, and the other
fictitious, to be used in case of capture. .The true instructions
commenced in this way:"Providence) November 13, 1820.

"OrT.HERYn

MATHEWSON:

"Sir, -7 We herewith hand you the letter of Messrs. Lynch,
Hill, & Co., of Valparaiso, to Edward Carrington & Co., under
date of June 15, 1820, accompahied with a contract made by
their Mr. Lynch with General San Martin, commander-in-chief
of the Chilian -and Perivian armies, and in behalf of said
government. You will .observe, on perisal of. the letter and
contract, that the muskets, carbines, and .sabres, expressed in
the co tract, are to be furnished by Lynch,
the first article inHill, & Co. themselves, and that the same articles mentioned
in the second article are ,the ones intended to be supplied by
ourselves, and are the same as we directed to be purchased by
yourself in Europe, viz. :.20,000 muskets, of good.proof.
7,000 carbines.

7,000 cavalry sabres.
"The prices, you will observe, are stipulated at eight and a
half dollais for the muskets, six dollars for the carbines and
cavalry sabres, to be imported into Peru free of duties, and the
proceeds,- or 'payment for the same, is also allowed-to be exportedt free of duties. ' The delivery of the said arms to be at
any one port in Peru in possession of the patriots'under General San Martin,'or where, on your arrival at any one of said
pofts, General San Martin. may determine, on the coast of Peru.
you will observe the contract -provides that any articles, the
prpduce of Peru,-may be received in payment (at -the current
-marketlrice) for the arms; always by-the agreement and consent'of: both contracting parties, and that the same may be exported-free f duties. You"will also observe, that the dities
any .other articles of. merchandise by said
on the import of..
port
of Peru, are to be admitted towards the
Lynch,
into
the
Spayment of the said arms.
You will also observe it is understood, that, if the payment'is made in specie for said arms, itjs
permitted to be exported. free of duties."
The instructions then proceeded to tell him how to arrange
his cargo, what to do when he got to Valparaiso, and continued.
thus-:"In the execution of this business it will require your best

11.*

126 '

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

attention and circumspection to weigh well all points and circumstances, and, in conjunction with Lynch, Hill, & Co., pursue that course best calculated to have the contract complied
with, taking care at the same time, as much as possible, to
have* the paynent therefor placed under favorable circumstances; or if circumstances should have occurred to defeat the
expedition, and with it destroy the hope of having the contract complied with, you are then to adopt the next best plan
to make the sales of our property to the, best advantage. If
the contract is complied with by General San Martin, we
should recommend your fully loading the ship with copper,
(taking the same as payment towards the arms, particularly as
it is to be allowed export free of duties); and taking copper
may facilitate and help the government, and be the means
of getting.payment before the expiration of the eighty days
limited in the contract, and taking the balance in specie, and
proceed immediately to Canton; or if the contract is not complied with, and you should make th3 sale in Chili, or other
place where copper can be procured at not exceeding fifteen or
sixteen dollars the quintal on board, we should then also recommend your loading with copper, particularly if it should aid
you in making sales of the arms; and then taking the balance in
specie, and proceed direct for China. After having disposed of
the arms, and obtained the payment for the same, it will be of
much-importance that you reach China as direct, and with as
Jittle delky, as possible. In order that a second deposit may
be had for the property, and that a new voyage may be begun
anew, without any regard to the present one, after reaching
Canton you will deliver all our property to Messrs. S. Russell
& Co., except the fifty thousand dollars, which you are, to retain as a capital for the ship in any futures operations you may
think it advisable to undertake, either by tradhig or freighting,
according as you think most profitable for all 'concerned; -perhaps a cargo from China for Chili or Peru may be a good investment. However, after you get to Canton, and take the
fifty thousand dollars as a capital, you must be your own master, and do that which is best."
The instructions then proceeded to provide for many contingencies, and concluded with a general reference to conversations between the parties before Mathewson left the United
States.
'The fictitious instructions provided entirely for a trading
voyage to Columbia River, thence to Canton, &c.
In April, 1821, having purchased a cargo of arms, Mathewson sailed from' Bremen, in the ship Mercury, for Valparaiso,
and arrived 'there in August of the same year.

JANUARY. TERM, 1848.

127

Mathewson v. Clarke.

From Valparaiso he went. to Lima, where he arrived in September..
On the 1st of June, 1821, a transaction occurred at Providence which was the basis of this litigation. Willard W. Wetmore (and his administrator, the present defenidant in error)
claimed to have been axmitted on that day as a partner in the
firm of Edward Carrington & Co., and the fllowing entry
upon their books was produced upon the call of the defendant
Mathewson.
"Providence, June 1st, 1821.
Day-book.
Edward Ca-rington & Co. -New concern.
Edward .Carrington -tf
Samuel Wetmore :t,
W. W..Wetmore
2."
And commencing on the first page, under date of 1st June,
1821, and continuing through several-pagesj Edward Carrington & Co., old concern are credited with the sum of
$ 118,987.32, for their interest in various adventures-and shipments then outstanding
The corresponding leger is headed, " New concern, leger A,"
and commences with-the same date.
Let-us return to' the voyages of -Mathewson.
, At Lima he sold his cargo of arms, and was detained there
nearly ten months waiting for payment from' .the Peruvian
government.
In Juney 1822, having chartered the' Mercury, at Lima, to a
person by the name of Rodolpho, he sailed with the proceeds
of the arms for Gibraltar, by way of Rio de Janeiro, and
arrived at Gibraltar -inNovember, 1822.
and
In December, 1822, he sailed from Gibraltar, on a trading
and freighting voyage, with freight and merchandise for'the
joint account of the owners.
Arrived at Rio, February, 1823.
Sailed from Rio, February, 1823.
Arrived at Valparaiso, April, 1823.
Arrived at Callao, July 1, -1823.
Left .Callao, September, 1823.
Arrived at Arica, October,. 1823.
Left Arica for Callao, October 25, 1823.Arrived at Callao, December, 1823.
Sailed from Callao for Canton, January 1, 1824.
Arrived at Canton, April 10, 1824.
Left Canton for South America,.July 11, 1824.-

128

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

Arrived at Monterey, October 25, 1824.
Left Monterey for Mazatlan, January 1, 1825.
Arrived at Mazatlan, January 21, 1825.
Left Mazatlan for Lima, March 20, 1825. Arrived at Guayaquil, June 3, 1825, where the ship, being injured in a gale and
decayed by age, was condemned and sold.
On the 12th of September, 1825, Mathewson embarked at
Guayaquil with goods and money for Lima, in the steamboat
Tilica, which was blown up and destroyed on the passage.
In Novembei, 1825, being at Lima, Mathewson chartered
three fourths of the ship Superior. He claimed to do this upon
his sole responsibility and risk, and therefore to be entitled to
all the profits allowing to Butler, Carrington & Co. only the
interest upon such portion of the partnership funds as were invested in the adventure.
In November, 1825, he sailed from Jima to Canton, where
he arrived in March, 1826. Leaving there in June, he returned
to Valparaiso, where he arrived in October, and consigned all
his property, individual as well as joint, to Alsop, Wetmore, &
Co., who sold it at a large profit.
In June, 1827, he arrived in Providence, having been absent
nearly seven years.
During all these voyages, Mathewson claimed to have received sums of money for himself upon various accounts; such
as presents and gratuities from the persons with whom he
dealt; from Spaniards for assisting in concealing their money;
a deposit from a man named Martinez, to be invested in military clothing for him at Gibraltar, but who could never afterwards be found or heard of; from passengers for taking care of
their money; presents from several persons for transporting
specie from the shore without full duties; and profits upon all
these sums, invested upon.his own account in articles of trade
sold and rAinvested from time to time, paying freight for the
same.
In 1830, Willard W. Wetmore, of New Haven, in Connecticut, filed a bill on the equity side of the Circuit Court- of the
United States for.the District of Rhode Island against Mathewson, claiming to hav6 been bdmitted by Edward Carrington &
Co. as a member of theirfirfi in June, 1821, and calling upon
Mathewson to refider aln account of his agency as master and
supercargo of the ship Mercury, on a voyage by him prosecuted
before he became part owner of said ship; and of his agency
as master, supercargo, and part owner of said ship and her cargo
after he became a part owner; and also of his employment of
the funds of the owners of the Mercury, after her condemnation and sale, in the ship Superior,-tliree fourths of which he

JANUARY TER-M, 1848.

129

Mathewson v. Clarke.

chartered at Lima in November, 1825. The bill also called for
a discoveiy of all his transactions during the adventures.
This bill was afterwards amended by the insertion of the
following clause after the claim to- have heen admitted as a
partner in June, 1821, viz. : .-"(amendment-and then and
there became the assignee and purchaser of one fourth of nine
twentieth parts of said ship Mercury and her cargo and of one
fourth of nine twentieth parts of all the rights of all the rigzts
of said Edward Carrington & Co. in and to said contract with
the said Mithewson, and, as such, entitled to a discovery and
relief against the 'said Mathewson)."
In September, 1830, Mathewson filed his answer, to which
exceptions were taken, and in February, 1831, filed a further
answer. In these answers he denied that the complainant ever
was a paitner in the house of Edward Carrington & Co., or that
he ever had any interest in the ship Mercury and cargo, or in
the concerns of said adventure. The answers then went into
a minute detail of all the transactions which had occurred during all these voyages, and had annexed to them a hundred and
seven accounts with different persons, explaining the shipments,
sales, freights, purchases, remittances, &c., &c. โข
At November term, 1831, the cause was referred to Samuel
Eddy, as master in chancery, "to take -and state an account
between the complainant and the .defendant, Henry Mathewson, touching and cpncerning the concerns and business of the
partnership subsisting between the parties in said cause' and all
the 6ther matters and things charged in said bill of complaint."
At June term, 1832, Samuel Eddy, Richard K. Randolph,
and John H. Ormsbee were appointed masters under. the above
interlocutory decree.
In 1834, whilst the cause was pending before the masters,
Wetmore, the complainant, died, and letters of administration
upon his estate were granted to John H. Clarke, a citizen of
Rhode Island, the laws of that State not permitting a person
residing out of the State to become the administrator of a citizen thereof. Clarke, the appellee in the case'now before the
court, filed a bill of revivor. Mathewson appeared, and moved
to dismiss the suit on the ground of want of jurisdiction, inasmuch as the administrator and respondent were citizens of the
same State, The Circuit Court dismissed -the bill; but the
cause being brought up to the Supreme Court, this judgment
was reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
The report of this case will be found in 12 Peters, 164.
In January, 1839, Charles F. Tillinghast was appointed a
third master, in the place of. Samuel Eddy, to act in conjunction with the other two.

130

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

ft November, 1840, the masters made a very elaborate report
to the court, accompanied by numerous depositions, in'which
report they found a balance due from .Mathewson to the administrator of $ 8,098.52, To this report Mathewson filed
twenty-six exceptions.
At June term, 1841, the-master's report was referred back to
the same masters, to regxamine and reiew and reconsider the
same, with liberty to either party to introduce further hvidence i the plaintiff to have leave to amend his bill, and the
defendant to file his answer to the amendment within twenty
days. Whether or not it was at this stage of the proceedings
that the plaintiff amended his bill by inserting the part included within brackets, as set foith in the preceding part of this
statement, the record does not show. But on the 9th of Sep-'
tember, 1841, Mathewson 'fled a further answer, denying that
Wetmore was or ever had been a copartner in the firm of Edward Carrington & Co.; denying that he, Wetmore, had ever
asked an account from the defendant previously to filing the
bill, and denying that Wetmore had ever been admitted by the
defendant as a copartner in said ships and adventures in any
manner whatever.
At November term, 1841, the masters made their second report, finding a balance due by -Mathewson to Clarke, as administrator, of $ 8,568.52. This report was accompanied by a great
mass of additional evidence. To this report Mathewson filed
twenty-four exceptions.
At the same term, viz. November, 1841, the court ordered
this report of the masters, so f&r as respected the matters in the
sixteenth exception, to be referred back to them for further in-

"quiry.
In conformity with this order, the masters filed a third report correcting the preceding one by making an additional
allowance, and reporting the entire balance due by Mathewson
to be $ 8,685.664.
At June term, 1842, Mathewson filed sx exceptions to this
third report.
At November term, 1842, the following decree was made by
the Circuit Court, viz.: "This cause came on to be heard upon the report of the
maoters made, in. this cause at the November term, A. D. 1840,
of this court, and upon the exceptions filed thereto; and upon
the report of the masters made in this cause at the November
term, A. D. 1841, of this court, and the .exceptions filed thereto; and upon- the masters' report in this cause, filed in the
clerk's office of this court on the 11th day of April, A. D. 1842,
and the exceptions filed thereto, and counsel being heard
thereon:

131

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

"In consideration whereof) it is 6rdered, adjudged, and decreed, that the exceptions to the first-mentioned report be disallowed, and that the said rport do stand and be confirmed,'
except so far as the same is altered by the report. aforesaid
made to the November term, A. D. 1841, of this court, and the
report aforesaid filed in the clerk's office of this court on the
11th day of April, A. D. 1842.
"It is further oraered, adjudged, and decreed, that the exceptions to said report, made at the November term, A. D. 1841,
of this court, bb disallowed, and that said report do stand and
be confirmed, except so far as the same is altered by the said
report, filed in the clerk's office of this court on the 11th day
of April, A. D. 1842.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the exceptions to the said report, filed in the clerk's office of this
court on the 11th day of April, A.D. 1842, be disallowed, and
that said last-mentioned Teport do stand and be confirmed.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
John H. Clatke, administrator on the estate of the said Willard
W. Wetmore, in his said capacity of administrat.or, have and
retover of the said Henry Mathewson the sum. of eight thousand six hundred and eighty-five dollars and sixty-six cents, said
oum being the amount found due by said last-mentioned report, together with costs, and that execution issue therefor.
"Let this decree be filed in the clerk's office in this cause.
"JOSEPH STORY,
Ass. .Tus. of the ?3up. Ct. of U. States.

'(JOHN PITMAN,
District Judge U. S.

, I. District."

From this decree an appeal brought the case up to the Supreme Court.
Whilst the cause was pending in the Supreme Court, an order was passed, at December term, 1845, directing the masters
to review their report." They accordingly made a supplemental
and fourth report, addressed directly'to the Supreme Court, i4
which they admit an error in their preceding accountsl from
not givingMathewson a sufficient credit fir his commissions
and his interest in the copartnership. Correcting this error,
they find the amount due by Mathewson to Clarke, including
interest up to January 1, 1846, to be $ 6,241.44. This report
was made a part of the record, by agreement of counsel. '
In the argument of the case in this court, the exceptions
taken to the first report of the masters were not insisted upon
any further than they were included in the exceptions to the
second; and the exceptions to the third were entirely waived.

132

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson r. CQla'ke.

None being taken to the fourth, which was made to this court,
the argument was confined exclusively to the exceptions to the
second report, which ave been already stated to have been
twenty-four in number.
The cause was argued by Mr. Albert C. Greene and Mr.
Webster, on the part of Mathewson, the appellant, and Mr. R.
W. Greene and: Mr. Whipple, for the appeijee.
_Hr. Albert C. Greene gave a history of the case, and-of all
the voyages which had taken place., He then classified the
exceptions so as to include all which related to or depended
up9n the same general prindiple of law.. And, first, with respdct to the right, of the complainant to sue. This being a
limited copartnership, consisting of the sum of $ 50,000 and
the ship, he maintained the three following propositions.
1. That being a limited copartnership, no third person can
be admitted without the consent of all the copartners.
2:. That no assignment of an interest in a copartnership
fund to a third person .can give to such third perion any right
against the rest of the partners, where the right to assign is
not provided for in the agreement.
3. ,That Wetmore, not being an original party, cannot be a
party to any suit at law or equity founded on the original
agreement.
1st. The relations which exist between partners are either
provided for specially by agreement, or result, by operation of
law, from a union of funds. -They may contract for what
-they choose, - for example, that one 6f them shall not enter
into a particular branch of business; or they may stipulate for
the right to assign, in which case an assignee is in the enjoyment
of full rights' flowing from the original agreement. But if the
contract is silent upon this point, the law does not permit a
third .person to be introduced without the assent - of the other
parties. If we were at law, it is clear that no action would be
maintainable, and the same rule must prevail in equity. The
relations between partners are of a 'confidential character, and
therefore it is reasonable that no stranger should be brought in.
These relations are also mutual.- In case of loss, each partner
has a right to ]ook to his associates, and ought not to be compelled to rely.upon a person whom he may be unwilling to
trust. 'The only evidence of the copartnership of the complainant, Wetmore, is the entry upon the books of Carrington
& Co. There was no assignment, no letter informing Mathewson,- who was then'absent on one of the voyages, nor did he
know any thing of it until the service of the subpcena in this
case. See Collyer on Partnership, 4, 101; 14 Johns. 318;
6 Madd. 5.

JANUARY .TERM, 1848.

133

Mathewson v. Clarke.

2d. No assignment can be made where it is not provided- for
in the articles.
There is no evidence here- of any assignment to Wetmore
which does not show him to 'have -been also admitted as a
partner, if it.is valid for any purpose. Suppose therewas such
evidence, what could partners assign except clioses in action,
which the assignee would be unable to enforce? But the
claim here is, that the new partner has the same rights as the
old, and has the- same- right to forbid certain tlings'to be done.
If the relation of partner cannot be assigned together with
choses in action, then the suit must fail, because the ground of
-the.complainant's claim is that Mathewson had no right,.under
his agreement, to do certain things which he has done.- Butthis relation cannot 'be assigned. Mathewson never agreed
that any one else shquld be his master. -He had no claim for
any thing against W'etmore, and therefore Wetmore- can have

none against him.

. If these two propositions can 'stand, the third follows "of
course.
The next general proposition arises from the second andthird exceptions, and is this: that Mathewson has a right to
the profits upon purchases which he made whilst detained- at
Lima. If his partners had ratified his acts, the profits would
have iured to the common benefit, and Mathewson was willing that this should be done. But we say that his Dartifers
should have decided when he asked them; whereas they always avoided saying whether they would sanction his acts or
not. The reasoning of the masters is not good. They say,
that, as Math'ewson's inducements- to the purchase were to
hasten the settlement of his owni c rgo, the profits ought to
belong to his owners. But they should have alopted or rejected his acts when he informed them what.he had done and
solicited their sanction.
A geneial proposition arises under the sixth exception. Mal.
tinez had placed money in the hands cf Mathewson to be employed for him.- at Gibraltar. The purchases were made, but
Martinez could never more be heard of. To this money we
say the other partners have no right whatever. (Mr. Greene
here examined all the evidence on this subject.)
The next general proposition is, whether and how far Mathewson had a right to trade upon his ow4 private account 'at
the same time that he was trading upon the partnership funds.
The masters say that he must not carry his own property im
the same ship,. although they admit that he has a right to traffic.
for himself, and send his commodities -in another ship to' the
same market. We apprehend that 'the true rmle .q this; that
Von. vI..
12

134

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson -v. Clarke.

a partner must not place himself in such a situation thlt his
own private interests will necesarily conflict with those of his
partners. Collyer on Part. 100; 6 Madd. 369; 4 Beavan, 534;
1 Sim. & Stu. 124; found. also in 1 Cond. Eng. Ch. Cases, 124.
The ninth and eleventh exceptions raise a general question,
what were the rights and duties of Mathewson after the loss
of the Mercury. We contend that his contract was to take
command of that ship, in which he became a part owner.
After its loss, he had a right to engage in any thing new, and
chartering the Superior was a fresh adventure altogether. If
his partners chose to .ratify his acts, he~was willing to include
them; but the evidence in the case shows that they disowned
them. The profits must therefore belong to Mathewson alone.

Mr. R. W. Greine, for defendant in error, took up the exceptions in numerical order, and examined each one in comparison with the eviidence. The general scope of his argument
was to show, that the voyage was a very hazardous one on the
part of the shippers, who had planned the whole series until
the-termination; that Mathewson had no right to receive presents from his consignees; that it .is always suspicious when
vendors make presents; that Mathewson was 'especially debarred from all privileges by the agreement; that he had fall
power to obtain payment for the arms in any mode- and if the
purchase of the Nancy was necessary to accomplish this, it
:was within his. instructions; that he himself thought so, because, when about to do it, he -wrote to his partners hoping not
to be censured; that his receipts. for his own cargo were in
fact in this new purchase; that it-was a direct breach of duty
to receive the money of Spaniards, in the disturbed condition
of the country, and might have led to the forfeiture of the
property under his control; that he risked the whole cargo
for his own private advantage; that he concealed all these
matters until the exceptions to his first answer compelled him
to disclose them in the second; that he had no right to carry
goods on his private account to the same market with those of
.his partners; that their interests must necessarily clash; that
he could not fairly have realized the sum of $ 57,000, whicb
the evidence shows that he did; that he only charged himself
'with half freight; that the accounts show that he settled with
his consignees 'as if the whole goods belonged to him, and
therefore could easily claim, as his own, whatever part he
chose;- that his average when the steamboat was destroyed
.was wrong; that the evidence showed that no such man as
M rtinez had ever existed; that with respect to the profits by
the voyage in' the Superior, the original voyage, as planned,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

135

Mathewson r. Clarke.

was not ended; that Mathewson had no right to trade and,
speculate upon the money of his partners, but if the voyage
was over, he ought to have sent it home; that in fact the partnership was not concluded, but the ship Mercury-was only one
instrument to carry it on; that Mathewson's letters show this;
that in the voyage of the Superior he made 100 per cent. for
himself, and only 40 per cert for his partners.
With respect to the right to sue, Mr. Greene drew a.distinction bptween the two voyages. As to the first voyage, the
assignee had a right to sue in his own name. "2 Storyl, Eq.
Jur., p..391, ยง 1055.
The owner had a right to assign, and the present assignment
is sufficient. 2 Story, Eq. Jur., p. 381, 382, ยง 1047.
As to the right to sue on the new voyage.
It has been said, on the other side, that no new member can
be introduced into a firm without the consent of all. But in
this case one -of the members of the partnership was itself a
firm, viz. Carrington & Co., with which the contract was
made. Theadmission of Wetmore did not change the name
of the firm. Besides, the contract gave to Mathewson the
exclusive control over the business. There was therefore no
necessity for consultation. The partners at home had nothing
to do but to receive the proceeds. The reason of the rule does
not apply. But if w- claim as assignee, we have a right to
an account. All property is transferable in equity, and the.
bill was arhended so as to include the rights of an assignee.
Mr. Whipple, on the same side.
With respect to the right to sue, we do not say that the
complainant was a .partner in the voyage of the Mercury in
any other mode than as he was a member of the firm of Carrington & Co. It has been said* that a partner cannot introduce a stranger into the firm without the consent of the rest.
We adiiait it. But the contract here was between Butler. Carrington & Co., and Mathewson. There was no contract botween Mathewson and Carrington himself, or Samuel Wetmore.
individually. It was with the firm. Carrington's order alone
would not have been binding, and in case of his death, the
business would be wound up by his surviving partner. The
property involved was not liable for Ca'rington's debts until
all the partnership claims -upon it were satisfied. If Carrington had drawn an order for money upon Mathewson, he ought
not to have paid it, because he knew that all their share of the
property belonged to Catrington & Co., and not to Carrington
persoially. A change in the domponent members of the firm
could, make no difference in the rights of Mathewson. The

136

SUPREME" COURT.
Mathewson x. Clarke.

power .to control him was just the same after as before it. In
case of loss, the firm of Carrington & Co. would have to contribute, and a portion of this must fall upon the new member.
He ought, therefore, to share in the profits. The only ques.
tion is, whether an assignee can sue a partner. But in equity
a bill for a specific performance would lie. All that would be
necessary in such a case would be o bring in all the parties
who had an interest.in the subject.
Mfr. Whipple then took up and enlarged upon the following
propositions.
1. The answer of Mathewson was overthrown and discredited by counterbalancing testimony.
2. There was no difference in principle between MathewSon's right to trade in the Mercury and in the Superior.
3. He had no right to trade upon his own account in either,
because it was expressly prohibited by the contract, and because it was at war with the duties which he had undertaken
to perform.
These propositions Mr. Whi ple illustrated at great length.
Mr. Webster, in reply and conclision, gave a particular narrative of the course of the suit, and the transactions between
the parties. The first proposition raised by the exceptions is,
that the complainant has no right to maintain this suit. 'We
,ay that he had no interest whatever except as a partner, and
that lie cannot become so without our. consent. It is necessary here to make a distinction between the first and second
voyage. Mathewson was not a partner during tf e first voyage
of the Mercury, and after that was over, became a partner to
the amount of one tenth. It may be said, that, if Mathewson
was not then a partner, our objection to the complainant's right
to sue for the first voyage d6es not apply. But the answer to
this is twofold': 1. Because this bill counts on a special agreement, to which
Wetmore, the complainant, was no party.
ls claim as asfignee does not aid him in this.
2. Wetmore never had a particle of interest in the first voyage of -the Mercury. This terminated at Gibraltar, in November, 1822 -and in December following a new voyage was commenced.
But it does not appear from the record that the
Mercury and her cargo constituted any part of the $ 118,987
which was credited to the old concern when a change of the
books took place, in 1S21. On the contrary, the following extract from the record shows tha the Mercury was not brought
into the new partnership until the 7th of February, 1824.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

137

Mathewson v. Clarke.

E. Carrington4- Co., -

old concern,

1824, 7th Feb. By ship Win. Baker, as cash, July, 1821
Nancy,
"

,
"

Trumbull,

"

Fame,

"

John Brown,
Integrity,

,
Mercury, at Gibr.,

OR.
$7,000

June, 1821

3,500

Jan'y, 1823
July, 1822
May, 1823
June, 1821
Dec'r, 1822

3,500
3,61250
1,500

7,500
5,00

Lion,

1821

14,500

General Hamilton,

1822

George,
Panther,

1821

2,300
10,000

1822

22,000

$80,412 50
By adventure ship Mercury, voyage from Gibr. to
Chili, $ 50,619.18, - for one haf .
.
.

25,309 5!)

Consequently Wetmore never had any interest in the first
voyage. The transfer at the bottom of the account is for one
half of the outfit, but does not include any profits at all. He
has no right to call upon Mathewson for any explanation of his
proceedings.
With respect to the subsequent voyages, the right of the
complainant to sue is sustained upon two grounds 1. That Carrington & Co. had admitted him as a new partner in their firm; and,
2. That the complainant was an assignee.
1st. The authorities already cited, Tidd, Collyer, Johnson,
and Maddock, are clear, that no new partner can be admitted
without the consent of all.
2d. It is said that he was an assignee. But he says himself
in the bill that he was a partner. The amendment to the bill,
putting his claim upon the ground of being an'assignee, does
not vary the facts in the case. He was just as much an assignee without putting that in. But his claim to be assignee
is only an evasion of a well-settled rule of law. Every new
partner can claim to be assignee. In this case he would be a
very strange one. He-had as much right to control the others'
shares as they had to control his. He could draw bills of exchange, settle accounts, &c. I had supposed that an assignrnent of a chose in action was recognized' upon the principle
that the assignor had nothing more to do with it. But not so
here. Carrington & Co. had as much power over the property
as they had-before. There was no transfer of any distinct and
specific interest. If Carrington.& Co. had failed, what would
have become of the thing assigned? It is said that the change
was of no consequence to Mathewson. But the answer is, that
the rule is general, We are not bound to show any reasons.
If we were bound to do so, they might be given. Who -knows
whether or not Wetmore was an enemy of Mathewson? Some

12 *

188

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

unfriendly, things were done afterward.; for example, they
wrote to Alsop to take the business out of Mathewson's hands.
How can we know that Willard Wetmore did not do this ? It
is said, also, that'he was not a riew partner, because he was
only admitted to be a partner in the house of Carrington & Co.,
which house eo nomine was a member of the copartnership,
and that therefore the copartnership remained unaltered. But
this makes a commercial firm a corporation. If a contract be
made with a firm composed of three -persons, and then a fourth
be admitted, can all four ieon the contract ? Certainly not.
The names of the partners 'must all be set forth in the declaration. They cannot sue in their commercial name. It is only
a corporation that can do this. If the complainant had no interest in the first voyage, it disposes of the 2d, 3d, 6th, and
12th exceptions.
The 7th, 9th, and 11th relate to the right of Mathewson to
trade upon his own private account. -The objection to his doing so is maintained under the 7th article of the agreement,
which says that he is to have no privileges. One privilege of
a captain is -to carry his goods without being charged with
.freight. This article had nothing to 'do with the subject.
Mathewson carried nothing out, and could only trade on his
commissions, What he acquired in this way he could certain-'
ly bring home by paying freight. There are some facts in the
case which are important.
1. He had only a limited capital to trade upon for his owners, not enough to fill the ship.
2. It was always contemplated that she should earn freight
by carrying other good.
3. The freight thus earned was for the benefit of her owners.
4. The ship was never full.
5. There is no allegation that Mathewson did not load the
ship properly.
How Mathewson made his money is entirely immaterial.
There is no pretence that he took it from his owners. He has
accounted for the whole $50,000.
There was no loss or damage of any kind by him. He squandered nothing. On the
contrary, his owners made.a very large sum of money through
his care and skill. -But the opposite 'counsel say that he could
not crry his own goods-in his own ship.. Why not? If he
paid freight to any one else, the owners would lose that much.
They might then justly have complained. The sound rule of
law is, that the master of a vessel must not place himself idi a
situation where his interest necessarily clashes with that of his
ewners. Such was not the case here. It is also said, that he
should have attended to nothing-else than the concerns of his

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

139

Mathewson v. Clarke.

owners. But he was detained at Lima for ten months without
a possibility of expediting the business of his ship. Was he
to sit down ind think for his owners all this time?
We regard Mathewson's latter voyages as being out of the.
contract altogether. The parties. probably never contemplated
using any other ship than the Mercury. When he chartered
three fourths of the Superior, he told his owners of it. They
acknowledged.the receipt of his letters in which he said that it
was .upon partnership account, and yet they held their peace
upon.the subject of sanctioning it. This they had no-right to
do. The rule is, that where an agent acts clearly beyond the
scope of his authority, mere silence on, the part of his principal does -not ratify the act. He must prove a positive assent.
Suppose all this property had been lost. The owners did not
ratify the proceeding until all danger was over, and the adv.enture had been found profitable. But it was then too late. If
this chartering was beyond the contract, and the owners claim
the profits because Mathewson said he did it for the partnership, they must take the whole of his admissions together.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of.the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of Rhode Island.
Wetmore, the complainant, states in his bill, that on the 12th
of October, 1820, Cyrus Butler, Edward Carrington, and Samuel Wetmore, merchants, doing business under the name of
Edward Carrington & Co., of one part, and Henry Mathewson,
of the other, all of Rhode Island, entered into an agreement
in relation to a certain commercial adventure; that, in pursuance of the agreement, the ship Mercury was- procured, and
in December, 1820, Mathewson, as master and supercargo, re-ceived her at the Texel, in Europe, with instructions under the
contract; and having purchased the cargo, as directed, he sailed
the 30th of March, 1821, to Valparaiso, in Chili, and to other
ports and places in Chili and: Peru, as required in the agreement ; sold the cargo, and with the proceeds sailed to Gibraltar, at which place he arrived in November, 1822, and there
sold- the cargo, having completed his first voyage.
The complainant further states, that at Gibraltar, in November, 1822, Mathews6n commenced a new voyage.or adventure
in said ship, and, according to the terms of said agreement, became and was an owner in the ship and cargo of one tenth part
thereof. And Butler, Carrington & Co., in pursuance of the
agreement, furnished the ship witha cargo of the value of fifty
thousand dollars; and Mathewson sailed -oh the new voyage
from Gibraltar, as master and supercargo, on the 281h of December, 1822. He proceeded to the ports of Rio Janeiro, Val-

1SUPREME

COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

paraiso, and other places, .backw.xds and forwards, for trade,
freight, and the employment of the ship, until the 10th of
June, .1825, when, at the port of Guayaquil, in South America,
the ship Mercury was. condemned as unseaworthy, and ordered
to be sold.
The complainant further states, that, about the tht of.'June,
1821, he entered into copartnership with Carrington & Co.,
and thereupon became and was interested in the ship Mercury and cargo, and in all the concerns of said adventure,
according to the terms of said agreement, at and from Gibraltar; as aforesaid, in the proportiQn of one fourth of nine twentieth parts thereof, and then and there became a partner therein
'with Mathewson and the other defendants, and so continued to
be until the said aaventure ended, and until the dissolution of
the partnership. In this part the bill was so amended as to
enable the complainant to claim as an assignee, &c.
Mathewson is further represented; in Decemb6r, 1825, as having chartered at .the port of Chorillas, or some other place in
South America, three fourth parts of the ship Superior, Captain
Andrews, on account and for the concern of the ship Mercury,
and shipped on board of her a part or the whole of the proceeds of the sales of the ship Mercury and -cargo, &c., on the
.terms and conditions of the agreement, and proceeded therewith to the port of Payta, and to other places backwards and
forwards, until the 8gth of November, 1826, at the port of Lima,
where the charter-party expired, the voyages were ended, and
the partnership dissolved.
And the complainant alleges that Mathewson had not rendered a full and fair account of his transactions and of the
profits; and the bill prays that he and the other defendants
may come -to a full and fair account, &c.
Nae of the defendants, except Mathewson, answered the
bilL. The accounts were referred to masters at different times,
and various reports were. made. And the case comes before
this court on exceptions to the masters' reports.
Instead of taking up the exceptions, the general principles
on which they are founded will be considered.
It is first objected, that the omplainant cannot sustain this
suity as he was not a member of the copartnership, and could
not be without the consent of Mathewson. The general principle is admitted, that the individuals who compose the partnership cannot be changed without the consent of the whole.
And it does appear that Mathewson had no knowledge that the
complainant was a partner, or had any interest, in the concern,
until some time after his return to the United States. The
complainant, therefore, could not be considered'or treated as a.

JANIUARY TERM, 1848.

141

Mathewson v. Clarke.

partner in prosecuting a partnership claim, or in any other procedure involving the rights of the original partnership.
But the complainant does not represent himself to be a partner in any other'light than to show the extent of his interest.
He seeks to enforce no right of th& firm; but, 'alleging that
the. par nership was long since dissolved, he asks that the share
of the'profits to which he may be entitled shall be decreed to
'him. And in the amended bill he iepresents himself to be the
assignee of a'certain interest in the "capital, and consequently
entitled to a proportionate share of the profits.
If the firm were still in operation, the complainant, not being
a'member of it, could have no right or poweK to dissolve the
partnership or to maintain this suit. His .remedy would b
against Carrington & Co., vth whom he made the contract.
But the partnership, or whatever it may-be styled, having been
dissolved, the. complainant must be considered as having a certain interest in the fund to be distributed. On this ground he
may maintain the suit, although Mathewson may never have
had notice of his interest 'until the bill was filed. The allegation in the bill is, that the defendant. has -inhis hands funds
which belong to the complainant. And as it is stated and
proved that the business was transacted by Mathewson, without the particular knowledge of the other parties in interest,
he may be called on in the form of this bill to account for and
-pay over to the complainant any moneys in his hands which
belong to him. The .object seems- to be merely to ascertain
the distributive share to which the complainant may be entitled,.as the answers of the defendants, except Mathewson, have
not been required.
The next inquiry is, At what time did the interest of the
complainant in the ship Mercu y and her cargo accrue?
It is claimed for the complainant, that from the 1st of June,
1821, vhen his alleged contract of partnership was entered into,
his inierest in the ship and cargo attached. If this be so, he
will be entitled to participate in the profits of the first voyage
of. the Mercury.
'There is no written evidence of the contract between the
complainant and Carrington & Co., and we must ascertain the
commencement of the contract from the statements in the bill,
the books of the company, and other evidence in the case. The complainant states that Butler and Carrington & Co.
furnished the "ship with specie and a cargo for the new
adventure, according to the terms of said agreements, of the
value of fifty thousand dollars; and the said Mathewson
sailed from said port of Gibraltar on said new voyage or adventure in said ship, as master and supercargo, with said

-

142

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

specie and cargo on board, on or about the 28th of December,
1822."
And in the succeeding paragraph the complainant alleges,
that about the 1st of June, 1821, he entered into copartmership
with the said Edward Carrington & Co.; and thereupon became and was interested in the said ship Mercury and cargo,
and in all the concerns of said adventure, according to the
terms of said agreement, at and from Gibraltar as aforesaid.
This language would seem to be too explicit to be misunderstood.. The new voyage or adventure is spoken of from
Gibraltar; and the complainant alleges, that, by virtue of his
contract, he became interested in the said ship Mercury and
cargo in all the concerns of said "adventure," "at and from
Gibraltar." And this view is confirmed. by a reference to the
books of the company, in which the old concern is credited, "By adventure ship Mercury, voyage from Gibraltar to ,Chili,"
$50,619.18
; for one half, $ 25,309.59.
. The partnership
of the complainant with Carrington & Co.
seems to have embraced some ten or eleven vessels; in some,
if not in all of which, except the Mercury, the interest of the
complainant 'may have attached at the time of the contract.
But, however this may be, we. are satisfied that he had no interest in the Mercury, by his own showing, until the new
voyage commenced from Gibraltar, in December, 1822.
It seems that Mathewson, as master and supercargo, having
funds, traded on his own account, in all the voyages he made;
by which means he accumulated as profits a large sum.. That
trade, it is insisted, was incompatible with his duties as a partner, and was prohibited by his contract.
In the first voyage, which was ended at Gibraltar in November, 1822, Mathewqon was to receive "fifty dollars per
month as wages as navigator and master of the ship, and also
the sum of seven hundred dollars as commission," &c. And
he was "to have no privilege in the first voyage."
In the new or second voyage, Mathewson was to have 1.fifty
dollars per month as wages as 'commander and navigator of said
ship, to commence with the new voyage, and 'as supercargo a
commission of five per cent. on the net amount of all roperty
safely returned to the United States, Canton, or' Europe, proceeding fronm the original stock of fifty thousand dollars, together with one tenth of all the profits and earnings made in
the voyage or voyages, freights or otherwise." And it was
"agreed that the wages and commissions specified and agreed
for," as above, "are to be in full of all services and .privileges
to Captain Mathewson, as master and supercargo, during tkw
voyage -or voyages specified."

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

Usage has given to the masters of vessels and others certain
privileges of transportation and traffic, which are denied to
Mathewson by -the terms of the contract. He agreed that the
wages and commissions should be in " full of all services. and
privileges." The privileges here referred to cannot be limited
to the mere right of the master to transport on board of his
vessel drticles of a certain: weight or bulk without charge, but
to all privileges whatsoever which by udag6 he might'.claim.
The compensation to be paid was in full for the relinquishnent
of any usage or privilege of traffic, as well as for services- to
be rendered. This seems to be the impot of the agreement;
And when we consider the nature of the trust vested in Mathewson, the propriety of such an arrangement is-clear.
He was to be. the acting parther in the voyages contemplated, having under his control the large capital invested, with
power to trade from port to port, and to buy and sell as he
should deem best for the interest of the company. He was
entitled, for his .part of the capital," to a ratable proportion ofthe profits. Now,, is it reasonable -to be supposed that the
merchants with whom he was associated would allow him to
be engaged on his own account in a commercial enterprise 'in
which he might secure to himself the profits of the trade,,and"
throw upon his partners the loss? This is not .like the case
where the master, having merely the command of the ship,
exercises his privilege. -The supercargo is the agent of the
owners, and disposes of the cargo and -makes purchases under
their general instructions on his own responsibility.
But Mathewson was master and .upercargo, exercising full
powers over the vessel and cargo. He purchased and sold
where he could do so to the best advantage; and for his entire
services in-this agency, and for the management of the ship, he
was paid. Now; can. an agent, thus acting for his principals,
engage in a traffic on his own account? He buys for himself
and his principals at the same market, and sells at the same.
On the one side, he is interested in a small portion of the profits, and in a commission of five per cent. On the other, he
realizes the entire profits, deducting therefrom the common
charge of freight. In th6 purchases and in the- sales, under
such circumstances, the agent would be influenced, as may be
reasonably. supposed, by his own interests. From the accounts
rendered, it appears that a much larger profit was realized by
Mathewson on his private sales than on the sales for the company. Whether this resulted from the more judicious purchases or sales in the private enterprise, it shows that the traffic
was inconsistent with the general agency. It was a rival interest, hostile to the interest of the company, exercised by their

144.

SUPREME COURT.
Mathewson v. Clarke.

agent, and without their approbation or knowledge. This the
law will not sanction. It requires not only a bona fide action
by an agent, but that he shall be free from those selfish motives which conflict with the interests of his principals.
After the condemnation and sale of the ship Mercury, three
fourths of the Superior were chartered by Mathewson, and it
is insisted, that any restrictions on his private trading, in the
contract, on board of the Mercury, cannot be applied to similar
transactions on the Superior, that the contract of partnership
terminated on the sale of the Mercury, and that if the new adventure on board of the Superior be sanctioned, it must be
taken subject to the conditions imposed by Mathewson, one of
which was his private trading.
It does not appear from the contract or the correspondence
of the parties, that any other ship than the Mercury was named
or referred to, in which the commercial enterprise contemplated
was to be carried on. And it may be said that the condemnation of that vessel ended the adventure. But Mathewson,
-without the authority or knowledge of his company, chartered
another vessel, and used their capital in the enterprises in
which he was subsequently engaged. Of necessity they sanctioned this procedure, as a disavowal of it would have limited
their claim, at least in effect, to the personal responsibility of
their agent.
In his letter dated at Guayaquil, 16th August, 1825, to Carrington & Co., Mathewson says: - "If I can get the ship" Superior "at a fair charter, I shall return back to Canton by the
way of Manilla, with the ifitention of returning to this coast
again," &c. And again,-" Should I take the ship Superior, I
expect to have the same interest in the voyage as I had in the
Mercury, and wish you to keep my property constantly insured." A similar expectation is expressed in a letter dated
Lima, 10th November, 1825.
And again, in a letter dated at Lima, 16th November, 1825,
after giving an account of the loss occasioned by the explosion
on board the steamboat Tilica, he says: - "IJ have chartered
three fourths of the ship Superior, Captain Andrews, for a
voyage to Canton, via Manilla, and back to this coast. Copy
of the charter-party inclosed, which I hope will be satisfactory
to you. I expect to have the same interest in the charter of
this ship as I had on the former voyage in ship Mercury, and
wish you to keep my interest insured."
Butler and Carrington & Co. wrote a letter to Mathewson,
dated Providence, July 10th, 1826, in answer to various letters
received from him, in which they speak discouragingly of
the adventure in the Superior, decline sending another ship, as

JANUARY-TERM, 1848.
Mathewson

145

v. Clarke.

requested by him, and advise him to return home in the Superior, making the best disposition he can of their property, &c.
At the date of this letter, the Superior was probably on her
return voyage, as she arrived at Valparaiso on the 5th of October following. There was no dissent from the terms proposed by Mathewson in his three ltters, above referred to, and
of course the law implies an acquiescence. Indeed, from the
directions given by the company in regard to their property, a
sanction, though a reluctant one, and somewhat indirect, was
given to the proceedings of their agent, as connected with the
Superior. The refusal to advance money to Mr. Mathewson,
under the circumstances, does not seem to have any direct
bearing on this point.
It is claimed for Mathewson, tbat the company purposely
avoided sanctioning his acts in regard to the Superior, until
the result of the'adventure should be known, when they could
act as their interests might dictate.
The use of the capital of the company, which subjected it
to the hazards of trade, under the circumstances, would, on
equitable principles, entitle the company to the profits of the
enterprise. But looking at the declarations of Mathewson
about the time the ship Superior was chartered, and the nature
of the enterprise undertaken, we feel authorized to say, that
the relation of the parties to each other was not changed by
this adventure. The rule applied to the Mercury, in regard to
the rights of the complainant and the responsibilities of the
deferi'dant, must be applied to the Superior.
After'the appeal was taken to this court, errors being discovered in tle report 'of the masters, by consent, their report
was returned to them for correction. And in their report to
this court, dated the 1st of January, 1846, they say that they
*erred in their former report, in not making to Mathewson
allowance for his commissions, and for his one tenth of the
profits and earnings.
This last report finds a balance due to the complainant of
two thousand nine hundred fifty-eight dollars and three cents;
to which they add interest from the 1st of July, 1827, to January 2d, 1846, making three thousand two hundred eightythree dollars and forty-one cents; which sum being added to
the above balance makes the sum of six thousand two hundred forty-one" dollars and forty-one cents.
From this sum must be deducted any amount charged for
or against the defendant, by the masters in their reports; as the
profits of trade or otherwise on his private account during the
first voyage of the Mercury. And under the views expressed
in this opinion, the complainant being intereste4 in the Mer13
VOL. V1.

146

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

cury and her cargo in her voyage from Gibraltar, in December,
1822, the exceptions to any items charged against the defendant and allowed to the complainant, arising out of any private
trading by the defendant on board the Mercury, and afterwards
on board of the Superior, are overruled. The exceptions
which apply to allowances made to the complainant against
the defendant, growing out of the first voyage of the Mercury,
ending at Gibraltar, are sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court, with instructions to enter a decree
in pursuance of this opinion.

LEWIS CURTIS AND GEORGE GRISWOLD, TRUSTEES OF THE APPALACHICOLA LAND CoDIPANk, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN AND JAMES INNERARITY.

Where there was a sale of wild lands in Florida occupied by Indians and the
purchasrs gave a mortgage to secure the payment of some outsanding instalments of the purchase iponey, the fact that- the purchasers had not complete
possession of the lands is not a sufficient objection to their being charged with
interest from the time when the money was due.
They had paid a large part of the purchase-money before the execution of the
,mortgage, withoLt raising this objection, and the parties to the contract of sale
knew that the Indians had possession of the lands as hunting-grounds.
The purchasers in a former suit averred that they had peaceable possession, and the
vendors cannot be held responsible for a subsequent disturbance.
The doctrine of the civil law, viz. "that the vendee is not liable for interest
where he received no profits from the thing purchased," applies only to executory contracts where the price is contracted to be paid at some future day, and the
contract is silent as to interest.
Nor is it an objection to the allowance of interesi that the purchaser was put to
much trouble and expense to obtain d recognition of his title.
The claim to be released from interest, upon the ground that there was no person
legally authorized to receive it, is not supported by the facts in this case.
Where the vendor gave a power of attorney to an agent to receive a payment from
the purchasers on account, and the agent gave a receipt in full for certain balances by way of adjustment and compromise, and the vendor disapproved of the
acts of the agent, the payment is not good, even on account, against the vendor.
The purchasers, by maling a payment in this way, upon certain terms which
were not within the power of attorney, constituted. the agent their agent. For
two years afterwards, they insisted upon the binding force of the acts of the
agent to the extent to which he had given releases, and only claimed the payment to be on account when the agent became insolvent. It was then too late.

THIs was an appeal from the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida
All the material facts in the case are set forth in the opinion
of- the court.

The case was argued at the preceding term by Mr. Webster

and Mr. Berrien., for the appellants, and by Mr. Westcott and
Mr. Jones, for the appellees.

