JANUAFY TERM, 1848.

B07

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause -be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said Supreme Court, to be proceeded
with .m conformity to the opimon of this court' and as to law
and justice shall appertain.

THE WEST rivER BRIDGE COoPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH
Dix AND THE TowNs or BRATTLEBORO' AND DUHMERSTON, -IN THE
COUNTY OF WINDHA

, DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.

THE WEST RIVER BRIDGE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE
TowNs or BRATTLEBOO' AND DOUIMERSTON, IN THE COUNTY OF
WINDHAM, AND JOSEPH Dix, As& BOYDEN, AND PlfiNEAS UNDERWOOD,- DEFENDANTS IN ERROL
A bridge, held by an incorporated company, under a charter from a State, may be
condemned and taken as part of a pub ic road, tnder the laws of that State.
This charter was a contract between the State and the company, but, like all pnvate rights, it is subject to the right of eminent domain in the State.
The Constitution of the United States cannot be so construei as to take away this
right from the States.
Nor does the exercise of the right of eminent domain interfere with the inviolability
of contracts. All property is held by tenure from the State, and all contracts are
made subject to the right of eminent domain. The contract is, therefore, not
violated by the exercise of the right.
The Constitution oftthe United States intended to prohibit all such laws impairing
the obligation of contracts asinterpolato some new term or condition, foreign to
the original agreement.
Propert held by an incorporated company stands upon the same footing with that
held by an individual, and a franchise cannot be distinguished from ofher property.

THESE cases were brought up, by a writ of error issued un-

der the twenty-fifth section-of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court of'udicature of the State of Vermont.

In 1795, the legislature of Vermont passed an act, entitled,
"An act granting to John W .Blake, Calvin Knowlton, and

their associates, the privilege of building a toll-bridge over
West River, in Brattleboro'"

The first section enacted that Blake, Knowlton, and -their
associates, should be and continue a body politic and corporate,
by the name of the West River Bndge Company, for one hun-

dred years, and that they should have the exdlusive privilege
of erecting and continuing a bridge over West River, within

four miles from the place where said stream united with Connecticut River.

5W

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

The second section fixed the rate of tolls.
The third section enacted, that, at the expiration of forty
years from' the 1st of December, 1796, the judges of 'the Supreme Court should appoint commissioners to examine the
books and accounts of the company, and if it should appear
that the net proceeds should have averaged a larger sum than
twelve per cent. per annum, the judges should lessen the tolls,
provided they did not reduce them so low as to prevent the
proprietors from receiving twelve per cent.
The remaining sections provided for the government of the
company, for their keeping the bridge in good repair-, &c., &c.
During the years 1795, 1796, and 1797, the company built
the bridge.
In 1799, Josiah Arms conveyed to the company a small
piece of land, about two acres, lying on the south bank ofWest River.
In 1803, the legislature passed a supplement to the charter,
which altered the rate of tolls, but left the remaining parts of
it unaltered'
In November, 1839, the legislature passed an act entitled, "An
act relating to highways," in and whereby it was enacted and
provided, that "'Whenever there shall be occasion for any new
highway m any town or towns m this State, the Supreme and
County Courts shall have the same power to take any real estate,
easement, or franchise of any turnpike, or other corporation,
when, in their judgment, the public good requires a public highway, which such courts now have, by the laws of this State, to
lay out highways overindividual or private property, and the
same power is granted, and the same rules shall be observed,
in making compensation to all such corporations and persons,
whose estate, easement, franchise, or rights shall be taken, as
are now granted and provided in other cases, provided, that
no such real estate, easement, or franchise shall be takeif m
the manner and for the purposes aforesaid, unless the whole of
such real estate, easement, or franchise belonging to said corporation shall be taken, and compensation made therefor."
On the 25th of August, 1842, Joseph Dix and fifty-four other
persons presented the following petition to the County Court
for the county of Windham-." That the public highway or stage-road, leading from the
stage-house of Henry Smith, in Brattleboro', through the northerly part of said town, and through the town of Dummerston,
to the south line of Putney, in said county, has for a long time
been a subject of.great complaint, both on account of the steep
and dangerous hills, and the great difficulty of keeping the
same in repair, as now travelled. That various and repeated

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

509

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix-et al.

attempts have been made to inprove the same, with little success. Your petitioners further represent, that, from actual survey and admeasurement, they are confident a highway may be
laid between said termini, and made at a moderate expense,
which will avoid most of the hills and be perfectly satisfactory
to the public. Your. petitioners are aware that some alterations have recently been made on said route by a committee
of -this court, upon the petition of Paul Chase and others, and
that indictments are -now pending against said towns for not
making the same, but your petitioners believe that said committee, in ordering said alterations, are influenced by the solicitations of interested individuals, rather than the public good,
and that if said alterations are worked, they would form but
little improvements, and that the public will never be satisfied
until said highway is laid on the best possible- route, and further, that it will cost as much -tomake said alterations, -(which
we consider to be useless,) as it will to make a good travelling
road on the route contemplated by the petition.
"And your petitioners further represent,-that the toll-bridge
across West River, on said route in Brattleboro', owned by theWest River Bridge Corporation, is, and for. a long time has
been, a sore grievance, both to the trav-eller and the inhabitants
of the towns in the vicinity, who have occasion to pass and
repass, travel and labor, on said highway; and however the
legislature in the infancy of the State may have exercised a
sound discretion in granting said toll-bridge, yet, in the present
improved and -thriving condition of the inhabitants, your petitioners are unable to discover any good reason why said grievance should longer be endured, or why the wealthy town of
Brattleboro' should not, as well as other towns much less able,
sustain a free bridge. across West River. Your petitioiaers
therefore pray the court, by an able, judicious, and disinterested
committee, to cause said.route to be surveyed, and such alterations and improvements to be made in the old road, or a new
one to be laid, as the public good may require, and also to
take the real estate, easement, or franchise of the ' West River
Bridge Company,' a corporation owning the aforesaid tollbridge, for the purpose of making. a free road and bridge across
said river, agreeable to the statute in such case made and provided, and as in duty bound will ever pray"
In conformity with the above prayer, the court appointed
three persons to examine the premises and make report.
In May, 1843, the commissioners reported that they had exammed the premises, and were unanimously of opinion that a
new road ought to be laid out over a considerable portion of
the distance between the termini mentioned, in the petition,
43 *

510

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

which road, they said, they had caused to be surveyed and laid
out. The report then proceeded as follows "The said commissioners also examined the toll-bridge
across West River in Brattleboro', and have taken into consideration the propriety of laying a free road across said bridge, at
the expense of said town of Brattleboro', as contemplated by
said petition, and in this the said commissioners were unammously of the opinion, that public good required that the real
estate, easement, or franchise of the West River Bridge Corporation should be taken, and compensation made therefor, that
said to]l-bfidge might thereafter become a free bridge. The
said commissioners have therefore assessed to the said West
River Bridge Corporation the-sum of four thousand dollars, to
be paid to the said West River Bridge Corporation out of the
treasury of said town of Brattleboro', in full compensation for
all real estate, easement, or franchise belonging to said corporation, which real estate, easement, or franchise is situate in said
town of Brattleboro', near the mouth of West River, and is
-supposed to be more particularly described in a deed from Josiah Ames to the West River Bridge Company, dated on the
first day of April, in the year seventeen hundred and ninetynine, and recorded in Brattleboro' records of deeds, liber D,
page 203, containing two acres of land, be the same more or
less, with a covered bridge, gate, toll-house, barn, and other
buildings thereomn
THOMAS F HAMMOND,
JULIUS CONVERSE,
ISAAC N. CUSHMAN,
Comnu.sszoners."1
To this report the West River Bridge Company, the town
of Brattleboro', the town of Dummerston, and the persons who
were entitled. to dmages for the loss of land, &c., all filed objections.
The town of Bratileboro' filed five objections, the last of
which was as follows "5. Because it does not appear from said report, and is not
true in fact, that there was, or that said commissioners considered that there was, any occasion- for any new highway on
said route Withm a great distance, to wit, within two miles of
said bridge."
The town of Dummerston filed ten objections, the first four
of which are as follows " 1.Because said commissioners proceeded in said report to
discontinue the Indited Road, so called, a road of which the
petition of Joseph Dix -and others did not ask the discontmu-

JANUARY TERM,1848.

511

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

ance, a road which said town was then liable to make, and
has since raised money to make.
"2. Because the acceptance.of said report would render the
maintenance of two roads necessary through a large part of the
town, while the. natural difficulties are so great, that, with only
one, the burdens of said town, when compared with its means,
are unusually onerous.
"3. That said surveyed .route, or Nurse Swamp route, so
called, is a longer, more wet, and more expensive route, between the termini in question.
"4. That said commissioners were partial, prejudiced, and
mistaken, and acted under the influence of misrepresentations.
made by interested persons.'
The persons to whom damages were awarded by the report
were fifteen in number. Eleven of these filed six objections,
the first of which was as follows "1. Because the said commissioners were partial, prejudiced,
and mistaken, and acted under the misrepresentations made by
interested persons."
The West River Bridge Company filed, seven objections, the
sixth of which stated the charter, their observance of it, and
their desire for its -continuance.
In November, 1843, -the case was tried,. and the report of the
commissioners was accepted. The two towns were ordered to
pay the damages awarded -to the persons through whose lands
the road was laid out, and "the fown of Brattleb oro' to pak to
the West River Bridge Company'the sum of damages, as assessedby said commissioners, by the 81st day of'May, 1844,
and that said bridge be opened for the free public travel by the
1st day of June, 1844."
In February, 1844, a writ of certiorari was sued out from
the Supreme Court, whereby the whole proceedings of the
County Court were brought up for review Upon .the argument,
the West River Bridge Company, in addition to the exceptions
which they. had presented to the court below, filed the two following""First. That the .said statute of this State, having been
enacted long after the said grant by the same State of the said
franchise of toll to the said West River Bridge Corporation,
and long after the said grant was accepted and acted on by the
said corporation is of no validity for thepurpose of-authorizing
the taking of the said. franchise against the consent of said corporation, or the laying out. of a free public highway over and
upon the said bridge, on the ground that -the said statute,. if it
purports to authorize the proceedings aforesaid, is a violation
of the contract of this State with the said corporation, and is

SUPREME. COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

therein repugnant to that clause of the Constitution of ther
United States which provides that no State shall pass any law
nnpamng the obligation of contract.
"Secondly
That inasmuch as it is apparent upon the said
record, and proofs filed in said cause, copies of which are hereunto annexed, that there is no occasion for any new highway
within the said town of Brattleboro', near said bridge, and that
no new highway is m fact laid out, or adjudged to be laid out,
within the distance of two miles from either terminus of said
budge, and that the damages awarded to the said West River
Bridge Company are grossly inadequate as a compensation for
the value of the corporate franchis", and other property adjudged to be taken, the taking of the said franchise, and laying out of the said free public highway over and upon the said
bridge, by the judgment -of the said County Court, under such
circumstances, a mere evasion, under color of law, of the said
provision of the Constitution of the United States, and an exercise of authority under this State which is wholly invalid as
against the said. West River Bridge Company, on the ground
of its being repugnant to the constitutional provisions aforesaid."
The Supreme Court passed the following judgment:"And thereupon, after hearing the respective parties by their
counsel, upon their respective allegations, and the said exceptions in said record contained, it is considered, ordered, and adjudged by the court here, that the statute aforesaid was and is
valid for the purpose of taking the said franchise, and laying
out the said free public highway over and upon the said bridge,
and that the same was and is in no wise repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and that the said proceedings
of the said County Court were a lawful exercise of the authority of the State under the said statute, and neither repugnant to nor an evasion of the provisions of the said Coistiution, and that there is no error in the record and proceedings
aforesaid, and that the said defendant parties recover their
costs."
To review this judgment, a writ of error brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by Mr Webster and Mr Collamer, on behalf
of the plaintiffs in error, and Mr Phelps, for the defendants in
error. On both sides argumentative briefs were filed, and although all the counsel added many illustrations and arguments,
orally, to their respective briefs, in the progress of discussion,
yet the reporter thinks it the safer course to reprint the briefs
themselves.,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

513

The West River Bii.dge Company r. Dix et al.

Air Webster and Mr.Collamer, for the plaintiffs in error.
In the township of Brattleboro', in. Vermont, A. D. 1795,
there was a public highway along the west bank of Connecticut River, and passing across West River, a tributary of the
Connecticut, which public highway was re-surveyed that year,
and ever has, and still does, continue unaltered within said
town. This re-survey was under an act of 1795. (Whitney's
affidavit, and copy of survey., Record, pp. 34, 35.)
In 1795,.by an act of thie legislature of Vermont, the plaintiffs were created a corporation for one hundred years, with the
exclusive- privilege of erecting and continuing a toll-bridge
over West River, within four. miles of the place where that
stream unites with Connecticut River, and- the rate of toll was
fixed by said ct. The.act piovided. that the bridge should be
built where the road was to be surveyed, and within two years,
and it was so done. (Charter, Record, p. 26, ยง 4, and proviso
to ยง 6, p. 28.)
The act further provided, that, at the expiration of forty
years, the outlay.and income of'the plaintiffs might be examined by commissioners, appointed by the Supreme-Court, and,
if the .plaintiffs had realized more than twelve per cent. per
annum, the court might reduce. the tolls so as to yield only
that amount. The plaintiffs, within the limited time, erected
the bridge, and have ever since sustained it, having several tines
rebuilt it, and now, at great expense, have erected so large a
part of it with stone, that to sustain it is much less expense
than 'formerly, and the franchise and bridge aw now of great
value, .to wit,.of the value of tea thousand dollars. (Record,

p. 56.)
By the general law of Vermont relating to highways, the
County Court, on petition, may appoint commissioners to lay
out highways within the county, who survey the way and
assess the damage to the landholders, and make. report to the
court, who thereupon make their orders accordingly, and the
same power is giVen to the Supreme Court, in laying highways
into two or more counties. (Revised Statutes of Vermont,
p. 553.)
In November, 1839, the legislature passed "an act relating
to highways," which. provided, "whenever there shall be occasion for any new highway in any town or towns within this
State, the Supreme and County Courts shall have the same
power to take any real estate, easement, or franchise of any
turnpike or other corporation, when in their judgment the
public good requires a public highway, which such courts now
have, by the laws of the State, to lay out. hjghways over individual or private property, and the same power is granted, and

514

SUPREME COURT.
The West Riyer- Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

the same rules shall be observed, in making compensation to
all such corporations and persons whose estate, easement, franchise, or right shall be taken, as are now granted and provided
in other cases, provided that no such real estate, easement, or
franchise shall be taken in the manner and for the purpose
aforesaid, unless the whole of such real estate, easement, or
franchise belonging to said corporation shall be taken, and
compensation made therefor."
In 1842, a petition was presented to the County Court of the
county of Windham, Vermont, praying for a re-survey and improvements in the highway, beginning in the village of Brattleboro', and leading north across this bridge, and thence north
to and through the town of Dummerston, and in relation to
this bridge, it is represented in the petition as a great "grievance, and should no longer be endured", and praying that
said road be re-surveyed, and the real estate, easement, or francise of the" "West River Bridge Company" should be taken
for the purpose of making a free road and bridge across said
river. On that petition the court appointed commissioners,
who proceeded to examine the -road and decide in the premises.
They surveyed and laid out a road in this manner, (as appears, Record, p. 17,) beginning at Brattleboro' village, about
one mile south of this bridge, and following the emsting highway to and across the bridge, and thence north of the bridge
two miles, without making any alteration whatever. (Record,
p. 32, and Report, p. 17 ) They then report changes in the
highway, all but fifty rods of which is in Dummerston, and,
as to this bridge, the commissioners report as follows. "The said commissioners also examined the toll-bridge
across West River, in Brattleboro', and .have taken into consideration the propriety of laying a free road across said bridge,
at the expense of the town of Brattleboro', as contemplated by
said petition, and in this the said commissioners were unammously of opinion, that the public good required that the real
estate, easement, or franchise of the West River Bridge Company should be taken, and compensation made therefor, that
said toll-1nidge might be made a free bridge. The commissioners have therefore assessed to the said West River Bridge
Corporation the sum of four thousand dollars, to be paid to the
said West River Bridge Corporation out of the treasury of
said town of Brattleboro', in full compensation -for all real
estate, easement, or franchise belonging to said corporation,
which real estate, easement, or franchise is situate in said
town. of Brattleboro', near.the mouth of West River." (Record,
pp. 15, 16, and Ames's deed, p. 32.)
This report was returned into court, and though exceptions

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

515

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

and objections were thereto made on the part of the present
plaintiffs, as well-as by.said town of Brattleboro', yet.the court,
on the hearing, decided to accept and approve said report, and
established the wh6le of -said road, and ordered that Brattleboro' pay the present plauitiff the said sum of four thousand
dollars, and "that said bridge be opened- for the free public
travel." (Record, pp. 25, 26.)
This decision and these proceedings were carred before the
Supreme Court of the State by certiorar, and by that court
affirmed, whereupon the plamtiff brings this writ of error.
By the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of the
-Umted States, it is provided, "1That a final judgment or deeree in any suit, in the highest court of law or equity of a
State m which a decision of the suit could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or authority exercised under, any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States,
and the decision is in favor of such their validity, may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of
the United States upon a writ of error." The plaintiff insists
that this power and authority exercised under the State of
Vermont, and the statute of that State, passed in 1839, under
which the power was exercised in the manner it was done, are
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
This court is never called on to decide a State law unconstitutional in the abstract. It must have a case 'before -it, and,
the question is, Is it constitutional as construed and applied in
the case by the State court ? If it were not so, the State
courts have but to take a State law, good on its face, and construe it to cover cases, however -grossly unconstitutional, and
there would be no redress, as it might be said, The law is good,
but the decision is bad, but that is not within the jurisdiction
of Uuns court. The only way is to treat the State statute as
the State court has treated and applied it in the case, and then
to consider whether, for such a purpose, it is constitutional.
Such has been the course in this court. A law may be constitutional for some purposes, and not for others. (Golden v.
Prince, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 313.) The statute of Maryland,
levying a tax on any bank put in operation in that State without consent of its legislature, was not decided as unconstitutional in the abstract. It was undoubtedly good as to private banks,
or those of other States, but when it was applied by the State
courts to a branch of the United States Bank, then this court
decided that, for that purpose, it was bad, being unconstitutional. (McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 235.) The
statute of New York, granting the exclusive navigation of its

SUPREME COURT.
The West'River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

waters by steam-vessels, was, by this court, holden as unconstitutional, as applied to vessels coming from without the State.
(Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 209.) Indeed, the words of
the United States statute are carefully adapted to such an object. It provides, not merely that this court is to pass on the
.onstitutionality of the State law, but on any authority exercised under any State. If, then, it appears that, m tis case,
the plaintiffs' rights.have been invaded by any authority under
the State, or by any law of the State repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, the decision of the State court
must be reversed.
I. It is insisted by the defendant, that this is a pretended exercise of the. power of the eminent domain, as an incident of
sovereignty, - the taking of private property for public use,
when, in truth and reality, it is but an actual impairing and
destroying the force and obligation of a contract, contrary to
the provisions of the United States Constitution.
This is attempted to be effected under the disguise. of calling
this 'grant and franchise property. It is no such property as
falls within, or can be the subject-matter of, the eminent domain. The original idea of the eminent domain was the right
of sovereignty, or residuum of power over the land which remamed in the sovereign or lord paramount after the fee granted.
to the feudatory, and was therefore confined to the realty In
the progress of arts and commerce, when personal property became worthy of legal consideration, this power of sovereignty
was extended over that, and even included debts. But this
grant to the plaintiffs can fall within no such category of property. It is a franchise, a pure franchise. It included the grant
of no property, real or personal. It lay m grant, and not in
livery It was created by, and had its existence in, the grant
in the contract, and it could cease only by impairing and destroying that contract. If a private debt or contract, as a chose
in action, could be taken under the power of eminent domain,
yet still the 'debt is kept on foot and in force. But this is an
attempt, not to take and keep in force this contract, but actilally to extinguish and destroy it. Even if it were true, as has
been holden, that property which the corporation create or acquire, and the taking of which would not destroy the grant,
might be taken in the proper exercise of this 'power of eminent
domain, yet the grant itself, the franchise, is no property A
franchise is defined to be "a royal privilege or branch of the
king's prerogative, subsisting in the hand of a subject."
The State alone possessed the power to erect and sustain
-toll-bridges across large streams m the public highway This
prerogative was duly granted to the plaintiffs as to a certain

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
The West River Bridge Company'--.

517

Dix-et al.

stream, and in the plaintiffs' hands, within the limitations of
the grant, it could not be. overthrown by the exercise of another
branch of the sovereignty of only equal and no greater force.
It s true, that the shares in a corporation are property, but the
franchise is not. It cannot be taken to respond to any liabilities of the corporatipn, and cn only be extinguished byforfeiture. It is- entirely unlike a grant of land, to. winch the
is a grant of royal preState court compare it, in this, -this
rogative, or -branch of sovereignty, whereas, when land is
granted, all the powers of sovereignty, to enforce the laws, levy
taxes, and. in all other respects, remain still in the State over
the granted territory
II. All the powers of the States, as sovereign States, must
always be subject to the lintations expressed in the United
States Constitution,[ nor can they any more be permitted to.
overstep such limitations of power by the exercise of one branch
of sovereignty than another. What is forbidden to them, and
which they.cannot do directly, they should not be permitted
to do by color, pretence, or oblique indirection. Among other
matters limiting and restricting. State sovereignty is this -No
State shall pass "any law impairing the obligation of contracts." The power of eminent domain, like every other sovereign power in the State, is subject to this limitation and
prohibition. Laws creating corporations, -ith powers for the
benefit of the. individual corporators, even though for public
purposes, like turnpikes, railroads, toll-bridges, &c., have always, and by almost every court in the Union, and by this
court, been decided to- be contracts between the government
and the corporators. The plamtiffs' grant and franchise was a
contract of the State for .one hundred years, and by this act of
1839, and the proceedings under, it, that contract is not only
impaired, but utterly destroyed., and this a State can no more
do under the power of eminent domain, than under the lawmaking power, or any other power of sovereignty It is said,
the citizen is safe, because, under the exercise of the eminent
domain, he is to receive compensation for whatever is taken.
ThAt furnishes no security, for the mode and amount of compensation is fixed ex parte by the government and its agents,
and, besides that, the prohibition of the Constitution is general,
and contains no exception for this exercise of this power of
eminent domain- as to contracts.
If the provision of the Constitution,.which forbids the unpainng of contracts, does not extend to the contracts of the
State governments, and they are left subject to be destroyed by
the eminent domain, then there is an end of public faith. It
is said, by every writer , and by almost every court which has
VOL. VI.

44

518

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company -. Dix et aL

passed- on this subject, the eminent domain, that it must rest
with "the legislative power to determine when public uses require the assumption of private property," and to regulate the
mode of compensation. (2 Kent's Comm. 340.) If to this it
be holden that this extends even to contracts of the government itself, then it follows, that the State of Mississippi, or any
other State indebted, has but by law to declare that the public
good requires that the State debts, bonds, &c., shall be taken
for the public use, and appoint commissioners to fix their present market value to the holders, and, on payment thereof,
declare them extinguished. Such is the real character of this
transaction.
III. The power or authority exercised under the State in
this case was this under the pretence of laymg.a new.ighway, where none was required', and none, in fact, laid, they
have taken a franchise, and abolished the, tolls of a chartered
bridge. By the statute of 1839, under which this proceeding
is attempted to be justified, it is provided, "whenever there
shall. be occasion for any new highway," &c., &c. In this
case, it appears that there had been there a highway from
1796, and this bridge was built in that highway, and this public stage-road was followed by the commissioners who made
this survey for more than a mile south of this bridge, across it,
and two miles north of it, without variation, and this was approved by the court, thus conclusively deciding that no new
ighway was required there. All that was mere pretence and
fiction, and shown by the record to be false. Let us now reduce to%.undisgused English that statute of the State, as it was
construed and enforced by the authority exercised under the
State in this case. Whenever any toll-bridge heretofore granted
becomes of any value to the proprietors, and thereby obnoxious
to the inhabitants of the vicinity, they may present a petition
totheir County Court, and therein falsely pretend that a new
highway is .there needed, and the court shall appoint comrissioners, of their own selecting, who may pretend to lay out a
new highway, but really only follow the old one across the
bridge, and appraise the damage to the proprietors of the
bridge, and the court may thdreupon declare and adjudge, that
all tolls at said bridge cease on said sum being paid, though the
time of the grant has not expired, and though the sum does
not equal half the value of the franchise. Thiswoiild be, m
substance, enacting, that "hereafter'no tolls shall be paid for
passing West River Bridge, the same being hereby abolished,
because they are offensive to the vicinity, and the proprietors
shall receive such gross sum as persons selected exparte by
the vicinity or State shall decide." All this is but destroying

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

519

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

the contract by which the franchise was created, under the
color and pretence of exercising the eminent domain. Chancellor Kent, in treating of this power of eminent domain, says
"If they should vacate a grant of property or of a franchise,
under a pretext of some public use or service, such -cases would
be abuses of their discretion, and fraudulent attacks on private
rights, and the law be clearly unconstitutional and void."
(2 Kent's Comm. 340.)
IV It has been holden in every State, where the point has
arisen, and before judges of this court, that every turnpike,
railroad, or toll-bridge, though made by a corporation, still'is
a highway, and an erection for public use, and therefore a
clause m such grant to take private property, making compensution therefor, without consent of the owner; for such highway, is a legitimate bxercise of the power of eminent domain.
When, therefore, this power has been exercised, or the delegation of its exercise has been granted to the corporation and been
used, and the private property been taken and devoted to the
public use, the power has exhausted itself on the subject. All
that remains is the contract of the State with the corporation,
that is, that the erection shall be sustained by the corporation
for' public use, and compensation received therefor by the receipt of certain tolls, Now; can the State inpair and abolish
this contract by again exercising the power of eminent domain
on the subject? Can the State say to the corporation, We delegate. to you, for good consideration, the power of eminent
domain in taking property to make a road or bridge for public
use, and when this is done, then say, We will again assume and
exercise over you- the very same power we delegated and sold
to you?
V It is not necessary now to mquire whether, for the purpose .of'making -some new, extensive, and continuous highway,
canal, or railroad, which the public good reqmred, and which
required the including within it some short turnpike, railroad,
or toll-bridge previously granted, such turnpike, or bridge, or
railroad might not be legitimately merged in the greater object.
Nor is it necessary, in this case, to decide whether this bridge
and franchise might not -be taken and destroyed to prevent
public mvasionj or to convert into a fortification, or for any different public use from that to which it is already appropriated.
This case is of a very distinct cbaracter, and cannot be properly confounded with such cases. This bridge was erected in
a highway, constitutes a part of that highway, and is devoted
exclusively, to the public use as a highway, nor can the prepnetors deprive any one of. the right of so using it. The attempted proceeding is, not to appropriate it to any new public

520

SUPREME COURT.
The West.River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

use, but to keep it devoted to precisely the same -ise, but only
to abolish the tolls, which by contract belong to the plaintiff.
It is said by the State court, that this is the same as a grant
of land. Let us, then, supposing this to be so. inquire whether
a State, having, for good consideration, granted land in feesimple for the grantee to use, occupy, improve, and to sell to
others for the same purpose, can, under the power of eminent
doniam, in any form, take that land from the owner, and compel him to receive a sum which the State's commissioners shall
state, for the purpose of using, by the State, the same for the
same .purposes it was used. before by the owner, and to sell or
grant to others, for the same purposes and uses. If this be so,
there is no limitation to this power, for, as the legislature alone
have the right to determine when and what private property
shall be taken for the public use, if there be superadded, that
they also shall determine what is public use, it must follow
that what courts have often said, a State could not take one
man's property and give it to another, is -not true, for they
have but to declare that they will take it for the use of the
State, and then grant it to others for a greater price or better
cultivation, or take the lands of all for an agrarian operation
for the public benefit. If these tolls are abolished by this
proceeding, what prevents the State from granting the same
,charter to some political favorite to-morrow
It should be here observed, that the public can obtain no pecuniary benefit by this or any similar operation, nor be relieved
of any burden thereby, except what is derived by fraudulently
or coercively imposing on the other party an insufficient compensation, as in this case. What the lIamtiff ought justly to
receive was the value of the franchise, that is, that sum which
the tolls would have yielded hun beyond the expense of sustaming the bridge. If the public justly pay the plaintiff-that
sum, and then support the bridge, their outlay is precisely the
same as if they left the plaintiff to sustain. the bridge, and paid
the tolls. Unjust oppression can be the only object of this
proceeding.
This power, the eminent domain, which only within a few
years was first recognized and naturalized in this country, is
unknown to our Constitution or that of the States. It has
been adopted from writers on other and arbitrary governments,
and goes on the-ground, that all the powers heretofore regarded as the incidents of sovereignty must be existing in some
department of State authority, which is far from true. But
being now recognizcd in.court, our only security is to be found
in this tribunal, to keep it within some safe and well-defined
limits, or our State governments will be but unlimited despot-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

521

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

isms over the pri-iate citizens. They will soon resolve themselves into the existing will of the existing majority, as to what
shall be taken, and what shall be left to any obnoxious natural or artificial person. It is easy to see, that, by a very slight
improvement on the proceedings in this case, and in.pursuance
of the avowed principle, that, as to the exercise of this power
of eminent domain, the legislature, or their agents, are to be
the sole judges of what is to be taken, and to what public use
it is 1o be appropriated, the most-evelling ultraisms of Antirentism or agrarianism or Ab~litiomism may be successfully advanced.
Mr PheZps, for defendants in error.
In the year 1795, the plaintiffs in error were made.a corporation by act of the legislature of the State of Vermont, and,
by said act, had granted to them the exclusive privilege of
erecting and maintaining a bridge over West River, within four
miles of its mouth, with the right of taking certain tolls for
passing the same. This franchise was to continue for the term
of one hundred years, and has not yet expired. The company
proceeded to erect their bridge, and have maintained it until
the institution of the proceeding in question, and have, during
all that time, been in the enjoyment of the franchise so granted. In 1842, a proceeding was instituted in the County Court
for the county of Windham, within which said bridge was situated, under a general law of the State of Vermont for the
laying out and opemng highways, by which proceeding the
bridge was made a public and free highway, and the right to
take tolls extinguished. This was effected by the judicial determination of a court of competent jurisdiction. In conformity with the provisions of the statute, the whole property of the
plaintiffs, both realty and franchise, was appraised, and due provision made for compensation to the plaintiffs to the full value
of the same.
By a statute of that State, then and still in force (passed
November, 1839), the Supreme and County Courts have the
same power to take any real estate, easement, or franchise, of
any turnpike or other corporation, when, in their judgment, the
public good requires a public highway, which they have-by
law to lay out highways over individual or private property
The plaintiffs in error now seek to reverse the proceedings
and judgment of the State court, upon the ground that the
above-mentioned statute, so far as it professes to authorize
the extinguishment of their franchise, is unconstitutional and
void.
The Constitution of the United States and that of the State
44*

522

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

of Vermont both recognize the right to take private property
for public use. The latter declares "That private property ought to be subservient to public
uses when necessity requires it, nevertheless, whenever any
person's property is taken for the use of the public, the owner
ought to receive an equivalent in money."
This provision, as well as the similar one in the Constitution
of the United States, does not confer the power, but merely
'limits its exercise.
The power itself is an essential and indispensable attribute
of sovereignty, which can be neither alienated nor abridged by
ordinary legislation.
Without the limitation imposed by the Constitution, it might
be exercised without compensation. Gov., &c., of Cast Plate
Manuf. Co.v. Meredith, 4 T R. 794, Stark v. McGowen, 1 Nott
&M cCord, S. C. R. 387
Full compensation to the plaintiffs having -been provided in
this-ease, the proceeding does not conflict with the constitution of Vermont.
Nor with that of the United States, as the provision in that
instrument is not restrictive of the States, but of the general
government only.
The proceeding, then,. being a regular and legitimate exercise of power, warranted by the constitution of the State, the
question arises, Does it conflict with that provision in the Constitution of the United States which prohibits a State from
passing a law impairing the obligation.of contracts ? And this
question resolves itself into another, namely, Does this provision of the Constitution override, annul, or abrogate the right
of eminent domain, as it would otherwise exist in the sovereignty of the respective States?
For if this power is still supposed to exist, notwithstanding
this clause of the Constitution, then its legitimate exercise cannot conflict with that provision.
All real estate is held, or supposed to be held, by grant from
the State. If it cannot be taken for public use in a proper
case, and in a proper way, under the .restriction of the State
constitution, then it cannot be taken at all, and the right of
eminent domain is gone.
That this right still remains in the-several States is not now
to be questioned. Rogers v. Bradshaw, 20 Johns. 742, Beekman v.,Sar. and Schen. Railroad Co., 3 Paige's C. R. 45, Boston Water Power Co. v. Boston and Worcester Railroad Co., 23
Pick. '360, 15 Verm. 745, Charles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 7 Pick. 459, S. C., 11 Peters,. 546.
But there is no need of authorities on this point. The en-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

523

The West River Bi dge Company v.Dix et al.

tire practice and universal opinion of the country, judicial and
extra-judicial, from the adoption of the Constitution to this day,
have settled. the matter.
It is not to be supposed, that the purpose of this restriction
was to extinguish a power in the several State sovereignties so
essential to the exercise .of their functions.
If, then, this proceeding is obnoxious to the objection of violating the Constitution, it must be for some other reason than
because private property, once granted by the State, has been
resumed for public use in the manner pointed out by the constitution and laws of the State.
If this restriction does not forbid the exercise of the power,
does it limit and control it
Unquestionably it does. A grant is a contract, and any
thing which defeats or impairs rights growing out of it, in a
manner inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the
State, may be said to impair its obligation. Thus, to take private property for public use without compensation, where the
State constitution forbids such taking, is, doubtless, prohibited
by that clause of the Constitution of the United States which
provides that no law shall 'be passed impairing the obligation
-of contracts.
In -order, then, to render the exercise of the right of eminent domain justifiable and consistent with the Constitution
of the United States, it is admitted there should be, first, compensation to the owner, where the State constitution requires
it, and, secondly, such necessity for the act as a rational exercise of the power, keeping in view its end and purpose, requires.
As to the,compensation, it is in this instance fully provided
for. So scrupulous is the law of the State on this point, that
not only was the whole property of the plaintiffs compensated
for at its appraised value, in this instance, but provision is made
by the statute (see Statutes of Vermont, p. 133) for a revision
of the subject, in certain cases, by the judicial tribunals.
It was objected before the State court, that no notice was
given to the plaintiffs by the commissioners, before proceeding
to assess damages.
The State court, doubtless, found that notice was given, as
the return of the commissioners so states. But if the fact were
otherwise, the omission does not vitiate the proceeding, as the
statute just alluded to provides a remedy in such a case.
The value of the plaintiffs' property and the amount of compensation having been ascertained by-judicial determination,
this court will not inquire whether it was in fact reasonable or
not. -The adjudication of the State court is conclusive, and
an error of judgment, in this particular, would not vitiate the
proceeding.
-

WA

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

The next inquiry is as to the necessity for the exercise of
the power in this instance.
It is admitted that the right to take .pnvate property for
public use depends upon necessity. Yet that need not be of
the most stringent character, - an unavoidable, uncontrollable
necessity It is enough if the. public interest or convenience
require it, in short, if it be a measure of public expediency
Upoil this principle has -the power been exercised in a vast
majority of cases throughout the country
All. modem - improvements in the means of communication stand upon this
footing. New roads are subsfituted for old -ones for convemence alone. Canals and railroads are not indispensable,
the country may subsist, as it has done, without them, yet
they are so intimately connected with the great interests of
the country, and have such important bearing upon its prospenty and welfare, that the propriety-and legality of the exercise of this right of eminent- domain for their establishment
have never been doubted.
If the power exist in. the State governments, the power of
judging of the reasonableness- of its exercise in a given case,
and of the degree-, of necessity generally which justifies the
apprpriation of private property to public use, must exist there
also.
This power is. admitted to appertain to the State legisla.
tures, and may, without question, be delegated by themto the
judicial tribunals, as it is often delegated to private corporations and mere executive officers. When exercised by the
latter, it is. of course subject to judicial revision and control.
Upon this grQund stands the proceeding in chailcery in the
State court, which has been brought hither by writ of error.
This judikial function must be vested somewhere, and from
the very nature of it, it having reference to a matter of mere
internal and'domestic policy, it must be in the State government.
The decision of the State court is therefore, upon this point,
conclusive, and the necessity for the exercise of the power in
this case is judicially established.
.If, then, the power has been exercised agreeably to the provision of the State constitution, and upon suffidient necessity,
for proper and rational objects, and in a proper and legal manner, the plaintiffs are driven to the alternative of either admittmg the constitutionality and validity of. the proceeding, or
denying the power altogether. For, if such an exercise of it
be forbidden by the prohibition in the Constitution of the
United States, all and every exercise of it is equally so.
But that prohibition was not intended to override or abro-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

525

The West River Bridge Company v.Dix et al

gate the right of eminent domain. The latter remains full,
ample, and unimpaired, to be -exerted in a sound legislative
and judicial discretion, in proper, cases and for proper ends.
The proceeding in question does not impair the obligationof the grant to. the plaintiffs in 1795.
Every grant of this kind is made subject to the right of
eminent domain, and of course, upon the implied condition that
the property may be resumed for public use whenever the
public necessities reqmre it. This is universally admitted m
respect to land, and I shall endeavour to show that there is no
difference remthis respect between land and a franchise-like the
one in question. The resumption, therefore, whenever the
public exigencies'require it, is. in harmony with the original
intent and tenor of the grant.
It is not an attempt to repeal or annul the grant, but the
proceeding recognizes its validity and the rights derived from
it. It is on this ground that compensation is made.
It is a purchase by the State .of the plaintiffs' franchise, and
may be' illustrated by its analogy to a purchase by a grantor
of a title derived originally.from his.own conveyance.
It is, I am aware, a proceeding n'nvitum, but,. being a
purchase, it is no more in derogation of the grant, than the
course of a creditor who, by virtue of legal process, seizes
property of his debtor held by-force of a conveyance from
himself, is in derogation of that conveyance.
Whether the right of a State to compel- a sale from the
plaintiffs to itself is derived from an implied condition in the
grant, or from a power inherent in its sovereignty, is unnportant, if legally effected, it is a sale and purchase after all, and
is no more inconsistent with the original grant, than if made
voluntarily by the plaintiffs.
It does not impair the obligation of the contract, because it
leaves to the plaintiffs the full benefit of the grant, and* if
they cannot enjoy that benefit in the precise form originally
specified, they take what, in the eye of the law, is the same
thing, an equivalent.
The franchise is extinguished but is
extingushed by purchase, and if any injustice is done, it
must consist rather in the arbitrary and unnecessary exercise
of an acknowledged power, than in any denial or impeachment of the validity of the grant, or the rights derived from
it. The proceeding, instead of questioning or impairing the
obligation of the contract, recognizes and affirms it, and gives
a compensation upon the simple and only ground, that the
rights and property of the plaintiffs derived from the grant are
not to be questioned.
The general power. of the State to reclaim, for public use,

526

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et a].

lands which have been granted to individuals, will not be questioned , but the question has beeA agitated elsewhere, and may
be started here, whether a franchise granted to private persons
for their private emolument, and yet for a public use, is not
beyond the reach of that power. These cases being of a
mixed character, combining private right and emolument with
public convenience, the question resolves itself into two others,
VIZ. 1st. Are private rights thus confered of any superior
sanctity ? And,
2d. Does the partial, qualified, and limited appropriation of
the, property to public use exclude the further exercise of the
right of eminent domain?
It is impossible, we think, to make any distinction between
franchises thus granted, and titles to land derived from letterspatent. The same sovereign power exists. The same great
law of public necessity, demanding that private right should
yield to public, exigency, applies to both.
The distinction pttempted to be drawn from the supposition,
that the citizen takes Ins grant of land knowing and expecting
that it nray be resumed for public use, but receives his grant
of a franchise with different expectations, is evidently a distinction without a difference, as it is based upon an assumption in every point of view erroneous.
The exercise of this right of eminent domain over franchises created by special grant is a common occurrence.
Bridges are substituted for ferries, turnpikes are superseded by
railroads and canals, yet, frequent as this occurrence is, it has
rarely been -contested.
The power of the legislature to take franchises, like other
property, for public use, has never, to my knowledge, been
judicially denied. Qn the contrary, it has often been judicially
asserted. See Armington v. Barnet, 15 Verm. 745.
In Rogers v.Bradshaw, 20 Johns. 742, the canal encroached
upon and took a portion of the turnpike, and the latter encroached upon the adjoining land, yet the right of the. State
was sustained.
In the case of Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, the
ferry, which was the property of a private corporation, was
superseded by the. bridge.
In the case between the Boston Water Power Company and
the Worcester Railroad, 23 Pick. 360, the power of the legislature over franchises is expressly asserted. In that case the
franchise was not, indeed, annihilated, but was diminished in
value, and impaired. If the legislature could take a portion of
the franchise, they could doubtless take tne whole, if -the exgency required it.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

527

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

Mr Phelps here adverted to the case of Charles Rivsr
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 7 Pickering, to show the opinions
lntertained, on this point at the bar and on the bench. See
pp. 394, 399, 452, 453, 500, 513, 52, 523, 528. Also, to
same case, 11 Peters, pp. 472, 490, 505, 569, 579, 580, 638,
-641, 644, 645.
He also cited Tuckahoc Canal Co. v. The James River
Railroad Co., 11 Leigh, 42, Enfield Bridge Co. v. Hartford
and New Haven Railroad Co., 17 Conn. 40, 60, same case,
'pp. 457, 461, 8 N. Hemp. 398.
It is to be borne in mind, that the real estate of the plamtiffs
was not derived from the grant of 1795, nor was it acquired
by the aid of the power of the State, no authority being conferred by that act to take-private.property without the owner's
assent.
The taking the land, therefore, if it conflict with any grant,
conflicts with the original grant from the British crown, made
prior to the Revolution. If it come in collision with the grant
of the franchise, it is only' mcidentally-and consequentially
Unless, then, the legislature, by the grant of the franchise
in 1795, partdd with the right of eminent domain over the
place where the franchise was to be exercised,. the taking. the
land for public use must be conceded to be lawful.
If, then, the land cafi be taken, could not the same power
take the franchise, which'is merely incident to it)
If we advert to the act of 1795, we shall find that the franchise consists in the right to take toll upon a bridge, to be
maintained by the plaintiffs, upon their own land, and at their.
own expense. Now, if the bridge itself passes from them mi
a legal way, and they cease to maintain it, the right to take
toll ceases.
The case, then, is not one in which the grant of the franchise is revoked or annulled by the legislature in bad faith,
but one in which, the public having acquired the rights of the
plaintiffs, the further exercise of the franchise is neither reasonable nor just.
It was argued in the court below, that the franchise is not
annexed to land, and therefore "could not be taken, but where
the right is given tW take land."
The franchise, by the grant, might be exercised at any place
within four miles of the mouth of the river. The proceeding
in question merely prohitits its exercise in this particular place.,
leaving it to be enjoyed elsewhere,, if it be of any value to the
plaintiffs. In this view, the case falls precisely within the
decision in the Boston Water Power Company v; Worcester
Railroad, 23 Pick. 360.

528

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

The plaintiffs, however, had given a location to it, and ita
exercise elsewhere being probably of no value, the case was
treated by the State court as a practical extinguishment of it,
and compensation made accordingly
In this view of the matter, the franchise still subsists, impaired only by the establishment of a public highway in this
particular place.
Does the partial and qualified appropriation of the plantiffs'
property to public use exclude the exercise of the right of eminent domain by the State
It is to be observed, that the land of the plaintiffis had never,
been taken by the sovereign power for public use until the proceeding now im question was instituted. It was voluntarily
devoted to that use by the plaintiffs, with a view to the enjoyment of the franchise.
The property is still private, and the public use it only by
paying an equivalent, in the form of toll.
Were it otherwise, it would be difficult to make out that a
partial exercise of the right of eminent domain exhausts the
power, or that, property being devoted to public use, the sovereign power cannot regulate, modify, or control that use. The
fact of such devotion -comes rather in aid, than otherwise, of
the public right.
Whether, therefore, we have regard to the fact that the
property is private, or to the qualified public use, there is no
impediment to taking it absolutely for a more enlarged and
beneficial public use, on the one hand, and modifying or changing the use on the other.
There is no difficulty arising from the fact, that the property
is already sequestered to public use, but the difficulty has
arisen, as the reported cases show, from the employment of private corporations to exercise the power in question, and to carry
out these great measures of internal improvement. The objection was first started, that, in the case of turnpike and railroad
corporations, the property of the citizen has been taken, -not for
public use, but for the private use and benefit of the corporation. The proceeding has, however, been sustained, upon the
ground, that, although the enterprise has been undertaken with
a view to private emolunent, yet the ultimate, purpose is the
public convenience, and if the legislative power can take pnvate property for such. purposes, it may be taken through the
agency of a corporation, as well as that of a public executive
officer. So, where a grant of a franchise comes in collision
with a previous grant of a similar kind, it has been objected,
that it was not competent for the legislature to take the property of one person for the use and benefit of another, yet such

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

529

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et aL

a proceeding has been sustained, where it is for public use, and
the increased benefit to the public requires the sacrifice.
Our case, however, is free from this objection. The property has been taken, not for the benefit of another private corporation, but strictly and solely for public use.
The objection urged in the State court, that no new highway is laid out, is founded upon an erroneous assumption.
The public and free highway is, in a legal sense, a different
thing from a bridge, or way, which is private property, and
which the citizens may use only for a toll, to be paid in each
instance- of using.
The highway was public only in a limted sense. That it
was competent for the legislature or the courtsi under the
statute, to enlarge the public use, is, I think, clear.
If the objection is, that no new highway was necessary, inasmuch as the public had already a right of passage there, and
could use the way as they had previously done, the answer is,
that thepower of the -courts over this matter is not limited to
cases of strict, absolute necessity, but they are at liberty to
consult the-public convemence, and to look to a more beneficial
and enlarged public use. They are the constitutional judges
on this point,' and their decision upon it is conclusive.
The statute of Vermont, under which the court proceeded,
does not use the word necessity. Its language is, "Whenever
there shall be occasion for a newohighway," &c., and "when,
in'their [the court's] judgment, the public good requires a public highway"
There are-several points made in the State courts, which are
addressed rather to the discretion of those courts, and winch
have no hearing upon the constitutional question, it is .not
deemed n ecmsary to notice them here.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opimon of the court.
The West River Bridge Company, Plaintiffs, vs. Joseph Dix
and the, Towns of Brattleborough and Dummerston, Defendants, upon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Judicature
of the State of Vermont, sitting in certain proceedings as a
court of law,
and
The same Plaintiffs, vs. The Towns of Brattleborough and
Dummerston, and Joseph Dix, Asa Boyden, and Phineas Underwood, upon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Judicature, and to the Chancellor of the First Circuit of the State of
Vermont.
These two causes have been treated in the argument as one,
voL. VI.
45

530

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

such they essentially are. Though' prosecuted in different forms and in different foruimis below, they are merely
various modes of endeavourink to attain the same end, and a
decision m either of the only question they raise for the cogmzance of this court disposes equally of that question in the
other.
They are brought before us under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act, in order to test the conformity with the
Constitution of the United States of certain statutes of Vermont, laws that have been sustained by the Supreme Court of
Vermont, but which it is alleged are repugnant to the tenth
section of the first article of the Constitution, prohibiting the
passage of State laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
It appears from the recorils of these causes, that, in the year
1795, the plaintiffs in error were, by act of the legislature of
Vermont, created a corporation, and invested with the exclusive
privilege of erecting a bridge over West River, within four
miles of its mouth, and with the right of taking tolls for passing the.same. The franchise granted this corporation was to
continue for one hundred years, and the period originally prescribed f6r its duration has not yet expired. The corporation
erected their bridge, have maintained and used it, and enjoyed
the franchise granted..to them by law, until the institution of
the proceeding now under review
By the general law of Vermont relating to roads, passed
19th November, 1839, (yale Revised Laws of Vermont, p. 553,)
the County Courts are authorized, upon petition, to- appoint
commissioners to lay out highirays within their respective
counties, and to assess the damages which may accrue to landholders by the opening of roads, and these courts, upon the
reports of the commissioners so appointed, are empowered to
establish roads within the bounds of their local jurisdiction. A
similar power is vested in the Supreme Court, to lay out and
establish highways extending through several counties.
By an act of the legislature of Vermont, passed November
19th, 1839i it is declared, that " whenever there shall be occasion for any new highway in any town or towns of this State,
the Supreme and County Courts shall have the same power to
take any real estate, easement, or franchise of any turnpike or
other corporation, when in their judgment the public good requires a public h-igh-way, .which such courts now have, by the
laws of. the State, to. lay out highways over individual or private property, and the same. power is granted, and the same
rules shall be observed, in making compensation to all such
corporations and persotis whose estates, easement, franchise, or
rights shall be taken, as are now granted and provided in other
-and

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

531

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

cases." Under the authority of these statutes, and in the
modes therein prescribed, a proceeding was instituted in the
County Court of Windham, upon the petition of Joseph Dix
and others, in which, by the judgment of that court, a p&- Ic
road was extended and established between certain termini,
passing over and upon the bridge-of the plaintiffs, and converting it into a free .public highway. By the proceedings and
judgment just mentioned, compensation was assessed and
awarded to the plaintiffs for this appropriation of their property,
and for the consequent extinguishment of their franchise. The
judgment of the County Court, having been carried by certiorari
before the Supreme Court of the State, was by the latter tribunal affirmed.
Pending the proceedings at law upon the petition of Dix
and others, a bill was presented by the plaintiffs in error to the
chancellor of the.first judicial circuit of the State of Vermont.
praying an injunction to those proceedings so far as they related
to the plaintiffs or to the real estate, easement, or franchise belonging to them. This bill, having been demurred to, was dismissed by the chancellor, whose decree was affirmed on appeal
to the Supreme Court, and a writ of error to the last decision
brings up the case on the second record.
In considering the question propounded in these causes, there
can be no doubt, nor has it been doubted in argument, on either
side of this controversy, that the charter of incorporation
granted to the plaintiffs in 1793, with the rights and prfileges
it. declared or implied, formed a contract between the plaintiffs
and the State of Vermont, which the latter, under the inhibition
in the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution, could
have no power to impair. Yet this proposition, though taken
as a postulate on both sides, determines nothing as to the real
merits of these causes. True, it furnishes a guide to- our inqumes, yet leaves those inquiries still open, in their widest' extent, as to the real position of the parties with reference to the
State legislation or to the Constitution. Following the guide
thus furnished us, we will proceed to ascertain that position.
No State, it is declared, shall pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts, yet, with this concession constantly yielded,
it cannot be justly disputed, that in every political sovereign
community there inheres necessarily the right and the duty of
guarding its own existence, aid of protecting and promoting
the interests and welfare of the community at large. This
power and this duty are to be exerted not only in the highest
acts of sovereignty, and in the external relations of governments, they reach and comprehend likewise the interior polity and relations of social life, which should be regulated with

532

SUPREME COURT.
The West Riv.r Bridge Company v. Dix et aL

reference to the advantage of the whole society This power,
denominated the emrnent domain of the State, is, as its name
mnportsj paramount to all private rights vested inder the government, and these last are, by necessary implication, held in
subordination to this power, and must vield in every instance
to its proper exercise.
The Constitution of the United States, although adopted by
the sovereign States of this Union, and proclaimed in its own
Iinguage to be the supreme law for their government, can, by
no rational interpretation, be brought to conflict with this attribute in the States, there is no express delegation of it by the
Constitution, and it would imply an incredible fatuity in the
States, to ascribe to them the intention to relinqish the power
of self-government an& self-preservation. A correct view of
this matter must demonstrate, moreover, that the right of ennent domain in government in no wise interferes with the inviolability of contracts, that the most sanctimonious regadd for
the one is perfectly consistent with the possession and exercise
of the other.
Under every established government, the tenure of property
is derived mediately or immediately from the sovereign power
of the politi6al body, organized in such mode or exerted m
.uh way as the community or State may have thought proper
.1 ordain. It can rest on no other foundation, can have no
other guarantee. It is owing to these characteristics only, in
the original nature of tenure, that appeals can be made to the
laws either for the protection or assertion of the rights of prop,.erty Upon any other hypothesis, the law of property would
be simply the law'of force. Now it is undeniable, that the investment of property in the citizen by the government, whether
made for a pecuniary consideration or founded on conditions of
civil or political duty, is a contract between the State, or the.
government acting as its agent, and the grantee, and both the
parties thereto are bound in good faith to fulfil it. But into all
contracts, whether made between States'and individuals or between individuals only, there enter conditions which arse not
out of the literal terms of the contract itself, they are superinduced by the pre6xisting and higher authority of' the laws
.of nature, of nations, or of the community to which the parties
belong, they are always presumed, and must be presumed, to
be known and recognized by all, are binding upon all, and need
never, therefore, be carried into express stipulation, for this
could add nothing to their force. Every contract is made in
subordination to them, and must yield to their control, as conditions inherent and paramount, wherever a necessity for their
execution shall occur. Such a condition is the right of emn-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

533

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al:

nent domain. Thins right does not operate to impair the contract effected by it, but rec6gnizes its obligation m the fullest
.extent, claiming only the fulfilment of an essential and inseparable condition. Thus, in claiming the resumption or qualification of-an investiture, it insists merely on the true nature
and character of. the right invested. The impairing of contracts inhibited by the Constitution can scarcely, by the greatest violence of construction, be made applicable to the enforcing of the terms or necessary import of'a contract, the language and meaning of the- inhibition were designed to embrace
proceedings attempting the interpolation of some new term or
condition foreign to the original agreement, and therefore inconsistent with and violative thereof. It, then, being clear that the
power in question not being within the purview of the restriction imposed by thd tenth section of the first article of the
Constitution, it remains with the States to the full extdnt in
which it inheres in. every sovereign government, to be exercised by them in that degree that shall by them be deemed commensurate with public necessity
So long as they
shall steer clear of the single predicament denounced by the
Constitution, shall avoid intefference with the obligation- of
contracts, the wisdom, the modes, the policy, the hardship of
any exertion of this power are subjects not within the proper
cognizance of tins court. This is, in truth, purely a question
of power, and, conceding the power to reside in the State
government, this concession would seem to close the door upon
all further controversy in connection with it. The instances
of the exertion of tis power, in some mode or other, from
the very foundation of civil government, have been so numerous and familiar, that it seems somewhat strange, at this day,
to raise a doubt or question concerning it. In fact, the whole
.policy of the country, relative to -roads, mills, bridges, and canals, rests upon this single power, under which lands have been
always condemned, and without the exertion of this power,
not one of the improvements just mentioned could be constructed. In our country, it is believed that the power was
never, or, at any rate, rarely, questioned, until the opimon seems
to have obtained, that the right of property in a chartered .corporation was more sacred and intangible than the same right.
could possibly.be in the person of the citizen, an opinion which
must be without any grounds to. rest upon, until it can be demonstrated either that the ideal creature is more. than a person,
or the corporeal being is less. For, as a question of the power
to appropriate to public uses the property of private persons,
resting upon the ordinary foundations of private right, there
would seem to.be room neither for doubt -nordifficulty. A dis45*

534

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

traction has been attempted, in argument, between the power
of a government to appropriate for public uses property which
is corporeal, or may be said to be in being, and the like power
in the government to resume or extinguish a frdnchise. The
distinction thus attempted we regard as a refinement which has
no foundation in reason, and one that, in truth, avoids the true
legal or constitutional question in these causes, namely, that of
the right in private persons, in the use or enjoyment of their
private property, to control and actually to prohibit the power
and duty of the government to advance and protect the general
good. We are aware of nothing peculiar to a franchise which
can class it higher, or render it more sacred, than other property A franchise is property, and nothing more, it is incorporeal property, and is so defined by Justice Blackstone, when
treating, in his second volume, chap. 3, page 20, of the Rights
of Things. It is its character of property only which imparts
to it value, and alone authorizes in individuals a right of action
for invasions or ilisturbances of its enjoyment. Vide Bl. Comm.,
Vol. III., chap. 16, p. 236, as to injuries to this description of
private property, and the remedies given for redressing them.
A franchise, therefore, to erect a bridge, to construct a road, to
keep a ferry, and to collect tolls upon them, granted byithe authority of the State, we regard.as occupying the same position,
with respect to the paramount power and duty of the State to
promote and protect the public good, as does the right of the
citizen to the possession and enjoyment of his land under his
patent or. contract with the State, and it can no more interpose
any obstruction in the way of their just exertion. Such exertion we hold to be not within the inhibition of the. Constitution, and no violation of a contract. The power of a State,
in the exercise of eminent domain, to extinguish immediately
a franchise it had granted, appears never to have been directlybrought here for. adjudication, and consequently has not been
heretofore formally propounded from this court , but in England, this power, to the fullest extent, was recognized in the
case of the Governor and Company of the Cast Plate Manufacturers v. Meredith, 4. Term Reports, 794, and Lord Kenyon,
especially in that case, founded solely upon this power the entire policy and authority of. all the road and canal laws of the
kingdom.
The several State decisions cited in the argument, from 3
Paige's Chancery Reports, p. 45, from 23 Pickering, p. 861,
from 17 Connecticut Reports, p. 454, from 8 New Hampshire
Reports, p. 398, from 10 New Hampshire Reports, p. 371, and
11 New Hampshire Reports, p. 20, are accordant with the decision above mentioned, from 4 Durnford and East, and entirely

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

535

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

supported by it. "One of these State decisions, namely, the
case of the Enfield Toll-Bridge Company v.. The Hartford
and New Haven Railroad Company, 17 Connecticut Reports,
places the principle asserted in an attitude so striking, as seems
to render that case worthy of a separate notice. The legislature of Connecticut, having previously incorporated the Enfield
Bridge Company, mserted, in a charter subsequently granted
by them to the Hartford and Springfield Railroad Company,
a provision in these words, That nothing therein contained shall be construed to prejudice or impair any of the
rights now vested in the Enfield Bridge Company"
This
provision, comprehensive as its language may seem to be,
was decided by the Supreme Court of the State as not embracing 4ny exemption of the Bridge Company from the legislative power of eminent domain, with respect to its franchise,
buf to declare this, and this only,- that, notwithstanding the
privilege of constructing a railroad from Hartford to Springfield
in the most direct and feasible route, granted by the latter charter, the franchise of the Enfield Bridge Company should remain as inviolate as the property of other citizens of the State.
These decisions sustain clearly the following positions, comprised in this summary given by Chancellor Walworth, 3 Paige's
Repomt,p. 73, where he says, that, " notwithstanding the grant
to individuals, the eminent domain, the highest and most exact
idea of property, remains in- the government, or in the aggregate body of .the people in their sovereign capacity, and they
have a right to resu-e the possession of the property in the
manner directed by tue constitution and laws of the State,
whenever the public interest requires it. This right of resumption may be exercised, not only where the safety, but also
where the interest, or even the expediency, of the State is concerned.2 In these positions, containing no exception with regard to property in a franchise (an exception which we should
deem to be without warrant in reason), we recognize the truedoctrines of the law as applicable to the cases before us. In
considering the question of constitutional power, - the only
question properly presented upon these records, - we institute
no inquiry as to the adequacy or. inadequacy of the compensation allowed to the *plaintiffs in error for the extinguishment of
their franchise, nor dove inquire into the conformity between
the modes prescribed-by the statutes of Vermont and the proceedings which actually were*adopted in the execution of those
statutes , these are matters regarded by this court as peculiarly
belonging to the tribunals designated by the State for the exercise of her legitimate authionty,.and- as being without the provice assigned to this court by the JudiciaryAct.

56

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

Upon the whole, we consider the authority claimed for the
State of Vermont, and the exertion of that authority which has
occurred under the provisions of the statutes above mentioned,
by the extinguishment of the franchise previously granted the
plamtiffs, as set forth, upon the records before us, as presenting
no instance of the impairing of a contract, within the meaning
of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution, and
consequently no case which is proper for the interposition of
this court. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Vermont
are therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
As this is a constitutional question of considerable practical
importance, I will state, succinctly, my general views on the
subject.
The West River Bridge, under the statutes of Vermont, was
appropriated to public purposes. And it is alleged that the
charter under which the bridge was built and possessed by
such appropriation was impaired. Our inquiry is limited to
this point. For whatever injury the proceeding may have
done to the interests of the corporation, unless its contract
with the State was impaired, we have no jurisdiction of the
case.
The power in a State to take private property for public use
is undoubted. It is an incident to soVereignty, and its exercise
is often essential to advance the public interests. This act is
done under the regulations of the State. If those regulations
have not been strictly observed, that is not a matter of inquiry
for this court. The local tribunals have the exclusive power
in such cases.
This act by a State has never been held to impair the obligations of the contract by which the property appropriated was
held. The power acts upon the property, and not on the contract. A State cannot annul or modify a grant of land fairly
made. But it may take the land for public use. This is done
by making compensation for the property taken, as provided
by law But if it be an appropriation of property to public
use, it cannot be held to impair the obligations of the. contract.
It is insisted, that this was a pretended exercise of the power
of the emment domain, with the view of destroying the force
and obligation of the plaintiffs' charter.
This whole proceeding was under a standing law of the
State, and it was sanctioned, on an appeal, by the Supreme
Court of the State. A procedure thus authorized by law, and
sanctioned, cannot be lightly regarded. It has all the solemnities of a sovereian act.

JANUARY

TERM, 1848.

537

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

But it is said that the franchise of the plaintiff cannot'be denominated property, that '(it included the grant of no property
real or persanal, that it lay in grant, and not in livery."
If the action of the State had been upon the franchise only,
this objection would be unanswerable. The State capnot
modify or repeal a charter for a bridge, a turnpike-road, or a
bank, or any other private 'charter, unless the. power to do so
has been reserved in the original grant. But no one doubts
the power of the State to take a banking-house for public use,
or any other real or personal property owned by the bank. In
this respect, a corporation holds property subject to the eminent
domain, the same as citizens. *The great object of an act of
incorporation is, to enable a body of men to exercise the faculties of an individual. Peculiar privileges are sometimes vested
in the body politic, with the view of advaning the convenience and interests of the publie.
The franchise no more than a grant for land can be annulled
by the State. These muinments of right are alike protected.
But the property held under both is held subject to a public
necessity, to be determined by the State. In either case, the
property being taken renders valueless the evidence of right.
But this does not, in the sense of the Constitution, impair the
contracts. The bridge and the ground connected with it, together with the right of exacting toll, are the elements which
constitute the value of the bridge. The-situation and productiveness of the soil constitute ihe value of land. In both cases,
an estimate is made- of 'the value, under prescribed forms, and
it is paid when -the property is taken for public use. And in
these cases the evidences of right-are incidents to the property.
No State could resume'a charter under the power of appropriation, and carrk on -the functions of the corporation. A
bank 'charter could not be thus taken, and the business of the
bank continued for public .purposes. Nor could this bridge
have been taken by the State, and kept up by it, as. a tollbridge. This could not be called an appropriation of private
property to public purposes. There would be no change in the
use, except the application, of the profits, and this would not
bring the act within the power, The power must not only be
eXercised bona -fideby a State, but the. property, not its product, must be applied- to public use.
It is argued, that, if the State may take this bndge,.it may
transfer it to other individuals, under the same or a different
charter. This the State cannot do. It would in effect be
taking the property from A to convey it to B; The public
purpose for which the power is exerted must be real; not pretended. If remthe course of time the property, by a change of

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge -Company v. Dix et al.

circumstances, should no longer be required for public use, -it
may-be-otherwise disposed of. But tis is a case not likely to
occur. The legality of the act depends upon the facts and circumstances under which it was done. If the use of land taken
by the public for a highway should be abandoned, it would revert to the original proprietor and owner of the fee.
It- is objected that this bridge, being owned by a corporation
and used by the public, does not come within the designation
of private property. All property, whether owned by an mdividual or individuals, a corporation aggregate or sole, is within
the term. In short, all property not public is private.
The use of this bndge,.lt is contended, is the same as before
the act of appropriation. The public use the bridge now as
before the act of appropriation, But it was a toll-bndge, and
by the act it is- made free.. The use, therefore, is not the same.
The tax assessed on the citizens of the town, to'keep up and
pay for the bridge, may be impolitic or unjust, but that is not
a matter for the consideration of this court.
It is supposed, if this power is sustained by the State of Vermont, it will be in the power of a State to seize the evidences
of its indebtment in the hands of its citizens, or within its jurisdiction, have their value assessed, and, by paying the amount.
extinguish them. Such a case bears no analogy to the one before us. The contract only is acted upon in the case supposed.
The obligation to pay the money by the State is materially impaired, which brings the case within the Constitution. But
the appropriation of property affects the contract or title by
which it is held only incidentally. This, it is said, ,is
an extremely technical distinction, and is not sustainable, as it enables a State to do indirectly what the Constitution prohibits.
However nice the distinction may seem to be, when examined it will be found substantial.
The power of appropriation by a State has never been held
by any judicial tribunal as impairing the obligation of a contract, in the sense of the Constitution. And this power has
been frequently exercised by all the States, since the adoption
of the Corlstitution. In the fifth article of the amendments to
the Constitution it is declared, " Nor shall pivate property be
taken for public use without just compensation." This refers
to-the action of the.federal government, but a similar provision
is contained in all the State constitutions. Now the Constitution doe's not prohibit a State from impairing the obligation of
a contract unless compensation be made, but the inhibition is
absolute. So that if such an act come within the prohibition,
the!act is unconstitutional. But this power has been exercised
by the. States, since the foundation of the government, ana no

JANUARY TERM, 1848:
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

one has supposed that it was prohibited by that clause in the
Constitution which inhibits a State "from impairing the obligations of a contract.'
The only reasonable-result, therefore, to which we can come
is, that the power in the State is an mdependent power, and
does not come within the class of cases prohibited by the Constitution.
This view gives effect to the Constitution in imposing a salutary restraint upon legislation affecting contracts, but leaves
.the States free in their exercise of the eminent domain, which
belongs to their sovereignties, is essential for the advancement
of internal improvements, and acts only upon property within
their respective jurisdictions. The powers do not belong to
the same clasi. That which acts upon contracts and impairs
their obligation only is prohibited.
Mr. Justice WOOlBURY
In the decisions of this court on coAstitutional questions
it has happened frequently, that, though its members were
united in the judgment, great differencesexisted among them
in the reasons for it, or in the limitations on some of the principles involved. Hence it has been, customary in such cases
to express their views separately. I conform to that usage in
this case the more readily, as it is one of the first impression
Jefore this tribunal, very important in its consequences, as
a great landmark for the States as well as the general government, and, from shades of difference and even conflicts in opmion, will be open to some misconstruction.
I take the liberty to say, then, as to the cardinal principle
involved in, this case, that, in my opinion, all the property in a
State is derived from, or protected by, its government, and
hence is held subject to its wants in taxation, and to certain
important public uses, both .in war and peace. Vattel, B. 1,
ch. 20, ยง 244, 2 Kent, COmm. 270, 37 Am. Jurist, 121,
1 Bl. Comm. 139, 3 Wils. 303, 3 Story ov Const. 661, 3
Dallas, 95. Some-ground this public right on sovereignty
2 Kent, Comm. 339, Grotius, B. 1, c4. 1, ยง 6. Some, on necessity 2 Johns. Ch. 162, 11 Wend. 51, 14 Wend. 51, 1 Rice,
383, Vanhorne's Lessee v. Dorrance, 2 Dallas, 310, Dyer v.
Tuscaloosa Bridge, 2 Porter, 303, Harding v. Goodlett, 3 Yerโขger, 53. Some, on implied compact. Raleigh-& Gaston Railroad Co. v. Davis, 2 Dev & Bat. "456 2 Bay, 36, in S. Car.,
3 Yerger, 53. Where a charter is granted after laws exist to
condemn property when needed for- public purposes, others
might well rest such a right on the hypothesis, that such laws
are virtually a part and condition of the grant itself, as much as

540

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company r. Dix et al.

-

.if inscribed in it, totidem verbs. Towne v. Smith, 1 Woodbury & Minot, 134, 2 Howard, 608, 617, 1 Howard, 311,
3 Story on Const. % 1377, 1378, qucere.
But. however derived, this eminent domain exists in all governments, and is distmguished from the public domain, as that
consists of public lands, buildings, &c., owned in trust exclusively and entirely by the government (3 Kent, Comm. 339,
Memphis v. Overton, 3 Yerger, 389), while tins consists only in
the right to use the property of others, when needed, for certain
public purposes. Without now going further into the reasons or
extent of it, and under whatever name it is most appropriately
described, I concur in the views of the court, that it still remains
m each State of the Union in a case like the present, having
never been granted to the .general government so far as respects
the public highways of a State, and that it extends to the taking
for public use for a road any property in the State, suitable and
necessary for it. Tuckahoe Canal case, 11 Leigh, 75, 11 Pe-ters, 560, 20 Johns. 724, 3 Paige, Ch. 45, 7 Pick. 459. But
whether it could be taken without iompensation, where no
provision exists like that in the fifth amendment of the Constitnuton- of the United States, or that in the Vermont constitutution, somewhat similar, is a more difficult question, and on
which some have doubted. 4 D. & E. 794, 1 Rice , 383,
3 Leigh, 337 1 do not mean to, express any opinion on this,
as it is not called. for by the facts of this case. But compensation from the public in sifch cases prevails generally in modem
times, and certainly seenfs to equalize better the burden. 2 Dallas, 310, P.isc. Bridge v- Old Bridge, 7 N. Hamp. 63, 4 D. & E.
794;J Nott & McCord, 387, Stokes et al. v. Sup. Ass. Co.,
3 Leigh, 337, 11 Leigh , 76, Hartford'Bridge, 17 Conn. 91,
Vattel, B. 1, ch. 20, ยง 244,.3 Paige, Ch. 45, 2 Dev & Bat.
451, 2 Kent, Comm. 339, note, Lex. & Oh. Railroad case,
8 Dana, 289;
Nor shall I stop to discuas whether it is on this principle
of the emmejit domain alone, that privalt property has always
been taken for highways.i England, on making compensation,
so as to be a precedent for us. This was done there formerly, not as here, but by a-writ ad qund -damnum, and it was for
ages issued before thegrant of any new franciser,,y the king,
whether a road, ferryy or market, and the inqun related to
the damage by it, whether to the 5ublic or individuals. Fitz.
N. B. 221, 3.Bac. Ab]r., Highways, A.
Nor were alterations m: roads, or even the widenmg r disconfinuing of them, allowed k"ithout it. Thomas v. Sorrel,
Vaughan, 314, 348, "349, Cooke, ch. 267, .6 Barn. & Ald.
566

JA-NUARY TERM, 1848.

541

The West River Bridge Company v.. Dix et al.

But in modem times Parliament, bjr various laws, have anthorized all these, after inquiry and compensation awarded
by certain magistrates. 1 Burr. 263, Camp. 648, Cro. Ca;.
266, 267, 5 Taunt. "634ยฐ; Domat, B. 1, t. 8, ยง 2; 7 Adol. &
Ellis, 124.
And thus, notwithstanding the theoretical omnimpotence of
Parliament, private rights and contracts have been in these particulars, about compensation and necessity for public ase, as
much respected in England as here.
So as .to railroad companies, as well as turnpikes, under piqblie trustees, and.as to common -inghways, the former are often
authorized there to eredt bridges, and carry their roads over
turnpikes and other highways , but it is on certain conditions,
keeping. them passable in that place or near, and on making
compensation. Kemp v. L. & B. -Railway Co., 1 Railway
Cases, 505' and Attorney-General v. The L. & S. Railroad,
1ib. 302, 224, 2 ib. 711, 1 Gale &-D 324, 2 ib. 1, 4 Jurist, 966, 5 ib. 652, 9 Dowling, -P C. 563; 7 Adol. & Ellis,
124, 3 Maule & Selw 526, 11 Leigh, 42;
But I freely confess, that no case has been found there by
me exactly in point for this; such as the taking of the road.
or bridge of one- corporation for another, or of taking for
the public a franchise of individuals connected with them.
Though, at the same time, I have discovered no prohibition of
it, either on principle or precedent, if making compensation
and'following the mode prescribed by.statute.
The peculiarity in the present case. consists in the facts, that
a part of the property taken belonged to a corporation of the
State, and not to an -individual, and a part was the franchise
itself of the-act of incorporation.
I concur in the views, that -acorporation. created to build &
bridge like that of the plaintiffs m error is itself, in one sense,
a franchise. 2 BI. Comm. .37, Bank of Augusta v. Earle,
13 Peters, 596, 4 Wheat. .657, 7 Pick. 394, 11 Peters, 474,
454, 472, 490, 641, 645 11 Leigh, 76., 3 Kent, Comm. 459.
And, in another sense, that it possesses franchises incident to
its existence and objects, such as powers to erect the bridge
and to take tolls. See same cases.
I concur in the views; also, that such a franchise as the incorporation iยง a species of property. 7 N. Hamp. 66, Tuckahoe
Canal Co. v. Tuckahoe & Camb. Railroad Co.,. 11 Leigh, 76.
It is a legal estate vested in the corporation. 4 Wheat. 700,
11 Peters, 560. But it is often property distinct and independent of the other property in .land, timber, goods, or choses
in action, which a cosporation, like a body not artificial, may
own. 3 Bland, 449, 11 Ldigh, 76.
VOL. vI.
46

5V"

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company-v. Dix et al.

It is also property subject to be sold, sometimes even on execution (Semb., 4 Mass. 495, 11 Peters, 434), and may be
devised or inherited. 17 Conn. 60. And while I accede to the
principle urged by the counsel for the bridge, that the act of
incorporation in this case was a contract, or in the nature of
one between the State and its members (1 Mylne & Craig,
162, 4 Peters, 514, 560, Lee v. Nailer, 2 You. & Coll. 618,
King v. Pasmoor, 3 D. & E. 246, Woodward v. Dartmouth
College, 4 Wheat. 628, 7 Cranch, 164, Terrett. v. Tayler,
9 Cranch, 43, 52, 9 Wend. 351, 11 Peters, 257, Canal Co.
v. Railroad, 4 Gill & Johns. 146, 3 Kent, Comm. 459, Enfield
Toll-Bridge case, 17 Conn. 40, 1 Greenleaf 79, 8 Wheat.
464, 10 Conn. 522, Peck, 269, 1 Alabama, 23, 2 Stewart,
30), I concur in the views of the court, that this or other property of corporations may be taken fo, the purpose of a highway, under the right of eminent, domain, and that the laws of
Vermont authorizing it are not in that respect and to that extent
violations of the obligation of any contract made by it with
the corporation. Bradshaw v. Rodgers, 20 Johns. 103, 742,
The Trust. of Belf. Ac.. v. Salmond, 2 Fairf. 113, Enfield
Bridge case, 17 Conn. 40. 45; 61, 3 Paige, Ch. 45, Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 7 Pick. 394, 399, S. C.,
11 Peters, 474, 1 Bland, 449, Bellona Co. case, 3 Bland, 449.
Because there was no covenant or condition in the charter
or contract, that the property owned by it should not be liable
to be taken, like all other property in the State, for public uses
in highways. 7 N. Hamp. 69, 4 Wheat. 196, Jackso, v.
Lamphire, 3 Peters, 289.
Because, -without such covenant, all their property, as property, must be liable- to proper public uses, either by necessity,
or the sovereignty of the State over itror by inplied agreement.
And because, on a like principle, -taxes may be inposed
on such property, as well as all other property, though coming by grant from the State, and may be done without violating the obligation of the contract, when there is no bonus
paid or stipulation made in the charter not to tax it. This is
well settled. 5 Barn. & Ald. 157, 2 Railway Cases, 17 arg.
23, 7 Cranch,. 164, New Jersey v. Wilson, 4 Peters, 511, Providence Bank v. Billings, 11 Peters, 567, Shaw, C. J., in Charles
River Bndge',v. Warren Bridge, Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court,
3 Howard, 146, 12 Mass. 252, 4 Wheaton, 699, 4 Gill &
Iohns. 132, 153, Williams v. Pritchard, 4 D. & E. 2. The
grantees are presumed to know all these legal incidents or
liabilities, and they being implied in the grant or contract,
their happenirg is no violation of it. 8 Peters, 281, 287,
11 Pe~tus, 641, 644 , 3 Paige, 72.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

M3

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

Vattel says, - "1The property of certain things is given up
to the individuals only with this reserve."' B. 1, ch. 20, ยง 244.
In England anciently, when titles of land became granted
with immunities from numerous ancient services, it was still
considered that such lands were subject by implication, under
a certain trznoda necessitas, to the expenses of repair of bridges
as well as forts) and of repelling invasion. Tomlins, Diet.,
Trnoda Ness.tas, 3 Bac. Abr., Highways, A.
Even the right to -a private way is sometimes implied in a
grant, from necessity Cro. Jac. 189, 8 D. & E. 50, 4 Maule
& Selw 387, 1 Saund. 322, note.
It is laid down, also, by Justice Story, that "1a grant of a
franchise is not in point of principle distingmshable from a
grant of any otlier property"
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 695, 701.
I concur, therefore, in the further views, that the corporation
as a franchise, and all its powers as franchises, both being property, may for these and like reasons, in proper cases, be taken for
public use for a 'highway
Pierce- v.. Somersworth, 10 N.
Hamp. 370, 11 N. Hamp. 20, Piscat. Bridge v. N. Hamp.
Bridge, 7 N. Hamp. 35, 66, 8 N. Hamp. 398, 143, 11 Peters,
645, Story J., in Warren Bridge v., Charles River'Brdge, 2
Kent, Comm. 340, note, 2 Peters, 658, 5 Paige, Ch. 146, 1
Rice, 383, 2 Porter, 296, 7 Adol. & Ellis, 124, 3 Yerger, 41,
2 Fairf. 222, 23 Pick. 360, J. Bonaparte v. C. Railroad,
Baldw C. C. 205, Tudkahoe Canal Co. v. The T & J.
River Railroad Co., If Leigh, 42, Enfield Bridge Co. v. Hartford & New Haven Railroad, 17 Conn. 40, Arnimgton v. Barnet, 15 Vermont, 745, and 16 Vermont, 446, this case, 3 Cowen, 733, 754, 11 Wendell, 590, Lex. & Oh. Railroad case,
8 Dana, 289, 18 Wend. 14.
It must be confessed, that some surprise has been felt to find
this doctrine so widely sustained, and in so many of the States,
and yet no exact precedent existing in England.
But in relation to it here; I am constrained, in some respects,
to differ from others, and, as at present advised, agree to the
last proposition, concermng the taking of the franchise itself
of a corporation, only when ,the further exercise of the franchise as a corporation is inconsistent or mcompatible with the
highway to be laid out.
It is only under this limitation as to the franchise itself, that
there seems to.be any of the necessity to take it which, it will
be seen in the positions heretofore and hereafter explained,
should exist. Nor do I agree to it with that limitation, without another, -that it must be in cases where a clear intent is
manifested in the laws, that one corporation and its uses shall

544

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v.Dix et a].

yield to another, or another public use, under the supposed
superiority of the latter and the necessity of the case. 4 Gill
& Johns. 108, 150, Barbour v.Andover, 8 N. Hamp. 398.
Within these limitations, however, -the acts' of incorporation
and all corporate franchises appear to me to possess no more
imnmuity from reasonable public demands for roads and taxes,
than the soi" and freehold of mdividuals.
The land may come by grant. or patent from the State, as
well as the corporation, and .both the grant and corporation
may be contracts. But they are contracts giving rights of
property,.held, and of course understood to be held, subject to
those necessary burdens and services and easements to which
all-other. property is liable. And it is neither inconsistent with
the grant of them, nor a violation of the contract contained in
them, to impose those burdens and easements, unless an express agreement has been made to the contrary by the State
-in the act of incorporation or grant, as is sometimes done m
respect to taxation.. But where the corporation, as a franchise,
or its powers as franchises, can still be exercised usefully or
profitably, and the highway be laid out as authorized, I see no
reasons why these franchises should then be condemned or
taken. The property owned by -banking or manufacturing
corporation may, for instance, be condemned for highways,
necessarily, where situated on a great line of travel, but why
should their franchises be, if their continued existence and use
may be feasible and profitable, and one not inconsistent with
the taking. and employment of their other property for a public highway ?
In this instance, however, as a fact, the franchise was established and seems to be useful only in one'locality The continuance of it elsewhere than at this spot would be of no
'benefit to individual members or the public. If the bridge
itself and land of the corporation at that place were taken, it
was "better for the latter that the franchise should be.taken
with them, if enhancing the damages any, because, unlike a
bank or manufacturing company, the corporation could not do
business to advantage elsewhere, even within the limited four
'miles, as there was no road elsewhere within. their grant.
The law of Vermont, too, was clear, that the toll-bridge might
be made to give way for a 'free highway It is, therefore,
only under the particular circumstances and nature of this case,
that, in my apprehension, the taking of the franchise itself was
not a violation. of the contract. For, under different circumstances, if a francise be 'taken and condemned for a highway,
when not connected locally with other property wanted, when
it-can be exercised on ordinaryprinciples elsewhere, when not

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

545

The West River Bridge Company v.Dix et al.

in some respects incident to, or tied up with2 the particular
property and place needed, I am not now prepared to uphold it.

I am even disposed to go further, and say, that if any property

of any kind is-not so situated as to be either in the direct path
for a public -highway, or be really needed to build it, the inclination of my mind is, that it cannot be taken against the consent of the owner. Because, though the right of eminent
domain exists in some cases, it does not exist in all, nor as to
all property, but probably as to such property only as, from its
localityand fitness,.is. necessary to the public use. gSemb.,
4 Mylne & Craig, 116, Webb v. Manch..& Leeds Railway Co.,.
1 Railway Cases, 576.
It may be such, not only for the bed of the road, but perbays-for materials in gravel, stone, and.timber,-to build it with.
Ye even then it must be necessary and appropriate as rci-dents. 2 Dev & Bat. 462, 13 East, 200.
And also, for aught I now see, circumstances must, from its
locality and the public wants, raise an urgent necessity f6r it.
"1The public necessities" are spoken of usually as the fit
occasion to exercise the power, if. it be not derived from them
in a great degree, and the reason of the case is confined to
them. (See cases before.)
The ancient frenoda necessitas extended to nothing beyond
such necessity.
Indeed, without further examination, I fear that even these
limitations may not be found sufficient in some kinds of public
highways,- such as railroads, for instance. And I must -hear
more in support of this last position before acqiescmg in their
right to take, sri envitum, all the materials necessary to build
such roads, -as the timbers on which their rails are laid, or
the iron for the rails themselves.
Nor do. I agree that, in all cases of a public use, property
which is suitable or appropriate can be condemned. The public use here is for a road, and the -reasoning and cases are confined chiefly to bridges and roads, and the incidents to war.

But the doctrine, that this right of eminent aomam exists for
every kind of public use, or for such a use when merely convenient, though not necessary, .does not seem to me by.any
means clearly maintainable. It is too broad, too open to abuse.
Where the public -use is one general and pressing, like that
often in war for sites of batteries, or for provisions, little doubt
would exist as to the right.

Salus populi suprema .est les.

So as to a road, if really demanded in particular f6rms and
places to accommodate a growing and changing community,
and to keep up with the wants and improvements of the age,
- such as its pressmg demands for easier social intercourse,
46 *

546

SUPREME COURT.
The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

quicker political communication, or better internal trade, - and
advancing with the public necessities from blazed trees to
bridle-paths, and thence to wheel-roads, turnpikes, and railroads.
But when we go to other public uses, not so urgent, not
connected with precise localities, not difficult to be provided for
without this power of emient domain, and in places where it
would be only convenient, but not necessary, I entertain strong
doubts of its applicability Who ever heard of laws to condemn private property for public use, for a marine hospital or
state prison?
So a custom-house is a public use for the general government, and a court-house or jail for a State. But it would be
difficult to find precedent or argument to justify taking private
property, without consent, t6 erect them on, though appropnate
for the purpose. No necessity seems to exist, which is sufficient to justify so strong a measure. A particular locality as
to a few rods in respect to their site is usually of no consequence., while as to a light-house, or fort, or wharf, or highway between certain termini, it may be very important and
imperative. I am aware of no precedents, also, for such seizures of private property abroad, for objects like the former,
though some such doctrines appear to have been advanced in
this country 3 Paige, 45. Again, many things belonging to
,bridges, turnpikes, and railroads, where public corporations for
some purposes, are not, like the land on which they rest, local
and peculiar and public, m the -necessity to. obtain them by
the power of the eminent domain.
Such seem to be cars,
engines, &c., if not the timber for rails, and the rails themselves. Gordon v. C. & J. Railway Co., 2 Railway Cases,
809.
Such things do not seem to.come within the public exigency
connected with the roads which justifies the application of the
principle of the eminent domain. Nor does even the path for
the road, the easement itself, if the use of it be not public, but
merely for particular individuals, and merely in some degree beneficial to the public. On the contrary, the user must be for the
people at large, - for travellers, - for all, - must also be compulsory-by them, and not optional with the.owners, -must be a
right by the people, not a favor, -must be under public regulations as to tolls, or owned, or subject to be owned, by the
State, in order to make the corporation and object public' for
a purpose like this. 3 Kent, Comm. 270, Railroad Co. v. Chappell, 1 Rice, 383, Memphis v. Overtop., 3 Yerger, 53, King
v. Russell, 6 Barn. & Cres. 566, King v. Ward, 4 Adol. &
Ellis, 384.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

547

The West River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

It is not enough that there is an act of incorporation for
a bridge, or turnpike, or railroad, to make them public, so asto be able ,to take private property constitutionally, without
the owner's consent, but their uses, and object, or interests,
must be what has just been indicated, -must in their essence,
and character, and liabilities, be public within the meaning of
the term "public use." There may be a private bridge, as
well as private road, or private railroad, and this with or without an act-of incorporation.
In the present instance, however, the use was to be for.the
whole community, and not a corporation of any kind. XThe
property was taken to make a free road .for the people of the
State to use, and was thus eminently for a public use, and
where there had before been tolls imposed for private profit
and by a private corporation so far as regards the interest in
'its tolls and property
And the only ground on -which that corporation, private in
interest, was entitled in any view originally to condemn land
or collect tolls was, that the use of its bridge was public, -was
open to all and at rates of fare fixed by the legislature and not
by itself, and subjected to the revisi6n and reduction of the
public authorities.
It may be, and truly is, that individuals and the public are
often extensively benefited by private roads, as they are by
mills, and manufactories, and private bndges. But such a
benefit is not technically nor substantially a public use, unless
the public has rights. 1 Rice, 388. And in point of law it
seems very questionable as to the power to call sucha corporation a public one, and arm it with authority to seize on private
property without the consent of its owners.
I exclude, therefore, all conclusions as to .my opinions here
being otherwise than in conformity to these suggestions,
though when, as in the present case, a free public use in a highway and bridge is substituted for a toll-bridge, and on a long
or great and increasing line of public travel, and thus vests both
a new benefit and use, and a more enlarged one, in the public,
and not in any few stockholders, I have no doubt that these
entitle that public for such a use to condemn private property,
whether owned by an mdividual'or a corporation. Boston W
P Co. v. B. & W Railroad Corp., 23 Pick. 360. And it is
manifest that unless such a course can be pursued, the-means
of social and commercial intercourse might be petrified, and
remain for ages, like the fossil remains in sandstone, unaltered,
and the government, the organ of a progressive commuity,
be paralyzed in every important public improvement. 2 Dev.
& Bat. 456, 1 Rice, 395; 8 Dana, 309.

548

SUPREME COURT.
The West"River Bridge Company v. Dix et al.

I exclude, also, any inference, that, in assenting to the doctrine, that an act of incorporation for a toll-bridge is a contract,
giving private interests and rights as well as public ones, and
thereby not allowing a State to take the pxivate ones or alter
them, unless for some legitimate public use, or by consent, as
laid down in 4 Wheat. 628, I can or do assent to the doctrine
of some of the judges there in respect to public offices being
such contracts as not to be changed or abolished by a. State on
public considerationsi without mcrrmg a violation of the contract.
I should be very reluctant to hold, till further advised, that
public offices are not, like public towns, counties, &c., mere
political establishments, to be abolished or changed for political
considerations connected with the public welfare. 9 Cranch,
43. The salaries, duration; and existence of the offices'themselves seem to be exclusively public matters, open to any modification which the representatives of the public may decide to
be .necessary, whenever no express restriction on the subject
has been imposed in the constitution or laws. Quere. Hoke
v. Henderson, 4 Dev 1.
This would seem the implied condition of the office or contract, as much as that it may be taxed by the government
under which it is held, though not by other governments so
as to impair or obstruct it. See, as to the last, McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, Weston v. The C. C. of Charleston, 2 Peters, 449, Dobbins v. Comm. of Erie City, 16 Peters, 435.
Finally, I do not agree that even this franchise, as property,
can.be taken from this corporation without violating the contract with it, unless the measure was honest, bon&fde, and
really required for what 'it professed to be, beside being, as before remarked, proper, on account of the locality and nature of
this property, to be condemned for this purpose.
And though I agree, that, for most cases and purposes, the
public authorities in a State .are the suitable judges as to this
point, and that the judiciary only decide if their laws are constitutional (2 Kent, Comm. 340, I Rice, 383), that the legislature generally acts for the public in this (2 Porter, 303, 3 BI.
Comm. 139, note, 4 D. & E. 794, 797), that road agents
are their agents, under this limitation (1 Rice, 383), yet I am
not prepared to agree, that if, on the face of the whole proceedings, - the law, the report of commissioners, and the doings
of the courts, - it is manifest that the object was not legitimnate,
or that illegal intentions were covered up in forms, or the
whole proceedings a mere "pretext," our duty would require
us to uphold them. Ibid., Rice, 391. In England, though

ANUARY TERM, 1848.

-549

The West River Bridge Company v.Dix. et al.

this power exists, yet if used maliciously 'or wantonly, it is
held to be void. Boyfield v. Porter et al., 13'East, 200.
In this case, however, while the fairness -of it is impeached
by the plaintiffs in error, yet on the record the object avowed
is legal. It was to. make travel free where it was before taxed,
and the bridge, though remote from the changes desired in the
old road, was still situated on the great line of travel over it,
and not merely by color and fies& connected, and, from increases in. population and business, seemed proper to be made
free at the expense of the town or county
Nor on the face of the record do the proceedings seem void,
because the assessment may have been-without a jury, when
it was male by the legal officers, appointed for that purpose.
3 Peters, 280, 2 Dev & Bet. 451, 460, Beekman v. Sar.
Railroad, 3 Paige, Ch. 45. Nor void as made by the commissioners without notice, when the return states notice, and when
there was a- full. hearing enjoyed by all before the court on
the -eport.
Nor void because the compensatiodi was too small to the
corporation, - as it was assessed in conformity to law, - or too
burdensome to the town alone to discharge, though the last
might well have been flung on a larger number, like a couiiy
10 N. Hamp. 370, Tomlins, Dict., Ways, 2, 1 Rice, 392. Nor
because the commissioners take. a fee instead of an easement,
when the legislature provide for a fee as more expedient.
2 Dev & Bat. 451, 467 'Nor because some of the property
condemned was personal, when it was mixed with the real,
and when real or personal, if needed and appropriate, may
at times be liable. 1 Rice, 383.
With these explanations, I would express my concurrence in
the judgment of -the court.
Mr. Justice'WAYNE delivered a dissenting opinion.
Order
The West River Bridge Company, -Plaintiffs in errbr, v. Joseph.
Dix, and the Towns of Brattleboro' and Dummerston in the
County-of Windham.
This cause came on to be heard on -the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of
Vermont, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now'here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause be and the
same is-hereby-affilmed, with costs.

550

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

The West River. Bridge Company, Plaintiffs in error, V. The
Towns of Brattleboro' and Duinmerston, in the County of
Windham, and Joseph Dix, Asa Boyden, and Phineas Underwood.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
of Vermont, and the Chancellor of the first Judicial Circuit of
the said State of Vermont, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court of
Judicature and Chancellor of the first Judicial Circuit of the
State- of Vhnont in this cause b~e and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

CHARLES PATTERsoN, ArrELLANT,

v. EDMUND P.

GAINES AND WIFE.*

Te opinion of this court in the case of Gaines v. Relf and Chew, (2 Howard
619,) reviewed.
A court of eqtiity can decide the question whether or not a party is the heir of a
deceased person. It is not necessary to send the issue of fact to be tried by a
court of law.
Where a marriage took place in Pennsylvania, it must be proved by the laws of
Pennsylvania. In that State it is a civil contract, to be completed by any words
in the present tense, without regard to form. and every intendment is made in
favor of legitimacy.
Where the complainant in a bill offers to receive an answer without oath, and the
defendant accordingly filed the answer without oath, denying the allegations of
the bill, the complainant is not put to the necessity, according to the general
rule, of contradicting the answer by the evidence of two witnesses or of one
witness with corroborating circumstances. The answer, being without oath, is
not evidence, and the usual rule does not apply.
In this case, however, even if the answer had been under oath and had denied the
allegations of the bill, yet there is sufficient matter in -the evidence of one witness, sustained by corroborating circumstances, to support the bill.
A marriage may be proved by any one who was present and can identify the
parties. If the ceremony be performed by a person habited as a priest, and
per verba de presenti, the person performing the ceremony must be presumed to
have been a clergyman.
If the fact of marriage be proved, nothing can impup the legitimacy of the issue,
short of the proof of facts showing it to be impossible that the husband could be
the father.
By the laws of Louisiana ind Pennsylvania, a marriage between a woman and a
man who had then anotheTr wife living was void, and the woman could marry
again without waiting for a judicial sentence to be pronounced declaring the
-marriage to be void.
If she does so marry again, and the validity of her second marriage be contested,
upon the ground that she was unable to contract it because the first marriage
was legal, it is not necessary for her to produce the record of the conviction of
* Mr. Chief Justice Taney did not sit in this cause, a near family relative being
interested in the event.
Mr. Justice McLean did not sit in this cause.
Mr. JustiCe Catron did not sit-in this cause, by reason of indisposition.

