44

SUPREME COURT.
Staoy v. Thrasher.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Michigan, and on the points and questions on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. And it appearing to this court, upon an
inspection of the said transcript, that no point in the case within the meaning of the act of Congress has been certified to this
court, it is thereupon: now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, and
that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the sad
Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law.

DAVID S. STAcy, ADmINISTRATOR OF CHARLES S. LEE, PLAINTIFr IN
ERROR,.v. J. B. THRASHER, FOR TME USE OF WILLL&t SELLERs,
DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

An action of debt will not lie against an administrator, in one of these United States,
on a judgment obtained against a different administratoT of the same intestate,
appointed under the authority of another State.
The detrine of privity examined.
I THIS case was brought up, bywrit of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisi-

ana.
The history of the case is this.
In April, 1836, Charles S. Lee, a resident of the county of
Claiborne and State of Mississippi, was sue.d in the county
court of Claiborne, by Christopher Dart and William Gardner.
who called themselves late merchants and copartners trading
under the style and firm of Dart & Co., and stated the suit
to be for the use of Christopher Dart.
It is not necessary to state the cause of action, or trace the
progress of the suit minutely.
Lee appeared to the suit.
In December; 1836, his death was suggested.
In July, 1837, Ann Lee took out letters of admnimstration
upon the estate of Charles S. Lee, under the authoritkr of the
probate court of Claiborne county.
In September, 1837, the suit was revived against the administratrix, by ascirefacidas.-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

45

Stacy v. Thrasher.

In November, 1837, she appeared to the suit and pleaded the
general issue.
On the 1st of December, 1838, the cause came on for trial,
when the plaintiffs obtained a judgment for $ 6,080.99.
On the same day, viz. the 1st December, 1838, Christopher
Dart, for whose use the judgment was entered, made an assignment of it to John B. Thrasher, of Port Gibson, the nominal
defendant in error in the present case.
After this, however, a new trial was granted by the courtof Claiborne county in the suit against Ann Lee, administra-trix, which resulted in another judgment, for a different sum
of mmy, in June, 1840.
Another new trial was granted, and in December, 1840,
another judgment was rendered against the administratrix for
,$t,988.05.
Nothing further appears to have been dQne for some time.
The next fact in the history of the case is, that David S. Stacy, the plaintiff in error in the present case, and a citizen of
Louisiana, took out letters of administration upon the estate of
Charles S. Lee, in the State of, Louisiana. - At what particular
time these letters were taken out, the record does not show.
In January, 1844, John B. Thrasher, to whom the judgment
in Mississippi had been assigned by Christopher Dart, as above
stated, filed a petition in the Circuii Court of the United Statesfor the Eastern District of Louisiana, against Stacy, the admmistrator of Charles S. Lee. Thrasher now stated himself to be
suing for the use of William Sellers, and averred that Sellers
and himself were both citizens of the State of Mississippi. The
petitioner stated himself to be the legal owner, by transfer and
assignment, of a judgment for $ 6,988.05, which judgment was
final and definitive.
In February, 1844, Stacy appeared to the suit and filed the
following exceptions and answer, which are according to the
practice -in Louisiana, and equivalent to a demurrer.
"Davi 1 S. Stacy. a citizen of the State of Louisiana, residing
in the parish of Concordia, administrator of the succession of
Charles S. Lee, in the State of Louisiana, under the appointment and authority of the Court of Probate of the parish of
Concordia aforesaid, being made defendant in the above-entitred
suit, appears and pleads as follows, by way of exception: " 1. That plaintiff in his petition does not allege or show that
this honorable court has jurisdiction of this .suit, as it is not
therein alleged that Christopher Dart, who is declared to be the
assignor of the judgment upon which this suit is brought, waseither an alien or a citizen of another State than Louisiana, or

46

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

could have maintained this suit in this honorable court either
against the appearer or the said Charles S. Lee.
"2. Appearer alleges that Christopher Dart and William Gardner, the alleged owners of the'claim upon which the juagment
was obtained in Mississippi, were citizens of Louisiana, and
members of a commercial firm located in New Orleans, and
could not have maintained this suit in this honorable court
either against the said -Leor against this appearer, and that
this court has no jurisdiction of this suit.
"3. That the said William Gardner, one of the joint owners
of said claim, was a citizen of Louisiana, and that the said Dart
& Gardner could not have maintained a suit upon said claim
in this honorable court either -against the said C. S. Lee or
against this appearer.
"4. That the said C.Dart, under an assignmelt and transt'er
of said claim from the said Gardner, could not have maintained
a suit thereon in this honorable court.
"5. Appearer further excepts and says, that this honorable
court has no jurisdiction over successions in the State. of Louisiana, nor over the settlement of said successions and the distributions of the proceeds among the creditors, nor over administrators and others appointed to administer them, nor of the
establishment of claims for money against such successions;
that the Court of Probate of this State have the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of all these matters; that no property-belonging to a succession in the course of administration in the probate court, whose jurisdiction has attached over the subjectmatter, can be taken.-levied upon, or s6ld by process from the
courts of the United States; nor can said probate courts be
ousted or disseized of their said exclusive jurisdiction once obtained, nor the property withdrawn from their control by any
other tribunal. That this has been the well-known and settled law of the State for the last twenty years, and that the
said Dart & Gardner contracted in New Orleans, in Louisiana,
under and in reference to this law, and are bound by it;
appearer alleges that this honorable court, for the above reasons, has no jurisdiction in this suit, ratione personw, nor ratione materiw, but avers that the Court of Probates of the paish of Concordia has sole and exclusive jurisdiction thereof.
Wherefore appearer prays that this suit may be dismissed at
plaintiff's costs, &c.
'4If all the dbove -exceptions should be overruled, then apearer pleads that the plaintiff-has neither alleged nor shown
any cause of action against him whatever, nor any indebtedness
to the plaintiff by the succession of C. S. Lee in the State of.
Louisiana.

JANUARY TERM. 1848.

47

Stacy t. Thrashe'r.
' If the above exception should be also ovenifled, then defendant denies geierally and specially each and every allegation in plaintiff's petition contained. Wherefore he prays that
plaintiff's demand may be rejected with costs, and for general
relief in, the premises, &c.
(Signed,)
D. S. STAcY, Adm'or estate C" S. Lee."

On the 26th of February, 1844, Thrasher, filed ah amended
petition., averring that Christopher Dart, the assignol' of the
judgment, was, at the time of the assignment, an.alien,.being a
citizen of th republic of Texas, and resident thefein, lnd that
Charles S. Leb, at the time of said assignment and of his death,
was a citizen of 'Louisiana.
On the 13th of March, 1844, the court -overruled Ithp exceptions, and. on the llth- of A15ril following gave ite following
final judgment.
"This cause came on for trial, and the law and the evidence
being in favor of the plaintiff, it is orderl, adjudged, and decreed, that the defendant, David S. Stacy, as administrator of
the estate of Charles S. Lee, be condemned to pay to the plaintiff, for the use of William Sellers, the sum of six thousand
nine hundred and eighty-eight dollars and five cents, with eight
per cent. interest thereon per annum from the first day of December, eighteen hundred and forty, until paid, and costs of
suit. Judgment rendered April 11th, 1844. Judgment signed
April 18th,- 1844.
(Signed,)
J. McKnMEy."
From this decree, a .writ of error brought the case up to this
court.
The case was argued by Mr. T. B. Barton, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Crittenden, Mr. Thrasher, and Mr.
Henderson, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Barton, for the plaintiff in error.
The ,great and important question which 'the record presents,
and to which this argument wil be confined, is that to which
the last exception is directed.
The petition, with the other proceedings in Louisiana upon
the judgment in Mississippi, are not distinguishable from an
action of debt, brought under the same circumstances, upon a
like judgment, in the courts of those States where the practice
is according to the course of the common law. The petition
is founded, as the action of debt would be, upon the judgment.
The validity and effect of the judgment must be the same in

48

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

both kinds of proceedings. The case involves the question
whether a judgment, rendered in ona State against an administrator who has taken administration of the assets in that State,
and within that jurisdiction, can be made the foundation of an
action in another State against a different administrator, whose
administration has been taken within the jurisdiction of the
latter, of the assets within the latter jurisdiction.
There are some special circumstances in this record which
arTest our attention in advancing to the discussion of the
main point. Cases of this kind must always be open to
remark, and entitled to grave consideration. The judgment
rendered against the first administrator, which is made the
foundation of a recovery against the administrator out of the
-assets in another jurisdiction, must be taken to have adjudged
that the administrator against -whom the judgment was rendered had assets to satisfy the debt. That administrator, in
the proceadings against him, must have admitted, by his pleadings, that he had assets ; and that will always be the case
when he neglects (as was the -ase in Dart & Co. v. Lee's Administratrix in Mississippi) to plead plene administravit;or, if
assets have been denied by such plea, that issue must have
been found against him. A .general judgment, therefore,
against an administrator, necessarily includes in it the adjudication of assets in the hands of that administrator to the
amount of the judgment. According to the rigo! of the common law, the judgment in that form would be absolutely conclusive against the defendant's administrator, and -against the
plaintiff and all others; and the only ulterior proceedings upon
such judgment, if not satisfied, upon an execution to be levied
de bonis testators, would be against that administrator for a devastavit. (2 Lomar on Executors, 391, sec. 8, and 451, sec. 21.)
Virginia, and perhaps others of the States, has mollified, in
some respects, the rigorous conclusion of this common law
rule, but without destroying it. In its most mitigated application to -such a recovery, the judgment will be at least taken,
until the contrary is shown by that defendant, as a judgment
that the administrator had assets for the satisfaction of the recovery. For this reason, as well as for other reasonsl it is certai that we shall find no case in the English authorities where
a judgment -has been recovered against one administrator, in
which any recovery has been sought against another administrator, unless in cases of an administrator de bonis non, or unlegs in cases of special administrations, such as administrator
durante minore cetat, &c. And, for the same reason, it is
probable that no such cases ean be found in alay of the American authorities, even where the rules alluded to have been

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

.49

Stacy v. Thrasher.

mitigated. It will be found extremely difficult, within the
jurisdiction where administration was granted, to conceive any
case of that kind. The judgment, then, upon which the petitioner founds his recovery against the administrator in Louisiana, shiows upon its face that assets for its satisfaction, in the
State- of Mississippi, were also adjudged. The very judgment,
by showing that matter, an adjudged liability of a sufficiency
of estate in Mississippi, shows an exoneration of assets elsewhere than in Mississippi, and that the Louisiana administrator
ought not to be charged, by a double recovery, for that which
has been: already or can be recovered against another representative in Mississippi.
, There is also another.remark that may be made upon the
proceedings in this dase,. - that the decision, if sustained, must
leid to alarming mischiefs in the administratioh of assets which
an intestate has left in two or more States. It seems, from the
aniended petition, that C. S. Lee, at the time of his death, was
aeitizen of Louisiana; that was.his domicile, and consequently Ann Lee, in Mississippi, was a foreign administratrix. The
bulk of an intestate's asset9 will almost always be found in the
jurisdiction of his domicile. The proposition which is contended for to sustain this recovery goes to this extent,- that
if an intestate in one State had died, leaving property of the
most inconsiderable. value in another State, making it necessary
that there shold be an administration in the latter, a plaintiff,
by recovering a judgment against the latter, establishing a debt
of the intestate, that judgment, as contended for by thd defendant in error, would be conclusive upon the administrator and
the assets, in the State of the domicile, at least so far as it established. the indebtedness of the intestate. In vain might
the domiciliary admin.'$ttator attempt, in an action brought
against him upon that judgment, to prove that the plaintiff had
-no shadow of claim against the intestate; he would be repelled,
by force of the judgment, from any such defence.
Is it reasonable, that,-in the international law of these States
under the Constitution and acts of Congress, such ruinous stringency should be given to the judgment of one State in the
a judgment against the foreign adcourts of another? -that
ministrator, who is regarded only as auxiliary or ancillary to
the domiciliary administration, and who is in practice oftentimes, in some of the States, little more than a nominal administrator, shall conclude the primary domiciliary administrator,
holding the main bulk of the assets, by establishing against
him and against those assets the principal fact in the case, the
indebtedness' of the intestate, so that they can never be extricated froni this rigid conclusiveness of the foreign judgment?
VOL. VI.

5

50

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

There is a further remark, that the petitioner seeks a recovery upon the Mississippi judgment against "a considerable
estate, real and personal," left by the intestate in the State of
Louisiana; estates of both descriptions, it would seem, are liable
as assets in the hands, or under the €ontrol, of the administrator
in that State. There is no principle in general jurisprudence,
and particularly in the United States, better established, than
that land can never be subjected to a foreign jurisdiction.
(Story's Confl. of Laws, pages 436, 437, % 522, 523.)
To give to the judgments of one State validity and effect in
the courts of another, is a wise provision under our system.of
government. It cannot, however, be overlooked, that to what-,
ever extent force is allowed to them, oul of -the State which
pronounced them, in the jurisdiction of another State, it operates as a restriction or compulsion upon this jurisdiction, making it subordinate to the jurisdiction of a foreign forum. The
provision, therefore, which has been alluded to should be
jealously guarded by the courts; and unless its application
should -be shown to be clearly reasonable, the application
should be denied. It has before been intimated, that no authority can be found, certainly not in the English law, probably not in the American law, which can govern the precise
case now under consideration.
-Without attempting to disturb any doctrine heretofore established in regard to the conclusiveness of judgments, and the
effect of the judgment of a court of one State, when sued
upon or offered in evidence in the courts of another State, it
is contended that that doctrine has never been ettended'to'a
case like the present, and that it would not be reasonable. to
give it such application.. It is a principle incontrovertibly
established in the English jurisprudence, in that of Louisiana
(Benjamin and Slidell's Digest of Louisiana Laws, page 559,
et seq.), and in all the other States, that "no one, in general,
can be bound by a verdict or judgment, unless he be a party to
the suit, or be in privity with the party, or possess the power
of making himself a party. For (as has been well said) otherwise he has no power of cross-examining the witnesses, or of
adducing evidence in support of his rights. He can have no
attaint, noi can he challenge the inquest, or'appeal (or have a
writ of error on the judgment). In short, he is deprived of
the means prbvided by the law for ascertaining the truth, and
consequently it would-be repugnant to the first principles of
justice that he should be bound by the results of an inquiry to
which he was altogether a stranger."
(1 Stark. Law Ev.
217, 6th Am. ed.)
It is not pretended that the administrator in Louisiana was

JANUARY TERM; 1848.

51

Stacy v.Thrasher.

a party to the proceedings in Mississippi, or could by any possible means have made himself a party to them. It is incumbent upon the defendant in error' clearly fo show, before the
jurisdiction in Mississippi shall control that of Louisiana, that
the administrator of .the latter State was, in the proceedings in
which judgment was recovered in the former, in privity with
the defendant in that suit. The contraryhas been distinctly
laid down by Justice Story, in his learned treatise on the Conifict of Laws, § 522. That is a direct authority upon the
makes no difference that the judgment in the
present case. 'It
cases in Rawle, 431, to which- he refers, was a judgment rendered in Barbadoes. The matter under consideration involves
no discussion, as to the difference between the effect of a judgment when rendered in a State jurisdiction, and when rendered
in a jurisdiction out of the-United States. The point decided
there was, that there was no privity between one administrator
and another administrator of the same intestate, when both
administrations have been granted by different jurisdictions
entirely separate and independent of each other.
of this Union is sovereign
The jurisdiction-of each"
and independent in granting letters of administration, as much
so as -that of any two foreign states. The grant, when made,
invests the administfator under the authority of -that State
with the proprietorship of the effects of .the intestate within
that State, but, having no jurisdiction beyond its own limits,
it can confei no property upon him ont of those limits.
- Each administrator, when several administrations are granted
in several States, is made the owner of a distinct property,
wholly unconnected with any other out of the State. The
authority under which each derives his title is a separate sovereign power; and it is exclusively by that authority, not by
virtue of testamentary appointment of the dead, that they'are
invested with any interest or control in the respective estates;
and it is entirely to the authority from which their rights are
alone derived that they are in any manner accountable. In
some sense they may severally be said to be a representative
of the deceased.
There would be no ground for asserting that these representatives in different States constitute one representative, ai
several executors under the same will, or administrators under
the same jurisdiction, may constitute one executor or administrator, though the assets confided to each may be separated.
It is believed that this doctrine, here attempted to be presented, of the relation in which the separate administrators
under different jurisdictions stand in these United States, has
been universally recogmized by the States excent so far as by.
-State

52

SUPREME COUR.T.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

statutory law (showing that the original principle was as here
stated) the doctrine has been changed or modified. It would
seem necessarily so, not only as regards the relation of the administrator, but as regards the rights of the executor as affecting the assets and the representative of the deceased, for he
has no lien upon the fund in the hands of the representative as
the debtor, but the person of the administrator, who is, in a
measure, the officer or bailiff of the court appointing him, in
respect of the assets which he has in his hands, is the debtor.
(1 Lomax on Executors, 345; Ram. on Ass. 484.) What constitutes privity between one representative of a dead man and
another representative depends upon no peculiar rules springing out of A practice of the probate court, in-regard to the representatives of deceased'persons, but is to be ascertained upon
principles of the common law, as applicable to cases geherally,
of which a variety of illustrations will be found in the books,
especially 1 Stark. Law Ev. 217, et seq. Privity between
one administrator and another does not depend upon, and cannot be created by, their being each of them the representative
of the same intestate, though it he a duty in which they all
unite. It has not been so regarded in the English law, which,
-until the 17th Car. 2, did not regard the administrator de bonis
non in privity with an executor or administrator, to bring scire
facias on the judgment which the executor, or administrator,
had obtained. (See authorities, 1 Loin. Ex. 325.) So, if one
brings several ejectments against several upon the same title, a
verdict against one is not evidence against the rest, because
the party against whom the verdict was had might be relieved
against it, if it was not good, but the rest could not (1 Stark.
Law Ev. 217); as the title' under which all these defendants
in ejectment claimed is the same, each of them, of course,
must have held in privity to some one person, from whom all
their titles were severally derived; nevertheless, that Privity
in one common title did not unite them in privity to each
other.
The judgment, therefore, in Mississippi, against Ann Lee,
administratrix of the assets of Charles S. Lee in Mssissippi,
could not bind the appellant, D. S. Stacy, administrator of the
assets of C. S. Lee in Louisiana.
The rule excluding res inter alios acta as a ground of action,
or as a bar in the pleadings, it is hardly necessary to remark,
extends with- equal stringency to exclude such matter as evidenc6 at the trial. (1 Stark. Law Ev. 217; and 1 Greenl. Ev.
522, et se'q.)
The principle herg contended for cannot be evaded by force
of the statute of Misiissippi, which seems, as is contended for,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

53

Stacy v. Thrasher.

to make the judgment recovered in Mississippi against Ann
Lee, administratrix, have the effect of being a judgment recovered, against Charles S. Lee, the intestate himself because
that suit was instituted against him in his lifetime. That
statute enables the plaintiff to revive the suit pending against
the intestate, and empowers the court to render judgment for
or against such administrator, in the., same manner as if the
original party were in existence. (How. & Hutch. Dig. 584.)
This statute can mean-nothihg more than in the strongest expressions to remove-merely the impediment thrown in the way
of the proceedings; bf the plaintiff by abatement. It did not
mean, by strict adherence to the same manner as if the original
party were in existence, to preclude the administratrix from
pleading pleas peculiarly allowed to executors and administrators, --'such as Plent administravit,generally or specially, no
assets, and the like; or to preclude the plaintiff from taking a
judgment against the administratrix; and if so, the judgment
could not be in the same manner as if the original party was
in existence. If the legislature had intended that, it would
have adopted a provision like that in the 17th Car. 2, c. 8, s. 1,
where a party dies between verdict and judgment, directing
that the judgment shall be entered a. if both parties were
living. (See 1 Lore. Ex. 324, 325.)
. The judgment rendered in this very case shows that suchhas not been. the interpretation given to that statute, for it is a
judgment, not against the intestate, but against the administkatrix. Whatever may be the interpretation-to be put upon the
statute, it is sufficient here to say, that the judgment taken
was not in. accordance with any directions that it should, be
rendered as if the party were living, but that was waived if
the statute gave such power, and the plaintiff has taken a judgment against the administratrix; and taking it in that manner,
the plaintiff subjects himself to all the consequences of that
form of judgment.
- In conclusion, the plaintiff in error is not precluded from the
grounds of error here attempted to be maintained by force of
the 32d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. That section was.
only intended to apply to proceedings' in actions at. common
law; not to proceedings by petition, according to the practice
of Louisiana. Even if it did, the exception taken in the court
below cannot but be regarded as tantamount to a demurrer
according to the requisitions of that- statute. That clause is a.
transcript of the provisions of 27th Eliz. c. 5, and 4th.Anne, c.
16, for the purpose of curing mere defects of form, and requiring special demurrers, leaving matters of substance unaffected
by its provisions, to be taken advantage of by general demurrer,
5*

54

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

withouf setting down any special cause, or to be taken advantage of by errors in arrest of judgment, or by writ of error.
(See Bac. Abr. PleasandPleading; Stephenson Pleading, 140.)
Mr. Crittenden, Mr. Thrasher,and Mr. Henderson,for the
defendant in error, sustained the judgment of the court below
upon the same grounds,. which are thus explained in the argument of Mr. Henderson.
This Mississippi judgment, we say, conclusively established
the plaintiffs' demand against the estate of the intestate Lee,
not only in Mississippi, but in every State of the Union. We
do not say but its ratable priorities and claims, as to order of
satisfaction, are to be governed by the local law of the administration. The claim, however, is legally authenticated as
against the decedent estate, so as to entitle it to payment and
satisfaction, though put to judgment in a different State than
that of the administration. 13 Pet. 312.
Notwithstanding all that is said in the books upon original
and.ancillary administrations in different States, we insist the
.administrative tribunals c a decedent's effects in no one State
can reject the allowance of a creditor's claim from another
State, if legally established.
The Constitution of the United States gives to the citizens
of each State the privileges and immunities of the citizens of
the several States. -State tribunals, therefore, cannot regard a
co-State creditor as a foreign creditor, and so administer the
effects of the decedent within a State, to the exclusive use of
creditors within that State. And so is it implied in 3 Pick.
128; 'and so, undoubtedly, is the requirement of the Constitution of the United States, above quoted.
The record of this judgment in Mississippi shows that the.
action was instituted against Lee in his lifetime, who appeared
and plead; that before verdict he died, and his widow and administratrix, by the positive requirements of the laws of Mississippi, came in on scire facias, plead to, and defended the
action. This, in Mississippi, merged the original cause of
action, established -the debt against the decedent estate, . and
was and is res adjudicata.
The act of Congress of 26th May, 1790, expressly requires
that this judgment shall have full faith and credit given to it
in every court within the United States, as it has by law or
usage in the courts of the State of Mississippi. 1 Statutes at
Large, p. 122.
It undoubtedly has, in that State, the "faith and credit" of
establishing or authenticating the Mbt against the estate of
Lee, regardless of"whosesoever hands the estate may come to,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

55

Stacy v. Thrasher.

or be found in. It is not that it merely establishes the debt
against the administratrix, Ann Lee; but-against the estate of
C. S. Lee.
The judgment, thus presented, dither by suit, in the courts
of Louisiana, or to the administrator, in Louisiana; for. allowance or payment, must have the same "faith and credit" accorded to it as in Mississippi. 6 Wheat. 129; 7 Cr. 481;
13 Pet. 312.
Now, this "faith and credit" is not so conceded to a foreign
judgment. Hence the case in 2 Rawle, 431, which was a
judgment from Barbadoes, sued on in Pennsylvania. All the
pleas in that case imply the opinion of the pleader, that, had it
been a judgment from another State of the Union, the defence
could not have been, relied on; nor does the court say otherI
wise.
Another well-established rule of decision sustains the point
we contend for; namely, that the judgment .of a competent
State court merges and extinguishes the original cabse of action as to all parties and privies, whether privies by blood or
estate in all other States of the Union. 3 Wash. C. C. R. 17;
1 Pet. 692, 693; 16 Mass. 71.
But a foreign judgment does not so extinguish the cause
of action, if again sued on here, as to bar recovery for this
cause.
Again: our petition makes no personal demand against thedefendant ; but, setting forth a claim against the estate of Lee,
by authentication of a.judgment, duly obtained, in contest
with the administratrix in Mississippi, seeks its satisfaction out
of Lee's estate in Louisiana, represented by the defendant as'
administrator. But the spirit of his objection is Personal to
himself. It is not that he questions but the cause of action
has been established in judgment, by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as against Lee's estate, so far as represented by
his administratrix in Mississippi; but defendant objects, the
estate is not thereby liable in. Louisiana, till he, defendant, has
litigated the same question over again. And for what good? Is there in the Constitution of the United States, and the laws
of Congress, any sensible purpose or policy that this, question
should be twice litigated, in order to conclude the estate of Lee,
as represented by this administrator, any more than if this
judgment had been rendered against Lee, in his lifetime?
Suppose this judgment in Mississippi had been redered in,
the United States Circuit Court, and then sued on as now in
the United States Circuit Court of Louisiana; could this defence be heard? Now the 31st section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789 provides, that where the defendant dies pending the

56

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

suit, his representatives may be brought in by scire facids,
as in this case, and "the court may render judgment against
the estate of the deceased party." But what a silly provision
of law, if, when they have so rendered judgment, the same
controversy shall be tried over again in every other State
where the judgment may be carried for enforcement and satisfaction, against the same decedent's "estate."
As this pretended right of defence does not go to bar the
originalcause of action, it is a mere-technical objection, with.out semblance of merit. For, on any supposition that the first
judgment was fraudulently obtained, the defendant here could
undoubtedly make that defence by plea. But, with no. objebtion against the justice or integrity of the jadgment, that the
defendant may relitigate it -from mere caprice is certainly a
most idle rule of construction, for no possible good.
.The only pretence of legal rule which can be offered in
vindicatiorof this claim of the defendant to litigate the original cause of action in this case over again is, that, as between
the defendant with whom it was contested in the State of
Mississippi, and this defendant in Louisiffia, there is no priv
ity; and, hence the judgment is not evidence against him.
But we deny the fact that there is no privity. There is, in
all truth, and in the rationale of the thing, a clear privity of
estate. On Lee's death, his estate, everywhere throuighoutthe United States, was liable to payment of his debts.' No
one anywhere could take possession of this estate, either by
lawful administration or by tort, that did not hold inprivity to
the creditor's claim, as verily as to the claims of heirs and distributees. The decedent's estate, to' this end and responsibility, is but a unit, though possessed by a dozen administrators indifferent States of the Unio.- And in what sense can
an administrator claim to be a privy at all? No connection
of blood, nor the agent's claim which he has to the estate,
could give him, as administrator,the relation ofpriv,'ty in any
legal sense. Had this judgment been granted against Lee in
his lifetime, this objection would have the .same force. His
privity, as administrator on the estate of Lee, would have been
-precisely what it now is; namely, he would have been no*
party to the judgment, nor would he be holding any part of
the estate, by virtue of his administration in Louisiana, which
the judgment directly b~ound, or could be levied on. Yet,
surely,' this plea could not avail, in such- case; and equally
clear, on the. same principles, it cannot avail here. But if
there were any room to distinguish the legal effect of a judgment obtained against the decedent, and one obtained by suit
against his administrator, then we reply, that this suit, having-

JANUARY- TERM, 1848.

57

Stacy v. Thrasher.

been instituted against, the decedent in persb, and who became
party to -the record,the same privity in succession. connects this
defendant with this record and judgment., as if the decedent
had survived till the- verdict was rendered against him.
But the truth is, the doctrie of personal privity' has no application here, "aiddin never be interposed, but as to parties'
who may be affected in their personal.rights. A trustee of a
legal title for the heirs cannot object. to the judgment against
the ancestor as incompetent evidence in suit against him to recover the trmst.propdrty, ornthe ground that he is not a privy to
the judgment. And so of the administrator i who is but a trustee for the creditors Fird distributees.
If the case.in 16 Mass. 71 wvould seem to conflict with thislast position, that of 3 Rand. 287 sustains a contrary rule.
The authority of tle late Justice Story, iii. his Conflict of
Laws, § 522, has been referred tolin support of the defendant's
objection.' In.a clear ease of conflict of laws, where the foreign claimA was "to afftct assets" of the local administrator,
to the prejudice of Ideal creditors, the rule insisted on might,
to some form and extent, be applicable; But the conflict of
laws, as between nations foreign to each other, not -bound- to
recognize -each other's judgments,'nor- to recognize the claim
of the foreign creditor on the same ground as the domestic
creditor, -, such conflict of laws is not predicable of the subsisting relations of these United States.- The judgments of the
sevral States under the Constitution and laws of. Congress,
before referred to, are not foreign to-each other in the sense of
the common law. And the Constitution of the United States
secures each creditor of the different- States the same'rights in
prosecutinghis claims in any. other State, whether against the
living man or the estate-of the dead, as are secured to the citizens of the State where the same is prosecuted. If, therefore,
the rule as now contended for was intended to, be asserted by
Justice Story as applicable to these iStates, we, are bound to say
'his assertion iswithout authority, and against the paramount.
laws of the Union.
Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
"Mr.
John B. Thrasher, the plaintiff below, commenced this action by a petition'(according to the practice of the courts of
Louisiana) in the nature of an action of debt upon a judgment.
He claimed as assignee of a judgment obtained in the Circuit
Court of Claiborne county, in the State of Mississippi, by Dart
& Gardner against Ann -Lee, administratrix of C.. 'S. Lee, deceased. David S. Stacy, the defendant below, is the.administrator of Lee in the State of Louisiana, where he had his dQra-

.

58

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

icile at the time of'his death. In his pleas he has set forth six
several grounds of exception against the plaintiff's right to recover, the last of which is in the nature of a demurrer to the
declaration, or a denial of the plaintiff's right to recover on the
case set forth in his petitioft. As the decision of this point will
be conclusive of the whole case, it will 'be unnecessary to notice the~others.
The question presented by the demurrer is, whether. the
judgment against Ann Lee, the administratrix of Charles S. Lee
in Mississippi, is evidence by itself sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover against Stacy, .the administrator of the same intestate in Louisiana. Or, to state the point disconnected with
the accidents'of the case, Will an action of debt lie against an
administrator in one of these United States, on a judgment obtained against a different administrator of the same intestate
appointed under the authority of another?
This is a question of great practical importance, and one
which, we believe, has not yet been decided.
The administrator receives his authority from the ordinary
or other officer of the government where the goods of the intestate are situate. But coming into" such possession by succession to the intestate, and encumbered with the duty to pay
his debts, he is considered in law as in privity with him, and
therefore bound or estopped by a judgment against him. Yet
his representation of his intestate is a qualified one, and extends not beyond the assets of which the ordinary had jurisdiction. He cannot, therefore, do any act to affect assets in an-.
other jurisdiction, as his authority cannot be mote extensive
than that of the goverximent fr6m whom he received it. The
courts of another State will not acknowledge him as a representative of the deceased, of notice his letters of administration. (See Tourton v. Flower, 3.-P. Wins. 369; Borden v.
Borden, 5 Mass. 67 ; Pond v. Makepeace, 2 Metcalf, 114;
Chapman v. Fish, 6 Hill, 554, &c.)
. It follows as a necessary inference from these well-established principles, "that, where administrations ate granted to
different persons in different States, they are so far deemed independent of each other that a judgment obtained agafist one
will furnish no right of action against the other, to affect assets
received by the latter in virtue of his 'own administration; for
in contemplation of law there is no privity between him and
the other administrator." (See Story, Confi. of Laws, § 522;
Brodie v. Bickley, 2 Rawle, 431.) The -same doctrine is recognized in the ease of Aspden v. Nixon (4 How. 467) by this
court.
But it is contended, that, however applicable thesQ principles

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

59

Stac. v. Th-asher.

may be to judgtreats against administrators acting under powers received from States wholly foreign to each other, they can-.
not apply t&judgments against administrators in different States
of this Union, because of the provision of the Constitution,
which ordains that "full faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other State."
.The act of Congress of 26th May, 1790; which prescribes
the mode of authenticating records, and defines their "1effect,"
enacts, that, they " shall have -such faith and credit given to
them in every court within the United States as they have by
law or usage in the courts of the State 'from whence the said
records are or shall be taken."
The question, -then, arises, what is the "effect," or the
"faith and credit," given to the judgment on which this suit
is brought, in the courts of Mississippi ? The answer to this
must be, that it is evidence, and conclusive by way -of estoppel, 1st, between the same parties; 2d, privies; and 3dly, on
the same subject-matter, where the proceeding is in rem.
But the parties to these judgments are not the same.
Neither are they privies. " The term privity, denotes mutual succession or relationship to the same rights of property."
(Greenleaf on Ev. § 523.) Privies are divided by Lord Coke
into three classes, - 1st, privies in blood; 2d, privies in law;
and 3d, privies by estate. .The doctrine of estoppel, however,
so far as it applies to persons falling 1uder these denominations,
applies to them under one and the same lrinciple, namely, that
a party claiming through another is estopped by that :which estopped that other respecting the same subject-matter. Thus,
an heir who is privy in blood would be estopped by a verdict
against his. ancestor, through whom he claims. An executor
or administrator, suing or sued as such, woild be bound by a
verdict against his testator or intestate, to whom he is privy in
law. With regard to privies in estate, a verdict against feoffor
would estop feoffee, and lessor, the lessee, &c.
An administrator under grant of administration in one State
stands in none of these relations to an administrator in another.
Each is privy to the testator, and would be etopped by a judgment against him; but the have no privity with each other,
in law or in estate. They receive their authority from different sovereignties, and over different property. The authority
of each is paramount to the other. Each is accountable'to the
ordinary from whom he receives his "authoAty. 'Nor does the
one come by succession to the other into the trust of the same
property,.encumbered by the same debts, as in the case of an
administrator de bonis non, who may be tfruly said to have an

60

SUPREME COURT.
Stacy v. Thrasher.

official privity with his predecessor in the same trust, and therefore. liable to the same duties. In the case of Yare v. Gough
(Oro. Jac. 3), it was decided that an administrator de bonis non
could not have .sirefacias upon a judgment obtained by his
predecessor on a debt due to the intestate "for default of 'rivity." But in Snape v. Norgate (Cro. Car. 167), it was decided that a scirefaciaswould lie againstan administrator de
bonis non, on a judgment against the executor; and the court
attempt to make a distinction between that and the preceding
case, on the ground that "he cometh in place of the executor" ; or in other words, by reason of an official succession or
privity. These cases cannot be well reconciled on principle;
but the difficulty was remedied in England by the statute of
17 Charles 2, c. 8. The Court of Appeals of Virginia have
considered the latter case as foundbd on-more correct principles
than the first, and have overruled the doctrine of Yare v.
Gough. (Dykes v. Woodhouse, 3 Randolph, 287.)
We may assume, therefore, that in the State of Mississippi,
as in most other States in the Union, the administrator e
bonis non is treated as privy with his predecessor in the trusk ,
and estopped by a judgment against him; but the question still
recurs as -to the effect of a judgment in that State as against
one who has neither personal nor official privity with the defendant. Each. administrator is severally liable to pay the
debts of the deceased out of the assets committed to him, and
therein- they resemble joint and several co-obligors in a bond.
A judgment against one is no merger of the bond, nor is it evidence in a suit against- the other. Their common liability.to
pay the same debt creates no privity between them, either in
law or in estate.
. It is for those who assert this privity to show wherein it
lies,
and the argument for it seems to be this: - that the judgment against the administrator is against the estate of the intestate, and that his estate, wheresoever situate, is liable to pay
his debts; therefore the plaintiff, haviig once established his
claim against the estate by the judgment of a court, should not
be called on to make, proof of it again. This argument" assumes that the judgment is in rem, and not in personam, or
that the estate has a sort of corporate entity and unity. But
this is not true, either in fact or in legal construction. The
judgment is against the person of the administrator, that he
shall pay the debt of the intestate out of the funds committed
to his care. If there be another administrator in another State,
liable to pay the same debt, he may be subjected to -a like judgmenjriipon the same demand, but the assets in his hands cannot be affected by a judgment to which he is personally a
-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

61

Stacy v. Thrashler. .

stranger. A judgment may tave the "effect" of a lien upon
all the defendant's lands in the State where it is rendered, yet:
it cannot have that effect on lands in another State by virtue
of the faith and credit given to it by the Constitution and act
of Congress. The laws and courts of a State can only affect
persons and things within their jurisdiction. "Qonsequently,
both as to .the administrator and the property confided to him,
a judgment in another State is res inter alios acta. It cannot
be even prima.facie evidence.of a debt ; for if'it have any effect at.all, it'must be-as a judgment, and operate by way of estoppel.
It is alleged- by those who desgre to elude this conclusion,
wlile they cannot' deny-the correctness- of the principles on
which it is'founded, that it is technical and theoretical, and
leads to an inonvdnient result. But every logical c6nclusion
upon admitted legal principles may.be-liable to the same impu*tation. Decisions resting only on a supposed convenience, or
principles accommodated. to the -circumstances of a particular
case, generally form bad.precedents: It may be conceded that
in this case there ii an apparent hardship, - that the plaintiff
who has established his claim-after a tedious litigation in Mississippi should be compelled" to go through the same troublesome -process in Louisiana. But tke hardship is no greater
than if the administrators had-been joint and several co-obligors
in a note or bond. -A plaintiff may be fairly presumed always
to have the evidence of his demand in his possession, and the
ability to establish it in any court. But if a judgment against
an administrator in one State, raised up, perhaps, for the.very
purpose of giving the plaintiff a judgment, should be conclusive
on the administrator in another State, the estates of decedents
would be subjected to innumerable frauds. And to what purpose is the argument that the defendant may be permitted to
prove collusion and fraud, when, in order to substantiate it, he
must commence by proving a-negative? This would be casting the burden of proof where it ought not to rest, and would
cause much greater inconvenience and injury than any that can
possibly result from the present decision.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore, be reversed.
"Mr. Justice MWLEAN and Mr.'Justice
WAYNE dissented.
Order.
This cause came -on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Circuit Court of the United States for the East-.
em District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
VOL. V1.
6

62

SUPREME COURT.
Van Ness v. Van Ness.

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court; that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law and justice, and
in conformity to the opinion of this court.

MARY ANN VAN NESS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CORNELIUS P. VAN
NEss, ADMINIISTRATOR'OF JOHN P: VAN NESS.
1801 (2 Stat. at Large, 103),
The act of Congress, passed on the 27th of Februe -y,
authorizes a writ of error from this court to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia in those cases only where there has been a finl judgment, order, or
decree in that court.
Where tho Orphans' Court directed an issue to be sent for trial in the Circuit Court,
which issue was, "whether-the petitioner was the widow of the deceased or
not," and the Circuit Court proceeded to try the issue, and thejury, under the
instructions of the court, found that the petitioner was not the widow, exceptions
to these instructions cannot be reviswed by this court on a writ of error.
The certificate of the finding of the jury, transmitted by the Circuit Court to the
Orphans' Court, was not such a final judgment, order, or decree as is included
within the statute. After the reception oF the certificate, the Orphans' Court had
still to pass a decree in order to settle the rights of the parties.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, sitting
for the county-of Washington.
All the circumstances of the case are fully set forth in the
opinion of the court,, as delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, from the commencement of which the Reporter extracts
the following statement.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case, which is
brought here by writ of error directed to the Circuit Court for.
Washington county, in the District -of.Columbia.
The case is this. John P. Van Ness, of the same county and
District, died intestate, and letters of administration were granted by the Orphans' Court to Cornelius P Van Ness, his brother, who is the defendant in error.
Shortly after the letters were -granted, Mary Ann Van Ness,
the plaintiff in error, filed her petition in the Or hans' Court
alleging that she was the widow of the deceased, and praying
that the letters granted to the defendant should be revoked,
and administration granted to her. The defendant answered,
denying that she was 'the widow of the deceased. The right
to the letters depended upon this fact; as by an act of Assembly of Maryland, passed in 1798, and adopted by Congress
when it assumed jurisdiction over this ristrict, the widow is

