23

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Bailey v. Dozier.

WILLIAix BAILEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAx B. D]OZIER.
Where a bill of exthange is presented for acceptance or payment, which is refused, it is sufficient it the officer who presents it makes a note at the time of
the facts which occurred on presenting the bill. The formal protest may be
drawn up afterwards, at the convenience of the notary.
Under the laws of Mississippi, a protest is not essenitial to enable the indorsee ofan
inland bill of exchange to recover the amount of it. The statute of Mississippi
is similar to the English statutes of 9th and 10th of William III., and 3d and
4th of Anne; and must receive the same construction with them.
Before those statutes, the indorsee of an inland bill had a right -to recover the
amount of it from the drawer. This right was not taken away by them; but
they .gave ar additional right to interest and damages. The common law right
remains.
If a plea to the jurisdiction and a plea of non assumpsit be put in, and the issue be
made up on the latter plea only, no notice being taken of the former, and upon
this state of the pleadings the cause goes on to trial, the plea to the jurisdiction
is considered as waived.
Although the declaration tegan with an averment that the drawer and indorser
were citizens of the same State (which, of course, would oust the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court), yet as it afterwards averred that the indorser, who was also
the payee, was an alien and citizen,of Texas, this was sufficient to maintain the
jurisdiction.
THIS case was
cuit Court of the
Mississippi.
The facts were
On the 18th of
drawn.

brought up, by writ of eror, from the CirUnited States for the Southern District of
these.
January, 1838, the following inland bill was

Paulding, 18th January,1838.
$2,670.
Twelve months after date of this my first and only bill of
exchange, pay to the order of John D. Fatheree two thousand
six hundred and seventy dollars, for value received, and place
the same to account of your ob't servant,
Mr. PERi~SON LEWIS,

WmL.

B. DozrEut

Jackson, Mississippi.
Indorsed, -J.

D. FATHEREE.
LEwIs.

Accepted, -PIiERsoN

Being indorsed by Fatheree and accepted by Lewis, it
passed into the hands of Bailey, the plaintiff in error.

On the 21st of January, 1839, when the bill became due, it
was presented and protested for non-payment, under the cir-

cumstances which will presently be stated.

In April, 1841, Bailey -brought suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States against Dozier and Fatheree, who were
both alleged in the writ to be citizens of Mississippi, Bailey

being stated to be a citizen of Virginia. The declaration commenced with stating that Dozier and Fatheree were both citi-

24

SUIREME COURT.
Bailey v. Dozier.

-

zens of Mississippi, but afterwards, in ieciting the bill,'said,
"and then and there requested the said Lewis to pay, twelve
months after the date of said bill of exchange, to John D.
Fatheree, who is an alien and resident of the republic of
Texas," &c. The declaration contained also counts for money
"lent and advanced," "paid, laid out, and expended," and "had
and received."
To this, the defendant pleaded two pleas. The first was as
follows: "And .the said defendant, William B. Dozier, in his own
proper person, comes -and says, that this court ought not to
have or take further cognizance of the action aforesaid, as to
him, said Dozier, because he says that the- said bill of exchange, in the, plaintiff's declaration mentioned, was drawn
in the State of Mississippi, to wit, at Paulding, in Mississippi,
payable at -Jackson, in the said State of Mississippi, and that
the drawer and indorser and acceptor thereof were, and yet
are, citizens and resident in the State of Mississippi; and said
bill is not a foreign bill of exchange; and this the said William
B. Dozier is ready to, verify; wherefore he prays judgment,
whether this court can or will take further cognizance of the
action aforesaid.
"And for further plea in this behalf, the said William B. Dozier says, that this court ought not to have or take further cognizance of this action, because he says that the said William
Bailey, the plaintiff, is a citizen of the State of Mississippi, to
wit, of the county of Rankin, in said State, and this he is ready
to verify; wherefore he prays judgment, whether. this court
can or will take -further cognizance of the action aforesaid."
The second plea was.non assumpsit.
The record showed that the plaintiff joined issue upon the
last plea, -without taking any notice of the first.
In May, 1843, the cause went to trial, upon this state of
the 'pleadings, after a discontinuance had been entered as to
Fatheree, when the jury, under instructions given by the
court, found a verdict for the defendant.
The bill of exceptions taken by the plaintiff, after reciting
the bill and protest by David H. Dickson, calling himself a justice of the peace and ex ofic-l notary public, proceeded thus: "The plaintiff then introduced David H. Dickson, the notary,
as a witness, who, being first duly sworn, stated on oath, that,
on the day the bill fell due, he went to the Union Hank in
Jackson, and demanded payment of said bill -of the teller of
said bank, and was answered by him that 'there were no funds
in the bank to pay said bill. Witness did not know where
said Pierson Lewis, the acceptor, lived; but on coming out of

JANUARYr TERM, 1848.

25

Bailey v.Dozier.

the baiik a person was pointed out to him as said Lewis, the
4cceptor of- the bill. Whereupon -witness demanded payment
of said.,Lewis, who answered that he could not pay the same.
Whereupon witness protested said bil for non-payment, as
:well against the acceptor as all other parties to the same, and
on that-day deposited in the post-office at Jackson notice.of
the dishonorof said bill, in season to go out by the next-mail,
directed to Paulding, Mississippi, foi said.Mill. B. Dozier, the
defendant,,which is the residence and post-office of said :Dozier, who is the drawer of said bill, advising him of .the nonpayment thereof by the acceptor, and that the holder looked to
him for payment.
"On his cross-examination, witness stated, that after he left
the bank a person was pointed out to him by the plaintiff as.
Pierson Lewis, of whom he-made demand of payment, which
was refused; that the protest now attached to. said bill of exSchange is'not the original protest made out by him on the day
of said above-named demand.
. "That on mnaking demand of said bill, as above stated, he
made out a protest and attached the same to the bill by wafer,
and delivered the bill and protest to the plaintiff; that.after.wards the plaintiff sent a niessenger to him, stating that said
protest would- not do, and requesting another; and thereupon
Witness tore the bill away from it, and made out another, differifig from"the firit, and delivered it, also annexed to said bill,
to said. niessenger. .That near a year afterward the plaintiff
applied, in personj to said witness, and stated that safd second
protest was also materially defective, and requested Witness to
make out another; and witness then again separated said 'bill
from said second protest, and made out a third protest, and
after wafering the bill thereto, delivered thd said bill and protest to the said plaintiff, which last is the protest now read to
the jury, and the two rents or mutilations on said bill designate the parts at which it was wafered to each of said protests;
"That the original protest differed from the second, and the
third from both the preceding.
"Whereupon the defendant, by attorney, moved the court to
exclude said bill of exchange from the jury for the want of valid
protest; which motion, after argument, the court sustained,
and instructed the jury that the plaintiff could not sustain his
action on the bill of exchange, unaccompanied by a protest.
"To which plaintiff's counsel excepted, and tendered this bill
of exceptions before the-jury retired from the box,. and prayed
that the same may be signed, sealed, and made a part of the
record in this cause; which is done accordingly.
"S. J. GOLSo.N. [SEAL.]i"
.3
VOL. VI.

26

SUPREME COURT.
Bailey v. Dozier.

Upon this bill of exceptions the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Crittenden, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff in error, made four points:1st. That the judge erred in excluding the notarial protest
from the jury.
2d. The court erred in the instruction given to the jury.
3d. The judge erred in taking upon himself to decide the
facts testified by the witness, instead of leaving it to the jurors to respond to the facts properly within their province.
4th. That upon the evidepce, the plaintiff was entitled to
verdict and judgment; and that the decision of the court, as
certified in the bill of exceptions, was erroneous.
No protest of the bill, which was an inland bill, was necessary to enable the plaintiff to sustain his action for the -sum
named in the bill. Brough v. Parkins, 2 Ld. Rayn. 992; Chitty on Bills (9th Lond. ed.), 334, 335, 464, 465; 3 Kent's Com.
93, 94.
The proof of the demand of payment, of the refusal, and of
notice to the defendant of the dishonor of the bill, was sufficient. Chitty on Bills.(9th Lond. ed.), 335, 658, 659; Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Peters, 170.
1 The judge gave to the certificate of protest of an inland bill,
made by the notary residing in the State and district wherein
the suit was brought and trial had, a magnified dignity, a
power of diction, self-sufficient and indispensable, which the
law did not allow to a notarial certificate in such a case.
In Townsley v.Sumral, the Supreme Court of the United
States said: - "It is admitted, that, in respect to foreign bills
of exchange, the notarial certificate of protest is of itself sufficient proof of the dishonor of a bill, without any auxiliary evidence." "But where the parties reside in the same kingdom
or couitry,'there is not the same necessity for giving entire
verity and credit to the notarial, protest. The parties may produce the witnesses upon the stand, or compel them to give their
depositions. And, accordingly, even in cases of foreign bills;
drawn upon, and protested in, another country, where the suit
is brought, courts of justice' sitting under the common law require that the notary himself should be produced, ifwithin the
reach of process, and his certificate is not per se evidence.
This was so held by Lord Ellenborough in Chesmer v. Noyes,
'2 Campbell's R. 129." Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Peters, 179,
180.
The plaintiff, Bailey, produced the notary, David H. Dickson, as a witness. 'His statements, upon oath, in chief and

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

27

Bailey v. Dozier.

upon cross-examination, proved every 'fact,- of presentation
of the bill at the proper time for payment, the demand -of
payment thereof mad6 of the acceptor, his refusal to pay, the
protest for non-payment, and the notice of the dishonorof the
bill sent to the drawer by the first mail after the dishonor of
the bill.
When the notary so testified in -open court, at the trial, of
what importance was the notarial certificate made by him ex
yarte? That the notary made three or three dozen notarial
certificates of protest is immaterial. In what respect did the
first, second, and thira certificates of the notary differ one from
another? , It is not pretended that they were contradictory the
one to another, nor that either was "contr4dictory to the evidence given by the notary to the court and jury when on his
oath. In such case, the credibility and weight of the evidence
would have been a question of fact proper for the jury to try,
and not a: question of law to the court.
Supposed omissions were the subjects of the several notarial
certificates, not falsehoods.
The evidence, as given at the trial, was sufficient to maintain the action so brought against the drawer of the bill of exchange, and the instruction of the court to the jury was
eiToneous.
Mr. rittende , for the defendant in error, said that the
only question.in the case related to the sufficiency of the evideuce of protest offered'by the plaintiff.
By the laws of the State of -Mississippi, a protest was necessary and indispensable to the plaintiff's right of recovery.
Statute Laws of Mississippi, page 372, 8th section, and page
375, settion 17, &c. Offet v. Viek, Walker's Reports (Mississippi), 100.
The instrument offered in evidence as such was no legal or
valid protest, because the justice of the peace (David H. Dickson) who made it had no authority so to do, it not appearing
that there was no notary public in Jackson at the time ready
to act, and his authority, by law, being only to make protest
for want or in default of a notary public. - Statute Laws of
Mississippi, section 8, page 373.
If Dickson, as a justice of the peace, was, under the circumcumstances, authorized to protest, the instrument offered 'in
evidence as protest, made out near a year after the transaction, cannot be taken or regarded as an authentic or legal instrumefft, admissible as evidence, especially as it appears that
it was neither the first nor second protest made in reference to
the same occasion.

28.

SUPREME COURT.
Bailey, vPDozier.

It-would be subversive of the security and certainty of commercial: interestu and dealings in,
such: transactions, if such an,
instrument as that offered in evidence in this case should be
received and allowed the. effect of a. legal- protest. The first
protest, made at the time of the alleged demand and refusal of
payment, is suppressed. A second edifion of it, made out some
time after, is.also suppressed. And the one now offered in
evidence is the third edition, fabricated about one year after
the transaction. The proof is,.also, that each of these differed
from the other.. It is impossible; as it. seems to me, that such
an instrument- can: be regarded as a. protest, or wdmitted in evidence as such.
On both grounds, - 1st. That Dickson had no authority to
protest; and 2d. That if he had,. the instrument offered in
evidence was no protest, - it seems clear that the instruction
of the eourt .was correct, and that therefore the judgment
ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a.writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States held by the district, judge in and for the Southern District of Mississippi.
The suit was. brought on an inland bill of exchange by the
indorsee against the drawers, and resulted, in the court below,
in.a verdict for the defendant on an objection taken to the validity of the protest.
The statute of Mississippi provides for protesting inland bills
in case of non-acceptance, or of, non-payment by the drawee,
after due presentment, in like manner as in case of foreign bills
of exchange; and allows five per cent. damages on the amount
for which the bill is drawn. (Howard & Hutchinson,. Statutes
of Miss.,pp. 372, § 8; 375, § 17; and 376, § 20.).
On the trial, the notary was called as a witness by the plaintiff, and proved the presentment of the bill at maturity, demand
of payment, and refusal, and notice to the drawers. And further, that, he drew up the protest in form at the time and delivered it to the holders, but that, on account of some alleged defect,, which is not stated in the bill of exceptions, it was returned to him, and a second one made out, and delivered, which
was also, subsequently Tetumed, and a third drawn up, which
vas the protest offered in evidence. It was made.out nearly a
year after the presentment.
The court below decided that the protest was invalid, and
instructed the jury that the plaintiff could not recover, unlepss
the bill had beeii duly protested according to the requirement
of the statute. Whereupon a verdic.t was rendered -for the der
fendant.

JANUiARY TERM, 1848.

29.

Bailey_ v, Ddzi.er.

The bill was p esented and the protest made out by a jus'
tice of the peace, s a notary ex ojfico ; and on the argument
the ruling of the ccurt was sought to be sustained,'on the
ground, that the power of this officer to protest bills extended
only to, cases where the notary was absent or could not be procured. But, on looking into the laws of Mississippi, it was
found that a subsequent statute had given the power to this
officer in all cases, without any qualification, and the point was
given up. (How. & Hutch., p. 430, § 24.)
The ground, of objection, therefore, is narrowed down to the
time-when, and the circumstances under which, the notarial
protest was drawn:up, in form. And on looking into. the cases and books of authority 6n the subject, it will be found, that,
if the bill has been duly presented for acceptance, or payment,
and dishonored, and a niinute made, at the time, of the steps
taken, which is called notihg the bill, the protest may be
drawn up in form afterwards, at the convenience of -the notary. And it has been held, if drawn up at any time-before the
trial, it will be sufficient. (Chitty on Bills, 334,436, and cases. Ed. 1842.)
The minute contains a brief record of the facts which transpired on. presenting-the bill, and the protest, as subsequently
made out, is but an extension of them in the customary form.
The time of the extension, therefore, would seem to be-of no.
great impotance,
-For the same reason, if a -mistake,should occur, no great
danger need be apprehended-if the notary is permitted to correct if, provided the regular stps have been taken, and-noted,
to charge the parties. The amendment would not be made
from memory, or recollection, but from . written memorandum
of the facts.
But, without -pursuing this view of the case further, a decisive
ground against the ruling of the cburt-below is, that a protest of
the bill was not essential to enable the plaintiff to recover.
The statute of Mississippi is taken, substantially, from the 9
and 10 Wi. 3, ch. 17,.amended by the 3 and 4 Anne, ch. 9,
under which it has always been hld by the courts in England
that the action at common law was not therebay taken away;
but that an additional remedy was given, by which the holder could recover interest and damages on an inland bill in cases where he was not entitled to them at common law. And
that if he chose. to waive the benefit of the statute, he might
still recover the amount due on the bill, by giving the customary proof of default and notice. (2 Ld. Raym. 992; S. C., 1
Salk. 131; S. c., 6 Mod. 80; -2 Ban. & Aid. 696; Chitty
on Bills, 466.)
-

30

SUPREME COURT.
Bailey v. Dozier.

The act of Mississippi is not more explicit and positive in its
terms, in respect to the duty of protesting, than that of the 9
and 10 Wm.3, as will be seen on a comparison of the two acts,
and should receive a similar interpretation. It"followsi, therefore, from this view, as the plaintiff did not claim the five per
cent. damiages given by the act, he should have been allowed
to recover the amount of the,bill, principal and interest, on the
testimony of the notary alone, independently of the written
protest.
It appears from the record, that the defendant put in two
pleas to the jurisdiction in the court below, for the want
of proper parties; and also the plea of non assurnpsit. To ihe
latter, the similiter was added, upon which issue the cause
went down to trial. No notice was taken of the pleas to the
jurisdiction.
It is suggested that this affords ground of error on the record.
The plea of non assumpsit in bar of the action operated as
a waiver of the pleas to the jurisdiction, which doubtless furnishes the reason why no notice was afterwards taken of these
pleas by either party.. 3 Johns. 105 ; 6 Bac. Abr. tit. P1. 4
PI., let. a, pp. 186, 187; Gould, Pl. ch. 5, § 13.
They were virtually abandoned by the defendant.
It was also suggested, that it appeared from the declaration
that Fatheree, the payee of the bill, was a citizen of Mississippi, and that the plaintiff.deriving title frcm him, though a citizen of Virginia, could not maintain the action, for want of jurisdiction within the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act.
The answer to the auggestion is, that the fact upon which it
is founded is not sustained by the record. The suit was
brought, originally, against Dozier and Fatheree; the drawer
and payee, indors~rs jointly, who are described in the commencement of the declaration as citizens of the State of Mis,sissippi. But in a subsequent part of the declarationrit is averred, that Fatheree, at the time- the bill was drawn, and also at
the time of .its transfer to the plaintiff, was an alien, and resident
of Texas.
. The
suit was discontinued as to Fatheree before the trial,
which left it between the plaintiff and the defendant alone.
The plaintiff being a citizen of Virginia, and deriving title
through a person competent to maintain a suit in the Circuit.
Court against the defendant, that court properly took jurisdiction of the case.
In every view taken of the case, we think the court lelow
erred, and that the judgment should be reversed.
Judgment reversed, with venire de novo by the court below.

.JANUARY TERM, 1848.

at

The Bank of-the United States v. Moss et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec
ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southerr-District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, .itis now here oydered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit. Court in
this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacids de
7M0.

T k 'PH

Tsns,
DiascToRs, AND CoMPu

OF THE BANK oF TIE

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, .v.HENRY K. Moss, WILTZA H. SHELTON, ROpERT A. PATfItcK, AND CHARLES LYNCH,
DEFENDANTS.

'Where a declaration'contained special counts upon promissory notes, and also the
common money counts, although the jurisdiction of the court was not apparent'
upon the special counts, yet the money counts, sustained by evidence, might have
been sufficient to sustain it; and this court will presume such evidence to have
been given if the record is silent upon the subject, and if no bjection was made
to the jurisdiction in the progress of the trial.
Judgment having been rendered for the plaintifi , it was not-competent for the court
below to strike out th6 judgment at the next .term, on the ground of supposed
wat of jurisdiction.
The power of a court over its records and judgments examined and stated.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the. Southern. District of
Mississippi.
In 1838, the two following notes were executed, viz. :
10,715

.

Brandon, March 17th, 1838.

Nine months after 1st April, 1838, we, or either of us, promise to pay to Briggs, Lacoste, & Co., or order, for value received,
ten thousand seven hundred and fifteen '
dollars, payable and
negotiable at the Commercial .Bank in Natchez.
H. K. Moss,
W. H. SHELTON, Sec'ty.
R. A. PATRICK,
CQgAREs LyNCH.
Indorsed, "Briggs, Lacoste, & Co."

$ 10, 8 7 6 1%.

Brandon,March 17th, 1838.
'Eleven months after 1st April, 1838, we, or either of us,
promise to pay to Briggs, Lacoste & Co., or order, for value re-

