62

SUPREME COURT.
Van Ness v. Van Ness.

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court; that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law and justice, and
in conformity to the opinion of this court.

MARY ANN VAN NESS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CORNELIUS P. VAN
NEss, ADMINIISTRATOR'OF JOHN P: VAN NESS.
1801 (2 Stat. at Large, 103),
The act of Congress, passed on the 27th of Februe -y,
authorizes a writ of error from this court to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia in those cases only where there has been a finl judgment, order, or
decree in that court.
Where tho Orphans' Court directed an issue to be sent for trial in the Circuit Court,
which issue was, "whether-the petitioner was the widow of the deceased or
not," and the Circuit Court proceeded to try the issue, and thejury, under the
instructions of the court, found that the petitioner was not the widow, exceptions
to these instructions cannot be reviswed by this court on a writ of error.
The certificate of the finding of the jury, transmitted by the Circuit Court to the
Orphans' Court, was not such a final judgment, order, or decree as is included
within the statute. After the reception oF the certificate, the Orphans' Court had
still to pass a decree in order to settle the rights of the parties.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, sitting
for the county-of Washington.
All the circumstances of the case are fully set forth in the
opinion of the court,, as delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, from the commencement of which the Reporter extracts
the following statement.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case, which is
brought here by writ of error directed to the Circuit Court for.
Washington county, in the District -of.Columbia.
The case is this. John P. Van Ness, of the same county and
District, died intestate, and letters of administration were granted by the Orphans' Court to Cornelius P Van Ness, his brother, who is the defendant in error.
Shortly after the letters were -granted, Mary Ann Van Ness,
the plaintiff in error, filed her petition in the Or hans' Court
alleging that she was the widow of the deceased, and praying
that the letters granted to the defendant should be revoked,
and administration granted to her. The defendant answered,
denying that she was 'the widow of the deceased. The right
to the letters depended upon this fact; as by an act of Assembly of Maryland, passed in 1798, and adopted by Congress
when it assumed jurisdiction over this ristrict, the widow is

63

JANUARY TERM, ,1848.
Van Ness r. Van Ness.

entitled to letters, of administration, in pr.eference to any other
person, where the husband dies intestate.
This act of Assembly (1798, ch. 101, subehap. 8, sec. 20,
and subchap. 15, sec. 16, 17) makes it. the duty of the Orphans' Court, in a case like this, if required by either party, to
direct an issue to be sent for trial to any court of law most
convenient for trying it; and the court to which it is sent is
authorized to direct the jury, and to grant a new trial- if it
thinks proper, as if the issue were in a suit therein instituted;
and upon a certificate from such court, or a judge -thereof, of
the verdict .or finding of the jur', under the seal of the court,
the Orphans' Court is directed to give judgment upon such
finding. It is unnecessary to give the words of the act. We
state its provisions only so far as they relate. to the case before us.
When the answer of the defendant came in, the Orphans'
Court, upon the motion of -the plaintiff, ordered the following
issue to be made up and sent to the Circuit Court for .Washington county, to be there tried; that is to say, "whether the said Mary Ann Van Ness be the widow of ihe said John P..
Van Ness or not." No depositions or other testimony were
taken on either side in the OrphanIs' CourL
The Circuit Cburt proceeded to the trial of the issue, and in
the course of the trial sundry directions were given to the jury,
to which. the plaintiff excepted; and finally, as-appears by the
eleventh exception, the court instructed the jury that there was
no evidence from which they could 'find that the plaintiff was
lawfully married to John P. Van Ness, the intestate. Under
this direction, the jury found by their verdict that.Mary A. Van
,Ness.was not the widow of the late4Jbhn P. Van Ness; and
this finding was, by order of the court, certified under seal to
the Orphans' Court.
This is the case before us, upon the record brought here by
the writ bf error; and the question to be decided is, whether
this court can take cognizance of the case, and inquire whether
error has or has not been committed by the Circuit Court in
giving the instructions under which the verdict Was found.
The cause was argued upon a motion to dismiss the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction. Mr. Cove and Mr. Bradley
for the motion, and Mr. May and Mr. Brent against it.
-

MIr. Coxe in suppott. of the motion, explained the -laws of
Maryland upon the subject, and referred 'to the act of 1798, in
I-Dorsey's Laws of Maryland, p. 414, subchap. 15, sec. 17, and
aIo to p. 394, subchap. 8, sec. 20.
the certificate directed to be transmitted to the Orphans'
-...

64

SUPREME COURT.
Van Ness v. Van-Ness.

Court is altogether different from chancery practice, where the
verdict is merely to inform the chancellor, who may set it
aside and direct a new trial. Mr. Cose referred also to the
cases in 1 Peters, 562, 565; 2 Peters, 243; 5 Howard, 118;
and 3 Howard, 681.
Mr. May, against the motion to dismiss.
The widow in this case filed a petition praying for letters
of administration to herself, and for a revocation of those previously granted to the brother. If she was the widow, she
was entitled to letters in preference to any one else. Act of
.1798, chap. 101, subchap. 15, sec. 17; 2 Harris & Gill, 51.
After receiving the certificate from the Circuit Court, the
Orphans' Court dismissed her petition. We took an appeal
from this dismissal, but the Circuit Court affirmed it.
It is evident that the appeal carried up nothing but the mere
certificat e, and under it it was impossible again to bring before
the Circuit Court the instructions which had been given at the
previous trial. The Orphans' Court never saw these "exceptions. If we could have got them into the record which was
transmitted from the Circuit Court to the Orphans' Court, then
an appeal from the order of dismissal would have carried them
again to the Circuit Court and from that court to this. But
we could not do it; 'and if this writ of error should be dismissed, it will follow that instructions were given by the court
below.wbich were decisive of the result, and yet there is no
mode of having such instructions reviewed by this court. The
certificate either established or destroyed* the claim, because it
.was conclusive upon the Orphans' Court. It was, therefore, a
final order. The act of 1801 includes final orders. See
2 Statutes.at Large, 106, sec. 8.
This court, in 6 Cranch, 235, decided that any final judgment, order, or decree might be brought up for review.
The act of 1801 has been" pronounced comprehensive.
4 Cranch, 396; 8 Cranch, 252.
What are final orders? See 3 Dall. 404; 2 Peters, 464.
The tendency of decisions is to enlarge the power of appeal.
-3Miss. Rep. 328; 1 Stewart & Porter, 171.; 1 Martin, N. S.
75 i 41X H. Rep. 220; 2 Mass. Rep. 142; 4 Mass. Rep. 107,
109 :,5 Mass. Rep. 194; 11 Mass. Rep. 275.
For the definition of a judgment see 3 Bl. Com. 296.
itr._Brent, on the same side..
Itis admitted. by the other side, that she had a right to ad-,
minister' if .he was the ,widow, and that this right was not
lost by the fact, that letters had been issued to the brother

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

65

Van Ness v. Van Ness.

previous to her application. The powei of the Orphans' Court
to revoke letters cannot be questioned. The only point in
issue was, whether she was or was not the widow. If the
certificate of the Circuit Court had been that she was the
widow, it might not have been a final order or judgment, because the Orphans' Court would still have to inquire whether
she was competent in other respects to take out letters. For
example, whether she was a resident, &c. But as 'the certificate was against her, it was conclusive of her rights. Mutuality is not necessary. Can there be any doubt of the certificate deciding the question as to -her? The Orphans' Court are
compelled to obey it. No case ever occurred in Maryland by
which the opinion of her courts-upon this point can be ascertained: A case did happen involving it; but before a certificate was sent to the Orphans' Court, a special act df the
legislature was applied for and obtained in 1834-5. Under
this act,' the case was carried to the Court of Appeals, and is
reported in 5 Gill & Johnson.
Mr. Brent.then made the two following points:1. The power of the Circuit Court over this case, sent to it
from the Orphans' Court, was as absolute, respecting a control
over the jury and granting a new trial, as over a case which
originated within itself.
2. -The Orphans' Court had no control whatever over the
verdict and judgment of the -Circuit Court.
What appeal had we? The Orphans' Court could not review
the proceedings of the Circuit Court, and yet it was a case
where the verdict either established or destroyed the claim.
If the present remedy is not applicable, then there is a strange
anomaly here in Washington, -that there is no mode of correcting errors where very important rights are involved. The
act of '1785, chap. 87, sec. 6, gave to a party aggrieved by any
"judgment or determination" a right to appeal to the Court
of Appeals. See Dorsey's Laws of Maryland. Can there now
be, under our system, such a thing as a legalized error? See
5 Harris & Johns. 176. As to what is a final judgment in
Maryland, see 2 Harris & Gill, 378 ; 12 Gill & Johns. 332.
The certificate was in effect a final order, and an appeal
from a judgment opens all interlocut6ry .orders. An instruction to a jury is a substitute for the -old demurrer to evidence.
3 Peters, 37'.
A writ of error must be upon a judgment which settles the
whole matter. 11 Coke5 38; 21 Wendell, 658, 668; 1 Roll.
Abr. 751. Pennsylvania decisions are, 3 Laws of Pennsylvania, 34; 1 Yates, 113; 2 Yates, 46, 51; 1 Binney, 444.
Other cases respecting appeals, 7 Clark & Fin. 52.
6*

66

SUPREME COURT.
Van Ness v. Van Ness.

The judgment in this case is final. 3 Binney, 276; Addison, 21, 121; 5 Howard, 214; 12 Wendell, 327; 2 Paige,
487; 19 Yes. 499; 2 Dan. Ch. Pr. 747, 1306, 1360; 1 Binney, 444; 5 Serg. & Rawle, 146; 6 Watts & Serg. 188.
-The statute of Pennsylvania is the only one in all the States
like that of Maryland; and the courts of Pennsylvania have
practically entertained appeals from such issues. If the substance appears in the reccdr, this coirt will not regard forms,
because, if it did, its jurisdiction would fluctuate, and it would
be in the power of the court below to oust it of its proper
jurisdiction: The right of appeal must exist or not exist when
the bill of exceptions is taken, and cannot depend upon the
mode in which the judgment is rendered.
The act of .Congress mentions a final order. But here an
order was necessary to direct the certificate to be transmitted
to the Orphans' Court, and that order was final. If there are
two judgments, one for dower and the other for damages, an
appeal may lie from- one, and not the other. Viner's Abr.
tit. Judgment, letter P. T.
The Orphans' Court must dismiss our petition on the reception of the certificate. 2 Harris & Gill, 51.
But it is said on the other side, suppose we now succeed,
and-another trial takes place in the Circuit Court, -with a different result, what is the Orphans' Court to do with these two
different verdicts? The difficulty is solved by referring to 10
Leigh, 572.
The act of Congress gives -the same jurisdiction to this
court in common law cases as in chancery. But in chancery
an -appeal will lie, although further proceedings may be necessary. 3 Barbour's Eq. Dig. 118, and cases there cited; 3
Cranch, 179.
(That part of Mr. Brent's argument relating to the amount
in controversy is omitted, the decision of the court not involving that point.)
Mr. Bradley, in reply, and in support of the motion to dismiss, maintained the following pro'positions: 1. That a writ of error can be issued from this court only in
-cases provided -by.statute.
2. That it can be issued only upon a final judgment, according to the common law.
-3. There has been no judgment, 'final or otherwise, in the
Circuit C(ourt.
4. That the words " order and decree," in the act of 1801,
refer to proceedings in 'equity; not to orders in a court of
common law.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

67

Van Nests v. Van Ness.

5. The statute of Maryland of 1798, chap. 101, gives to
the courts of law a peculiar, special, and limited jurisdiction,
and has not provided any mode for reviewing proceedings
under that jurisdiction.
6. That no writ of error could lie to'such a court, because
there is no judgment of that court, final or otherwise.
In support of these propositions he cited Wilson v. Daniel,
3 Dall. 401; Rutherford v. Fisher, 4 Dall. 22; Boyle v. Zacharie & Turner, 6 Pet. 656, 657; Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet.
331; Evans v. Gee, 14 Pet. 1; Amis v. Smith, 16 Pet. 303;
Smith v. Trabue's Heirs, 9 Pet..4 ; United States v. Goodwin,
7 Cranch, 108; United States v. Gordon, 7 Cranch, 287;
United States v. Tenbroek, 2 Wheat. 248; United States
v. Barker, 2 Wheat. 395; Sarchet v. United States, 12 Pet.
143; Mayberry v. Thompson, 5 How. ]21; Ches. & Ohio
Canal Co. v. U. Bank of Georgetown, 8 Pet. 259; Brown v.
U. Bank of Florida, 4 How. 465; Winston v. Bank of United
States, 3 How. 771 ; Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20, ยง 22.
.Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court. After stating the case, as above recited, the opinion
proceeded as follows.'.
The appellate power of this court in relation to the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia is regulated by the act of
Congress of February 27, 1801. And it authorizes the writ
of error to the Circuit Courtein those cases only in which there
has been a final judgment, 'order, or 'decree in-that court.
Whatever errors, therefore, may have been committed, and
however apparent they may be in the record, yet we have not
the power to correct them unless. the Circuit Court has passed
a final judgment, order, or decre6 in the case before it.
The argument on the part of the plaintiff is, that inasmuch
as the verdict was found in obedience to the positive instructions of the court, and as the certificate of the finding of the
jury was conclusive upon the Orphans' Court, the order of the
Circuit Court to certify the verdict to the Orphans' Court ought
to be regarded as a final judgment or order within the meaning
of the act of Congress.
It is true the Orphans' Court has no power to grant a new
trial, and is bound to consider the fact to be as found by the
jury; and consequently the judgment of that court 7aust be
against the plaintiff. But the matter in contest in the Okphans'
Court is the right- to the letters of administration. And it is
-the province of that court to apply the law upon that subject
to the fact, as established by the verdict of the jury, and to
make their decree accordingly; refusing to -revoke the letter.s

6S

SUPREME COURT.
Van Ness v. Van Ness.

granted to the defendant, and dismissing the petition of the
plaintiff. The suit between the parties must remain still pending until that decree is pronounced. The certificate from the
Circuit Court is nothing more than evidence of the finding of
the jury upon the trial.of the issue. It merely certifies a fact,
that is to say, that the jury had s& found. And the order of
the Circuit Court, directing a fact to be certified to another
court to enable it to proceed to judgment, can hardly be regarded as a judgment, order, or decree, in the legal sense of
these terms as used in the act of Congress. Certainly it is not
a final judgment or order. For it does not put an end to the
suit in the Orphans' Court, as that court alone can dismiss the
petition of the plaintiff which is there pending; and no other
court has the power to pass a judgment upon it. . A verdict in
any court of common law, if not set aside, is in all cases conclusive as to the -fact found by the jury, and the judgment of
the. court must follow it; as the Orphans' Court must follow
the verdict in this case. Yet a writ of error will not lie upon
the verdict.
And if this court should take jurisdiction, and should determine that the Circuit Court had erred in its directions to the
jury, what judgment could be given here? Could we give a
judgment reversing an order which does nothing more than
direct a fact to be certified to another court? If we could do
this, it Would not reach the judgment in the Orphans' Court,
nor exercise any 'control over it. ,And a writ of error can
hardly be maintained where the judgment of the appellate
court would be ineffectual and nugatory.
Neither could it make any difference as to the jurisdiction
of this court, if there had been a feigned issue with formal
pleadings, and the Circuit Court had entered a judgment upon
the verdict. For the judgment would have had no effect upon
the rights of either party to the administration in dispute, nor
could it exercise any influence upon the decision of the Or-phans' Court. And if this court could have regarded the
feigned issue as an action regularly brought in the Circuit
Court, and upon that ground have taken jurisdiction, the affirmance or reversal of the judgment would have had as little
effect upon the proceedings in the Orphans' Court as the
original judgment in the Circuit Court. It would. indeed
decide the riglit to the fictitious wager stated in'the pleadings.
But if the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed, and a
venire de novo awarded, it would not alter the decree in the
Orphans' Court. -That court is required by law to act upon
the finding of the jury, and not upon the judgment of the
Circuit Court. 'And the reversal of that judgment and a new

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

69

Van Ness v.Van Ness.

finding would not authorize 'the Orphans' Coart to recall the
judgment it had given, and was bound to give upon the original verdict certified by the Circuit Court.
The act of Assembly of MHryland appears to have received
in practice in that State the same construction that we have
given to it. There is, indeed, no judicial- opinion on the subject; but there is no ground for supposing that a writ of error
was ever sued out under that law. In 1832, an act was
passed authorizing a writ of error in such cases, and staying
proceedings in the inferior courts until a decision was had in
the appellate court; and this.law embraces eases which had
been tried before -its passage, as well as those ivhich should
afterwards take place. But from 1798 dovn to the passage of
this act of Assembly, we can find no trace of a writ of error
sued out in a case like this. The absence of any such proceeding for so many years is the strongest evidence of the
construction put upon the law, and of. the opinion entertained
by the bar of the State, that the writ would not lie. For many,
issues from the Orphans' Courts must have been tried'during
that period of time which would have given rise to the writ
of error if it had been supposed to be warranted by the law.
The act of 1B32, also, embracing as it does prior as well as
future cases, would have been altogether unnecessary, if a different construction had been giv:dn-o the act of 1798.
Upon the whole, therefore, this court is of opinion that there
has been no final judgment, order, or.decree in the Circuit
Court, and the wrii of error must be dismissed for'want of
jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and wasargued by counsel. On consideration -whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

