SUPREME COURT.
Brashear v. Mason.

WILLIAM C. BASHAR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN
SECRETARY OF THE NAvY, DEFENDANT.

Y.

MASON,

Under the joint resolutions of Congress, providing for the annexation of Texas to
the United States, the officers of the navy of Texas did not pass into the naval
service of the United States. The transfer of the navy of Texas related exclusively to the ships of war and their armaments.A mandamus. against th6 Secretary of the Navy will not lie at the instance of an of.
ficer to enforce the payment of his pay.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington.
It was an alplication to the Circuit Court for a mandamus,
under circumstances which are thus stated by that court in its

opinion.
William C. Brashear petitioned the court for a rule on John
Y: Mason, Secretary of the -Navy ofthe United States, to show
cause why a mandamus should not issue, commanding him, as
Secretary of the Department of the Navy, to cause payment to
the petitioner of his just dues as an officer in the navy for
the time past since the annexation of Texas to the United
States.
The petitioner -states, that, in pursuance of the constitution
and laws of the republic of-Texas, he was, on the 23d of
June, 1845, by the then president of the said republic, commissioned as, a commander in the navy of .the republic, and
forthwith entered into service under orders from the department of war in Texas;. and continued in that service from the
23d of September, 1844, thenceforth, and was so in service
when the joint resolution of the Congress of the United States
passed for annexing Texas to the United States was approved,
and when the said State of Texas was admitted into the Union and Confederacy of the United States of America, and was
actually in service and a commander in the navy of Texas
when the ship Austin, brigs Wharton and.Archer, and schooner San Bernard, armed vessels of war of and belonging to
the Texan navy, were delivered over to the United States, under the terms and articles of compact and agreement between
the United States of America and the republic of Texas; and
as -such he is advised that he is in good faith, and in accordance with the said articles of agreement, compact, and treaty
of annexation, an officer in the navy, and entitled ti his pay
and- emoluments from the United Stdtes.
The petitioner further states, that he never has resigned his
commission, nor been cashiered, nor dismissed; that he has
regularly reported himself for duty under the said 'commission

JANUARY TERMs-1848.

'93

Brashear v. Masbn.

to the Secretary of the Navy of the United States, and has d6manded his pay as an officer, bit the Secretary of the Navy of.
the United States has hitherto refused, and .yet refuses, to pay
him, or to recognize him as an officer of.the navy. He states
furtheri that he is informed and advised by counsel learned in
the law, that for his pay and. emoluments as an office of the
navy of Texas, transferredto the United States by the terms
.of the annexatiof4 aforesaid,*he is entitled to have and receive,
up to the 1st of October, 1847, the sum of $ 2,100 ; whereof
he has received from" the treasury of the United States no more
than the sum of $ 689.20, which was paid him by order of the
Secretary pf the Navy of the 19th of March, 1847. 'And he
is also advised, that he is entitled to his continuing pay'and
rank as an officer in the navy of the United States, by virtue
of the said agreement, compact, treaty; and transferbefore mentioned.
Notwithstanding all which, the Secretary of the Nav# 6f the
United States refuses t6 order payment to him for. the time
past since the said annexation and transfer, or to recogniz6e bim
as an officer in the navy of the United States.
That part. of the second section of the joint resolution of
the 18t March 1845, for annexing Texas to the Unted States,'.
which is applicable to this case, is in the following words :"Said State, when admitted into the Union, aftet cedinj'to
the. United States'all public edifices, fortifications, barracks,
ports and- harbours, navy and navy-yards, docks,'magazines,
arms, armaments, and all -other propertr and means pertaining
to the public defence, belonging to said republic of Texas,
shall retain, all *thepublic funds, debts, taxes, and dues of every
kind, which may belong to, or may be due and -owing,said republic ; and shall also retain all- the vacant and unappropriated
lands lying within its limits, to be applied *to the payment of
the debts and liabilities of the -said republic of Texas; and the
residue 6f said lands, after discharging the.said debt and liabilities, to be disposed of as the said State' may direct; but in no
event are said debts and liabilities to become acharge'upon the
government of the, United States."
'The Circuit Court overruled the motion for a mandamus,
and rejected the prayer of the petition, to which judgment
"Brashear excepted, and upon this exception the case cameup
to this court.

It was argued by Mr. Eibb and Mr. Jones, for the plaintff
in error, and by Mr.-Clifford (Attorney-General), for the Secretary of the Navy.
A portion of the argument on behalf of the plaintiff in error was as follows.

SUPREME COURT.
Brashear v. Mason.

Whether the applicant has a right to the money which he
demands by his petition and .motion depends upon the proper
meaning and effect of, that, part of the convention for annexation, and union which relates to the cession by Texas of her
"navy,, and the acceptance thereof by the United States.
The proposition flowed from the United States to Texas.
Texas accepted, and made the cession and delivery, in compliance with her sense of. the proposition ; and the United States
accepted.
The first question is,, What is the sense in which this condition was presented by the United States, and the sense in which
Texas accepted ?
This may be solved, by considering, first, the meaning of the
word ." navy," as established by general use; second, by the
circumstances of the parties proposing znd accepting ; third, by
the conduct of the parties in acting u.der the convention immediately after it was -ratified. 1. As to the meaning established by use, "navy" is a mixed
mode of speech, a complex idea, including the insensible, inert
matter whereof the vessels of war ard composed; also the armaments and 'equipments ; and also the active, living bodies
and minds necessary to give mobility, direction, utility, and efficiency to the vis inertier of the vessels and armaments.
Inanimate matter cannot think, plan, protect, drive off, pursue, blockade, and give safe convoy. Officers and sailors are
indispensably necessary to make a navy.
The idea of a navy-composed solely of vdssels and guns,
-withoutofficers and seamen, -is as absurd as the idea of an army
composed solely. of muskets i swords, pistols, and big guns,
without officers and soldiers to wield them.
_The.law, of the, United State's entitled CCAn act for the bet-'
ter*,government of the-navy of the United States" (2 Statutes at Large; '45), contains forty-two articles to rule and
govern the officers- and privates in the navy of the United
States, which is an authoritative definition, not to be gainsaid, that, officers and, privates. are component parts-of a navy.
The law of -the navy is to govern the officers and the privates
who compose the navy, iiot to govern ships and guns, that cannot offend nor commit .crimes, nor be the subjects of accusation
before naval, courts-martial,
2. As to the circumstances of the parties proposing the cession and making the cession of the navy and navy-yards,
docks, ports, and harbours, the United States, by their Consti'tviioii, had' p6wdr " io provide -and'maintain a navy" ; their
situation, interests, and duties imperiously demanded the execution of. that power. The State of Texas, if admitted into

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

95

Brashear v. Mason.

the Union, could no longer keep ships of war in time of peas
without the consent of Congress; and yet a navy would be
essential to guard and protect the coasts and harbours of Tex-,
as after the union, as it had. been before the proposed conditions and guarantees for the union. The people and government of Texas could not, did not, understand the proposal to
cede thenavy to-the United States as intended to destroy it,.
-any more than that the proposal to cede the ports and harbours
was intended by the'United States for the purpose of. obstricting or. rendering them useless. The natural sense in which
they were presented, understood, and .accepted was, that the
navy, ports, and harbours were to be maintained, presei* daud
used for their several and appropriate purposes.
But the circumstances under which the people and government of Texas were, in relation to their navy, so well known
to public history- and to fame, forbid the idea that the United
States intended the proposal, or that Texas would have acceded to it, as containing a iolation of the obligations due to the,
officers of the navy, who had so repeatedly, so .gallantly, so
gloriously, and so usefully'fought the enemies.of Texas,.beat
off the foes who came to invade, pursued them into their own
ports and harbours, there blockaded them, and levied contribu;.
tions to assist .the means of Texas in their war of independ-'
ence. , The many naval battles between- the vessels ok war of
Texas and those -bf Mexico, in -the year 1836, and after, in
which, the navy of Texas fought against the very superior
force of, the Mexicans, always sustaining the honor of- the flag,
and adding newbrilliancy-to the lone star, were just foundations of hational pride, as well as of natioial gratitude towards
the navy. The belief, that, by the proposal -forceding the navy of Texas to.the- United States,the officers wo ld. have been.
'deprived of their commissions and payin .the navy so transferred, turned adrift to seek a, precariofts -subsistence in some
other calling, tor which their long and gallant services in
the. navy .of Texas had unfitted them, would of :itself have
been cause for rejecting the proposal on the part of. Texas.
Such fell ingratitude would have tarnished the escutcheon of
Texas. - The words of .the proposal, the circumstances of .the
parties to the convention, the end propqsed, left no. grou d for
suspicion, that such an act of injustice and ingratitude to the
officers of the navy wa! concealed in the proposal -made by the
United States.
3. The conduct of the parties in 'acting under the conven-.
tion immediately after it was ratified.
tThe government of
Texas'issued an order to the commander of the navy for delivery to the United States ; the United States -received the navy

-

-

96

SUPREME COURT.
Brashear v. Mason.

officers, privates, and vessels, and kept them in service and pay
for the time shown in the petition and the documents. Texas
had no standing army, nor officers of a regular army upon permanent establishment. She had some companies of rangers
enlisted as volunteers for the limited period of three months,
not expired when Texas was admitted into the Union. These
rangers, with the noted gallant Major Jack Hays at their head,
were turned over to the command of General Taylor, served
out the time for which they had been enrolled, and performed
under his command eminent services well known to fame.
Such were the actings and doings by the parties to this convention, when the mutual sense of its meaning was fresh in
memory, and the faith of the treaty prevailed.
The word "navy," as used in the Constitution of the United States, has never been sdpposed by any one to mean hips
only. By established usage, and by various acts of Congress,
navy " comprehends both ships and men.
There. is nothing.in the convention itself, nor in the circumstances attending the parties, nor in the end proposed, which
requires that the terms of the convention should be understood
in a confined, restrictive sense. On the contrary, all the circumstances unite in requiring the expressions to be taken in
the most extensive-sense. For surely the authors of the proposal, and the party accepting it, did use the word "navy" in its
extensive sense, because it was applied to -the existing navy of
Texas, known to be armed, officered, and manned; known to
have gloriously fought the battles of Texas, and kept in check
the naval power of Mexico, which .nation had not then acknowledged the independence of Texas, .but kept up the threat
to subdue the spirit of the revolted province and subject it to
the Mexican power.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error then proce4ded to show,
from several other considerations, that the word "navy" must
be construed to include officers and men.
Mr. Clifford (Attorney-General), contra,
There are several views of this question, ei-her of which; as
it seems to me, is conclusive against him. He claims pay as
an officer of the United States navy.
It is contended" that the joint resolution of March,. 1845,
makes him stch officer. The construction contended for by
the petitioner is founded entirely on the meaning which he
puts upon the word "navy," which in my judgment is entire-.
ly erroneous, and cannot be sustained. The* resolution contained the terms of a compact between two sovereign and independent States, and by its seoond condition clearly contem-

JANUARY TER74 1848.

97

Brashear v. M ason....

plated nothing more than an agreement as to the public property,
means, resources, and liabilities of Texas. It was the public
property, and that alone, which was embraced in that provis- ion. Texas was to retain certain public property, and meet her
own liabilities; all the residue of her means Df public or national defence was to be "cceded" -to the United States, -a
term of grant evidently applicable to property.and not to persons. *No ingenuity can change the obvious meaning and
sense of a law so plainly written.
The condition, it *l be observed, is confined to acts to be
done by Texas, and not to duties to be assumed by the United
,States. Texas binds herself, by acceding to the terms of the
resolution, to cede her navy and other public property. The
petitioner held a comimission under Texas, and had taken the
oath of allegiance to her. This did not establish any such
relation between the officer and the government as authorized the government to transfer him to the United States,
into official responsibilities to which he had not assented, and
towhich his commission did not'bind him. Still less. can the
Uhited States be held to have taken him into their service by
that condition, which imposed on them no duties. The construction contended for would be placing the United States in
the attitude of proposing impossible conditions to the government of Texas, for how could Texas cede the services of her
itizen ?By a proviso in- the naval appropriation act of 4th August,
1842 (5 Statutes at Large, 500), it is declared, "1That, until
otherwise ordered by Congress, the 'officers of the navy shall
not be increased beyond the number in the respective grades.
that were in the service on the' 1st day of January, 1842."
The construction contended for is.
inconsistent with this provision of law, and no implication arising under the resolution
of March, 1845, can be held as repealing it. This test as to
the intention of Congress is conclusive.
But, further, the construction contended for is wholly inconsistent with the power of appointment, which, by the Constitution, is vested in the President, by and with the advice and
consefit of the Senate. It is unnecessary to consider any of
the qualifications annexed to that provision of the Constitution, as it is very certain they can have no application to the
present case. It will not be disputed, that officers in the navy
of the United States, under existing laws, mst be appointed
and commissioned by the President.
Congress has no power, either by treaty or by act of ordinary legislation, to abrogate -this constitutional provision. It is
presumed no authority can be found for the pretension,. that
VOL. V. '
9

98

SUPREME COURT.
Brashear v. Mason.

Congress can supersede the necessity of an appointment by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
*in order to constitute an officer in the navy of the United
States,; and'certainly no person can be entitled to pay as such,
without a connnission from the President, under the existing
laws. Such a'proposition, so subversive of the Constitution
cann6t be seriously entertained.
. What was the temedy sought by the petitioner? -It was,
that the Circuit Court should issue a writ of mandamus, directing the Secretary of the Navy to pay a. sum of money to the
petitioner, which he alleges is due to him as an officer of the
United States navy.- At all times this remedy is used by the
court with extreme caution, and never in a doubtful case; and
only to'compel the performance of a mere ministerial act, or
to do some specific thing enjoined by law,*in which the party
ha. no discretion. -Surely this is not a case in which this
power of the court should be exercised.
The petitioner has mistaken his remedy. Congress appropriates money for the pay of officers and men of. the United
States navy; and the. right of an officer to pay attaches as a
necessary consequence to the rank conferred by his commission. Has he established his rank? Certainly not.
But even if he has established his rank, the Secretary of the
Navy can neither pay him nor withhold his pay; that is a ques.tion for the accojinting officers' of the treasury, over whom,
in this respect, .the navy department can assume no.,control.
.The sum stated by the petitioner as received by order of the
Secretary of the Navy was paid out of the contingent fund
of the department for services rendered by the petitioner,
which might have been. performed by any citizen holding no
commission in the navy. That fund is not chargeable with
the pay of officers and men, as is too. well known to require
any'reference to the law. The appropriation for pay is.under
the general superintendence of the Secretary of the Treasury,
and no account for 'such pay can be allowed until it shall have
been passd6 by the accounting officers in the last-named department. The sum paid to the petitioner was for 'services
ren &redin'taking charge of the, property of the United States,
and not as being due him as -an officer. . The petitioner's account as presented shows this. The Secretary of the Navy
expressly refused-to recognize the petitioner as an officer of the
navy of 'the Uited States. See Secretary's'letter.
The reasons assigned by the Circuit Cout for refusing the
rule are so entirely satisfactory and conclusive, in the view
'which I take of the, question, that I deem it wholly unnecessary to pursue the argument, and have only to append a copy

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

99

Brashear v. Mason.

of that opinion for the consideration of the court, and to 'ask
their attehtion to the fact, which appears by the record, that
Brashear's commission in the Texas navy bears date subsequent to the passage of the joint resolution of Congress.'
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court held in and for
the District of Columbia.
The plaintiff inade application to the court below for a mandamus against the defendant, -to compel the payment of $ 2100
arrearages of pay due him from the government as a commander in the navy of the United States, which application
I-,was founded on the following state of facts.
The plaintiff was appointed a commander in the navy of the
republic of Texas on the 23d of September, 1844, and continued in its service down to the annexation of the republic
to the United States, in pursuance of the joint resolutions
of Congress,. March 1, 1845, and*until Texas was admitted
into the Union as one of the States of the confederacy, and
was in the actual service of that republic at the time when its
navy, consisting of four vessels of war, was deliivered over to
the authorities of the United States,,according to the terms of
annexation.
The plaintiff insists, that, according to the terms and conitions of the compact between the two countries, on the transfer of the navy of Texas to the United States, and their acceptance of the same, he became ar officer of the United States
navy, and entitled to his pay and emoluments as such.
He further states, that he had reported himself to the Secretary of the Navy for duty, and had demanded his pay of the
same; but that the Secretary had refused to recognize him as
an officer of the navy, or to make any payment to him as such.
The court below refused the mandamus, and dismissed. the
application.
The case is now before us for review.
It is not pretended that there has been any stipulation, either
by act -of Congress or by treaty between this government and
Texas, by which the officers of her navy were to becone in.corporated into the navy of the United States, as a consequence
of the annexation ; but it is supposed to result from a proper
construction and understanding of one of the stipulations contained-in the sedond joint resolution of March. 1, 1845. The
part material is as foll6ws :"1Said State (Texas), when admitted into the Union, after
ceding to the United States all public edifices, fortifications
barracks, ports and -harbours, navy and navy-yards, docks, mag-

100

SUPREME COURT.
Brashear v. Masoi.

azies, arms, armaments, and all other property and means pertabmng to the public defence belonging to Texas, shall ietain
all the public funds," &c. (5 Statutes at Large, p. 797:)
The argument is, that 'the term "navy" properly includes,
not only the vessels of war, their 'armaments and equipments,
but also the 'usual complement of officers and crew on board
the respective vessels; and that it is in this sense the term is
used, and should be understood, in the joint resolutions.
We think not, but, on the contrary, are of opinion that it
relates exclusively to, the ships of war and their armaments
belonging to the naval establishment of.Texas, which, according to the compapt, were to become the property of the United
States.
The two governments were not negotiating about persons
holding' public employmeits in Texas,, or in respect to any
place or provision for that class, on the, breaking up of the old
government and its reconstruction for admission into the Union,
but in respect to her' public property, which she was, generally,
disabled from holding, under the Constitution of the United
States,'after her admission, as it fell under the jurisdiction and
direction of the federal government.
The resolution provides for ceding to the United States all
public edifices, fortifications, barracks, ports and harbours, navy
and navy-yards, docks, magazines, &c., and all other property
and
means
pertaining to the public defence.
.The
phraseology
is appropriate for the purpose of conveying
the property of the one government to the other, but exceedingly inapt and unfortunate if intended to embrace persons or
public officers, as contended for boy the plaintiff.
The argument in favor of including the officers of the navy
of Texas in the transfer, of the ships might be urged with
equal force by the officers and hands in charge of. the navyyard, or of those at the time in charge of the fortifications'
for.the term "navy," in the connection in which it .is 'used, no
.more includes, ae vi termini, the'officers and crew on. board,
than the term "navy yard" includes the officer's and hands in
charge of that part'of the public property, or the term " fortifications" includes theofficers and soldiers of the republic engaged in manning them.
The construction contended for we think altogether inadmissible, and properly rejected by the court below.
We are also of 9pinion, that if the plaintiff had made out a
title to his'pay as an officer of the United States navy, a mandamus would not lie.in the court below to enforce the payment.
The Constitution provides, that no money shall be drawn
from the treasury but in consequence-of appropriations made

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

101

Brashear v. Mason.

by law. (Art. 1. 9.) And it is declared, by act of Congress
(3 Statutes at Large, p. 689, 4 3), that all moneys appropriated
for the use of the War and navy departments shall be drawn
from the treasury by warrants of the Secretary of the Treasury,, upon the requisitions of the Secretaries of these departments, countersigned by the second comptroller.
And, by the act of 1817 (3 Statutes at Large, p. 367, 44 8, 9),
it is made the duty of the comptrollers to countersign the warrants only in cases when they shall be warranted by law. And
all warrants drawn by the Secretary of the Treasury upon the
treasurer shall specify the particular appropriations to which
the same shall be charged ;. and the moneys paid by virtue 6f
such warrants shall, in conformity. therewith, be charged to
such appropriations in the books kept by the comptrollers ;.and
the sums appropriated for each branch of expenditure in the
several 'departments shall be solely applied to the, object forwhich they are respectively appropriated, and.no others. (2
Statutes at Large, p. 535, § 1.)
Formerly, the moneys appropriated for the war and navy departments were placed in the treasury to the credit of the
respective secretaries. That practice has been changed, and
all the moneys in the treasury are in to the credit or in the cusiody of the treasurers, and.can be drawn out, as we have seen,
only on the warrant of the Secretary of the Treasury, countersigned by the comiptroller.
In the case of Mrs. Decatur v. Paulding (14 Peters, 497), it
was held by this court that a mandamus would not lie from
the Circuit Court of this District to the Secretary of the Navy
to compel him to pay to the plaintiff a sum of money claimed
to be due her -as a pension under a-resolution of Congress.
There-was no question as to the amount due, if the plaintiff
-was properly entitled to the pension; and it was made to appear, in that case, affirmatively on the application, that the
pension fund was ample, to satisfy the claim. The fund, also,
was under the control of the Secretary, and the moneys payable on his own warrant.
Still the court refused to inquire into thb merits of the claim
of Mrs. D. to the pension, or to -determine whether it was
rightfully withheld or not by the Secretary, on the ground that
the court below had no jurisdictioh over the case, and, therefore, the question not properly before this court on the writ of
error.
The court say, that 'the duty required of the Secretary by
the resolution was to be performed by him as the head of one
of the executive departments of the government, in the ordinary discharge -of his official duties; that, in" general, sach
9*

102

SUPREME COURT
Brashear v. Mason.

duties, whether imposed by act of Congress or by resolution,
are not mere ministerial duties; that the head of an executive
department of the government, in the administration of the
various and important concerns of hi§ office, is continually required to exercise judgment and discretion; and that the court
could not by mandamus act directly ipon the officer, and guide
and control his judgment or discretion in matters committed
to his care in the ordinary discharge of his official duties.
The court distinguish the case from Kendall v. The United
States (12 Peters, 524), where there was a mandamus to enforce
the performance of a mere ministerial act, not involving, on the
part of the officer, the exercise of any judgment or discretion.
The principle of the case of Mrs. Decatur is decisive of the
present one. The facts here are much stronger to illustrate
the inconvenience and unfitness of the remedy.
Besides the duty of inquiring into and ascertaining the rate
of compensation that may be due to the officers, under the
laws of Congress, no payment can be made unless there has
been an appropriation for the purpose. And if made, it may
have become already exhausted, or prior requisitions may have
been issued sufficient to exhaust it.
The Secretary is obliged to inquire into the condition of the
fund, .nd the claims already charged upon it, in order to ascertain if there is.money enough to pay all the accruing demands,
and if not enough, how it shall be apportioned among the parties entitled to it.
These are important duties, calling for the exercise of judgment and discretion on the part of the officer, and in which
the general creditdrs of the government, to the payment of
whose demands the particular fund is applicable, are interested, as well as the government itself. At most, the Secretary
is but a trustee of the fund for the benefit of all those who
have claims chargeable upon it, and, like other trustees, is
bound to administer -it with a view to the rights and interests
.of all concerned.
It will not do to say, that the result of the proceeding by
mandamus would show the title of the relator to his pay, the
amount, and whether there were any moneys in the treasury
applicable to the demand; for, upon this ground, any creditor
of the government would be enabled to enforce his claim
against it, through the head of the proper department, by
means of this writ, and the proceeding by mandamus would
become as common, in the enforcement of demands upon the
government, as the action of assumpsit to enforce like demands against individuals.
For these reasons, we think the writ of mandamus would

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

103

Heirs of De .Armas v.United States.

not lie in the casei and therefore, also, properly refused by the
court below, and that the judgment should be affitmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, ana was argued by c6unsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be aiid the
same is hereby affrmed.

Tnx HEIRS OF C. ANiT M. DE AR AS, APPELLANTS, V. THE UNITED
STATES.
An order of the District Court, sustaining a demurrer to a petition because it was
multifarious, and because the names of the persons claiming or in possession of
the land which the petitioners alleged to belong to them were not set forth, was
not a final judgment or decree from which an appeal lies to this court.

THis case came up by appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
It was a petition in the District Court relating to land, the
circumstances of which it is unnecessary to state any further
than they are referred to in the opinion of the court, as the
case went off upon a point of jurisdiction. It was argued by
Mr. S. A. Prentissand Mr. Perin, for the appellants, and Mr.
Clifford (Attorney-General), for the United States.
That part of the argument of the Attorney-General which
related to the point of jurisdiction was.as follows.
On the part of the United States it is contended, that the
Supreme Court has no jurisdiction under the second section of
.the, act of 1824, or under any other act, unless in cases where
the judgment or decree in the court below made final disposition of the suit.
This point has been repeatedly ruled, on the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, by the unanimous judgment of
the court, and is believed no longer to be an open question.
Houston v. Moore, 2 Wheat. 433. Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 Wheat.
448. Weston et al. v.City Council of Charleston, 2 Peters.
449. Winn's Heirs v. Jackson et. al., 12 Wheat. 135.
"The word final must be nnderstood as applying to all
judgments and decrees which determine the particular cause."
Weston et al. v. City Council of Charleston, before cited, on'
pages 464, 465.

