146

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

cury and her cargo in her voyage from Gibraltar, in December,
1822, the exceptions to any items charged against the defendant and allowed to the complainant, arising out of any private
trading by the defendant on board the Mercury, and afterwards
on board of the Superior, are overruled. The exceptions
which apply to allowances made to the complainant against
the defendant, growing out of the first voyage of the Mercury,
ending at Gibraltar, are sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court, with instructions to enter a decree
in pursuance of this opinion.

LEWIS CURTIS AND GEORGE GRISWOLD, TRUSTEES OF THE APPALACHICOLA LAND CoDIPANk, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN AND JAMES INNERARITY.

Where there was a sale of wild lands in Florida occupied by Indians and the
purchasrs gave a mortgage to secure the payment of some outsanding instalments of the purchase iponey, the fact that- the purchasers had not complete
possession of the lands is not a sufficient objection to their being charged with
interest from the time when the money was due.
They had paid a large part of the purchase-money before the execution of the
,mortgage, withoLt raising this objection, and the parties to the contract of sale
knew that the Indians had possession of the lands as hunting-grounds.
The purchasers in a former suit averred that they had peaceable possession, and the
vendors cannot be held responsible for a subsequent disturbance.
The doctrine of the civil law, viz. "that the vendee is not liable for interest
where he received no profits from the thing purchased," applies only to executory contracts where the price is contracted to be paid at some future day, and the
contract is silent as to interest.
Nor is it an objection to the allowance of interesi that the purchaser was put to
much trouble and expense to obtain d recognition of his title.
The claim to be released from interest, upon the ground that there was no person
legally authorized to receive it, is not supported by the facts in this case.
Where the vendor gave a power of attorney to an agent to receive a payment from
the purchasers on account, and the agent gave a receipt in full for certain balances by way of adjustment and compromise, and the vendor disapproved of the
acts of the agent, the payment is not good, even on account, against the vendor.
The purchasers, by maling a payment in this way, upon certain terms which
were not within the power of attorney, constituted. the agent their agent. For
two years afterwards, they insisted upon the binding force of the acts of the
agent to the extent to which he had given releases, and only claimed the payment to be on account when the agent became insolvent. It was then too late.

THIs was an appeal from the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida
All the material facts in the case are set forth in the opinion
of- the court.

The case was argued at the preceding term by Mr. Webster

and Mr. Berrien., for the appellants, and by Mr. Westcott and
Mr. Jones, for the appellees.

. JANUARY TERM, 1848.

147

Curtis et 'al. v. Innerarity et al.

Mr. 'Webster opened the case, on the part of the appellants,
by stating all the circumstances of it. He then contended
that the appellants were not properly chargeable with interest
during the interval between the death of John Forbes 'in 1822,
in Cuba, and there being a personal representative of his estate
in the United States. There was nobody to whom a payment
could rightfully have been made. Moreover, the purchasers
did not come into possession until 1835, when a decree of this
court confirmed their title. Previously to that, both the commissioners and courts in Florida had rejected it. By the rules
of the civil and Spanish law, the land when sold was watrant;ed, and when this is the case, and the purchaser cannot get
possession, no interest is payable. 1 Domat; 399, §§ 3, 4, 5,
75, 76, 79; 2 Wash. C. C. 204.
Under such circumstances, if notes are given for the purchase, chancery will restrain the vendor -from collecting the
notes until the encumbrances are cleared away. Of course,
interest would not run during this time. 2 Johns. Ch. R. 546;.
Colin Mitchell's case, 9 -Peters, 711.
We are entitled to'a credit for the money paid to Blount
under his power of attorney. The power -was ample to receive money. If'he went beyond it, it is an affair between
his principal and himself.- But the power extended to the
receipt of the money which we paid. If what he did beyond
his power can be separated from what he did within it, then
the latter is good pro tanto. If it cannot be separated, perhaps the whole act is void. It is for the court to say whether
the payment on our part of a specific sum of money cannot
be distinguished from the releases which he gave. Story on
Agency, 204, § 170.
If he had power to receive money on behalf of the mortgagee, he had power also to state an account and to give a
receipt. So far his acts must be.good, because a line can be
lawn between them and his other acts.
Mr. Wetcott, for the appellees, said that some of the facts
stated by the opposite counsel did not appear upon the record.
He therefore. xacapitulated the circumstances of the case as
they were exhibited by the record. The instalments were all
payable in London,-according to the contract, and in deciding
that 'they were not, the court below erred, for the acts of the
parties and the terms of the contract showed the contrary
The mortgage was- made in consequence of a settlementobetween Forbes and Mitchell for money .then -due. 'All prior
.. yments. were presumed ta, be adjuistea- and takei into the
account. Itwae& given- for the last two instalments, and the

148

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v,Innerarity etal.

time extended. The interest upon this extension would amount
to a large sum, and the parties must be presumed to have had
it in their minds. But it is said that we are not entitled to
interest, because the contract was executed in Florida, and by
the civil law no interest accrues until the vendee is placed in
possession. Also, because there was no person legally authorized to receive the interest. With regard to the first point,
where is the evidence,, in this record, of any difficulty in obtaining possession? The record of a former case tried in this
court shows that these parties then said they had been in undisturbed possession. The petitioners in that case were the assignees of Colin Mitchell.
It is said, also, that by the civil law a sale implies a warranty, and Domat is cited. But Domat does not give the laws of
Spain which prevailed inFlorida. It might be admitted that
the civil law implies a warranty where there is a sale of personal property. But it is not the rule as to sales of property
where ;deeds are required. The French law is not the same
with the Spanish. For example, Domat says it is not necessary that thevendee must'be ousted, to entitle him to bring an
action against the vendor. This may, perhaps,'have Been Roman law,-but it is not Spanish. Johnson's Laws of Spain,
216, 217.; in brackets, 195.
The Spaniards seem to have derived their law from the
same source from which the common law of England came.
In both, there must be an actual eviction. But in this case,
the appellants say that they Were disturbed in their possession
by the United States, when the decision-of this court shows
that the United States had no title.
The contract is said to have been for the purchase and sale
of wild lands which yielded no fruits. 1 Domat, book 3, sec.
14) p. 422, enumerates four classes of cases where interest is
chargeable. One is when it depends on the agreement. It is
true" that in our case nothing is expressly said about interest,
either in the contract or mortgage.. But the intention of the
parties must be the guide, and that can be gathered from the
contract. The civil and common law igree in this. If the.
time of payment was fixed by the mortgage, new security taken and the time extended, these circumstances take the case
out of the rule respecting wild lands, because they supervene
upon the original contract. It was executed" after the treaty
with Spain was concluded. The change of flags took place in
July, 1821. But in February, 1820, it was known that a treaty
was concluded. Mitchell's purchase was in anticipation of the
treaty. Is it a case, then, to be governed by the civil law,
contrary to the intention of the parties and to the equity of the

JA.N.&RY TERM, 1848.

149

Curtis et al. w. Innerarity et al.

case ? The court below allowed five per cent. interest. But
in August, 1822, the laws of Florida (p. 48) gave six per cent.
The case cited from Wash. C. C. Rep. 250 is not in point. I
refer to the same book, p. 253. On the general subject of interest, all the cases are cited in 2 Fonblanque, 423 ; in brackets, 425.
But another reason given for not being charged with interest is, that there was no person authorized to receive the money. It is true that Forbes had no administrator in Florida until 1837; but he had an executor in Havana, and the contract
was made there. The law is, that the party must show that
he was willing and ready to pay before he can be excused. 3
Leigh, 619; Powell on Mortg. 367, 368; 2 Tomlins's Law
Dict. 247; 1 Yes. 222; Barge's Com. 754.
In the record, the appellants admit their liability to pay interest, and in the settlement with .Forbes they actually pay five
per cent. interest. If they put it upon the ground of -atender;
we reply that a tender must be strictly made, so that the tender of a less sum is no bar to interest. Powell on Mort. above;
3 Kent's Com. 450; 6 Randolph, 465.
Payments must first be applied to interest. 1 Halsted, 408;
I Dall. 124.
As to Blount's power of attorney, he had only authority to.
receive money on account. He is, prohibited in six different
places from giving a release in full. Such powers must be
strictly construed. Story on Agency, 63.
The appellants knew that we claimed $ 57,000, and yet took
a release in full for $ -13,000: What did good faith require of
them ? Certainly, to niotify Inerarity ; and yet, although the
money was paid in October, 1839, he did not know it until
May, 1840. As soon as he knhv it, he disavowed it. The
appellants purposely concealed it. (Mr.Westcott here examined
many
parts
of the
to show this.)
With
respect
to record
the number of instalments of Z 375 each
which.ought to be deducted, the appellants never claimed more
than onein their answer, and yet the court allowed them two.
'Mr. Jones, on the same side, said that most of the original
parties were dead. The affirmative of the questions raised"had
to be proved by the appellants. They were sued below on a
plain question of mortgage, and ought to have presented their
defence long ago. - Persons and docunents were then existing,
to clear up things which are now dark. The contract was
made in 1817-between Forbes and Mitchell, both residing in
the same jurisdiction. The first instalment wa *provided for,
leaving a balance of $ 50;000. Two years afterwards, a mort13* .

150

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

gage was made, and now tli6 appellants wish to go behind the
contract and mortgage too. Their claim is against strong presumption, and -equires strict proof.
Mr. Berrien, in reply and conclusion, said that the evidence
in the cause 'is very defective ; but it is not the fault of the
appellants. It is owing to the prosecuti6n of a sta.e demand
by the other side, after the evidence to resist it has in a great
degree perished. The pleadings, also, are very irregular, 'and
the record is strangely arranged; but the questions at issue can
be discovered and fairly represented. The bill of Innerarity to
foreclose, the answer of Curtis, the amended bill of John Innerarity, and the answer. to it, are sufficient, without the proceedings upon the cross-bill, to make the questions intelligible.
These proceedings show that it is a bill to foreclose a mortgage by John Innerarity, as the administrator of Forbes, claim-.
ing $ 76,000 ; this claim is then reduced to $ 67,000, and subsequently to $ 28,000. In this last, we say there is error m the
following points, and that the decree ought to be reversed: 1st. Because interest is calculated on each instalment from
th':respective days of payment, when it ought only to have
been allowed from the. time of the demand made by-Iling the
bill of foreclqsure, or, at most, from the- grant.of letters of administration on the estate of John Forbes to John Innerarity,
one of the complainants.
2d. Because the balance alleged to be due on an unpaid bill
of exchange, given by Cohn Mitchell, which was not secured'
by the mortgage, together with damages and interest, are allowed in the decree.
3d. Because the court refused to allow a deduction of F 375
to be made from the amount due on the mortgage, notwithstanding the written acknowledgment of John Forbes that
such deduction should be made.
4th. Because the court refused to allow, as a payment on
the mortgage, the sum of thirteen thousand three hundred and
fifty-seven dollars and seventy-three cents, received from the
appellants by Thomas M. Blount, the agent and attorney of
John Innerarity.
5th. Because costs are decreed against 'the appellants.
The date of the letters of administration is not in the record, but it must have been between 1835 and 1837.
1. Interest upon the two instalments.
The condition of the property was and is notorious. It was
w94, lad, inhabited by Indians, and the record shows it. In
the former case, which has.been referred to, it is true that there
was an averment that the parties had been -in undisputed pos-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

151

Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

session, but it was inserted merely to give the court jurisdiction, and is contradicted by the evidence. The Indians were
quiet whilst the Spanish government lasted, but became turbulent as soon as the change took place. The purchasers could
not get possessi6n of the property. By the civil law, interest
is not payable, although a. term be fixed for payment, which
term has expired, unless the purchaser is put into possession, or
the thing purchased is capable 'of producing fruits. 1 Domat,
p. 397, 2d ed., tit. 5, see. 1, art. 3.
The Spanish law must govern the case. But the same doc-trine is maintained in our c6untry. 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 253.
In Domat, p. 398, art. 5, it is said that if. the cause produces
no revenue, interest is due only where there is a demand. This
court will officially take notice of acts of Congress and treaties,
and these prohibit aiy exercise of ownership by claimants until the title is settled. It has been said that there was no warranty in the deed. But by the civil law a warranty is implied.
I Domat, p. 75, tit. 2, sec. 10; ibid. p. 76.
By our own law, any disturbance would be a ground for an
injunction to stay the collection of the purchase-money. 2
Johns. Ch. R. 546.
Interest is given for money which is due and payable. But
if it is not payable, according t6 the above rase in Johnson,
then no interest can be charged.
In the next place, terest cannot be claimed because from
1822 to the grant of letters of administration (say in 1837)
there was no person legally entitled to receive a payment or to
release the mortgage. .Forbes's executor in Cuba must be.excepted from this remark; but'an offer of paymehi was made to
that executor and refused. The refusal is alleged in the bill,
and admitted in the answer. How can the debtor be charged
with interest, when, if he sought to pay his debt, there was no
one to whom he could pay it who could give him a legal receipt ? It is said that the debtor must give notice to the creditor .that he had the money ready. But in the cases referred
to, there was some person authorized to receive such a notice;
but here there was not. It is also said that we did, pay interest, and therefore acknowledged our liability to -pay. It is true
that interest was paid; but by whom, and when ? It was only
when letters were taken out, and was not paid by the mortgagor, but by the drawer of a bill of exchange, - by Colin
Mitchell; the mortgagor never paid any, and Colin Mitchell
had no legal title. If interest is due, .therefore, it can only be
due from 1837.
2d point. As to the bill of. exchange.
The bill was not produced in the court below, but the court

152

SUPREME COURT."
Curtis et al. v.Innerarity et al.

say that payment was made by the parties. But the payment
was made by Colin Mitchell, and not the parties in the case.
The judge therefore erred in a matter of fact. Payment of
the bill could not have been enforced in a suit to foreclose the
mortgage. It was given for the first instalment due upon the
mortgage, and must have been received either as payment or
as collateral security. If as payment, then a lesser security
than the mortgage has been accepted, and it is just as if we
had paid in cash. If it was taken as collateral security, the
bill should have been returned when not paid. Under a bill
to foreclose the mortgage, it is impossible to collect damages
on a protested bill of exchange. They should have sued the
drawer, Colin Mitchell, at law upon the bill.
3d point. As to the L375.
The court below say that we claim two allowances of Z 375,
whereas we formerly claimed only one.
(Mr. Berrien here entered into many calculations upon this
matter.)
4th point. As to Blount's. authority.
The true rule upon-this subject has been quoted by Mr.
Webster from Story on Agency, §§ 166, 170. Where the
acts of the agent within his authority are distinguishable from
those beyond it, the former are good, and the latter only are
void.
We say, 1st. That the. authoiity was substantially executed.
2d. That the acts within the power are distinguishable from
those beyond it.
The power which Blount had necessarily included a power
to state an account 'and show what balance was due; and the
receipt of $ 13,000 was clearly within the scope of his authority. The court below say that the payment was clogged with
a condition which Innerarity could not accept, and therefore
he was not bound to bear the loss. But there is nothing in
the record to sustain this. Blount was president of a .bank,
was Innerarity's solicitor in the case, and his bosom friend.
Innerarity says be did not know of this transaction until 1840,
and the counsel on the other side complain that we were guilty
of a fraud in not giving notice. But why should we give no-"
tice ? The presumption was that the agent would report to
his principal. We paid the money, and took a receipt. It was
not our duty to give notice of it to the principal.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
It would contribute nothing to a clear apprehension of the
merits of this case to enumerate the various bills, answers,
cross-bills, &c., constituting the very voluminous and confused

JANUARY TIRM, 1848.

153

Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

mass of pleadings and documents spread upon our paper books.
.The pleadings have been consolidated, by agreement of the
parties. We may, therefore, consider the .case;:before us as a
bill by John Innerarity, administrator d th estate of John
Forbes, deceased, against the trustees of the Appalachicolaw
Land Company, for the foreclosure of a-mortgage given ,under
the following circumstances.

On the 4th of December, 1818, John Forbes, acting as the

executor of William Panton and Thomas Forbes, and as agent
of their respective'heirs, ccvenanted to sell- to Colin Mitchell
"two undivided-thirds of a certain tract of land cededby the
Creek Indians unto the h6use of trade of which said Forbes
was the principal partner, lying upon and between the rivers
Appalachicola and Appalachee, .and.cpntaining about one million two hundred thousand, acres, for the consideration of
$ 66,666.66, to be paid in the following manner: - One fourth,
or $ 16,666, on the 1st of May next, in the city of London,
valuing the same at four shillings and six pence sterling -each
dollar; the remainder, or $ 50,000, in four equal yearly instalments, reckoning from the date," &c.
This agreement was made and, executed in. the island of
Cuba, where John Forbes then resided. Colin Mitchell purchased for himself, Carnochan, and others, and, subsequently
took- the title in his own name, and continued to hold it till
1820,"when he transferred it to Octavius Mitchell, who held it
as trustee for. the company then or afterwards known as the
•Appalachicola Land Company. On the 9th of October, 1820,
Octavius Mitchell executed a mortgage to John Forbes for the
lWt two instalments of $ 12,500 each, 'due, by the agreement,
on the 8th of December, 1820, and the 8th' of December,
1821; but further time appears to have been given in the
mortgage for these two paypients" as they are made payable
on the 9th of March, 1821, and the 9th of March, 1822. This
mortgage is on the undivided half of the land conveyed to
Mitchell, and is the subject of the present suit.
John Forbes, the mortgagee, died in Cuba, in May, 182%,
having made a vill arid appointed executors, who qualified
and acted as such in that place, but never proved the will nor
obtained letters testamentary in Florida.
John Innerarity first obtained letters of administration'in
Florida, on the- estate of John Forbes, on the 5th of July,
1836.
That there is a balance due and unpaid on this mortgage
seems to be admitted; but the parties differ widely in their
estimates of its amount. The Sulkrior Court for the county
of Escambia, where this case originated, adjudged the balance

154

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

due on the mortgage to be $ 50,1596.0. On appeal to the
Court of Errors of the territory, that court decreed the balance
due to be $ 28,500.
From that decree both parties have
appealed. At preseilt, we can notice only the exceptions
taken by the mortgagors, whose appeal is now under consideration.
They have insisted on three several exceptions to the decree
of the.Court of Appeals, which will be noticed in their order.
1. Because interest was allowed from the time the money
secured by the mortgage became payable, when it should have
been allowed only from the time of filing the bill for foreclosure.
2. Because the court refused to allow a credit of Z 375,
which John Forbes admitted should be deducted from the
amount claimed.
•3. Because a payment of $ 13,357.73, made to Thomas MA.
Blount, was not allowed as a credit.
We shall consider these exceptions in their order, stating the
facts of the case bearing on each of them so far as may be
necessary to their elucidation.
I. As to the interest.
As the contract for the purchase of these lands, and the
mortgage given to secure the balance of the purchase-money,
were executed in. the island of Cuba, the court below allowed
the current and legal rate of interest of that place (five per
cent.) from the time the respective payments became due.
It is a dictate of natural justice, and the law of every civilized country, that a man is bound in equity, not only to perform his engagements, but also to repair all the damages that
accrue naturally from their breach. Hence, every nation,
Whether governed by the civil or common law, has established
a certain common measure of reparation for the detention of
money not paid according to contract, which is usually calculated at a -certain and legal rate of interest. Every one who
contracts to pay money on a certain day knows, that, if he fails
to fulfil his contract, he must pay the established. rate of interest as damages for his non-performance. Hence it may correctly be -said, that such is thq inplied contract of the parties. (See 2 Fonblanque, Eq. 423. '1 Domat, book 3, tit. 5.)
The appellants themselves seem to have been fully aware of
the justice of this rule, as in all their communications with the
mortgagees they have admitted their liability to pay interest,
and in their bill, filed in 1837, to have satisfaction entered on
the mortgage (which makes a part of the record of this case),
they offer "to pay interesf at five *per cent. from the 8th of
December, 1821." This may not of itself be a sufficient rea-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

. 155

Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

son for disallowing their present exception, if founded ih justice, but it affords a strong. presumption that it has no such.
foundation.
The reasons alleged in support of this exception are, first,
that the mortgagors had not possession of the land, or at
least received no'profits from it, and that, in either case, by the
civil law, the purchaser is not bound to pay interest. But we
are of opinion that this objection is founded on a mistake both
of the law and the fact. The mortgage was given more than
two years after the sale to the mortgagors and title executed to
them. A large portion of the purchase-money had been -paid,
and no objection made, that, the purchasers had not all the possession of which the land, was capable. Both parties knew
that, although the Indians had ceded their title, they still continued a transient occupancy of 'the lands for hunting-grounds.
They may have infested the lands, and rendered it dangerous
for the owner to occupy them in time of war; but their possession Was not what the law would term adverse, not. being
with claim of title. There was no covenant by the vendor to.
expel or exterminate 'the Indians; the purchasers received such
possession of the land as could be given them, cum onere. It
was not expected that the Indians should attorn to them or pay
them rent. The purchasers of over a million of acres of wild
lands did pot expect to make profits by actual cultivation or
reception of rents.' Their expectation of profit was from the.
increase in value of the lands from efflux of time and the progress of improvement. These profits they have realized, doubtless to the amount of more than a thousand per cent. on their
original investment. Moreover, the record of the Forbes case,
decided in this court (and read in evidence in this case, by consent), shows that, in 1828, eleven years after the purchase, the
appellaihts, or those under whom they claim, declared under
oath that they had had 11peacebable possdssion" of the land ever
since their purchase. If, since that time,.or before it, an actual
pedis possessio of these lands may have proved difficult or
dangerous, owing to Indian wars, it surely cannot be seriously
argued, that any warranty, expressed or implied, either by, the
civil or the common law, makes the vendor liable for the acts
-of a public enemy; or -for a detention or disturbance of the possession by the act of the sovereign power. The purchasers
have received full seizin and possession of these lands in the
year 18f9, under a title proved to be good and indefeasible;
the execution of this mortgage is an assertion of the fact ;.they
have neglected to comply with their contract to .pay the money
secured by the mortgage for ten years, at least, without any
apology; and it would be a strange doctrine indeed, jand' one

156

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

equally unknown to the civil as to the common law, that an
accidental disturbance of the possession by the public enemy,
happening so many years after such default of payment, could
retroact to justify its previous detention, or operate -as a defence
to the payment either of principal or interest.
Besides, if it were true that, during all this time, the vendee
was unable to have such a possession of his land as to receive
profits from. it, the, doctrine of the civil law, as quoted by the
learned counsel for the appellant, - "that the vendee is not
liable for interest where' he received no profits from the thing
purchased," -has'no application to the present case. It applies only to executory contracts, where the price is contracted
to be paid at some future day, and the contract is silent as to
interest. In such a case, the civilblaw will allow interest from
the date of the contract of sale, if the vendee has had possession and received profits from the thing purchased. In this it
differs from the common law) which would not allow interest
before the day fixed for payment, unless specially contracted
for. But where the purchaser has contracted to pay on a given
day, and neglects or refuses so to do; both law and eqity subject him to interest as the measure of damages for the breach
of his contract.
A second bbjection made to the payment of inteiest is, that
the purchasers incurred much trouble and expense in obtaining
any acknowlbdgment of their title from the United States, and,
although it was finally decided by the Supreme Court of the
United States that their title was valid, yet that the courts of
Florida had declared it invalid, and thus caused a cloud to
hang over it for two or three years, which hindered the settlement, improvement, and sale of the lands.
It is hard to conceive on what grounds these facts should
constitute a defence to the -payment of interest. The vendor
did not, and no sane vendor would, covenant that his vendee
should enjoy the property in all future time, free from unjust
interruption or oppression either by the sovereign power of the
State, the public enemy, or individual trespassers. At the time
this company purchased this claim from Forbes, the United
States and Spain were in treaty for the cession of Florida; and
doubtless it was the prospect of this change of sovereign, and
the anticipated increase in value 'in consequence. thereof, that
moved, them to purchase'this large claim on speculation, and
to covenant to pay the' money for it, without waiting to see
whether the United States would confirm the title or without
exacting from the vendors any covenant for the payment of
any expenses to be incurred in obtaining the confirmation of
their title by the new sovereign.

JANUARY TERM -1848.

157

:

Curtis et al.v. Innerarity et al.'

It may be admitted, also, that a court of equity would have
enjoined the vendor from enforcing the collection of the pur-.
chase-money.while the decree of the Florida court as to the
title remained unreversed, from an apprehension of a total failure of tonsideration; yet as that judgment was reversed, and
as the vendee was never evicted or put out of possession, he
could have no claim to be released from paying interest- even
during, the time his title was thus unjustly subject to -a cloud,
much less for any term preceding its existence, or since its removal. As we have', already said, there was no covenant in
this sale, nor is there in this or in any sale, either of real 6r
personal property, any implied warranty by the vendor that his
vendee shall enjoy it for ever free from all unjust or illegal interference either by the sovereign, or the citizen, or the public
enemy.
If the money secured by this mortgage had been paid when
it became due,. the mortgagee could have retained it with good
conscience, and the mortgagor could have shown no right to
recover it back.'on the ground of failure of consideration; for.
the consideration has not failed, and the title to the lands sold
is indefeasible. And such being the case,.it is hard to perceive
any reason why the mortgagor should not be liable to the legal
damages for detaining money which he was bound to pay.
Another reason urged against the allowance of interest in
this case is founded on the allegation, that, fr6m the death of
Forbes, in 1822, till 1836, when John Innerarity took out letters of administration in Florida, there was no person to whom
the mortgagors could legally make payment. But this argument is founded on a mistake of-facts, as it appears-clearly by
the record, that, whenever the mortgagors were ready or willing to pay, they found persons ready to teceive and give then!
a good and sufcient acquittance.
John -Forbes was a trustee, as to this money, for the heirs
of Panton and Thomas Forbes. When the mortgagors called
on the executors of John Forbes to make a partial payment on
the mortgage, they declined to receire it, but directed the payment to be made to the cestui que trusts, -ivhiQh was accordingly
done. In October, -1823, one half of the first instalment was
paid to William H. Forbes, acting for himself and -the other
heirs of Thomas Forbes. In the same year, also, the mortgagors paid to James Innerarity, who represented the heirs of
Panion, the sum of $ 2,680.81, and in February, 1825, the further sum of $ 2,080.87. There is no evidence of any tender
of the balance, either to the executors of Forbes or to the
cestui que trusts.
This objection is therefore without foundation'; -and -this
. 14
vo. ; V.

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v.Innerarity et al.

exception to the decree of the Court of Appeals is overruled.
II. The second exception is to the refusal of the court to.
allow a credit of £ 375, claimed by the mortgagors.
After three of the five instalments into which the price of
the lafnds was divided had been paid, but before the execution
of the mortgage to secure the last two, it was discovered, that
John and James Innerarity, who were owners of one fifth of
the Panton interest (or one tenth of the two thirds sold), would
not assent to the sale made by John Forbes. Whereupon, as
appears by all the testimony and the admissions of the parties,
it was agreed to refund to the purchasers a proportional amount
(being one tenth) of the purchase-money. Accordingly, three
several sums of £ 375 were refunded to John Carnochan, who
then represented the purchasers. "Besides which," says Forbes,
in his letter of 10th of December, 1819, "you will have to deduct from the acceptances due in 1820 and 1821 two similar
sums at these distinct periods." On the trial below, the mortgagees insisted, that, as the mortgage was given for the balance
due on the purchase nearly a year after the above-stated letter
of Forbes, the fair presumption would be, that all the deductions for the defect of title in the Panton share had been already
made, as the parties were fully aware of the difficulty, and
had already refunded large sums on account of it; and, as further time was given in the mortgage for the payment of the
last two instalments, it would not be probable that the parties
had inadvertently given a security for a larger sum than was
due. On the contrary, the mortgagors contended that they
were entitled to a credit for two'sums of £375, according to
the admission in Forbes's letter. The Court of Appeals allowed them a credit for one sum of £375, but refused to allow
the other; which zonstitutes the ground of the second exception to the decree.
As the correctness of the position taken by either party, on
this point, can be subjected to the test of mathematical calculation based on admitted facts, we are of opinion that* this exception has not been sustained. The whole amount of purchase-money for the tw-o thfrds ronveyed was £ 15,000 sterling.
The deduction for the Innerarity interest was one tenth, or
41,500, which would make four instalments of £375 each.
As the mortgage is given for the last two instalments without
any deduction, and as it is admitted that three instalments of
£375 each were refunded, it is plain that the fourth sum of
£375 was not deducted from the mortgage, and equally plain
that John Forbes was mistaken when he said that two sums
of £3.75 remained yet to be deducted. The origin of this

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

159

Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

mistake can easily be discerned. The first payment was one
fourth of the whole purchase-mtoney, or £3,750; the one tenth
refunded was Z375; but as the remaining three fourths were
divided into four instalments, each of £2,812 10s., the deduction from each would be but £281 5s. He overlooked the
fact, that the last four instalments, being each one fourth less
than the first, the-amount to be deducted would be diminished
in the same ratio. The oversight or mistake of Forbes in 1819
is not greater than that of both parties in 1820, when they included in the mortgage £375 which they knew was not due.But as the fact is fully established, that the only subject of deduction was one. tenth of the whole, and that 'three sums of
A375 had been refunded'and no more, the admission of Forbes,
on the one side, and the presumptions of fact drawn from the
execution, of the mortgage, on -the other, must both yield to
the certainty of arithmetic.
M.'The third and last ground of exception urged by the
appellants is the refusal bf the court to allow the-m a credit for
the sum of $ 13,347'.75,- paid to Thomas M. Blount, the agent
and attorney of John Inerarity.
Some two years after the commencement of the litigation
between these parties, the appellants made a payment to Thomas
M. Blount of $ 13,357.75, under the following circumstances.
It 'was adibitted by both parties that a large sum was due
oA. the mortgage, but they"difed widely as to the amount.
Innerarity, being,willing to receive .any amount which the
mortgagors were willing to pay, and give them a general credit
for so much paid on account, -without compromitting. his right
to recover the whole-amount claimed by him, gave a power of
attorney to Thomas M. Blount, who was going to New York,
where the appellants resid~d, ,-toreceive from the .trustees of
the Appalachicola Land Company, in the bity of New York,
any sum. or sums of money on account of and in art payment
of the niortgage, &c., and to give such receipt or receipts, re.lease or releases, therefor, as may be deemed requisite to exonerate the said trustees from so much of the said.mortgage as
may be paid by them on account and in part payment," &c., &c.
-With this power.of attorney, Blount proceeded to New York,
and, instead of receiving such sums as the mortgagees might
choose to pay on.account, and g: ving such receipts or releases
as he was authorized to give, he assumed to adjust and settle
with the company the whole balance due on the mortgage, and
to act as if he had been authorized to a-bitrate and decide all
the-matters in variance between the parties,in the co ntrover-sies then pending .in the; courts-of Florida. For the sum of
$4,832-35, he gave the mortgagors a discharge for the balance

160

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

of the first instalment, including the disputed item of damages
on the bill of exchange, claims, &c. And for a further sum
of $ 8,525.38 he gave a discharge of one half the last instalment. Both Blount and the appellants well knew that Innerarity had uniformly and tenaciously claimed a much larger
amount as due on each of these items; and they ought to
have known, that, even if no more was justly due on them
than the amounts paid, Blount had no authority to compromise or adjudicate on the justice of Innerarity's claim.
Besides these sums of money which are stated in Blount's
release to be the whole consideration thereof, he .received also
a writteln contract of Messrs. Curtis and Griswold, to pay a
further sum of $ 5,000, on certain conditions; but to whom, or
how, or on what contingency, it is difficult to discover from
any thing that appears on the face of the paper, or the evidence
in the cause.
. Soon after this transaction (on 20th January, 1840), Innerarity gave notice by letter to the appellants, that he repudiated the act of Blount, and says: - " So soon after his return
as I saw Mr. Blount, he informed me of the yrovisionalarrangement that he had made with you, subject to my aproval.
But this involved the suspension of the sum of $ 5,000, with the
corresponding interest, &c., for which your contingent bond
was proposed, &c., with the preliminary, however, of the cancellation of the moiety of the mortgage. This proposition, I
confess, startled me," &c.
The appellants, though thus informed by Innerarity that he
considered '"Blount as, placed in the position of their agent,"
and that he was unwilling to ratify "this provisional arrangement," nevertheless proceeded to put on record in Florida the
release given them by Blount. ,When this came. to the knowledge of Innerarity, he again addressed them, by letter of 19th
May, 1840, as follows: - "I addressed you a letter on the
20th of January last, and subsequently on the 25th of February,
by original and duplicate, in which I advised you, that, having
learned from T., M. Blount that he had an arrangement with
you subject- to my approval,. at he stated to me and others, in
relation to a discharge of one moiety of the mortgage, &c., I
did not feel at liberty, as the representative, of the interest of
others, for the reasons stated in my said letter of 20th of
January, to sanction the provisional contract which he made.
To these letters I have received, no answer, but to my great
astonishment have just seen the deed of. release given to you
on the 19th of September, by Mr. Blount, in which he proposes to act as my attorney, and which deed professes to discharge the trustees from one moiety secured by the above-

JANUARY TERM,- 1848.

161

Curtis et al. v. Innerarity et al.

mentioned mortgage. In so doing Mr. Blount has transcended
his authority as my attorney, as will appear by reference to my.
letter of attorney, &c., &c. Feeling it to be my duty to disavow this unauthorized assumption of my attorney, and not
less my duty to give you timely warning to protect yourselves
from injury, I hereby notify you that I disavow and repudiaie
the deed of release, &c. I have not received, nor will not receive, any part of the money paid by you to Mr. Blount; but
Will look to you and the original security for the debt due
under the said mortgage."
The receipt of these letters is admitted by the appellants in
their answer to a supplemental bill filed by Innerarity (June 12th,
1840), for the purpose of having Blount's release delivered up,
and the whole tranbaction between him and the trustees de.
clared fraudulent and void: On the 6th of July, 1840, Carnochan, one of the trustees, filed his cross bill to make Blount a
party, and praying that, inasmuch as the money paid to him by
the trustees had not been applied to the purpose for which it
was designed, it may be paid into court' and held under
their control. On the 9th of April, 184-1, the appellants filed
another cross bill, insisting on the full power of Blount in the
transaction, and praying the court to confirm and establish the
release, and to order satisfaction to be entered on the mortgage
accordingly.
And finally, on the 27th of June, 1841, after it was ascertained that Blount and the Bank of Pensacola (of which he
was president, arid in which he had dep bsited the money)
were both insolvent, and that the money paid to him was lost,
the appellants, in their answer to the cross bill, for the first.
time, offer "1to waive the said release," and "1be satisfied that
payment shall be held and regarded as on account of the mortgage generally, and be credited _pro tanto."
On these facts, the appellants contend that they are entitled
to a credit for the money paid to Blount, because he was
authorized to receive it; and although the settlement he made
and the release he gave may be void for want of authority, yet
his acts, so far as they were authorized, were valid and binding
on his principal.
"Regularly it is true," says Lord Coke, "1that when a man
doth less than the commandment or authority committed unto
him, then, the commandment or authority being not pursued,
the act is void." And when a .man doth that which he is
authorized to do, and more, then it is good for that which is
warranted, and void for the rest. Yet both these rules have
divers exceptions and limitations." (Co. Lit. 258 a.) And
"Lord Coke is well warranted," says Mr; Justice Story, (Story
14*

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis et al. v. Innerarity ot al.

on Agency, § 166), " in suggesting that there are exceptions
and limitations. Where there is a complete execution of the
authority, and something ex abundanti is added which is improper, then the execution-is good and the excess only is void.
But when there is not the complete execution of the power, *or
when the boundaries between the excess and the rightful execution are not distinguishable, then the whole would be
void."
It is contended, in the present case, that the excess and the
rightful execution are easily distinguishable, and that the receipt.of the money was a valid act and-binding on his principal, though the settlement and release were void. But we are
,of opinion, that the appellants have not put themselves in a
condition to have the benefit of this principle. Blount's power
of attorney was a bare uthority to receive money on account
of the mortgage then in litigation, if the appellants chose to
pay him any, leaving all the questions in dispute between the
parties open to future adjustment. But the mortgagors" refuse
to pay him money on the conditions on which he was authorized to receiye it, and give a valid acqcittance. On the contrary, the money given to Blount is on their own terms, and
in consideration of a settlement, arrangement, and release, which
they knew, or ought to, have known, Blount had no authority
to make. The money paid, the bond given, the receipt taken,
discharging them from the balance claimed on the bill of exchange and from one half of the last instalment, constitute
one transaction. Having advanced the mohey on their own
terms and conditions, and not on those tendered by Innerarity,
they put him into a situation in which he must either affirm
or repudiate the whole transaction. For if he 'accepted he
moIney, they might insist that he could not reject the consideration on which it was given, on the familiar principle of the
law, "1that th6 principal cannot ratify a transaction of his
agent in part, and repueiate it as to the rest." (Story on
Agency, § 250.) Besides, by thus undertaking to enter into
a treaty with Blount which they knew could not be binding
without the assent of Innerarity, they in fact constituted Blount
their ambassador or agent to obtain its confirmation. They
had a perfect-right to refuse to pay money on the terms dictated by Innerarity inhis letter of attorney; and Innerarity had
an equal right to refuse it on their terms. And when informed
by him, soon after the transaction, that he considers Blount as
their agent, and that he had proposed this transaction as a
provisional arrangement subject to the approval of Innerarity,
they keep silence till he again repudiates the transaction and
files a bill to set it aside, and never intimate a will ughess

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

163

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

that Innerarity shall receive the money on the terms he offered,
till near two years afterwards, when the money was lqst by.
the insolvency of Blount and the bank. This assent- of the
appellants to the terms of Innerarity came too late, after the
money had been lost by their obstinate pertinacity in endeavours
to compel him to accept it on their own terms.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the Court of Appeals
have not erred in refusing to credit .the appellants with this
sum as a payment on the mortgage.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of Florida is therefore
affirmed.
Order.
* This cause came on to' be heard on the transcript of the
record frbm the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here considered and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said Court of Appeals in this cause be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per
centum per annum, and that the time of redemption be extended to six months from and after the filing of the mandate
of this court in this case in the court below.

NELSON F. ;HELTONi APPELLANT, V. CLAYTON TIFFIN AND LILBURN
P. PERRY.
Where an individual has resided in a State for a considerable time, being engaged
in the prosecution of business, he may w4l1 be presumed to be a citizen of such
State wiless the contrary appear. And this principle is strengthened when the
individual lives on a plantation and cultivates it with a large force, claiming and
improving theproperty as hid own.
On a thange of domicile from one State to another, citizenshi may depend upon
the intention of the individual. But this intention may be stown more satisfactorily by acts than declarations. An exercise of the right of sufirage is conclusive upon the subject; but acquiring a right of suffrage, accompanied by acts
which show a permanent location, unexplained, may be sufficient.
The facts, that the party and his wife were residents of Louisiana br more than
two years before the commencement of the suit; that he was absent only once,
on a visit to a watering-place; that he resided the greater part of the time on a
plantation which he claimed as his own ; that he constructed upon it a more
secure and comfortable dwelli' -house : that he observed to a witness that he
considered himiself a resident,- are sufficient tq justify the Circuit Court of Louisiana in exercising juridiction in a suit brought against that 'party by a citizen
of Missouri.
Where fraud is alleged in a bill, and relief is prayed against a judgment and a
judicial sale of property, a demurrer to the bill, that relief can be had at law, i&.
not sustainable.
Wfiere a citizen of Virginia sued, in the Circuit Court of Louisiana, two persons
jointly, one of whom was a citizen of Louisiana and the other of Missouri, and
an attorney appeared for both defendants, the citizen of Missouri is at liberty to

