THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

BENJ.Ami

G. SiMs,

PLAINTiFF iN ERROR, V. TeRoAs HuDLEY.

The decisions of this court in Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 449, and Rowan v.
Runnels, 5 Howard, 134, again affirmed.
The continuance of a cause, or the refusal to continue it, rests m the sound discretion of the court in winch the motion is made, and cannot be reviewed by
writ of error. This, also, has been long settled.
Under the statutes of Mississippi, a protest of promissory notes, and statement of
notices given to the parties, eing certified under the notarial seal and verified
by the affidavit of the notary, may be read m evidence. It is not necessary to
introduce the notary, personally, to testify.
Under a plea of uon assumpsit, testimony cannot be received relating to the residence ofa party and hearing upon the jurisdiction of the court.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern Distrct of Mississippi.

In 1835, the following notes were executed.

-

$4,000.

Port Gibson, 2d May, 1835.
On the fifteenth day of February, eighteen hundred and thirtyseven, I promise to pay, to the order of Passmore Hoopes, four
thousand dollars, value received, negotiable and payable at the
office of the Planters' Bank at Port Gibson.

H. N.

SPENCER.

Indorsed. Passmore Hoopes, Benj. G. Sims.

$5,169.

Port Gibson, May 2d, 1835.
Twelve months after theflfteenth February, 1836, I promise
to pay, without defalcation, to the order of Passmore Hoopes,
five thousand one hundred sixty-nne dollars, value received,
negotiable and payable at the office of the Planters' Bank at
Port Gibson.
H. N. SPENcER.
Indorsed. Passmore Hoopes, Benj. G. Sims.
VOL. VI.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
Sims v. Hundley.

$ 4,000.-

Port"Gibson,2d May,. 1835.
On the fifteenth' day of February, eighteen hundred and
thirty-eight, I prbmise to pay, to the order of Passmore Hoopes,
four thousand dollars, value received, negotiable and payable at
the office of the Planters' Bank at Port Gibson.
H. N. SPENci.

Indorsed: .Passmore Hoope, Benj. G. Sims.
Port Gibson, May 2, 1835.
Twelve months after the 15th February, 1837, I promise to
pay, without defalcation, to the order of Passmore Hoopes, five
thousand one hundred sixty-nine dollars, value received, negotiable and payable at the office of the Planters' Bank' at Port
Gibson.
H. N. SPFNcER.
Indorsed: Passmore Hoopes, Benj. G. Sims.
$3,907.17.
Clinton, December 14th, 1835.
On the first day of January, eighteen hundred and thirtyeight, I promise to pay Thomas Hindley three thousand nine
hundred and seven dollars and seventeen cents, for value received.
BENJ. G. Sins.
All these notes came into the possession of Thomas Hundley.
In April, 1838, Hundley'brought a suit in the Circuit Court,
upon all the notes, against Sims, the plaintiff in error.
At May term, 1838, Sims, the defendan't, filed two pleas,
1. non assumpsit,and 2. that the notes were passed to Hundley for the purchase of slaves illegally introduced into the
State, in contravention of the second section of the seventh
article of the constitution.
The plaintiff joined issue upon the first plea and demurred
to the second. The court sustained the demurrer, and the
cause went to trial'upon the general issue plea.
When the cause was called for trial, the defendant" moved for
a continuance, and fired an affidavit, which it is unnecessary to
state; but the court refused the continuance, to which refusal
the defendant excepted.
The bill of exceptions then proceeds as follows:The plaintiff.then produced the following record of a protest
of the said note for $ 5,169, which said record is in the words
and figures following, to wit :State of Mississippi, Claiborne County, ss:
I, William M. Randolph, notary public, branch Planters!
Bank, Port Gibson, duly commissioned and qualified according

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

3

Sims v. Hundley*

to law, and residing insaid town, do hereby ceitify, that on the
eighteenth day of February, 1837, I went to the branch Planters' Bank at Port Gibson, and then and there presented for
payment the original note, of which the following is a true
copy:

$5,169.

Port Gibson; MaJ'2d,1

2.

Twelve months after'the 15th February, 1836, I-promise to
pay, without defalcation, to the order of Passmore Hoopes,
five• thousand one hundred" and sixty-nine., dollars, value received, negotiable and payable at the office of the Planters;
Bank at Port Gibson.
H. N. SPECaR.
Indorsed,-P.&ssmoaE HooPEs,
BEN. G. Sins,
-

THos. H-1imLEY.

And I then and there demanded payment of. the, said note,
aecording to the tenor and effect, and was answered by the
teller of the said bank, that the sqid note would not be paid,
and that no funds were deposited in said bank for that purpose;
and the said note was not paid by any person, when'payment
thereof was demanded as aforesaid. Whereupon, I protested'
said note for non-payment, and notified the parties thereto of
said demand, non-payment, and protest, -and that the holder of
said note looked to them for payment thereof, which notices
were given at the time and in the manner following, to wit:
(Copies annexed.)
For Passmore Hoopes, written notice of the above tenor was
handed to him at his store in Port Gibson.
For Benjamin G. Sims, a written notice of the same tenor
was put in the post-office at Pprt Gibson, on-the same day,
directed to him at Clinton, Mi. Which facts, then and there
noted by me on my official record, constitute, as herein set
forth, a full and true record of all that was done by me in the
premises.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
[.. .and
affixed my official seal, this 1st day of June, 1838.
WM. M. RANDOLPH, Notary Public.
State of Mississippi, Claiborne County:
Personally appeared before' the undersigned, justice of the
peace for said county, the above-named Win. M. Randolph,
who made oath, that the forego.ing record and certificate'contain the truth, to the best of his knowledge and belief. WM. M. RANDOLPE.

Sworn to before me, this 1st dayr of June, 1838.

L-wis CRONLY, '. P.

(sEAL.]

•

4

SUPREME COURT.
Sims v. Hundley.
NOTICES.

Port Gibson, 18th February, 1837.
Bawu. G. Sims:
Please to take notice, that a note drawn by H. N. Spencer,
in favor of Passmore Hoopes, for the sum of $ 5,169, and dated
2d day of May, 1835, was this day protested by me for nonpayment, and that the holder looks to you for payment as
indorser thereof. Respectfully,
Wm. M. RANDOLPH, Notary Public.
Port Gibson, 18th February, 1837.
P. HooFEs:
Please to take notice, that a note drawn by H. N. Spencer,
in your favor, for the sum of $ 5,169, and dated the 2d day of
May, 1835, was this day protested by me for non-payment,
and that the holder looks to you for payment as indorser
thereof. Respectfully,
WM. M. RA-DoLPH, Not. Pub.
To the introduction of which the defendant, by his attorney,
objected, which objection the court overruled, and adjudged
the said record sufficient; to which opinion the defendant, by
his attorney, excepts; and thereupon the other records of protest on said notes of Spencer, indorsed by defendant, were produced and read, and the same being identical in substance with
the preceding, it is agreed said exception shall apply to them
also; the plaintiff then read said records, proved that said notes
were protested on the proper day, and the. notices directed to
the proper place, and rested his case.
The defendant then offered to prove all the facts stated La
his second plea, but the court refused to hear, the proof; to
which refusal the defendant excepts. The defendant then
produced a witness, who proved that the plaintiff in this cause
had been known to him about four years last past, during all
which time he had resided in (this) Hinds county, Mississippi,
and that he had considered, and did then consider, him a resident citizen of the State of Mississippi; and the defendant was
proceeding to call another witness, Mr. Cook, deputy-marshal,
further to prove the same facts, when the testimony was objected to by the attorney of the plaintiff, upon the ground that
it could not be heard under the issue now on trial ; which
objection the court sustained, and excluded 'all testimony as to
proof .of plaintiff's citizenship; to which decision of the court,
ruling out said proof that the plaintiff was a citizen of th"
State of Mississippi," under said plea of non assumpsit, the
-defendant, by attorney, excepts; and thereupon the jury xe-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Sims t. Hundley.

turned a verdict for the plaintiff; and said exceptions, being
found conformable to the facts and the agreement of the par.
ties, are signed, sealed, and ordered to be made of record in the
cause.
GEORGE AzAms, [L. s.]
Judge of-the U. S. for D. Miss.
Upon this bill of exceptions the case came up to this court,
It was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant in error.
Mr. Bibb said, that, after the decisions of this court upon
the subject-matter of the second plea, as to the meaning of the
constitution of Mississippi, he would not argue its sufficiency.
But he insisted that the objection made to the evidence offered
by the plaintiff, Hundley, of the mere record made out by the
said notary, was impicjperly overruled by the 'court.
The notary himself resident of the town and State wherein
the protest was made, and wherein the trial was had, ought to
have been introduced to testify; ind .his certificate of protest
of an inland bill, of the same State, wherein the parties all
lived, and wherein the trial was had, was not. legal and suf.
ficient evidence. On this point the cases of Townsley v. Sum.
rail, 2 Peters, 180, and "Chesmer v. Noyes, 2 Campbell's Rep.
129, are relied on as conclusive.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought up by writ of error directed to the Cir-'
cuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Mississippi, upon a judgment obtained by the defendant in
error against the plaintiff for the amount of four notes, dated
May 2, 1835, indorsed-by the plaintiff in error to the defendant; and also for one other note drawn by the former in favor
of the latter, dated December 14, 1835.
It appears by the record that three questions of law were
raised at the trial, which are now before this court upon the
writ of error, the testimony as to the residence of the plaintiff upon the plea of non assumpsit having been prope.ly re-fused.
The first point relied on as a defence to the action was, that
the notes above mentioned were all indorsed and delivered by
Sims to Hundley in payment for slaves brought by Hundley
into the State of Mississippi as merchandise, and.there sold to
Sims; and that the sale of slaves so, brought into the State
was prohibited by the constitution of Mississippi, and the con-.
tract therefore illegal and void.
This question was decided in the case of Groves v. Slaugh1*

6

SUPREME COURT.
Sims v.,Hundley.

ter, 15 Pet. 449, and again i the twocases ofRowan v. Runnels,at the last term,, 5 Howard, 134. And it isthe settled.
law in.this court, that contracts of this description, made at'the
time when these notes bear date, were valid, and not prohibited
by the constitution of Mississippi.
The point next in order is presentedby the exception taken
to the -refusal .ofthe court to continue thecase to another .term,
upon the affidavit filed by the plaintiff in error., But this point,
also, has been long settled; and it has always been held in this
*court, that the continuance of a cause, or the refusal-to continue,
rests.in the sound discretion of the court in which the motion
is made, and cannot be reviewed by writ of error. Marine Ins.
Co. of Alexandria v..Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 206,-217, 218.
The remaining point; and the only one.relied on in the argument here, is the exception taken to the admission in evidence
of the protest and statement of notices given to the plaintiff in.
error, -, the, said protest. and statement being certified under

the notarial seal, and verified by the affidavit of the notary;
This, however. like the two preceding points,- has been already
decided by this court; and this case cannot be distinguished
from the case of Brandon v. Loftus, 4 Howard, 127.
It is true, that, ulon general principles of commercial law,
the certificate would not be admissible. But it, is made evidence by the statute of Mississippi, and the rules of evidence
prescribed by the statute of a State are always followed by the
courts of the United States, when sitting .in
the State, in commercial cases as well as in others.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southem District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby aflimed, with costs and daniages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

