190

SUPREME COURT.
Pease v. Dwight.

several notes for ($ 13,333-) thirteen thousand three hundred
and thirty-three dollars and thirty-three and a third cents from
the times the Said notes respectively became due; and that if
the money shall not be paid within ninety days from the filing
of the mandate of this court in the said Circuit Court, that then
the said mortgage shall be foreclosed, and the complainants put
inthe possession of the property, and that in that case the equity
of redemption therein be for ever barred and precluded; and
that if thesaid money, with interest as aforesaid, be duly paid
as aforesaid, that then the said mortgage should be held discharged, and Nelson F. Shelton put in possession of the said
property. Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
-in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, that each
party pay his own costs in this court, and. -that this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to.1the said Circuit Court, to
be proceeded with in conformity to" the opinion of this court,
and, as to law and' justice shall appertain.

WhLIAx T., PEASE. (mPLEADED
JoMs), PrAINTr x

WITH Jomr4 CHEsTER, AND TARLETON
ERxoR, v. WiLwx DwIGRT.

teons,
he name
Where a promissory note was payable to the order of several
of one of whom was inserted by mistake, or imadvertenty left on when the
was
also the
of
whom
one
the
real
payees,
by
and
delivered
indorsed
o notQ was
maker of the note, the indorsee had a right to recover upon the note, although
the names of all the payees were not upon the indorsement, and had a right,
also, to prove the facts by evidence.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for theDistrict of Michigan.
On the Ist of January, 1837, the following promissory note
was executed.
Detroit, January.1, 1837.
Two years from date I. promise to pay to the order of
Walter Chester and Pease, Chesteri & Co. one thousand five
hundred dollars, for value received, at the Farmers and Me.,chanics' Bank of Michigan, with interest.
JOHV CHESTER.
(Signed,)
Indorsed by, Peas6, Chester, & Co., but not byWalter Chester.
The firm of 'Pease, Chester, & Co. -was composed of William T. Pease (the plaintiff in error), John Chester, and Tarleton Jones.

-JANUARY-TERM,' 1848.

19

Pease. V. Dwight.

The note
into the.hands
Dwight,
a citizen
of having;passed
-)asschusetts,,(the
-defendatfiof :nWilliam
- error;)a'n
ot
being paid at zmaturity, Dwight brought suit in the-Circuit
Court against Peas&, Chester, and, Jones.. The course which
Pease took will be stated presently. Chester pleaded bankruptcy, hrich. was demuireE to, but the- demurrer* overruled,
and the gtea mstained. Jones- was a .citizen of Illinois, -and
could not be.found.
There were several counts in the declaration, but the only
one upon, which judgment was rendered, and which it i 'ma. " I.
terial now to state, was -the follwijg: "Fri that whereas one John Chester heretofore, to Wit, on
the first day .of January, in the year. of our Lord one thousand,
eight hundred and thirty-seveh, at Detroit, in.--sai&d distfiC,
made his certain promissory-note in owriting, bearihg, date the
same day aid year aforesaid, and thereby then and there'promised, two years from the date thereof, to -pay to the"order of
Waler.Chester and the said. defendants, under the -co partnership name and- style oftthese said defendants, Pease, Chester,
& Co., one thousand five- hundred.-dollars, for value received,
at the Farmers and Mechanics' Bank of Michigan, with interest; and then and there delivered the- said pronissory note to
the defendants; who then- and there, using their copartnekship
name and style of Pease,. Chester, & Co., indorsed said note,
and delivered the game to the. plaintiff!;, and the said-plaintiff
avers,- that the said John- Chester. was one of the said persons
using .the name and style of Pease, Chester, & Co., and-that
the name of -the said Walter Chester was inserted in- the
-said
promissory-note as one of the persons to whose order, the-said
sum of money.shouldbe .payable by'the said John Cheter; for
-the.purpose- of, and with the intention on the part of the said*
John Chester, of pro&iring the said Walter to indorse thq .d7
note for the accoinmodation and benefit of the said John-Chester, and for no otherpurpose' that the sidnote was never delivered to the said Walter Chester, and'that the' said Walter
Chester never had -at any time any interest or property, or.
any rights therein, or to the money specified and mentioned
theiein.
"That the said note was by the said John Cheer-'Iev~red
to the said.Pease, Chester, & Cq. alone, who received the sa'Ile
and indorsed-it solely, who waved the indorsement-of the

said Walter Chester,.and having solely ndorsed- the same,delivered the said note, so'indorsed as aforesaid, to the said plaintiff. 'And the said plaintiff avers, -.that afterwards, and when
the said.promissory note became due and payable, according to
the tenor and effect thereof, to wit, on the fourth day of Xan-

-

SUPREME COURT.

192

Pease v.Dwight.

uary, in the year eighteen hundred and- thirty-nine, at the said
Farmers ana Meehanics' Bank of Michigan, the said note was
presented and shown to and at the said bank for payment
thereof, and payment thereof requesfed; but that'neither the
said John Chester,. nor any other person, did or 'would pay
the said sum of moiiey therein specified, but then and there
wholly' neglected and refused to do so.; of all which said several premises the: said defendants then and there had due
notice."
Pease demurred to thtis count, and filed the following causes
of demurrer:

.

"1st. Because it is not averred in said first count, that Walter
Chester, one- of the joint payees of the said promissory note
described in said counts, ever indorsed or delivered the sa,.%
to the said plaintiff, or any other person whatever. •
"2d. For that said first count is-in other respects informal,
insufficient, and defective.-"
-]Dwighf put in a joinder in demurrer.
In November,- 1845, the Circuit Court overruled the demurrer, entered up judginent for the plaintiff, and assessed his damages -at1 2,427 and costs. To review this jtrdgment, a writ of
error brought the case tip to this court.
It'@as argued by Mr. Bates, for the plaintiff in error, Pease,
and by Joy aind Porterz, with whom was Mr...Ashmun, for the
defendant in.error, Dwight.
The argument on behalf of the plaintiff in error was as
follows.

The first count of ihe declaration sets forth the particular
circumstances under which the note was made and indorsed,
and the demurrer of course admits them to be true. John
Chester, the maker of the note, was one of the firm of Pease,
Chester, & Co.; he made the note with the intention of procuring the indorsement of WaIter Chester and Pease, Chester,
& Co., as accommodation indorsers for his benefit. Walter
Chester declined to indorse the note, and then John Chester
indorsed his note with the copartnership name of Pease, Chester, & Co., and delivered it to De Garmo Jones, who delivered
it to the plaintiff.The denurrer which was originally interposed to the first
and second counts (the-second having been subsequently nolla
ypros'd) sets forth as the ground of demurrer, that the first count
does not set forth a right of action in the plaintiff, as there was
to indorsement or transfer of the note by Walter Chester, one
of the joint payees thereof, and that no right of action can be
acquired to a promissory note, made- payable to order of joint

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

.199

Pease v.-Dwight.

payees, without the indoP ment by them and each of them;
that in no other manner can there be a legal transfer of such a.
note, or the caus-of action thereoh. -This is -the-6ly poinf
involvad in the decision. of the court, below, and which this
court is now 6alled upon to revise. The plaintiff claims to
recover'as the holder of a negotiable note; and such is the instrument declared on in the count under examination.- - He
does not seek to recover on a special contract, 'but.on a note,
transferred and..delivered by the single indorsement of one of
the joint payees. (Does the first count show a right to. recover
as against the other joint indorsers ?) He claims to recover,
too, against William T. Pease, one of the firm of Pease, Che.ter, & Co., who, he states, were- mere accommodation indorsers of John Chester. It is quite unnecessary to cite to -this tribunal the general rule laid down in all the books : - "If a bill
or note be payable to several persons not in partnership,
the right to transfer is .in" all collectively, not in any individually;, and an ind6rsement by 'and.in the name of Qne
only will not give the indorsed a right to sue." (Bayley on
Bills, 49.)
Chitty on Bills, page i23, says :- "If a bill.has been made
or transferred to several persons not in partnership, the right of
transfer is in all collectively, and 'not in any individually."
Carvick v. Vickery, 2 Douglass, 653, p. 134, note; Smith v.
Whiting, 9 Mass. Rep. 334; 7 Cowen, 126; 9 Greenleaf, 85.
Story, in his Volume on Promissory Notes, page 131, section 125,
'lays down the same *rule in the following language: - " If a
note be made payable or indorsed to several persons not. partners, as to A, B, and C, then the transfer can only be by a
'joint indorsement' of all of them." In Story on Bills, section
197, page 218, the same rule is again laid down in the following language - " If a bill be made payabl or.indorsed to sevetal persons not partners, as to A, B, and C, then the transfer
can only be by a 'joint indorsement ' of all of them."
Such is the rule established by all the' elementary writers,
and the decisions of the courts of England .and this country,
on the subject. It is not pietended, nor does the count de.murred to set forth, that Walter Chester was a partner of Pease,
Chester, & Co. Such was not the 'fact, and the pleadings show
it. Of course this-note could only. be tiansferred or assigned
to the plaintiff by the indorsement of both Walter Chester, and
Pease, Chester, & Co., the jointi payees thereof.
Let us now examine briefly the only case cited by the attorneys of the plaintiff on the argument of this demurrer in the
court below, the only case on which that. decision can be sutainqd, and the court will see, by a glance at the facts, that -itVOL.. VI..
17

194

SUPREME COURT.
Pease v. Dwight.

has no real application to the present case, that it contains no
exception whatever to the general rule cited from the authors
above referred to.
What are the facts of that case, as set forth in 4 Carfington
& Payne's Reports, 466, Leaf and others v. Gibbs. That was
an action brought by 'the payee of two promissory notes made
by the defendant and two ladies, named Gibbs and White,
which were given in payment of au account due from Gibbs
and White. The defendant signed the notes , with the understanding) at.the time of his signature, that his mother should
sign them with him; as a joint and'several promisor; but she
refused to do so. The notes were,'so far as we can discover
Yrom the report of the case, joint and several notes, to which
the defendant had placed his name. On the trial, the plaintiffs
and the payee proved that the defendant had placed his name
there with the understranding that his mother was to unite as a
maker." The defendant was liable on the face of the notes by
their tenor as -a joint and several maker. He sought to establish as a defence, that, at the time of the making, he agreed to
sign with his mother, a fact of course known" to the payees;
and the court prolerly -charged the jury, that, if they Were satisfied from the evidence, adduced that he had not waived, by
his own conduct, the joint and several signatures of his mother,
they must, find for him, the defendant. In this case, we insist
there is no legal liability of the defendant on the note set forth
in the declaration, without the 'joint indorsement of Walter
Chester, which was -never obtained. There can be no legal
liability, as indorser of the note set forth in this case, without
the joint indorsement of all the payees of it. There can be
no legal transfer to the plaintiff, or any one else, of the noteset forth in the first coutt, unless-'it is done by the joint indorsement of Walter Chester and Pease, 'Chesteri & Co. In the
case.of Leaf and Gibbs, the defendant was liable on the face
of the note itself; here the defendant is not; there he set up
facts dehors the note, to show that he was discharged; here
we rely on the face of the note itself. The two cases are as
entirely dissimilar in the facts set forth as they are in the principles of law which govern them. The case cited in no particular sustains the principles contended for by the plaintiff's
-counsel in the present case.
The argument on behalf of Dwight, the defendant in error,
was as follows.
The declaration in this cause is against tie defenants as
indorsers of a promissory note made by John Chester, payable
to the order of Walter.Chester and the defendants, and avers

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

195

Pease v. Dwight.

that the note was made by John Chester,' payable to the order
of Walter Chester and. the defendants, with the intentioi of
procuring Walter Chester to indorse the same as an accommo'
dation indorser , thiat the said note never was.delivered to said
Walter Chester; that he had no property therein, had nointerest in .the moneys specified therein, and was in no way whatever interested in the said note; but that the said note was
delivered to, the said defendants alone, who indorsed and deliv-"
ered the same to the said plaintiff, and expressly waived the
indorsement of the said Walter' Chester. The presentment
and notice are also alleged in the usual form. •
The facts stated by Mr. Bates in his brief, as to Mr. Chest~r's .indorsing the copartnership name of the. defendants and
transferring- the note to -Jones, and that Walter Chester declined to indorse the note, are not in the. declaration, and are.
not true.
The facts.-lleged in the declaration are admitted to be 'true
by the demurrer, and are unquestionably true.
The. question, then, is, whether, upon the facts alleged and
admitted to be true, the pfaintiff is entitled to recover; and of
this we think there can be no question.
It-strikes us that the question is simply this, viz. :-Wh6r a
promissory note has been made payable 'to four individuals,
with the intention to procure all to indorse it, and three actually.conclude to indorse it without the other, can they strike out
the name of the other payee, and whose name was inserted only
for the purpose of procuring him to indorse for accommodation ?
This. is the legal effect of indorsing and delivering the note
without his joint indorsement, and an express waiver 'of his
indorsement at the time, which is tantamount to an agreement
by the three to become liable without him. The making of a
prissory note isnot the making of . contract, -noris an ind6rsement for accomnodation a contract ;' it is the delivery
which gives effect to all;, it is then that 'the contract becomes
Operative. Now, what-was the contract at the time of. deivery
to .the plaintiff? Chester had made.his note payable t6 the
order of Walter Chester and the defendants, with-the intent to
pzrocure Walter to indorse Aolely and only for his accommoda-'
tion. The defendants,.among whom was John Chester, the
maker of the note, finding some difficulty in procuring Waiter's
indorsement, conclude to forego it, he having no interest whatever in the matter, and indorse it themselves without him;: the
plaintiff agrees to take the note with their indorsement alone'
Now up to this time there is surely no contract at-all in virtue.
of the.paper'; but now it is" delivered and accepted, upon the
full understanding by all parties that Walter Chester should be

SUPREME COURT.
Pease v. Dwight.

no party to the security, although, in the hurry of a commercial transaction, the pen was not drawn across his name before
delivery.
Now, was he ever in any way a party to the note, either as
payee or indorser ?- He had no interest in it which would entitle him to have it delivered to him. It was not delivered to
him, or to another for his benefit, which alone would make
him a party to it. It is not by delivery, then, that he is a party
to it. He did not indorse it, which would hare made him a
party. In legal effect, therefore, he never did become a party
to it; and the transaction, so far as he isconcerned, is precisely
the same as if his name had never appeared upon the paper, or
had been struck out at 'the time of delivery.
It was delivered to the defendants, which made them. parties
to it. It was by them indorsed, and with a waiver of the indorsement of Walter-Chester. It was accepted with a waiver,
What was' the contrict, then, which took effect?
Let it -beremembered that the maker of this note is one of
the' firm of Pease, Chester, & Co., the indorsers; that it was
payable by one of the firm to the, order of the copartnership
and another person, whose name was to be procured to strengthen the note; that it never passed from the hands of the maker,
and therefore never took effect, till the maker, together with'
his copartners, indorsed and delivered it, and waived the indorsement of the other intended surety.
How can it be pretended that Walter Chester was ever a
party in any way to this note-? and how can the doctrine of
the cases cited on the other side, vhich say that all parties to a
note as payees-must indorse it in order to transfer it, apply? It
is undoubtedly true, that parties jointly interested in a promissory note as payees, holding property in the note, must join in
the indorsement' to pass the property inthe note. Two cannot
transfer the. property of three. All this is clear and unquestionable. But here Walter Chester never was in law a party,
and never had any property in the note in fact, as' admitted by
-the defendants themselves, in their demurrer.
In this view of the facts, it is similar to the case of a bond,
reciting in the body that one person is bound as principal and
four.others as sureties, evincing an intention, at the time of
writing the bond, of procuring four sureties. The bond in
fact 'is signed by only three, sureties, and by them is executed
and delivered with the knowledge that the other does not execute it, and whose execution of it by the others is waived, bift
whose name isthrough inadvertence not struck out of the inThis point has been decided. See Duncan v.
strument.
United States, 7 Peterg, 443.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

197

Pease c. Dwight.

It is the same as if the note had read, "We, John Chester
as pzincipal, and Walter Chester and Pease, Chester, & Co. as
su-cies, agreo to pay to the order of William Dwight," &c.,
and the parties had signed it except Walter, and delivered it,
waiving- his signature and consenting to become bound with-.
out him. There can be no doubt in such a case. See Leaf et
al. v. Gibbs) 4 Car. & Payne, 466; same case, 19 English C.
L. R. 475.
In the case before the court, it having been the understanding clearly of all parties, that Walter's signature or indorsement
should be'waived, it was competent for Dwight to strike his
name out of the body of the -note, as being no party to it; and
m. legal effect he is no more a party to the note than if his
name had been struck out at the time of delivery. 'His name
has been permitted to remain, though legally there never was
any contract with him ; and we may recover upon the facts aswell as if we had.struck out his name, and declared upon the
note as payable to- Pease, Chester, & Co. alone, which in legal
effect was'the case.
But we may set out the instrument in the declaration, either
us it is written, and let the court say what the legal effect is,
or we may set it out according to its legal effect.
This, too, is an action against the men who indorse and deliver the note, and waive the indorsement-of-the other party.
They deliver the note in its present shape as a-good contract,
and niow resist a sitit upon the ground that there is.no transfer. They do not deny the contract, but say we cannot sue
the maker, because Walter Chester has not indorsed. We say
they have contracted, and therefore we sue them. They
ought to be, if they are not, estopped from denying our right
te maintain an action against them.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the only point presented by the record in this
case for the decision of the court was rightly ruled by the Circuit Court..
That point is, whether a promissory note payable to.the or-.
der of several persons, one of. whom inceptively refused -to be
a payee of it, and who was treated by the drawer and other
payees, both in the delivery of the note and in its negotiation,
as no party and having no interest in it, can be transferred by
the indorsement of the ral payees, so as to give the ownership
of it to the indorsee, and a right-of action upon it ex. directo,
under the statute of 3 4 4 Ann?3 c. 9.
The statute is, that "1any person, to whom a promissory
note that is payable to any person or. his order is indorsed or
17*

198

SUPREME COURT.
Pease v. Dwight.

assigned, or the money therein mentioned ordered to be paid
by indorsement thereon, shall and may maintain an action for
such sum of money, either against the person signing such
note, or against any of the persons who indorsed the same, in
like manner as in cases of inland bills of exchange."
The statute requires a trWnsfer to be made by'the indorsement of the person to whom the note is payable, and the interpretation of it is, that, where a note is Payable to the order of
several persons not in partnership, all must separately-sign their
names as indorsers. The object being, that, before. an mdorsee shall recover the content of the~note in his own name,
he'shall show he -has acquired a property -in it, by a transfer from those who *ere the original payees, or from otherp
who were their "indorsers. The statute is not merely a form,.
requiring all the payees to indorse, but a substantial requisition,
upon the presurption that all the p2yees upon the face of the
paper have an interest in it, and that they have indorsed it.
We have, then, the rule, and the reason of the rule. And it
seems to us, that to permit it to comprehend a case of an undertaking between the real parties, because a name-had been mistakenly inserted, or had been inadvertently left upon the face of
the paper, when the note was'delivered to the -eal payees by the
drawee, would be to wrest the statute out of its meaning, and
to sacrifice the substantial intention of it merely to form. The
statute meant to deal with real parties. The omission to erase
the name in such a case does not lessen the drawer's obligation to pay his'note to the real payees, or their right of action
upon it.
against the drawer as a note of hand. If, then, the
real .payees shall indorse the note to a third person, they are
within the words of the statute as indorsers, and the indorsee,
in an action against them or the drawer, may be permitted to
prove the real character of the .undertaking, by showing that.
the name of a person had been inadvertently left upon the paper as a payee, ,who had refused to be such, and who had been
waived as a party to the note, both by the drawer and the real
payees, when the contract.had been completed between them
by the. delivery of the note. In the case before us, the declaration recites the particular circumstances under which- the
note was made and indorsed. The demurrer admits them.
That is, that the paper had -been indorsed by the real payees
of it, but not by the nominal payee, who never was an actual
payee nor ever had any interest in the note by being in any
way a party to it. It would really be going very far to say,
that the statute giving the indorsee a right of action for such
sum of money, either against the person signing such note or
against any of the persons who ifidorsed the same, did not

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

199

Pease v. Dwight.

mean it to be exercised because a person's name was upon the
face of the paper who never had been a party to it. No such
decision, has been made. It may be because no case of this
kind has ever occurred before. We can find none like it. In
the absence of all. authority against our conclusion, we must
take upon ourselves the responsibility of announcing it as an
original application of the statute to this case, and for any case
of. a like kind which may occur, without intending it to go
further. We think, however, that the interpretation is sustained by what has been the practice under the statute in some
other particulars, - that it is within the spirit of the' pfinciple
upon which the statute has been administered. - For instance,
the statute requires the indorsement of a note to be made by
the person to whom, it is payable, and one of several partners
may indorse in: the. partnership name.; but though a note
be made payable to a partnership, a transfer 'in the name of
one partner alone will pass the partnership interest, if it be
'proved that it has been the practice of the firm to indorse for
them in the name of one only. South Carolina Bank v. Case,
8 Barn. & Cres. 436. So if one partner transfer in the name
formerly used by the partnership. Williamson. v. Johnson, 1
Barn. & Ores. 146 ; 2 D. & R. 281.
Also,*where a bill is drawn upon a firm, and one partner
writes "Accepted," adding only his own name, it will bind the
firm,. if they were in partnership at the time of the acceptance. An indorsement by the cashier of a bank of a note
payable directly to the bank' is good, upon the ground that
he represents the interest of the bank in-it, though he is not
officially or otherwise a payee upon the face of the note. In
Goddard v. Lyman, 14 Pick. 268; it is said, a negotiable note
payable to three persons may be legally transferred by indorsement by two of them to the third payee and a stranger.
and, if this were doubtful, the indorsement of the third payee
to the stranger will clearly pass the property to him. In
Snelling v. Boyd, 5 Monroe, 173, it is said, one of several
joint holders of a bill of exchange may transfer the whole interest in it by indorsement. Where the maker of a promissory
note indorsed'the same, for his own benefit, in the payee's niame,
.by virtue of a parol authority for that purpose communicated
to him by the payee, it was'held to be well indorsed, and that
the payee was liable upon such indorsement in the same manner as if it had been made by himself in his own hand. 'Turnbull v. 'Trout; I Hall; 336. The.foregoing, it will-be'perceived, are all of them cases in which parol. proof has been
admitted to show the character of. the agencies by which notes
or bills have been transferred or accepted, without any one of.

200

SUPREME COURT.
Pease V. Dwight.

-

the notes having been ifdorsed within the exact letter of the
statute, though all of them are within its spirit.
But we rely altogether in this case upon the- fact, that the
note was transferred by the indorsement of those who were its
real payees, - by those who had the absolute prbperty in it.
We think the true meaning of the statute is, that such as have
the property in the note have the right to indorse, though there
shall be a name upon the paper of another person, which was
inserted by mistake as a Payee, or inadvertently left in when
the note was delivered, and that in an action by the indorsee
he should .be permitted to prove such a-fact. Upon this point
of the-right of those to indorse who have the absolute property
in a bill or note, we will cite what was said by the learned
Chief Justice Willes'in the conclusion of his opinion in the
case of Stone v. Rawlinson, Willes, 562:-- " On the strength
of this case I think I may make a syllogism, which will -be
conclusive in the present case. Whoever has the absolute property in abill, made payable to one or his order, may assign it
as he pleases, within the"provision of the statute, and such assignee may maintain an action in his own name the executor or administrator of a person to whom such bill- is made
payable has the absolute property in it, and therefore he may
assign it to whomsoever he pleases, and such assignee may
maintain an action in his own- name." This was said in answer to an objection, that an executor'or administrator cannot
assign, a promissory note made payable to a person or order,
so as to enable the indorsee to bring an action in his own
Mne. So, a bill or note made payable or indorsed to a feme
pole, who afterwards marries, or where it is made during the
coverture, the right of transfer vests in the husband, so as to
-give his indorsee a right of action upon it in his own name,
aud the husband may be sued as an indorser. Neither the
c~se of the executor nor that of the husband is within the
letter of the statute, but both are according to the spirit and
intention of it, to permit indorsements to be made by those
who have a property n promissory notes, so as to enable their
ind6rsee to maintain an action in his. own name.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to'be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Michigan, and was argued by. counsel. -On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court.in this cause-be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of
six par' entum per annum.

.-

