JANUARY TERM, 1848.

163

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

that Innerarity shall receive the money on the terms he offered,
till near two years afterwards, when the money was lqst by.
the insolvency of Blount and the bank. This assent- of the
appellants to the terms of Innerarity came too late, after the
money had been lost by their obstinate pertinacity in endeavours
to compel him to accept it on their own terms.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the Court of Appeals
have not erred in refusing to credit .the appellants with this
sum as a payment on the mortgage.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of Florida is therefore
affirmed.
Order.
* This cause came on to' be heard on the transcript of the
record frbm the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here considered and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said Court of Appeals in this cause be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per
centum per annum, and that the time of redemption be extended to six months from and after the filing of the mandate
of this court in this case in the court below.

NELSON F. ;HELTONi APPELLANT, V. CLAYTON TIFFIN AND LILBURN
P. PERRY.
Where an individual has resided in a State for a considerable time, being engaged
in the prosecution of business, he may w4l1 be presumed to be a citizen of such
State wiless the contrary appear. And this principle is strengthened when the
individual lives on a plantation and cultivates it with a large force, claiming and
improving theproperty as hid own.
On a thange of domicile from one State to another, citizenshi may depend upon
the intention of the individual. But this intention may be stown more satisfactorily by acts than declarations. An exercise of the right of sufirage is conclusive upon the subject; but acquiring a right of suffrage, accompanied by acts
which show a permanent location, unexplained, may be sufficient.
The facts, that the party and his wife were residents of Louisiana br more than
two years before the commencement of the suit; that he was absent only once,
on a visit to a watering-place; that he resided the greater part of the time on a
plantation which he claimed as his own ; that he constructed upon it a more
secure and comfortable dwelli' -house : that he observed to a witness that he
considered himiself a resident,- are sufficient tq justify the Circuit Court of Louisiana in exercising juridiction in a suit brought against that 'party by a citizen
of Missouri.
Where fraud is alleged in a bill, and relief is prayed against a judgment and a
judicial sale of property, a demurrer to the bill, that relief can be had at law, i&.
not sustainable.
Wfiere a citizen of Virginia sued, in the Circuit Court of Louisiana, two persons
jointly, one of whom was a citizen of Louisiana and the other of Missouri, and
an attorney appeared for both defendants, the citizen of Missouri is at liberty to

164

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

show that the appearance for him was unauthorized. If he shows this, he is not
bound by the proceedings of the court, whose judgment, as to him, is a-nullity.
A judgment of a State court, that the-debt had been extinguished, given in an action
which was not brought for the recovery of the debt, and which action, moreover,
had been discontinued by the plaintiff, cannot be set up in bar of proceedings in
the Circuit Court for the recovery of the debt, which proceedings had been commenced when the judgment of the State court was given.
Where a worthless promissory note is imposed upon the vendor as part of the cash
payment, it would seem that, if any fraud has be-en practised upon the vendor
by the vendee, the amount of the note still remains an equitable lien upon the
land.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for East Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
On the 1st of August, 1837, Clayton Tiffin and Lilburn P.
Perry received a deed, for a tract of land on the western bank
of the Mississippi River, .about five miles above the town of
Vicksburg, and containing" six hundred and forty-four acres.
On the 10th of April, 183S, Tiffii and Perry sold the same
land, together with a large number of negroes, to. Samuel
Anderson, for the sum of seventy-five thousand.dollars. The
sale was stated to be for cash. But in fact the payment was
to be made in this way:-

Funds supposed to be as good as cash,
Notes secured by mortgage,

$ 35,000
40,000

$75,000
John M. Perry, the father of Lilburn P. Perry, and father-inlaw of Tiffin, became the agent to receive these funds. The
$ 35,000 was again divided into two classes, viz., a debt of
$ 13,000; which was due to Anderson by Lilbum P. Perry
and John M. Perry, and which debt became thus extinguished,
and a note for $ 18,282.65, given by Austin, Ragan, and Bohannon, payable to Anderson on the 1st April, 1839.
The sum of $35,000 being thus arranged, the balance of
$ 40,000 was not provided for until some time afterwards, viz.
on the 1st of March, 1839, when Anderson gave the following
notes : $13, 3 331 pg. On or before the first .day of January, 1842,
we promise to pay Lilbourne P. Perry the just and full sum of
thirteen thousand three hundred and thirty-three dollars, value
received, for land and negroes purchased of Clayton Tifin and
Lilbourne P. Perry; for the true payment-of which we bind
ourselves, our heirs, &c., firnily by these presents. Given under our hands and seals, this the first of March, 1839.
SAmuE; ANDERSoI1,

[SEAL.]

Ne varietur, July 9th, 1839.
RIcHAn Cs.

DowNEs,

[sEA.]

.J. judge parish Madison, Louisiana.

165

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Shelton v. Tiffin -et al.

(Indorsed.)
For value received, I assign the within note to Clayton Tiffin, October 22d, 1839.
L.P. PnRRY,
For his agent J.M. PERRY.
216. Filed 23d Nov., 1839.
JOHN T.

MAsoN,

Clerk.

$ 13,333-A,. On or before the first of January, 1843, we
promise to pay Lilbourne P. Perry the just and full sum of
thirteen thousand three hundred and thirty-three dollars, value
received, for land and negroes purchased of Clayton Tiffin and
Lilboume P. Perry; for the true payment of which we bind
ourselves, our heirs, &c., firmly by these presents. Given un-.
der our hands and seals, this the first day of March, 1839.
[SEAL..]
-SAMUEL ANDERSON,
(Signed,)
Ne varietur, July 9th, 1839.
RICHARD CHs. DowNs, [SEAL.]

(Indorsed) 216.

.judge 2arishMadison, Louisiana.
Filed Nov., 1839.
JOHN T. MASoN, Clerk.

$ 13,333,N6. On or before the first of January, 1844, we
promise to pay Lilboume P. Perry the just and full sum of
thirteen thousand three hundred and thirty-three:dollars, value
received, for land and slaves purchased of- Clayton Tiffin and
Lilbourne P. Perry;. for the true payment of which we bind
ourselves, our heirs, &c., firmly'by these presents. Given -under our hands'and seals, this the first day of March, 1839.
[SEAL.]
SAMUEL ANDERS N,
(Signed,) '
Ne varieturi July 9th, 1839.
CHs. Dowxms, "[SEAL.]
RICHARDI
J.judge of parishMadison, Louisiana.
(Indorsed) 216. Filed 28 Nov., 1839.
JoHN T. MAsoN, Clerk.
On the 9th of July, 1839, the remaining part of the agreement was carried into effect, by Anderson's executing a mortgage to Lilburn P. Perry, ahd'in favor -of whomsoever may
become the legal holder and owner of the above notes, of. the
property, land, *and slav.es, which had been conveyed to Anderson by the deed from Tiffin and Perry.
On the same 9th of July, Anderson executed another mortgage, reciting that he was justly indebted to Nelson F. Shelton, of Goochland county, in the State of Virginia, in the sum
of $ 45,550, and mortgaging the same property to secure it, -

166

"SUPREME COURT.

-

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

"it being understood that this mortgage is posterior to that
granited by'the said Samuel Anderson in favor of Lilburn P.
Perry on this day." This sum of $ 41550 was divided into
two notes, payable on the 1st of January, 1845, and 1st of
January, 1846. Whilst upon the subject of this'last mortgage,
it may be as well to say that another was substituted for it,
with the consent of all parties, on the 17th of March, 1840, in
which Robert Anderson, of Virginia, was also included, as a
creditor to the amount of $ 3,000. This, like the other, referred to the prior mortgage given to Perry.
It is proper now to go back a few months in the order of
time.
In January, 1839, Hillery Mosely and William W. Bouldin,
citizens of Virginia, filed a petition in the Circuit Court of the
United States against John M. Perry and Lilburn P. Perry,
alleging that the Perrys were indebted to the petitioners in the
sum of $ 7,560, upon a promissory note. As the proceedings
upon this suit, as far as the appearance of Lilburn P. Perry
was concerned, were drawn into question, it is better to go
through with this branch of the case entirely before recurring
to any other part of it. On the 12th of January, an .order of
court was directed to Lilbum P. Perry, commanding him to
fle his answer within ten days, to which the marshal made
the. following return "Defendant, L. P. Perry, could not be found, after diligent
search and inquiry. Returned Feb. 23, 1839.

" J. P.

WALDEN,

Deputy Marshal."

A writ of arrest was then issued, directing the marshal to
seize the bodies of John III.-Perry and Lilhurn P. Perry, and
confine them till they should give security not to leave the
State without permission of the court, to which the marshal
made the following return: Marshal's Return.
Received 12th January, 1839; and, on the 18th same
month, arrested and took defendant, John M4. Perry, into my
custody, from whence he was released by giving bond, with Z.
H. Rawlings, Charles Johnson, and H. Lewis, as sureties, in
the parish of Madison, 450 miles from New Orleans, in the
Eastern District of Louisiana; which bail bond is .herein returned; and Lilbourne P. Perry could not be found, after diligent search and inq'uiry, and executing this writ in all other
things as the law directs. Returned February 23d, 1839.
(Signed,)
J. H. HOLLAND; Marshal.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

167

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

After this, B. A. Crawford, calling himself "attorney for defendants," filed an answer for John M. Perry and Lilburn P.
Perry, and the cause regularly proceeded to trial, IMr. Crawford attending to it in all its stages as attorney for both defendants. In June, 1839, it was tried, and the jury found a
verdict for $ 7,560. In July, aft. fa. was issued, the return to
which was, "no property." In October, an alias was is~ued,
to which the marshal made the following return, viz. :
Marshal's Return.
Received 23d day of October, 1839, and on the same day
made demand of the amount of the within ft. fa., at the residence of the within-named defendants, John M. Perry and Lilbourne P. Perry, which was refused. I seized, on the 23d day
of November, 1839, .a debt due by Samuel Anderson to the
within-named. Lilbourne P. Perry, for forty thousand dollars.
There was three notes given by said Anderson to said Perry,
and mortgage on fifty slaves and six hundred and forty acres
of land, to receive the payment of said debt to satisfy this ft.
fa., and after advertising the said claim -ten entire days from
the last day of the notice of seizure, and having appraisers
appointed according to law, who appraised said property
to be worth twenty-eight thousand dollars, cash valuation,
on the 10th day of December, 1839, and then, on the- same
day, offered the property for sale for cash, and iepeatedly crying it, - ther6 was n. sale for want of abid to the amount required by law, and then I advertised the same property, and
sold the same on the 4th day of January, 1840, on a credit of
twelve .months, when Samuel Anderson became the purchaser
thereof for the sum of five thousatid dollars, he being the highest and last bidder, for which he gave his bond, with John B.
Bemiss and Aarorr Lilly as security; which bond I received,.
and the said bond is herewith retuned; f6ur hundred and thirty miles from New Orleans.

(Signed,)

M.

MAIUGNY,

U. S. Marshal.

By JoHN N. Do~onuEs,
Deputy U. S. Marshal.
In January, 1840, a capias ad satisfaciendum was issued
against both the Perrys for the balance of the judgment after
deducting the proceeds of the sale to Anderson, to which writ
the marshal made the following return: Marshal's Return.
Received Thurgday, the 16th January, 1840, and after diligent search and inquiry, the within-named defendants, John
M. Perry and Lilbourn P. Perry, could not be found in the

168

SUPREME COURT
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

Eastern District of Louisiana,from New Orleans.

(Signed,)

distance five hundred miles

M4. MAIGNY,

U. S. Marshal.

By Jom N. DoNomm,
Deputy U. S. Marshal.
The marshal soon afterwards executed the following conveyance to Anderson: Parishof Madison:
Whereas I, John N. Donohue, deputy United States marshal
in and for the Eastern District of the State of Louisiana, by
virtue ofa writ of fierifaciasissued from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Nirth Circuit in and for district and
State aforesaid, at the suit of Mosely and Bouldin v. John M.
Perry and Lilbourne P. Perry, I did seize a certain debt 6wing
by Samuel Anderson to said Lilbourne P. Perry, as evidenced
by three promissory notes, dated 1st of March, 1839, due in
the years 1842, 1843, and 1844, each for the sum of thirteen
thousand three hundred and thirty-three dollars, payable by
said Samuel Anderson to the said Lilbourne P. Perry, which
notes are "paraphi n " on the 9th of July, 1839, together with
the mortgage intended to secure said notes or debts, recorded
in the office of the parish judge of the parish 'of Madison, in
the parish and State aforesaid, in the record-book of conventional and legal mortgages, pages 27 and 28, where there are
fifty slaves and six hundred forty acres of land mortgaged to
secure the payment of said notes and mortgage, seized as the
property of said Lilbourfie P. Perry, and having exposed the
same to public sale as aforesaid, on a credit of twelve months,
when Samuel Anderson became the purchaser thereof at the
price of five thousand dollars, for which he gave his bond with
John B. Bemis and Aaron Lilly as his securities, payable in
twelve months after the date thereof, all in due form of law,
and which bond I hereby aeknowledge to have received.
Now, therefore, know all men by these presents, that I, the
said deputy as aforesaid, do, in -consideration of the premises,
and by viituie of the act in such cases made and provided,
grant, bargain, sell, assign, and set over to the said Samuel Anderson, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title, and interest or
demand, which the said Lilboarne P. Perry had, in and- to the
said debt, notes, and mortgage, as before described, on the
twenty-third day of November, A.' D. 1839, or at any time
sin6e, or to any part thereof; to hold the same to the said
Samuel Anderson, his heirs and assigns for ever, hereby subrogating (as far as my act in the premises can) said Samuel to all
the rights which the said Lilbourne P. Perry had or has, in,

.STATE or LOUISIANA,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

169

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

under, and to the aforesaid mortgage; and the said Samuel
Anderson being present hereby accepts this conveyance, and
hereby specially mortgages, the above-described debt and mortgae to secure the final payment of the purchase-money, and
all interest and.costs that may accrue in the premises.
Done and passed in; the State and parish aforesaid in presence of John B. Bemiss and Aaron Lilly, competent witnesses,
who have signed with me, said deputy U. S. Marshal, and
Samuel'Anderson, this 4th day of January, 1840
and said Samuel Anderson before signing.

(Signed,)

JOHx N. DONOnU-.

Having traced this suit to its termination, we must turn our
attention to another.
On the 23d of November, 1839, Lilburn P. Perry, by Martin,
Richardson, and Stacy, his attorneys, filed .a petition in the
District Court in and for the parish of Madison, setting forth
Anderson's indebtedness. to him upon the mortgage and notes
above. described for $ 40,000, and stating his belief that Anderson was about to leave the State of Louisiana, and that he.
would, unless restrained by the conservative process of the
court, remove his property out of the State before the debt or
any part of it became payable. He therefore prayed for a writ
of attachment to be levied upon the plantation, crops, and negroes. At the time of filing this petition, Perry filed also the
original promissory notes, being three in number, for $13,333
each, payable 1st of January, 1842, '43, '44. With the petitiou was filed also the affidavit of John M. Perry, signing himself "agent for L. P. Perry," who was stated to be absent from
the State of Louisiana.
The attachment was ordered and issued; but on the 27th
of. November, John M. Pepry filed in court the following,
viz. : -:
Instructions.
Lnoum P. PERny )
S 9th District Court.- An attachment.
V.
.UEL
ANDEsoN. )
SA
I, John M. Perry, acting as agent for Lilbourne P. Perry,
plaintiff in above-entitled suit, hereby direct Thomas B. Scott,
of the parish of Madison, to return the writ of attachment now
in his hands, in the suit of Lilbourne P. Perry v. Samuel Anderson, No. 216, on the docket of said District Court for the
parish of Madison, to the clerk's office of said court, without
making any seizure or service on said writ of attachment; and
I furthermore heieby direct said sheriff and clerk, that all pro15
vOL. VI.

170

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

ceedings had, or to be had, under said attachment, be dismissed
and discontinued.
(Signed,)
JOHN M. PERRY,
Agent for L. P. Perry, Clayton Tiffln,
J. H. Martin, Geo. W. Grove.
Received on the-27th November, A. D. 1839, and served on
the 28th of same month and year, by handing a certified copy
of this Writ- of attachment to the defendant, Samuel Anderson,
in person, at the court-house in Richmond, and then was instruct[ed by] the plaintiff in this case not to levy the attachment, but to retuin it to the clerk's office, as will be seen by
reference to the within order from him. Service $ 2.
(Signed,)
T. B. SCOTT, Sheriff.
The cause remained in this condition for nearly a year, when
Anderson filed the following answer, on the 18th of November,
1840 :LIBoumm P. P.ERY)
V.

SAMUET. ANDERSON.

The defendant came into-court, and for answer to plaintiff's
petition in this suit filed, denies all and singular the allegations
therein contained .and set forth. And for further answer thereto he says, that the notes mentioned and appended to plaintiff's petition were executed and delivered to the petitioner, as
set forth therein ; also, that the mortgage set forth was executed as set forth, and for the purposes as shown in said mortgage.
This defendant for further (answer] sets forth, that on the
23d day of November, A. D. 1839, John N. Donohue, deputy
United States marshal, in virtue of a writ of fieri facias, then
in his hands, which issued from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Ninth Circuit, in the Eastern District of Louisiana, at the suit of Mosely and Bouldin against Johni M. Perry
and Lilbourne P. Perry, seized upon the several promissory
notes mentioned in, and appended to, plaintiff's petition, and
the mortgage securing the same; and afterwards, to wit, on
the 4th day of January, A. D. 184, proceeded to sell the. said
notes and mortgage, in satisfaction of the said fieri facias of
Mosely and Bouldin v. John M. Perry and Lilbourne P. Perry,
when thi§ defendant became the purchaser of said notes and
mortgage, at the last and highest bid. All of which will more
fully appear by the annexed copy of said marshal's sale, which
is herewith filed, and made part of this answer.
This defendant further shows, that, at the time of the seizure of the said notes and mortgage, they were due and payable

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

171

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

to Lilbourne P. Perry only, and were his property at the time
of said seizure by the deputy marshal as aforesaid. And defendant further shows, that the indorsement made on the back
of one of the notes due on the 1st of January, 1842, was not
inade at the date thereof, to wit, on the 22d of October, 1839,
but was-made after the said seizure so made by the marshal as
aforesaid; and said assignment was only dated for the purpose
of evading said seizure. All of which this defendant will be
prepared to show on the trial of this suit.
This defendant therefore shows and alleges, that by virtue of
the purchase made by him at the marshal's aforesaid, the said
debt, mentioned and shown by said note sued on, and the
mortgage securing, have been discharged and extinguished by
confusion, and by this defendant's becoming the owner of the
said debt and mortgage.
Defendant therefore prays that plaintiff's demand be' rejected, and that the notes sued on and. mortgage may. be decreed to be discharged and extinguished by the confusion created by said sale, as before 'set forth.
(Signed,)
JOHN B. BEDmss, Att'yfor def'ts.
On the 18th of May, 1841, the counsel of Perry made the
following motion: L. P. PERRY
SAMUEL ANDERsoN.
Plaintiff by his undersigned counsel moves that this suit be
dismissed at his costs.
MARTI$, RICHARDSON, & STACY, Attorneys.
And on the 20th of May, 1841, the following was entered on
the minutes of the court.
LLBou'r P.iPERR
V.

SAb1UEL ANDERSON.

Motion filed by plaintiff's counsel to dismiss this suit at
plaintiff's costs.
Ordered, that the motion to dismiss be sustained, and that
this suit be dismissed at plaintiff's cost, by consent of the parties. It is also ordered, that the three notes on file in said suit
be not withdrawn therefrom by either party, unless upon an order of this court, previously and contradictorily rendered with
the other party, after due notice to him; and defendant has
leave to withdraw documents marked A, by leaving a certified
copy with the clerk.

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

_Motion.
L L ou.N P. PEay)

v.
SAMU.L ANEnso.

.

)

216.

The defendant herein moves this honorable court for a rule
on plaintiff,.to show cause why the notes sued on in above-en-

titled suit should not be given up to him upon his leaving a
certified copy of said notes, they being the property of said defendant, .&c.

BEmIss & PIERncE,

Attl'ys for defendants.

Judgment.
By reason of the law and the evidence in this case, and by
reason of a motion of plaintiff's counsel thereto, it is ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that judgment be rendered.as if nonsuit
in this case, and that the notes herein filed be not withdrawn
untif leave [be] obtained; and that the plaintiffs pay the costs
of suit to be taxed. Read and signed in open court, this 3d
day of June, A. D. 1841.
B. G. TENNs, Judge 9ta Dist.
The cause remained in this position for nearly a year, a bill
having been filed in the mean time, viz. on the 21st April,
1842, in the Circuit Court of the United States, by Tiffin and
Perry against Anderson and Shelton. This bill (which is the
present case) will receive particular notide after the history of
the proceedings in the Parish Court shall have been finished. *
On the 11th of May, 1842, the following motion was made
in the Parish 'Court :Motion to withdraw notes filed, and it is ordered by the
court, that L. P. Perry, the plaintiff in this suit, show cause on
Thursday, the-19th instant, why the application should not be
granted.
Answer.
Lm.oura; P. PERY
v.
Ninth District Court, parish of Madison.
SAMUEL ANDERSON.

The plaintiff, Lilbourne P. Percy, for cause against the rule
taken upon him by Samuel Anderson,. why the notes sued on
should not be withdrawn.and delivered up to said Anderson,
shows, that the plaintiff/has taken a voluntary nonsuit in the
above cause, after issue joined, which issue has never been either tried or decided; but that plaintiff now stands on the record as the owner of said notes, and he denies that said Anderson can have an order of this court for the delivery to him of
said notes until it shall have been decided in a suit,*regularly
brought for that purpose, that said Anderson is the owner of

JANUARlY TERM, 1848.

173

Shelton v. Tiffin -et al.

said notes, which issue he denies can be tried upon the said
defendant's rule- to show cause; wherefore, and for other reasons equally apparent, he prays that defendant may be discharged at his costs.
D. S. STAcy, Att'yforplff.
On the 19th of May, 1842 the court overruled the above,
exceptions, and ordered the trial of the rule to proceed; when
a motion was made on the part of Perry for a continuance, and
an affidavit of John M. Perry filed in support of the motion.
The affidavit stated the absence of a material witness, viz.
Crawford, the attorney in'the suit of Mosely aid Boulding
against John M. Perry and Lilburn P. Perry, and that he expected to prove by him that lie, Crawford, put in ananswer.
by mistake for the said Lilburn P. Perry, and that he, said
Crawford, never had any authority from the .said Lilburn P.
Perry, or from any duly authorized attorney or agent of said
Lilburn P. Perry, to put in said answer, or to make any answer
or plea of any description whatever, or in any manner whatever
to repregent said Lilburn P. Perry in said suit. John M. Perry
also filed the following affidavit "John M. Perry, agent and attorney in fact of the plaintiff in
the above-entitled suit, makes oath,.that he is the agent of
Lilbourn P. Perry, the said plaintiff; that said Lilbourn P.
Perry is absent at-this time from the State of Louisiana, and
he, said Lilbourn. P. Perry, resides in the State of Missouri, and
has resided in said State of Missouri for several years past;
that Lilbourn P. Perry has not been within the vicinity of the
State of. Louisiana for nearly, or quite tw'o year§ past,. and that
ever since the said Lilbourn P. Perry left the State of Louisiana,
which affiant bblieves was in the fall of the year. 1838, and
became a resident in the State of Missouri, affiant has been, as
he is now, the agent and attorney in fact of the said Lilbourn
P. Perry.
"'Affiant swears, that not until Wednesday, the 18th day of
May,. in the year 1842, was affiant apprised that any such
motion as that now before the court, made-on the part of Samuel Anderson, had been made, nor had affiapt any knowledge
that any such motion was intended to be 'made on the part of.
said Anderson, or any one claiming under him.
"Affiant swears further, that Bennet A. Crawford, who resides
in the city of New Orleans, is a witness whose testimony is
material for the substantiation of the claims of the said Lilbourn P. Perry on the trial of said motion; that the said Lilbourn P. Perry cannot go safely to trial without the.evidence of
said Crawford, and that he expects to prove by said Crawford
15 *

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

such facts as will show the said Anderson has no title in and
to said notes.
"Affiant swears,'also, that since he was informed of the existence of said motion, he has not had fime to procure the testimony of said Crawford, and that he cannot procure said testimony of said Crawford in time to go to trial at the present
term of this court, but he, affiant, expects to procure said testimony of said Crawford so as to go to trial at the next term
of this honorable court; and finally, that this affidavit is not
taken for the purpose of delay, but only to obtain substantial
justice.
"JOHN M. PERRY."
The court having ordered the trial of the rule to proceed,
the counsel of Perry declined to make any further appearance,
and took a bill of exceptions, which was signed by the judge.
Anderson then offered in evidence the proceedings consequent
upon the judgment in the case of Mosely and Boulding against
John M. Perry and Lilburn P. Perry, the execution, the sale
to Anderson, and the deed to him by the marshal, all of which
have been stated above.
On the 19th of May, 1842, the court rendered the following
judgment: -

-

"On a rule to show cause. -By reason of the law and the
evidence being in favor of the defendant, and against the
plaintiff, Lilbourn P. Perry, and the defendant's answer to the
plaintiff's petition, and the evidence being considered, and the
defendant, Samuel Anderson, having proved to the satisfaction
of the court, that he has, since the institution of this suit, become the true and legal owner of the three notes sued on, and
the indebtedness set forth in plaintiff's petition having been
extinguished by confusion, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed,.
that the defendant, Samuel Anderson, have judgment in his
favor, and against the plaintiff, Lilbourn P. Perry, and that said
Samuel Anderson be decreed- to be the true and legal owner of
the said thiee notes, the same being extinguished by confusion,
and that the same be adjudged and decreed to be delivered up
to said defendant, Samuel Anderson, and that the said L.
P. Perry pay the costs of this suit, to be taxed. Done and
signed in open court, this
1842.
" THos. CURRY,
District Judge, Ninth Judicial District."
From this judgment an appeal was prayed and granted to
the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
On the 3d of December, 1842, Anderson received the original notes from the clerk of the court.

JANUARY TERMs 1848.

175

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

We must now turn our attention to another suit.
It has been already stated, that on the 17th of March, 1840,
Samuel Anderson acknowledged himself indebted to Nelson F.
Shelton, of Virginia, to the amount of $ 45,550, and to Robert
Anderson, also of Virginia, to the amount of $ 9,000; and that
he mortgaged all the property which he had purchased from
Tiffin ind Perry to secure those debts, making this last mortgage posterior to that to Tiffin and Perry.
On the 3d of April, 1841, Nelson F. Shelton and Robert
Anderson filed a petition in the Ninth District Court for-the
State of Louisiana, holding sessions in and for the parish of
Madison, setting forth the mortgage, and praying that the sheriff
might be ordered to seize' and sell, for cash, so much of the
mortgaged proporty as would pay their respective debts.
On the 12th of April, 1841, the judge issued the order, as
•
I
prayed.
On the 10th of July, 1841, the sheriff returned that he had
offered the property at public auction, "1and Nelson F. Shelton,
sen'r, and Robert Anderson, the plaintiffs herein, being present,
bid for said property the sum of -thirty-six thousand dollars,
which being the highest bid or offer made, and being over and
above iwo thirds of the cash valuation of the same, the" said
property was adjudicated to Nelson F. Shelton, sen'r, and
Robert Anderson, at and for the said sum.of thirty-six thousand
($ 36,000) dollars, subject to all the privileges and mortgages
encumbering the same; wherefore, in virtue of the premises
herein set forth, and of the'law in such case made and provid.ed, and for and in consideration of the price above described,
I, Thomas B. Scott, sheriff as aforesaid, do sell, transfer, and
convey unto the said Nelson F. Shelton, sen'r, and Robert
Anderson, in proportion to the claim of each plaintiff in said
writ of seizure, all the right, title, and interest of the said defendant,. Samuel Anderson, in and to the before described, and
all the appurtenances thereunto belonging, unto them, the said
Nelson F. Shelton, sen'r, and Robert Anderson, and their heirs
or assigns for ever.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto et my hand, at the
parish of Madison, State of Louisiana, on this the sixteenth
day of June, eighteen hundred and forty-one, in the presence
of Alexander T.. Steele and tdmond Cavelier, competent witnesses, who have signed with me the said sheriff.
(Signed,)
Tno. B. ScoTT,
Sherffi of the Parishof Madison, Louisiana."
It is not necessary to insert in this statement two suits which
are inserted, in the record, which- were carried on, one in the

176

SUPREME COURT
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

Circuit Court of the United States by Tiffin, upon his own account, against Anderson, upon three promissory notes, amounting in the whole to $ 12,065, and the other in a court of Mississippi by Anderson, for the use of Clayton Tiffin, against Austin,
Ragan, and Bohannon, upon the note for $ 18,282, which Anderson had considered a part of his cash payment, as above
narrated. Both these suits ended in judgments which produced
no fruits.
We come now to the suit in the Circuit Court, which was
the basis of the present appeal.
On the 21st of April, 1842, Clayton Tiffin and Lilburn P.
Perry filed a bill on the equity side of the Circuit Court of the
United States. They state themselves to be residents of the
city of St. Louis and citizens of the State of Missouri, and file
the bill against Samuel Anderson, Robert Anderson, Nelson F.
Shelton, Hillery Mosely, and William W Bouldin. The bill
recites the sale to Samuel Anderson; the deficiency in the cash
payment, the execution of the notes and mortgage by Anderson, the suit against him by Lilburn P. Perry, the suit against
Pety by Mosely and Bouldin, the judgment, the sale of the
whole interest to Anderson for $ 5,000, the OSreclosure of Shelton's mortgage with an intent to defraud, and then avers, that,
at -the institution of the suit by. Mosely and Bouldin against
Perry, the latter was not a citizen of Louisiana, but of Missouri.; that he was never served with process, and never emPloyed
any one to appear'for him; that the judgment was thereby
wrongfully recovered, and is void; that admitting the validity
of the judgment, yet the subsequent proceedings were irregular; that the land;nd slaves never were the sole property of
Perry, and that Anderson knew it; that the first note was specially indorsed ti Tiffin as a part of his share; that this was
done before it ws seized as being the property of Perry. The
bill then prayed that the judgment of Mosely and Bouldin
might be set aside, that their mortgage .might be foreclosed,
and for general relief, and for an injunction.
The defendants, Samuel Anderson and Nelson F. Shelton,
demurred to the bill for want of equity, which being overruled,
they severally pleaded to the jurisdiction of the court, that said
Shelton, and all the other defendants except Samuel Anderson,
were citizens of the State of Virginia. Upon these pleas, evidence was taken on both sides, and on that evidence the pleas
were overruled.
The defendants who had pleaded and Robert Anderson then
put in their answers to the bill. The grounds of defence set
'tp and relied upon by the defendants were,
1st. That it was part of their original contract of purchase

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

177

Shelton, v. Tiffin et al.

that the complainants would receive, in satisfaction of the cash
payment, the debt due to Samuel Anderson by John M. and L.
P. Perry, and the note on Austin, Ragan, and Bohannon; that
complainants knew the drawers and the value of the note, and
that, but for their agreement to receive these notes, he would
not have given the. price at which he purchased; and that,
therefore, they have no right to claim of him any thing on account of their failure to collect said note of the drawers.
2d. That, before the execution of the three notes secured by
the mortgage, Samuel Anderson and John M. Perry gave three
notes, for about the aggregate amount of $ 12,000, to the said
Clayton Tiffin, with the understanding and agreement, that
thereafter, when the said mortgage notes were executed, one
of them was to be given to him for the said three first-mentioned notes, which were then to be surrendered up. That this
had not been done. On the contrary, the complainants retained all the three mortgage notes, and that said Clayton Tiffin
had not only not surrendered the three other notes given to
him, but had sued on them in the same United States Circuit
Court, and had recovered judgments thereon, and that, therefore, the mortgage debt ought to be credited by the amount of
those judgments.
3d. That Samuel Anderson had, in good faith, purchased
and paid for the said three mortgage notes, amounting to
$ 40,000, when seized and sold on the 4th of January, 1840,
by the marshal, under execution from the same United. States
Circuit Court, on a judgment therein obtained by Mosely and
Bouldin against the -said Lilburn P. Perry and John M. Perry;
that the said Lilburn P. Perry appeared to that suit by a licensed
attorney-at-law; that all the proceedings in the suit, and in
virtue of the execution, were regular and legal; and that the
sale under said execution, and his purchase, had been decided
to be valid by the District Court of the Niith District of Louisiana (a State court), in a suit of Lilbum P. Perry agaiist the
said Samuel Anderson; and 'that thereby the said mortgage
debt was "extinguished by confusion," as was adjudged by
the said State court; and that, on the faith of the validity of
said proceedings, the said defendants, Nelson F. Shelton and
Robert Anderson, had instituted a suit, in April, 1841, in the
said District Court for the Ninth District of the State -of Louisiana, on a mortgage in their favor, given to them by the said
Samuel Anderson (subsequent, however, to the mortgage given.
to the complainants), and on the 14th of June, 1841, by virtue
of an order of seizure and sale in the said suit, caused the said
mortgaged property (the same previously mortgaged to complainants) to be sold by the sheriff, and became themselves the

178

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

purchasers (at the price of $ 36,000), and took possession under their purchase. To prove all this, they refer to the record
of said suit, and rely on these several purchases of Samuel
Anderson, and of Nelson F. Shelton and Robert Anderson, as
extinguishing or precluding the claim of the complainants.
The complainants filed a general replication.
With respect to the third ground of defence, the testimony
of Mr. Crawford was taken, who, it will be recollected, was the
attorney who appeared for Lilburn P. Perry in the suit against
him by Mosely and Bouldin.
Evidence of Mr. Crawford.
1st. Are you a counsel and attorney at law, practising as
such at the bar of the State of Louisiana, and were you in the
year 1839 ?
He. answers, Yes.
2d. Did you appear in your aforesaid capacity in the defence
of a suit instituted by Mosely and Bouldin, in
, 183 ,
against John M. Perry and Lilburn P. Perry, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana?
To the 2d. He answers, Yes.
3d. Will you please state if you ever received aniy authority,
either directly or indirectly, from Lilburn P. Perry, or from any
one on his behalf, to appear and represent and defend his interest in said suit?
To the 3d. He. answers, he has no recollection of having
received any authority, either directly or indirectly, from Lilbum- P. Perry, or from any one on his behalf, to appe~r and
represent and defend his interest in said suit, other than what
might be inferred in a letter from John M. Perry, informing him
that he would see upon the records of the court of the United
States a suit, commenced against him and others by H. Mosely
and Bouldin, and his wish to employ him to defend it. In no
other part of his letter is reference made to the name of Lilburn
P. Perry.
4th. Were you, or not, employed by John M. Perry alone
for his defence, without any direction or request to appear on
behalf-of Lilburn P. Perry; and was, or not, your appearance
on behalf of the defendants in said suit an inadvertence on
your part?
To the 4th. 'He answers, he was employed by J. M. Perry
in said letters aforesaid, and without any directions or request
to appear on behalf of Lilburn P. Perry, other [than] what may
be inferred from the letters aforesaid. Deponent regards his
appearance on behalf of any other person than John M. Perry
in said suit as an inadvertence on his part.

JANUARY TERM, i848.

179

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

5th. Did you, or not, know, at the time of your said appearance, that the said Lilburn P. Perry had never been served with
process of citation in said suit, and that, at the time of -its institution, he was a citizen of Missouri, residing in the city of
St. Louis?
To the 5th. Deponent did not know, at the time of his said
appearance, that Lilburn P. Perry had never been served with
process of citation, and only presumed that it has been done;
and accordingly misled him, as far as it has been done in the
answer of John M. Perry. Deponent did not know, of his own
knowledge, that, at the time of the institution of the said suit,
Lilbum P. Perry was a citizen of' St. Louis, Missouri.
Cross-Interrogatories.
1st. If you filed an answer and amended answer to the suit
of Mosely and Bouldin against John M. Perry and Lilburn P.
Perry, in the federal court, early in 1839, in the name of both
defendants, did you never receive any instructions from Lilburn
P. Perry to do so, or as to the suit'? Did he never converse
with you about the suit, either before or since ? Did he never
write to you in relation to it, either before or since ?
To the first cross-interrogatory, he saith: In relation to the
answers referred to in the said interrogatory, deponent has no
recollection of having received any instructions from Lilburn
P. Perry on the subject; nor of his having conversed with him
about the suit before filing said answers; nor of his having
conversed with him about the said suit until after the rendition
of judgment against him; nor of his having ever written to
him in relation to it, either before or since its institution.
2d: Was not John M. Perry his agent or attorney in. fact?
Did yqu not see in his hands authority to act for Lilbum P.
Perry? Have you not reason to believe, and what reason, that
he had authority to d6fend that suit? ,
To the 2d cross-interrogatory. Deponent does not know
that John M. Perry was agent, or attorney in fact; deponent
never saw in [his] hands any authority to act for Lilburn P.
Perry; deponent had no reason to believe that John M. Perry
had authority to defend the said suit for Lilburn P. Perry.
3d. Was not John M. Perry the father of Lilburn P. Perry?
Was he not his agent generally in Louisiana? Did not Lilburn P. Perry at some time avow and ratify the act done by
John M. Perry for him?
To the 3d cross-interrogatory. John M. Perry has been regarded as the father of Lilburn P. Perry; deponent has no
knowledge of his being his agent generally in Louisiana; deponent has no knowledge'that Lilburn P. Perry ever avowed
or ratified the acts done by John M., Perry for him.

180

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

4th. Was there any defence for Lilburn P. Perry which.
John M. Perry did not make ? Are you not satisfied that the
claim of Mosely and Bouldin against him was perfectly just?
To the 4th cross-interrogatory. I know of no other defence
for Lilburn P. Perry, than what is stated in my answers to the
interrogatories of the plaintiff; and in my answers to the foregoing cross-interrogatories. I have no personal knowledge of
the claim of Mosely and Bouldin, and have not heard or seen
any thing to satisfy me that it is just.
5th. Do you know, or can you set forth, any other matter or
thing which may be a benefit or advantage to the parties at issue in this cause, or either of them, or that may be material to
the subject of this your examination, or the matters in ques.tion in this cause? if yea, .set forth the same fully and at large
in your answer.
To the 5th. I do not know, nor can I set forth, any other
matter or thing which may be of benefit or advantage to the
parties at issue in this cause, or either of -them, or that may
be material to he subject of my examination, or the matters in
question in the cause.
On the 27th of June, 1843, the Circuit Court pronounced the
following decree.
TIFFNL AND

PERnut

Circuit Court, United States. -

In

Equity, June, 1843.
This cause came on to be heard at this term, and was argued by counsel; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof,
it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the complainants
are justly, legally, and equitably entitled to payment of the
sum prayed for in their bill of complaint, as the unpaid consideration-money for the purchase of the plantation and slaves described in said bill, and purchased from the complainants by
the respondent, Samuel Anderson; that said sum has not been
paid, satisfied, or extinguished, notwithstanding the allegations.
and matters of defence set forth in the answer of the respondents; that the entire property mortgaged by the respondent,
Samuel Anderson, to the complainant, Lilbourne P. Perry, is
in law and equity subject to the payment of said sums; that
the lien and mortgage exist upon said property, in the possession of the respondents, Robert Anderson, and Nelson F. Shelton, the third possessors thereof, notwithstanding the matters
of defence which they have severally set forth in their answer
to the bill of complaint. . And therefore, in order to carry into
effect -this decree, and secure to the complainants their legal
and equitable rights, it is ordered, that the marshal of this
AN*

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

181

Shelton v.Tiffin et al.

court do forthwith take into his possession the property described in the mortgage from Samuel Anderson to Lilbourne
P. Perry, and restore -the same to the possession of the complainants, or their legal representative; and if,within sixty
days thereafter, the- said respondent shall well and truly pay,
or cause to be paid, the complainants, or their legal representative, the sum of forty thousand dollars, with interest thereon
from the first day of January, 1842, until paid, the same being
the unpaid consideration for the purchase of said property from
the said complainants, then said property shall be relinquished
to respondents.
And it is further ordered, that the complainants, upon being
restored to the possession of said property, do give bond, in the
sum of twenty thouspd dollars, conditioned for the restoration
of said property, and the proceeds thereof, from the time of
their being placed in possession by the marshal, to the respondents, in case said respondents shall see cause to appeal
from this decree to the Supreme Court of the United States,
and the decree of this court be reversed upon said appeal.
It is further ordered, that the respondents pay the costs of
this suit.
(Signed,)
THEo. HE.MCOALEB, U. S. Judge.
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Jones, for the appellant, Shelton, and
Mr. 0rittenden,for Tiffin and Perry; but the length to which
this case has already reached renders it impossible to give any
other than a very brief sketch of their arguments.
Mr. Jones, for the appellant, objected to the jurisdictiqn of
the court upon two grounds: 1. Four of the five defendants are averred, in pleas and answers under oath, to have been citizens, not of Louisiana, but
of Virginia, at the time of the institution of the suit; and two
of them, Mosely and Bouldin, being admitted not to have been
citizens of Louisiana, we maintain that the other two, 1.. Anderson and Shelton, ae proved to have been in the same predicament. But we hold the admitted defect of citizenship in
the' first two above fatal to the jurisdiction, whatever may be
the weighl-of evidence as to the citizenship of the other two.
2. The case made out by the bill is not one susceptible of
relief in equity; but one wherein a plain, adequate, and complete remedy might have been had at law.
Taking up the second point first, he contended that it was
not a cape where equity would interpose, because the Louisiana
code gives, a more simple remedy. The object of the comVOL. VL

16

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

plainants is to set aside the judgment of Nosely and Bouldin
against Perry. This can be done by an action of nullity and
rescission. Code of Practice, 604- 616 ; 7 Cranch, 88, 90.
1st point. There are five parties here, and four *not citizens
of Louisiana. But parties must be of the. sanite State with
each other. 3 Cranch, 267; 5 Wheat. 424, 434.
There is a difference between citizenship and residence in a
State. Merely residing there does not confer citizenship. In
Louisiana, a person wishing to acquire citizenship must give
notice. 2 Dig. Laws La. 308.
As to setting aside the judgment, the rule is, that a party
may justify under a judgment. 6 Peters, 8 ; 10 Peters, 449;
6 Cranch, 173 ; 4 Dall. 8 ; 4 Cranch, 328.
The fact of an attorney's having authority to appear is not
traversable. The only remedy to the party aggrieved is an action against the attorney. 1 Tidd, 95; 3 Howard, 343.
1M1r. Crittenden, for the appellees, said that the objection to
the jurisdiction of the court, founded on the allegation that
there was a sufficient remedy at law, could not be maintained.
How has this court lost this liranch of its equity jurisdiction?
In Pennsylvania, they try equity cases in an action of' ejectment ; but this court has not considered this as a sufficient reason for waiving its equity jurisdiction. So, in Louisiana, law
and equity are all mixed up together. Besides, he're is an equitable lien on the property for the cash payment, which can only be enforced in equity.
As to citizenship. . The proof is, that the parties lived in
Louisiana for three years, and built a house upon the property.
We found them there. They claim the option of being citizens. "A citizen of the United States residing in any State is
a citizen of that State. 6 Peters, 762.
As to the judgment of Mosely and Bouldin. Perry was represented in court b.y an unauthorized attorney, and therefore the
judgment does not bind him. 9 Wheat. 829; 1 T. R. 62; 2
Desaussure, 380; CaldWvell v. Shields, 2 Rob.; 6 Johns. 296;
ibid. 317, 318; 2 Watts, 493; 3 Pa. Rep. 75 (Judge Grier
says this has been overruled); 3 Robinson, 94; Code of Practice, art. 605.
Even if the judgment was valid, the sale 'vas not madeaccording to law. If the property was immovable, then the requisite notice has not been given. Code of Practice, art. 670.
Civil Code, art. 461.
Slaves are, considered immovable.
Hare every thing was sold, land, slaves, and notes. Civil Code,
art. 462, 2424, 3249..
All formalities -must be complied with in a forced sale. 3
L a. Rep. 421 ; 4 ib. 150,207; 11 Martin, 610, '675; 8 N. S. 246.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

183

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

The thing sold was the entire debt of $ 40,000. But.it did
not all belong to the defendant, and was bought for $ 5,000 by
the very man who owed the $ 40,000, and who must have
known that one half belonged to Tiffin. The evidence shows
that Anderson knew that the first note had been indorsed to Tiffin. (Mr. Crittenden here referred to and commented upon it.)
By the Civil Code, art. 2622, Anderson must be a trustee for
his vendor, who can reclaim the property by repaying what it
cost.
Story, Eq. % 789, 1211, 1212, where cases are cited;
Grattan's Rep. 188; 2 Mylne & Craig, 361; 7 Dana, 46; Civil
Code, art. 21, 1958 - 1960, 2619.
(Mr. Critt~nden then commented upon the proceedings of
the parish court.)
Mr..Jones, in reply and conclusion.
As to the judgment of Mosely afid Bouldin. It is objected,
that the defendant never was served with process; but that is
cured by an appearance. Was there one? The record says
yes. A sworn attorney appeared and answered for both defendants. If the correctness of this is impeached, it is for the
other party to do it, and they must do it clearly. There must
be the plainest evidence. Crawford-is the only witness. We
might object to the interrogatories. They are all. leading ones.
But he shows that he bad authority. He was eiraployed to defend the suit. What suit? Against both defendants. He refers to letters. Why did he not produce them? Is there any
evidence that John M. Perry had no authority to employ colusel? There is not. Why did he not swear so? He was as
good'a witness as Crawford. In an affidavit, John M. Perry
swears that he is the agent and attorney of Lilburn P. Perry.
A-'bond is signed L. P. Perry, "by his attorney, John M. Perry." Crawford's evidence is therefore only negative.
(Mr. Jones then proceeded to reply to the other arguments
of Mr. Crittenden upon the facts of the case.)
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery from the Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
On the 10th of April, 1838, the complainants below sold to
one Samuel Anderson a plantation and negroes situated in the
parish of Madison, Louisiana. for seventy-five thousand dollars.
Thirty-five thousand dollars of this sum were paid in part by
surrendering a note which Anderson held against Lilburn P.
Perry, the complainant, and his father, John M. Perry, for thirteen thousand dollars; and by the assignment-of a note on H.
R. Austin, J. B. Ragan, and Wylie Bohannon, of the State of

184

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

Mississippi, for eighteen thousand two hundred eighty-two
dollars and sixty-five cents, payable to Samuel Anderson on
the 1st of April, 1839.
A mortgage was executed on the plantation and slaves, to
secure the payment of forty thousand dollars, the residue of
the purchase-money. At the same time, three notes or bonds
were executed to Lilburn P. Perry by Samuel Anderson, each
for the sum of thirteen thousand three hundred and thirtythree dollars, payable on the first day of January, 1842, 1843,
and 1844.
On the 11th of January, 1839, Mosely and Bouldin, citizens
of Virginia, instituted a suit in the Circuit Court against L. P.
Pery and John M. Perry, and obtained a judgment against
them for seven thou.-and five hundred dollars. An execution
was issued, in virtue of which, under the laws of Louisiana,
the marshal levied upon the three notes above stated and the
mortgage, which were sold by him, on a credit of twelve months,
to Samuel Anderson, the mortgagor, for five thousand dollars.
Some time after this purchase, Robert Anderson, the father
of Samuel, and Nelson F. Shelton, his uncle, having procured
a judgment against Samuel Anderson in the State court of
Louisiana, sold the mortgaged property and slaves, and they
became the purchasers thereof and have the possession of the
plantation and slaves under the purchase, claiming that the
mortgage by Anderson to Perry has been extinguished.
The decree of the Circuit Court was entered against Samuel Anderson, Robert Anderson, and Nelson .F. Shelton et al.,
that.wihin sixty days they should pay to th.- complainants
forty thousand dollars, with interest from the first day of January, 1842, and in default of such payment that they should deliver to the complainants the possession of the plantation and
slaves. From this decree Shelton only has appealed.
The defendants pleaded that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case, as Mosely and Bouldin, Robert Anderson,
and Shelton were citizens of Virginia, and the complainants
were citizens of Missouri. Shelton being the only appellant,
the objection of citizenship -must be limited to him.
Under the act of Congress, jurisdiction may be exercised by
the courts of the United States "between a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought, and a citizen of another
State." "But no person shall be arrested in one district for
trial in another, in any civil action." If Shelton be not a
citizen of Louisiana, having raised the question of jurisdiction
by a plea, this suit cannot be sustained against him.
In the declaration or bill an allegation of citizenship of the
parties must be made, as it has been held that an averment of

'ANUARY

TERM, 1848.'

1.85

Shelton r. Tiffin et eI.

residence is insufficient. But. the proof of citizenship, when
denied, may be satisfactory., although all the privileges and
rights of a citizen may not be shown to have- been-claiied or
exercised by the individual.
Shelton and wife, they having no children, became residents
of Louisiana in the fall of 1840, more than two years before
the commencement of this suit. Since their residence commenced, they have been absent from the State only once, a
short time, on a visit t'o
a watering-place in Mississippi. They
have resided the greiter part of the time on the plantation in
controversy, cultivating and- improving it by the labor of the
slaves. Within this time, a more comfortable and secure dwelling-house has been constructed. In the winter of 1840 or
1841, Shelton observed to a witness, that he considered himself a resident of the State of Louisiana.
There is no proof that ,he has voted at any election in
L6uisiana pr served on a jury.* At one time he refused to
vote, but that Was after, this suit was commenced. Some. of
the witneses say that he sometimes spoke of returning to"Virginia whether on.-a visit or to- reside there permanently does
xqot appear.
Where an individual has resided in a State for a considerabletime- -.beng engaged in the prosecution -of business, he may
•well be presumed to be a citizen.of such State, unless the contrary appear.' -And? this presumption is strengthened where the
individual lives on 'a plantation and cultivates it with a largeforce, as *inthe. case of Shelton, claiming and improving the
lfroperty as his own.
-On a change of domicile from one State to another, citizenship may depend upon the intention of the individual. But
this intention may-be shown more satisfactorily by acts than
declarations. An exercise of the right of sufage is conclusive
on the subject;" but acquiring, a right of suffrage, accompanied
by acts which show a permanent looation, unexplained may
be sufficient. The facts proved in this case authorize the con-.
clusion, that Shelton was a citizen of Louisiana, Within the
act of Congress, 'so as to' give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court.
The defendants also demur to the plaintits bill, on the
ground, that the complainants have plain and adequate relief at
law. The demurrer'is clearly unsustainable. Fraud is alleged in
the bill, and relief is prayed against a judgment and a judicial
sale of the property in controversy. These and .other matters
stated in the bill show, that, if the complainants shall be entitled to relief, a court of equity only can give it.
The great question in the case arises out of the judicial sale
16*

16

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin ot aL.

of the mortgage debt to Anderson, the mortgagor, under a judgment obtained by Mosely and Bouldin against L. P. Perry and
John M. Perry. If by this sale the mortgage debt has been
extinguished, no relief -can be given to the complainants.
Had the Circuit Court which rendered that judgment jurisdiction of the case? The plaintiffs were citizens of Virginia,
John M. Perry was a citizen of Louisiana, and.L. P. Perry, of
Missouri. No process was served upon- L. P. Perry, nor does
it appear that he had notice of the suit until long after the
proceedings were had. Bift there was an appearance by counsel for the defendants, -and defence was made to the action.
This being done by a regularly practising attorney, it affords
piria face evidence) at least, of an appearance in the suit by
both the defendants. Any individual may waive process, and
appear voluntarily.
John M. Perry acted in some matters as the agent of L P.
Perry; but it does iot appear that he had authority to waive
process and detend the suit. And Crawford, the attorney, testified, that "he had no recollection of having received any
authority directly or indirectly from L. P. Perry, or from any
one in his behalf, to defend the suit. He received a letter from
John M. Perry, informing him that he would see upon the
reeords of the court of the United States a suit commenced
against him and others by Mosely and Bouldin, and he wished
to employ him to defend it." And he says, that "he regards
his appearance on behalf of any other person Than John M.
Perry in said suit as an inadvertence on his part."
This evidence does not contradict the record, but explains
it. The appearance wvas the act of the counsel, and not the
act of the court. Had the entry been, that L. P. Perry
came personally into court and waived process, it could not
have been cqntroverted. But the appearance by counsel who
had no authority to waive process, or to defend the suit for
L. P. Perry, may be explained. An appearance by counsel
under such circumstances, to the prejudice of a party, subjects
the counsel to damages; but this would not sufficiently protect
the rights of the defendant. He is not bound by the proceedings, and there is no other principle which can afford him'
adequate protection. The judgment, therefore, against L, P.
Perry must be considered a nullity, and consequently did not
authorize the seizure and sale of his property.
An execution* sale under a fraudulent judgment .is valid, if
the- purchaser had no knowledge of the fraud. But in this
ease L. P. Perry was not amenable to the jurisdiction of the
court, and did no act to authofize the judgment. He cannot,
therefore, be affected by it,.or by any proceedings under it.

JANUARf" TERM, 184&

.187

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

In this view, it is unnecessary to:zconsider the objections to

the procedure under the execution. The debt of forty thousand dollars was sold as the property of L. P. Perry, when one
of the notes had been assigned to Tiffin, a'nd an equal interest
in. the other two belonged to him. Of this, Anderson, the
purchaser, had notice. It would be difficult to. sustain this
sale on legal principles. Anderson, it is insisted, at the marshal's sale, purchased a "litigious right," and by article
2622 of the Givil Code, "he. against whom a litigious right
has.been-transferred may be released by paying the transferee
the .real price of the transfer, together with interest from its
*date."
The judgment being void for want of jurisdiction in the
court, no right passed to Samuel Anderson under the marshal's
sale; consequently the mortgage remains a subsisting lien. Nor'
is this lien affected by the mortgage subsequently executed by
Samuel to his father, Robert Anderson, and his uncle, Shelton.
After the mortgage to the complainants was supposed to. be
extinguished by the judicial sale, Robert Anderson and Shelton
procured in a State court a foreclosure of their mortgage which
had been jrevio.usly given on the plantation and slaves, and
they became the purchasers at the .sale for thirty-six thousand
dollars. If this procedure were bona fide, the purchase was
made subject to .he prior mortgage.
On the 23d of November, 1839, a billwas Mled in the Distriet Court for the parish of Madison, by L. P. Perry, against
Samuel Anderson,- representing the debt due, secured by mortgage, and that he was in possession of the plantation and slaves;.
and,. fearing that he might remove the slaves or other property,
an, attachment was prayed. No service was made of this writ,
and the suit was discontinued, the 28th of November, 1839.
A judgment seems to have been irregularly entered by default,
the 17th of November, 1840, and on the next day an answer
was filed by Anderson, setting up the sale and extinguishment
of the mortgage debt, and praying that the notes and mortgage
might be decreed as extinguished, and be delivered up. . Afterwards, on the 20th of May, 1841, this suit was dismissed by
the order of the court. And on the" 19th of May, 1842, motion having been previously, made and argued in the District
Court, on proof that "the defendant, Samuel Anderson, since
the Institution of this'suit has become the true and legal owner
of the thrie notes sued on, aud. the indebtedness set forth 'in
plaintiff's petition having been extinguished by confusion, the
court decreed that they should be -delivered up." And this.
decree is relied on as a bar to the present suit.
At the time the above decree was, made, this suit was pend-

188

SUPREME COURT.
Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

ing in the Circuit Court, to enforce ihe payment ,of the.otes
directed to be given up by the District Court. The object of
the petition before that court was not the recovery 6f thre
money, for the notes were not due when it was fied, but to
prevent Samuel Anderson from removing the negroes, wasting
the crops, &c., on.the plantation. But this petition had been.
discontinuedifor more than a year, when Anderson filed his
answer, setting up his purchase of the notes under a judicial sale,
and that the mortgage debt was extinguished. And on this
case, made in the answer in no way responsive to the petition,
which had long before been abandoned, the parish judge, on
motion, founded his decree that the mortgage debt was ex,tinguished, and directed the notes to be delivered up.
It is difficult to characterize in proper -terms this proceeding
of the State court. The petition having been abandoned,
there was no pretence of jurisdiction for the subsequent steps
taken.at the instance of Anderson. There was nothing in the
petition, had it not been abandoned, which would hlave -authorized such a procedure. The circumstances under which this
judicial action was had show a fraudulent contrivance, on the
part of Afiderson, to defeat his adversaries by the interposition
of the State court. The whole case was pending in the Circuit Court of the United States,,and this interference. of the
State court was wholly unauthorized and void.
The Mississippi note for eighteen thousand two hundred and
sixty-five dollars, which was assigned to complainants in part.
payment of the purchase-money, was worthless. The parties
to it were insolvent when it was assigned to the complainants,
which fact was known to the assignor, Samuel Andersoi. He
acted.fraudulently in representing the note to be good, when
he knew it was valueless. By his own confession, after the
assignment, the fraud is established.
. It is insisted, that, this note having been imposed upon the
complainants as a good note, by the fraudulent .representation of Anderson, they as vendors have an equitable lien on
the plantation and slaves for the amount' of it. If the receiut
of &note of a third person in payment of the purchase-money
be a waiver of an equitable lien on the real estate conveyed,
yet it would seem,- where a fraud had been practised in the
assignment of the note, there would be no waiver. But however this'may be, it is not strongly urged, as it is believed that
the mortgage debt, with the interest, will be nearly equal tothe value of the plantation.
I The history of this case shows a successful course of fraudulent combination, rarely exhibited in a court of justice. Samuel Anderson purchased the plantation and slaves of the con-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

189

Shelton v. Tiffin et al.

-

plainant, for seventy-five thousand dollars. He gave up a n6te
on L. P. Perry for thirteen thousand dollars, which was in fact
the only payment of any value. The Mississippi note was
worthless, and the mortgage debt he purchased, on a credit of
twelve months, for five thousand dollars. He must have received more than that sum as the product of the plantation.
So that in fact he acquired the plantation and negroes for fhirteen thousand dollars, which he purchased at seventy-five
thousand dollars. By this operation he saved of the purchasemoney sixty-two thousand dollars. -Such a result must strike
every one as having been procured through fraud..
It is unnecessary to consider the means through which
Robert Anderson, the father of Samuel, and his uncle Shelton,,
acquired title to the above property. The lien of the com'plainants' mortgage is paramount to any title or'lien whichthey assert.
No deduction will bemade from the mortgage for the five
thousand dollars which Samuel Anderson may have paid to
Mosely and Bouldin, under whose judgment he-purchased the
mortgage debt. He has received .from the products of the
plantation' while in possession of it-, more than that sum. But
if this'were not the case, his fraudulent act in the transfer of
the Mississippi. note is a sufficient ground for the refusal of
the credit.
In-their decree, the Circuit Court- directed the sum of forty
thousand dollars to be paid, with interest from the first day of
January, 1842. In this the court erred. The three notes were.
each for thirteen thousand three hundred and 'thirty-three dollars; the first being payable the first of January, 1842, the
second, the first of January, 1843, and the third, thb first of
January, 1844. The interest should have been calculated on the
notes from the time they respectively became due. With this
modification of the decree of the Circuit Court, a' decree will
be-here bntered, to.be transmitted to the Circuit Court, and if
the money shall not be.paid within ninety days from the filing
of this-decree in the Circuit Court, the mortgage shall be foreclosed, and the complainants put in possession of the property.
Order.
This cause came on to be hehrd on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana, and, was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the said Circuit
Court erred in directing the interest to be computed on -the($ 40,000) forty thousand dollars from the first day of January,
1842, instead of computing the interest on each of the three

190

SUPREME COURT.
Pease v. Dwight.

several notes for ($ 13,333-) thirteen thousand three hundred
and thirty-three dollars and thirty-three and a third cents from
the times the Said notes respectively became due; and that if
the money shall not be paid within ninety days from the filing
of the mandate of this court in the said Circuit Court, that then
the said mortgage shall be foreclosed, and the complainants put
inthe possession of the property, and that in that case the equity
of redemption therein be for ever barred and precluded; and
that if thesaid money, with interest as aforesaid, be duly paid
as aforesaid, that then the said mortgage should be held discharged, and Nelson F. Shelton put in possession of the said
property. Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
-in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, that each
party pay his own costs in this court, and. -that this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to.1the said Circuit Court, to
be proceeded with in conformity to" the opinion of this court,
and, as to law and' justice shall appertain.

WhLIAx T., PEASE. (mPLEADED
JoMs), PrAINTr x

WITH Jomr4 CHEsTER, AND TARLETON
ERxoR, v. WiLwx DwIGRT.

teons,
he name
Where a promissory note was payable to the order of several
of one of whom was inserted by mistake, or imadvertenty left on when the
was
also the
of
whom
one
the
real
payees,
by
and
delivered
indorsed
o notQ was
maker of the note, the indorsee had a right to recover upon the note, although
the names of all the payees were not upon the indorsement, and had a right,
also, to prove the facts by evidence.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for theDistrict of Michigan.
On the Ist of January, 1837, the following promissory note
was executed.
Detroit, January.1, 1837.
Two years from date I. promise to pay to the order of
Walter Chester and Pease, Chesteri & Co. one thousand five
hundred dollars, for value received, at the Farmers and Me.,chanics' Bank of Michigan, with interest.
JOHV CHESTER.
(Signed,)
Indorsed by, Peas6, Chester, & Co., but not byWalter Chester.
The firm of 'Pease, Chester, & Co. -was composed of William T. Pease (the plaintiff in error), John Chester, and Tarleton Jones.

