70

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Beall.

ROBERT MARSIHLLI APPELLANT, V. SUSAN

G.

BEALL, DEFENDANT.

Where a husbajnd and wife, in order to carry out an ante-nuptial agreement, con-

veyed personal property to a trustee, with directions to hold a part of it for the
sole and separate use of the wife, with a power to the wife to alien or devise it,
such part goes, if she dies intestate, to her next of kin, free of all claim on the
part of the husband.
But where a legacy was left to a trustee for the benefit of the wife, and the trustee
was directed , to let the wife have some part or arcel of the money, occasionally, as she may stand in need, to be paid out to her at the discretion of the trustee," this fund goes to the husband at the wife's death, by the laws of Maryland.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the
county of Washington.
In February, 1820, Robert Marshall and Ann Berry, being
about to be married, executed the following contract, which
was duly recorded.
"Whereas Robert Marshall and Ann Berry, both of Prince
George's county, State of Maryland, are about to intermarry, its
thereof agreed by the iarties, before.the marriage, that the said
Ann Berry shall hold in herself all her right, title, and interest
to the following funds of her own; viz. one hundred and
fifty shares of stock in the Patriotic Bank, of which ten dollars
have been paid, which stock stands to the credit of Ann Berry;
also, one hundred and thirty-seven shares of the stock in the
Central Bank of Georgetown and. Washington, upon which
eleven dollars per share have been paid; and three thousand five
hufndred dollars in the bonds of Charles Glover.
"Given under our hands and seals, this 17th day of Febmary, 1820.
"RoBT. MARSHAL.,
ANN BERy.

[sEAL.]
[SEAL.]

"Witness: JANE H. T. DORSErT."
Soon after this, the marriage was solemnized.
On the 27th of August, 1823, Marshall add wife executed a
deed to Susan G. Beall, which appeared to be unsatisfactory,
and to have no influence upon the decision of the case.
On the 1st of May, 1824, Marshall and wife made another
deed to Susan G. Beall, who was the sister of Mrs. Marshall,
as follows : "This indenture, made this first day of May, in the year of
-our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-four, between Robert Marshall and Ann Marshall his wife, late Ann
Berry, of Prince George's county, in the State of Maryland,
of the first part, and Susan G. Beall, of Washington county,
in the District of Cblumbia, of the other part. Whereas, by

JANUARY TE'RM, 1848.

71

Marshall v. Beall.

an agreement entered into between Robert Marshall and Ann
Marshall, late Ann Berry, dated the 17th day of February, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and- twenty,
and previous to the marriage of the said Robert Marshall and
Ann Marshall, it was agreed by and between the said parties,
that the said Ann Marshall should have and possess, in her
own right, the following funds for her own property, to wit:
one hundred and fifty shares of stock in the Patriotic Bank,
upon which ten dollars per share had been paid; also, one
hundred and thirty-seven shares of stock in the Central Bank
of Georgetown and Washington, up~n-which eleven dollars
per share had been paid, and three thousand five hundred
dollars due to the said Ann Marshall, then Ann Berry, by'
Charles Glover, and which was secured by a mortgage of a tract
of land, formerly sold by the said Ann Berry to the said Charles
Glover, all which stocks and debts belonged to the said Ann
Berry previous to the said marriage, besides considerable other
real and personal property ; -and whereas the said Robert Marshall did, at the same time, agree to make any other or further
instrument of conveyance which might be considered necessary
fully to assure and convey the said stock and debts above mentioned to the sole and separate use of the said Ann Berry, her
heirs and assigns, free and clear from any debts, control, demands, or. encumbrances of the said Robert Marshall; and
whereas the said bank stock has been sold by the mutual consent and agreement of the said Robert-Marshall and Ann Marshall; and whereas iudgment has been oiuiained against the
said Charles Glover lo two thousand dollars, part of the said
three thousand five hundred dollars, with interest and costs, in
the-name of the said Robert Marshall, and on which execution
hath been issued against the property of said Charles Glover,
and one other judgment for fifteen hundred dollars, with interest and costs, being the remaining part of the said three thousand five hundred dollars, due by said Charles Glover; and
whereas the said Robert Marshall and Ann Marshall b ve
agreed further to dispose of and settle the judgments above
mentioned, and .the tract of land hereinafter mentioned, by a
more full, complete, and formal instrument of writing than the
marriage agreement above mentioned, according to the terms,
stipulations, and conditions of the present instrument of writing. Now, this indenture witnesseth, that for and in conside \
ation of the premises, and for the more fully, completely, and
perfectly carrying into effect the marriage contract between
said parties, and for the further consideration of five dollars, to
them in hand paid by the said Susan G. Beall, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, and for divers other good

72

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Beall.

causes and considerations, them thereunto moving, the said Robert and Ann Marshall have given, granted, bargained, sold, released, and assigned, and by these presents do give, grant, bargain, sell, release, and assign, to the said Susan G. Beall, her
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, the following tract,
piece, or parcel 'of land, situate, lying, and being in Prince
George's county aforesaid, on which the said Robert and Ann
Marshall at present reside, being lot number four in the division
of the estate of William D. Berry, and containing about fifty
acres of land, more or less, for and during the joint lives of the
said Robert and Ann Marshall, and the survivor of them; likewise the two judgments above particularly repited, against
Charles- Glover; to .have and to hold the said tract of land
above mentioned and described for and during the lives of the
said Robert and Ann Marshall,. and the survivor of them, and
the said two judgments against the said Charles Glover, to the
said Susan G. Beall, her heirs, executors, administrators, and
assigns; in trust, nevertheless, and to and for the following
uses, intents, and purposes, to *it: in trust to hold ihe abovementioned and described tract of land for the use of the said
Robert and Ann Marshall, during their joint lives; and if the
said Robert Marshall shall survive the said Ann Marshall, for
the use of the said Robert Marshall during his life and no
longer, upon the express agreement and understar.ding that the.
said tract of land is ijot to be subject, or liable for the debts,
contracts, or engagements of the said Robert Marshall, and in
further trust that the said Robert Marsh-ll shall have and receive the said judgment of two thousand dollars, with interest
and costs, against the said Charles Glover, to his sole and
separate use, free and clear of the marriage contract above
mentioned, and of all separate claim of the said Ann Marshall,
and his receipt shall be good and sufficient acquittance and
discharge of said judgments; and in further trust, that the
said Susan G. Beall shall hold the said judgment of fifteen
hundred dollars, with interest and costs, for the sole and separate use of the said Ann Marshall, her executors, administrators, and assigns, free and clear from any control or demand
of the said Robert Marshall, or of his creditors, debts,- or engagements; and upon the- payment of the said judgment, or
any part thereof, to invest the said money in stock, or to loan
the same on interest, with the approbation of the said Ann
Marshall, for the like sole and separate use of the said Ann
Marshall; and in further trust, that the said Ann Marshall,
,during the life of her husband, may dispose of said judgment,
or the proceeds thereof, and of her right, interest, and estate in
the said tract of land, after the death of the said Robert Mar-

.73

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Marshall v. Beall.

shall, either by her last [will] and testament, or by any instrument of writing, under he" hand and seal, in the presence of
two witnesses, during her coverture, in the same manner as if
she were single. It is further understood and agreed, that said
Robert M4arshall is to pay and satisfy the judgment of Hodges
and Lee against them; and the claireof Mr. McDaniel's estate,
if judginent should be recovered; and all fees, costs, and expenses in prosecuting and recovering the-two judgments against
Charles Glover, and all legal expenses of the judgment assigned
to him.
"In testimony whereof, the said parties have hereunto set
their hands and seals, the day and year first above written.
"ROBERT

MARSHALL,

[sEAL.]

ANN MARSHALL,

[SEAL.]

SusAw G. BEALL.

[sEAL.]"

In November, 1825, there was paid to the trustee, on account of the judgment for $1500 reserved as above for the
separate use of Ann Marshall, the sum of $ 1960.66.
-n May, 1832, Ann T. Beall, the mother of Ann Marshall,
died. By her will, she gave the following legacy to her
daughter :1"-I give and bequeathd to my daughter, Anm Marshall, the
sum of four hundred dollars, and hereby hppoint my daughter,
Susan G. BeaM, her trustee, to -hold and retain the. .-whole
amount in her hands, and let the said*Ann Marshall, wife of
Robert Marshall,, have some part or parcel of the money occasionally, as she may stand in need, but to be paid out to her at
the discretion of my trustee, Susan G. Beall."
During the lifetime of Ann Marshall, Susan G. Beall, the
trustee, loaned the sum of $ 400 to Amelia T. Dorsett, a third
sister, out of the trust fund.
In July, 1833, Ann Marshall, the wife, died, ney. r having
disposed of the trust property belonging to her and in the
hands of the trustee, in the manner provided for' in the deed
carrying out the marriage articles.
After her death, her surviving husband, Robert Marshall,
sued Amelia T. Dorsett, to recover the four hundred dollars
loaned to her by the trustee, as above recited, and obtained a
judgment.
In April, 1835, Robert Marshall also filed a bill on the equity
side of the court against Susan. G. Beall, the trustee, in which
he recited the facts as above set forth, averred that the trust
fund, with the profits and interest, becdme vested in him by
the deatb.of his:wife, and prayed an account by the trustee,
with. an: njrinnction, &c.
T
VOL. V1.

74

SUPREME COURT.
Alarshall r. Beall.

In April, 1836, Susan G. Beall,\the trustee, filed her answer,
admitting the facts stated in the bill, but denying that the
complainant had any right to the trust fund.
To this answer the complainant filed a general replication.
IR November, 1836, Amelia T. Dorsett filed a bill of interpleader, averring substantially the same facts and exhibiting
the same documents as had 1Seen stated and produced by complainant; alleging that the provision in the deed referred to,
that the real estate was to be conveyed to complainant if he
survived his wife, was null and void, and inoperative against
the legal representatives or heirs of said Ann; averring thatthe said Ann died intestate in July, 1833, without children,
and leaving the complainant and another sister, Susan G. Beall,
living, and three children of a deceased sister; that they were
the only heirs .of said Ann, and entitled to the trust property.
That;luring the lifetime of said Ann, the complainant, with
her consent, borrowed of the trustee $ 400, part of said trust
find, and gave her note therefor; that, since her death, Marshall had brought suit for the recovery of. this-money, as surviving husband of said Ann, and by the judgment of the court
had obtained judgment for the same; but denied his right to
the money, asserting that she, as next of kin of her deceased
sister, was entitled to letters of administration on the estate,
and if said Marshall had obtained any, they should be revoked.
The bill prayed that the children of her deceased sister may
be made parties to the original suit, in which Marshall was
complainant; that this bill of interpleader may be filed in said
suit; that the said parties may be required to interplead; that
the judgment against her may be enjoined, the trust property
adjudged to the heirs of said Ann, and the said Marshall be
perpetually enjoined, &c., &c.
To this bill the defendants filed the following demurrer: Demurrer to Bill of Interleader.
Whereupon the defendanti, by their solicitors, Coxe &
Carlisle, filed the following demurrer to the foregoing bill of
interpleader:
The demurrer of Robert- Marshall and Richard H. Marshall,
jointly and severally, to the bill of interpleader of Amelia
T. Dorsett.
The defendants, by protestation, not confessing -or acknowledging all or any of the matters and things in the said
complainant's bill of interp.leader contained to be true in such
-manner and form as the same are therein set forth and alleged,
do demur to the said bill; and for cause of demurrer show.

JANUARY TERM. 1848.

-75

Marshall v. Beall.

that the said complainant hath not in her said bill of interpleader made such a case as entitles her, in a court of equity,
to any relief against these defendants, or either of them, as to
the matters contained in said bill of interpleader.
And for further cause of demurrer these defendants show ,
that although the said conplainant's bill is avowedly, and on
the face .thereof, a bill of interpleader, yet the said complainant
doth herself claim an interest in the subject-matter in dispute
between 'the various parties named 'in the said bill of interpleader.
And for further cause of demurrer the defendants show, that
the said complainant, although she admits in and by her said
bill of interpleader that the subject-matter in dispute, or a portion thereof, is money loaned to, and justly due by, the said
complainant to the person who shall be adjudged entitled to
the specific fund out of which the said loan was made, yet nowhere in the said bill of interpleader does the said complainant offer to bring the said money so loaned into court. Nor
hath the same, or any part theieof, been brought into court, to
be subject to the decree or order of the court.
Wherefore, and for divers other good causes of demurrer,
these defendants do demur to the said bill of interpleader, and
they pray the court to adjudge whether they shall make any
other or fluther answer to the same; and they humbly pray to
be hence dismissed, with costs, &c., &g.
CoxE & CARLISLE ,

,Soicitorsfor defendants.
The cause was the, set for hearing by complainant on bill,
answer, exhibits, and replication, and upon the demurrer and
bill of interpleader, and'at March term, 1843, the court passed
the following decree: CCThe said bill of injunction, and for general relief, wherein
the said Robert Marshall is complainant, and the said Susan G.
Beall is defendant, together with the said other bill, by way of
cross-bill and bill of interpleader, wherein the said Amelia T.
Dorsett is complainant, and the said Robert.Marshall is defendant, having been regularly set for hearing by consent of the parties, as well upon the said first-mentioned bill, the answer thereto, the replication to said answer, and the several exhibits and
papers therewith filed, and in the proceedings mentioned, as upon the last-mentioned bill and the demurrer of the said Robert
Marshall thereto, and as if taken for confessed against the other
defendants therein named or referred to, this court, upon consideration of the premises, and the arguments of counsel, as well
in behalf of the said complainants respectively as of the said

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Beall.

defendants respectively, has order d and decreed, and now here,
on this 23d day of May, 1843, do h order and-decree, that the
said first-mentioned bill be and the same is hereby dismissed,
with costs; that the demurrer of the said Robert Marshall to
the last-mentioned. bill be and the same is hereby overruled,
with costs; that 'the said Amelia T. l)oisett pay to the said
Susan G. Beall all the principal suniof money with the interest thereon recovered against her in the name of said Roberft Marshall by the said judgment at law in the proceedings
mentioned, to be, together with all such personal -property,
moneys, securities, stocks, and effects as have come or may
c6me to the hands of the said Susan G. Beall as trustee for the
deceased Ann Marshall in the proceedings mentioned in virtue
of the marriage contract, and marriage settlement in the proceedings mentioned, and of the last will and testament of Ann
T. Beall, also in the proceedings mentioned, accounted, distributed, and paid over to and among the next of kin by blood of
the said deceased Ann Marshall, in the order and proportions
prescribed by law for the distribution of the personal estate of
persons dying intestate among such next of kin; that upon
the payment by the said Amelia T. Dorsett, in the manner
aforesaid, of the principal and interest of the debt so recovered
at law against her in the name of the said Robert Marshall as
aforesaid, she be .and is hereby exonerated, released, and discharged from the said judgment at law so recovered against
her; which the clerk of this court, upon such payment being
certified to him by said Susan G. Beall, is hereby authorized
and iequired to enter of'record as paik and satisfied pursuant to
this decree; and that the said Roberf Marshall pay to the said
Susan G. Beall her costs in this behalf expended, &c., &c."
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this
court'
It was argued by Mr. Coxe,for the appellani, and Mr. Jones,
for the appellee.
Hr. Coxe contended that the decree wps irregular, informal,
and erroneous. Upon overruling the demurrer of Marshall to
the bill of interpleader, he should have been held to answer,
and the case was not ready for a final decrpe against him. The
demurrer itself was good, and ought to have been sustained.
This was no regular bill of interpleader. Such a bill only lies
where a person has to pay money and is at a loss to whom it
ought to be paid. But here the partywho files the bill avers
an interest in the subject. 1 Madd. Ch. .r.239; Story's Eq.
Pl. %4 291 - 293
Marshall was not bound by the laws of Iaryland to take out

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

'71

Marshall v. Beall.

letters of administration upon the estate of his wife. He was
administrator by force of law. When he sued:Amelia T. Dorsett for the four hundred dollars loaned to her by the trustee,
all the matters stated in the bill of interpleader were open as
grounds of defence, and having omitted to avail hbrself of them
at law, she cannot now bring them into a court of equity.
A bill of interpleader is regarded as an original suit, and
therefore demurrable to by one or all the persons against whom
it is brought. But in this case it was demurred to by Marshall
alone, and the court ordered it to be taken pro confesso as to
the other parties. It had no right to do this.
Mr. Jones, contra, said- that there might be some technical
informality in the proceedings, but the right of the wife to her
separate estate was fairly presented. The substantial equity
was against Marshall, and in favor of the next of kin to the
wife. There were -two distinct funds which Marshall claimed,
arising in different modes, to be governed by different rules.
The bill called an interpleader was miscalled. It was in fact
a cross-bill, because the trust fund was placed in danger, and
the parties interested in it had a right to be heard. They
-would have a right of appeal in England. If the decision of
the court below is correct in saying that the property of the
wife does not belong to Marshall,. it is of no consequence to
him who gets it. A.misnomer-of the bill is, therefore, of no
value.
It is said that it was irregular for the court to pass a final decree without first calling upon Marshall to answer, after overruling his demurrer. But upon referring to the order of the
court, it appears that Marshall had set the cause down for hearing upon the demurrer, &c., and therefore waived all such irregularity. If he chooses to rest his case upon his demurrer,
he may do so.
All the questions now involved could not -have been raised
in a court of law when Marshall sued for the four hundred dollars.
When a married woman has separate property, the question
whether the rights of the husband are destroyed, or only suspended, must depend upon the instrument which they execute,
as the interpreter of their intentions. Clancy on' Married
Women, 34.
That the instrument now under consideration is sufficient to
vest the property absolutely in the wife, see Clancy, 43, 51
2 Roper, Hus. and Wife, 157 ; 2 Story's Eq. '§§ 1378 - 1383.
Mr. Coxe, in reply, insisted,"that, if these defences had-been
made at law, the judgment must have been decisive of the hus7*

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v.Beall.

band's rights. The objection to the bill of interpleader is not
technical. The nile is positive, that no such bill shall be filed
in such a case. Clancy says there- rust be a manifest intention to give the wife an exclusive right. This is not apparent
,either in the deed or the will. The will only gives the property to Ann Marshall, but does not exclude the husband.
Mr. Jones referred to 7 Johns. Ch. 229, and 6 Gill & Johns.
349, to show under what circumstances the court would consider the husband as being shut out.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Robert Marshall .filed his bill against Susan G. Beall, to recover two funds held by her as trustee for Ann Marshall, the
late wife of the coniplaiinant. The larger fund sued for was
fifteen hundred'dollars, with the addition of some interest that
had accrued on it, at the time it was received by the trustee.
In 1830, Robert Marshall and Ann Berry, both of Maryland,
were about to intermarry, and before the marriage took place
agreed'in writing that the said Ann should hold in herself all
right, title, and interest to the following funds of her own, to
wit: one hundred and fifty shares of stock of the Patriotic
Bank, on which ten dollars for each share had been paid; also,
one hundred and thirty-seven shares of stock in the Central
Bank of Georgetown, on which eleven dollars to each share had
been paid; and three thousand five hundred dollars in bonds on
Charles Glove5. The marriage took place, and a portion of the
property sought to be secured to the wife by the foregoing
agreement having fallen into the hands of the husband, further
to secure the wife in some portion of her property, another
agreement was made in May, 1834, to which Marshall and
wife, and Susan G. Beall, as trustee, are parties. First, the
husband and wife conveyed to Miss Beall a tract of land, the
property of Mrs. Marshall, to hold in trust for the use of the
husband and wife during their joint lives, and for the separate
use of the husband for life; if he was the survivor. Then follows the three thousand five hundred dollar debt from Glover, secured by the first articles, and reduced to two judgments. This
debt and the land seem to have been the only property left in
1834 to either party. The use of the land was fairly divided;
and of the debt from Glover the wife very generously gave the
husband the larger portion, "to his sole and separate use, free
and clear of the marriage contract of 1830." And then she reserved to herself the smaller judgmer~t of fifteen hundred dollars. in very nearly the same language : the trustee was to hold

JANUARY TERMs 1848.

79

Marshall v. Beall.

executors, administrators, and assigns, free and clear from any
control oi demand of the saidRobert Marshall." The-wife retained the 'power of appointment in regard td the land and the
fund, but failed to exercise the power. She died intestate, and
as by the laws of Maryland the husband was her administrator by.mere force of law, he now claims to recover the. fund
from the trustee, and to retain the money by force of his marital rights. And the question presented for our decision is,
whether the husband only made a temporary surrender of his
marital rights during the coverture, or whether he abandoned
them altogether. This depends on the intention of the parties,
as expressed in the marriage articles. By the first agreement
we do not doubt the wife desired, and really intended, to retain
-her property after the marriage as if she was a feme sole ; .but
the agreement was vague, and it is doubtful whether the husband's marital rights did not attach; then he stood as trustee
himself, and, might, and obviously did, use the property. Under these circumstances,' the. article of 1834 was entered into,
and the wife secured in her separate use as if she ras a feme
sole; and, in consideration of a division of the wife's property
with the husband, he abandoned all claim, founded on his mar.ital .rights, to -that part secured to the wife. We think that the
terms of the agreement of 1834 sufficiently shod that the intention of the parties was to carry the title of the fund beyond
the period of the wife's death, and to exclude the -husband.
And in this conclusion we are supported by the opinion of the
Court of Appeals of Maryland, in the case of Ward v. Thompson (6 Gill & Johns. 349), and in the soundness of which opinion we fully concur.
But there was another fund vested in Miss Beall by the will
of Ann T. Beall, the mother of Susan G., the trustee, and of
Mrs. Ann Marshall; and as respects this latter fund, also, the
court below dismissed the complainant's bill, on the ground, as
we suppose, that his marital rights never attached to it. The
correctness of this decree depends on the will of Mrs. Beall, the
clause of which vesting in trust this legacy, is as follows "To my daughter, Amelia Dorsett, the sum of four hundred
dollars, loaned to her some years ago. I give and bequeathe to
my daughter, Ann Marshall, the sum of four hundred dollars,
and hereby appoint my daughter, Susan G. Beall, her trustee,
to hold and retain the whole amount in her hands, and let the
said Ann Marshall, wife of Robert Marshall, have some part or
parcel of the money occasionally, as she may stand in need,
but to be paid out to her at the discretion of my trustee, Susan G. Beall.'"

so -

SUIPREME COURT.
Marshall v,Beall.

of the marriage articles. Its.grant4ng part limits the use of the
fund exclusively to Mrs. Marshall's o3vn use and benefit; there
is no disposition of the property in the event of her death; as,
for instance, to the next of kin of the devisee. In Watt v.
Watt, 3 Yes. 244, Garrick v. Camden, 14 Ves. 372, and in Bailey v. Wright, 18 Yes. 49, the cases turned on a-provision, that
for want of appointment the property should go over to the next
of kin of the deceased; and this was held to be a limitation that
excluded the husband, he not being of the next of kin. But we
think there is no doubt, that, if such a limitation over had not
existed, the English courts would without hesitation have adjudged the fund to the husband. Such is the plain inference
from these and other cases of the same class. On the wife's
death, he is -entitled to all the undisposed of choses in action
of the 'deceased wife. This fund was not disposed of at her
death ; it .does not belong to the trustee, and is subject to. be
distributed according to the laws of Maryland, and by these
laws the husband is entitled, in exclusion of the next of kin of
the deceased wife. As to this fund, the bill will be sustained,
and for so much the decree will be reversed. And the bill of
Amelia T. Dorsett will also be retained as part of the proceeding in the court below on the cause being remanded there for
further proceedings; when the Circuit Court will take an account between the complainant, Robert Marshall., and Susan
G. Beall, in which they will charge the complainant with any
moneys he may owe said Susan G., and for the balance of the
sum of four hundred dollars, with such interest as the court
may find to be reasonable'and proper; a decree will be rendered for said Marshall, either out of the. moneys due from Amelia
T. Dorsett, or out of the fund in the hands of Susan G. Beall,
the trustee.' And it is ordered, that one half the costs of this
appeal be paid by the appellant, Robert Marshall, and that the
other half of said posts be paid by Susan G. Beall out of the
trust fund of fifteen hundred dollars in her hands; and that as
to all other costs, the court below shall adjudge their payment
on the final decree as in the- discretion of that court may be
deemed proper.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the
deree of the said Circuit Court in this case be and the same
is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is here-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

81

Villabolos et ai.v. United States.

by remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded with in
conformity to the opinion of this court, and, that each party pay
his own costs in this coutt.

Jos-

ARGOTE VALABOLOS, AnIE ROSE, AND FRAN OIS FELIX, MARQUIS DE FOUGEREs, APPrELLANTS,.V. Tas UNITED STATES.

By the act of May 23d, 1828 (4 Statutes at Large, 284), relating to private land
claims in Florida, ajpeals from th6Superior Coufrt of the Territory of Florida are
governed by the laws of 1789 and 1803.

Therefore, where an appeal was not made in open court, and at the term at which
the final decree was passed, a citation was necessary, which must be signed by a
juge, and not by the clerk. See United States in Hodge, 3 How. 534.
The act of 1828, above mentioned, allowed appeals to be prosecuted within four
months, and placeAl them, in other respects, upon the same footing with writs of
error under the act of 1803. Writs. of error and citations are returnable to the
term of the appellate court next following; and unless the writ and citation are
both served before the term, the case is not removed to the appellate court.
Consequeiitly, where there was only an entry of an appeal in the clerk's office, and
no citation served within four months, the appeal was not regularly brought up,
and must be-dismissed on motion.

THIS was an appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.

'The ca]se being dismissed. for want of jurisdiction, it is unnecessaryto do more than refer to the circumstances, which axe
fully stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Mason;then Attorney-General, had moved at a preceding term to dismiss this case, upon the ground of its being irregularly brought up.
It was now argued by Mr. Clifford, Attorney-General, for
the motion,*and lMir. Yulee, against it.
Mr. Olifford, for the motion.
The points relied on by the United States for dismissal of
the appeal in this case ae 1st. That there is no citation issued according to law ; the
citation in the record being signed by the clerk of the Superior
Court of East Florida instead of the judge, in pursuance of the
twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act.
2d.. That there is-no allowance of -the appeal.
1st. The counsel of the appellants contends, that the citation is signed according to the practice of the Territorial courts
of Florida, which must govern this question. It is; however,
submitted, that the practice of these courts does not afford ihe
nile to goern appeals in land cases under the special jurisdiction, with respect to them, conferred on the judge of the Siiperior Court of East Florida.

