JANUARY TERM, 1848.

41

Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al.

JONATHAN

W.

NESMITH AND THOiS NESMITH, COMPLAINANTS, V.

THOMAS C.SHELDON, HoRcE H. COMSTOCK, DAVID FRENCH, WILLIAt E.PETERS, JAMES FoRroN, ATLA E. MATHER, HENRY B. HO.
BROOX, SAMUEL P. MEAD, FRA cis E.ELDRED, PHCEBE ANN DEAN,
CuLLEN BROWN, AND CHARLES H. STEWART, DEFBNDANTS.

Where it is evident from the record, that the whole case has been sent up to this
court, upon a certificate of division in opinion, the case must be dismissad for

want ofjurisdiction.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Michigan, on a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
The facts were briefly these.
The second -section of the 12th article of the Constitution
of Michigan is in these words, viz. "The .legislature shall pass no act of incorporation, unless
with the assent of at least two thirds of each House."
On the 15th of March, 1837, the legislature -passed an act
entitled, "An act to organize and regulate banking associations."
Under this act a company was formed and commenced doing
business as a banking association, under the name of the Detroit City Bank.
On the 15th September, 1838, Harris, the cashier of the Detroit City Bank, drew a bill of exchange upon the Albany City
Bank, in the State of New York, in favor of J.W. and, T. Nesmith, ibr six hundred dollars, payable nine months after date,
which bill was protested for non-payment whendue.
In Febr. ry, 1833, whilst the bill was running, the Detroit
*City Bank became insolvent'.
The plaintiffs, Nesmiths, sued the bank upon the bill, and
obtained a judgment in May, 1841, in a State court.
The plaintiffs then proceeded, under a statute of the State,.
against the directors of the bank, and obtained a judgment in
July, 1841, in the Circuit Court of the United States. An execution was issued upon this judgment, which was returned
wholly unsatisfied.
The plaintiffs then, under the same statute, filed a bill on
the equity side of the Circuit Court against the stockholders,
being the defendants mentioned in the title of this case, se.king to hold them individually liable, in proportion to the
amount which each one held in the stock of the bank.
To this bill the defendants put in general demurrers.
The cause was heard on the bill and demurrers. The following points and qtiestions were made and presented by the
'
complainants :-

42

SUPREME COURT.
Nesmith et al. v.

heldon et al.

1. Whether the banking associaions organized under the act
of the legislature of the State of N"ihigan, entitled, "An act
to organize and regulate banking associations," approved Marsh
15th, 1837,and the amended act, entitled, "An act to amend
an act entitled- 'An act to organize and regulate banking associations and for other purposes,' approved December 30th, 1837,
were or were not corporations or bodies corporate, within the
meaning of the constitution of the State of Michigan.
2. Whether said acts of the legislature, or either of them,
are in accordance with the provisions of the constitution of the
State, and valid, or contrary thereto, and void, in whole or in

part.
3. And if so much and such parts of said acts as purport to
create corporations, or bodies corporate, are repugnant to the
constitution and void, whether the remaining parts of said acts
are not valid, and the directors and stockholders of the association, set out in the bill, liable for the debts thereof, according
to the provisions of said amended act.
4. Whether the stockholders of the Detroit City Bank are,
or are not, liable in their individual capacity, as corporators, or
as members of a joint-stock association, company, or copartnership, to pay the debts due to the complainants, as set forth in
the bill.
5. Whether the defendants arej or are not, liable to pay the
debt due to the complainants, set out in the bill of complaint.
On the part of the' defendants, the following points were
made: 1. The Supreme Court of the State of Michigan has decided
that .the acts under which the 'Detroit City Bank was organized
were intended to authorize the creation of an indefinite num-.
ber of corporations, by the prospective action of individuals;
that they were so far unconstitutional and void, and under
them no corporate body could legally come into. existence.
This decision of the Supreme Court of the State will not be
questioned by the Courts of the United States, but will be followed and applied to the latter.
2. If the Detroit City Bank was not validly in existence as
a corporation, or artificial person, then it -was. not exempted
from the. penalties and, restrictions of the laws of Michigan on
the subject of unauthorized banking, commonly called the restraining laws.
3. Under the acts last refered to, the claim of the complainants was illegal and forbidden, and could notbe the basis of a
recovery.
4. The Detroit City Bank having, contracted as a corporation, when it was not such, its contracts on that account are
invalid.

JANUARY

TERM, 1848.

43

Nesmith et al. v. Sheldgn et al.

5. If the Detroit City Bank was not a corporation, then the
defendants can be liable only as generalpartners.
6. If liable only as general partners, the judgment against
the directors is a merger of the whole claim.
7. If the defendants are general paytners, the remedy against
them is complete at law.
8. If the court shall hold that the Detroit City Bank was
validly a corporation, and authorized to engage in banking,
then it is further contended by the defendants, that the bill
which forms the foundation of the claim of the complainants
was illegal, because not payable on demand.
9. The defendants are not concluded by the judgment against
the bank, but may dispute the validity and obligation of the
original claim.
Upon all the above points and questions, as made and presented by he complainants and defendants, the opinions of .the
judges of the Circuit Court were opposed; wherefore, it was
ordered that the same be stated, under the direction of the
judges, and certified, under the seal of this court, to the Supreme Court, at their'next session to be held thereafter.
The case was very elaborately argued in print by Mr. E. C.
Seaman and 1"Vr. J. M. Root, for the plaintiffs, and Mr. George
B. Hand and Mr. Theodore Romeyn, for the defendants. But
as the case went off upon a point of jurisdiction, the arguments
are omitted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a certificate of divis.
ion from the Circuit Court for the District of Michigan. Upon
opening the record, it i evident that the .whole case has been
sent up in this form. It is, indeed, divided into points, but
most of them are merely hypothetical, and might never have
arisen or required a decision upon them in the Circuit Court.
For whether they would or .would not- arise depended altogether upon ther decision of points which precede them in the
statement.
.This subject has bien frequently before the court, -and we
have repeatedly said, that, under such certificates of division, we
hive no jurisdiction. Without attempting to enumerate the
cases, it is sufficient on the present occasion to refer to White
v. Turk and others, 12 Peters, 238, and The United States
v. Stone, 14 Peters, 524, which are decisive of this case. It is
unnecessary, therefore, to examine the printed argunments that
have been filed, as the case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

44

SUPREME COURT.
Staoy v. Thrasher.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Michigan, and on the points and questions on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. And it appearing to this court, upon an
inspection of the said transcript, that no point in the case within the meaning of the act of Congress has been certified to this
court, it is thereupon: now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, and
that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the sad
Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law.

DAVID S. STAcy, ADmINISTRATOR OF CHARLES S. LEE, PLAINTIFr IN
ERROR,.v. J. B. THRASHER, FOR TME USE OF WILLL&t SELLERs,
DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

An action of debt will not lie against an administrator, in one of these United States,
on a judgment obtained against a different administratoT of the same intestate,
appointed under the authority of another State.
The detrine of privity examined.
I THIS case was brought up, bywrit of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisi-

ana.
The history of the case is this.
In April, 1836, Charles S. Lee, a resident of the county of
Claiborne and State of Mississippi, was sue.d in the county
court of Claiborne, by Christopher Dart and William Gardner.
who called themselves late merchants and copartners trading
under the style and firm of Dart & Co., and stated the suit
to be for the use of Christopher Dart.
It is not necessary to state the cause of action, or trace the
progress of the suit minutely.
Lee appeared to the suit.
In December; 1836, his death was suggested.
In July, 1837, Ann Lee took out letters of admnimstration
upon the estate of Charles S. Lee, under the authoritkr of the
probate court of Claiborne county.
In September, 1837, the suit was revived against the administratrix, by ascirefacidas.-

