SUPREME COURT.
Davis v. Tileston et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was. argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, and it appearing to the court that this appeal has not
been prosecuted ,in the manner directed and within the time
limited by the acts of Congress, it is therefore now here ordered and decreed by this court, that this. appeal be and the
same.is hereby dismissed.

THOMAS DAvIs, PLAINTIFF IN ERRQR, V. WILLIAM

M. TILESTON

A

'here a'bill in equity sought to enj 6 in a judgment, and charged that the complain.
ant had a good defence which he did not know of at the time when judgment at
law was rendered against him, and charged also that he was entitled to pay the
debt 'in 'the .depreCiated notes of a particular bank, of which advantage it was
attempted to deprive him by faud and collusion, and this bill was demurred to,
it was error in the court below to suistain the demurrer.

THis case was brought up by writ of-error from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi.
In the year 1838, Thomas Davis, the plaintiff in error, received three thousand dollars from the Aberdeen and Pontotoa
Railroad and Banking Company in the notes of that institution,
and gave his bond for the delivery of seventyf-five bales of cotton at the town of Burlingham, on the Tallahatchie River, on
or before the 1st day of the ensuing-March. According to his
own statement in, the bill which he afterwards fileit, he paid
$ 1,685.50, and delivered eighteen bales of cotton, subject to
the order of the company. The precise time of this payment
and delivery was not stated.
On the 12th of December, 1839, William M. Tileston and
Charles N. Spofford, residing in New'York, and carrying on
business under the name of William M. Tileston & Co., obtained a judgment in"
the District Court of the United States
for the -Northern District of Mississippi against the Aberdeen
and Pontotoc Railroad and Banking Company, for a stun of'
money, the amount whereof is nowhere stated in the record.
Upon this judgment, a writ, called a writ of garnishment,
was issued by way of' execution, and served upon Davis.
This writ was retuined, duly executed, to June term, 1840.
At December term, 1840, judgment was. rendered against
.Davis and his securities, as debtors to the Aberdeen :and Pontotoc Railroad aid Banking Company for:$ 1,861 ad costs.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

115

Davis v. Tileston et al.

A fieri facias was issued, upon this judgment in favor, of
o
Tileston & Co., returnable -to June term, 1841..
On the.10th of June, 1841, Davis paid, on account of the
judgment, $ 242.77, which was duly credited.
At, December term, 1841, a return: was made. of property
levied upon, with its valuation, but no. further proceedings appear then to have taken place.
In July, 1843, ,Davis filed a bill, on the equity side of the
court against'Tileston & Co., to enjoin the judgment obtained
against him at December term, 1840., The bill recited the
above facts, and then proceeded thus "1Your orator further states unto your Honor, that, before the
rendition of the said judgment upon the said garnishment in
favor of William K. Tileston & Co. against your orator, he
paid upon the said cotton bond $ 1,685.50, or about that sum,
and delivered at the town of Burlingham, according to his con-.
tract, eighteen bales of good cotton, averaging in weight about
five hundred pounds, and subject to the order of the said Aberdeen and Pontotoc Railroad and Banking Company,, and
which cotton was shipped on board of steamer Big Black,
Steilling, master, without the orders of or being subject to the
control of your orator; and said cotton was left by said steamer at the house of Aind in the care of Young& Richards, Vicksburg, Miss., and by them twelve of said bales were shipped to
George Buckanan, of New Orleans, for the benefit of and on
account of the said Aberdeen and Pontotoc Railroad and Banking Company. The remaining six bales were shipped and sold
in New Orleans, from the said house of Young & Richards in
Vicksburg, for the benefit of and. in the name of one Dickens,
for between fourteen and fifteen cents per pound; and the -said
Dickens was found by your orator on the western bank of the
Mississippi River, in the State of Arkansas, about forty miles
above Memphis, Tennessee; and the proceeds of the sale of
the said six bales of cotton were collected from him by your
orator, amounting to about four hundred dollars, but not one
cent has ever been collected for the twelve balbs shipped, to
Buckanan, for and on account of the said bank, or applied by,
said bank to the credit, of your orator's bond.
"You orator further states, that, relying upon the statements
of. the agents of the said bank, solemnly made and often reiterated, that they knew nothing about the twelve bales of cotton or any othez part of the eighteen. bales shipped as before
stated, he did not know of the shipment of said twelve bales
of cotton from Young & Richards, Vicksburg, to Buckanan, of
New- Orleans, for and on account of the said Aberdeen and
Pontotoc Railroad and Banking Company, until long after, the

116

SUPREME COURT.
Davis v. Tileston et.al.

rendition of said judgmient in December, 1840, against your
orator, as a debtor, to said bank, in favor of the said William
M. Tileston & Co., and was kept from his legal and lawful defence and credits, on the trial of said garnishment, by the false
assurances of the bank and its agents, so made to your orator
as aforesaid, and, as your orator fully believes, intended for and
made to lull him to sleep, and impose upon his general credulity and confidence in his fellow-man where the least show of
honesty is to be discovered. " Your orator further-states unto
your Honor, that he was not apprised of, but wholly ignorant
of the fact, that the said twelve bales of cotton were shipped
by the agents of the said bank from Vicksburg to New Orleans,
as above stated, until by a critical examination, about a year
or thereabouts sihce, through his agent, the facts were ascertained to be as before stated."
The bill then proceeded to charge a fraudulent combination
between the bank and Tileston & Co., by setting up a fictitious
claim against the bank for the purpose of depriving Davis of
the benefit of paying the bank' in its own depreciated notes,
and finally averred that the only part of the debt still due was
$ 809.47, which he tendered in the notes of the bank.
An injunction was issued according to the prayer of the bill.
In June, 1844, the defendants filed a demurrer, and assigned
the following causes: 1st. The bill shows that the complainant had a full and
complete- remedy at law, which he has neglected.
2d. That the bill shows that complainant knew, at the time
he -answered the garnishment against him, that no credit had
been given for said cotton, and having at that time acquiesced
in the conduct 'of the bank, and acknowledged himself indebted to the amount of defendant's judgment, he cannot now reopen the judgment in this court to be heard, to deny what he
might and ought to have denied in his said answer to said garnishment.
3d. That it appears, by complainant's own showing, that
judgment was rendered against him on his answer at December
term, 1840; that he made a payment and satisfaction of said
judgment by the execution and forfeiture of a forthcoming
bond in May, 1841; that as late as between June and Decem* ber, 1841, he -took the benefit of the.valuation law on said execution, and postponed further action by the said defendants
for twelve months thereafter, without ever settling up the matter contained- in his bill, or.claiming any deduction or offset
from the said judgment in favor of defendants.
4th. TLat the pretended charge of fraud is not specifically
stated, but is Vague, uncertain, and indefinite in general.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

117

Davis v. Tileston et aL.

5th. That the said bill seeks to offset the judgment of defendants against said complainant on his answer, and to pay and
discharge the. same with the bills and liabilities of the Aberdeen and Pontotoc Railroad and Banking Company, obtained
by .him after he has acknowledged himself indebted in his
answer, and after judgment has been rendered against him in
favor of defendants, and after he has executed a forthcoming
bond, and the same has been forfeited and become a new judgment against him in favor of defendants, and after he has
availed himself of the valuation law on said judgment
6th. That the said bill shows no equity on its face.
There being a joinder in de'murrer, the case was, on the
11th of June, 1844, set down for hearing on the bill and demurrer- at the next term of the court.
On the 2d of December, 1844, a rule for decree yro confesso
was entered, and on the 3d of December, the defendants,'Tileston & Co., filed their answer, which it is not necessary to
recite.
On the 6th of December, 1844, the final decision of the
District Court was signed and ordered to be enrolled, as follows: "This cause came on to be heard at this term, and was
argued by counsel; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed as follows, viz.: that
the demurrer of the defendants to the said bill of complaint
of the complainants be sustained, and the said bill dismissed.
" It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the de.fendants go hence and recover of the complainants the costs
in and about this cause* expended, for which execution may
issue."
The complainant appealed from this decree to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. R. Davis, for the appellant,
and Mr. S. Adams, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered th~e opinion of the court.
The judgment in this case below was founded entire'y on
the bill in -thancery and the general demurrer to it.
There is in the record an answer fied a few days previous
to the judgment. But the cause having before been set down
for a hearing on-the bill and demr ter, the answer does not
appear to have been-at all considered, -for that or some other
reason, - and is not referred to in the decision.
The only question for consideration by us, then, is, whether
the judgment dismissing the bill on the demuirer was correct.
Upon a careful examination of the facts and principles in-

118

SUPRE

COURT.

'Davis r. Tileston et al.

volved, we feel constrained to come to the-.conclusion that it
was not correct. We are.reluctant to form this conclusion, because, on examining the contents of the bill, it. does not in
some aspects of it appear free from what is exceptionable, and
the answer, if open to consideration now, would show a denial
of most of its material allegations.
But as the answer in the present decision must be put out of
the question, and as the demurrer admits all facts duly alleged in
the bill, the plaintiff seems entitled to judgment on these admissions, though, to prevent injustice by oversight or mistake,
we shall take care to render such an opinion that the respondents can be enabled in the court below to avoid suffering, if
they possess 'a real and sufficient defence to the bill. The
grounds of our judgment are as follows.
The demurrer,-by admitting the truth of the allegations in
the bill, admits these facts :
I 1st. That the complainant had a good defence to a large
part of the original- judgment recovered against'him, as garnishee of the bank, and which he did not know at that time.
2d. That he was entitled to pay to the original creditor, the
bank, its own notes in discharge of any balance due to it, and
which were under par, and that, through fraud between the
bank and the respondents, the demand against him was as.;
signed to them, and he sued as garnishee of *thebank, in order
to exclude the payment in its notes.
The former judgment having been in the District Court of
-the United States, these grounds for an injunction against the
further enforcement of it till the mistake as to the defence is
.corrected, and the balance allowed to be. satisfied in notes of
the bank then held, or an equivalent to their value at the time
of the judgment, seem equitable on these allegations, thus
admitted.
The respondents can, e~v-tquo et bono, claim to stand in no
better condition than thb bank. If there was a further good
defence against the bank, there was against them. And if in
-any material respect they and the bank fraudulently combined,
by or in that -suit, to deprive the debtor of any legal advantage,
the least which can be done in equity is to restore him to it.
What is the answer to this view? -ot that the demurrer
does not in law admit the goodness of a further defence, and
one not known at the judgment, and likewise the existence
of fraud by those parties, but that the statement of the defence is not -entitled to full credit, is contradictory, and develops culpable neglect to enforce the defence, and that the
fraud is not set out with sufficient detail.
But so far as regards- the credibility to be given to the state-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

119

Davis v. Tileston et al.

ment of the furtbhr defence in the bill, that statement cannot
be impugned on a demurrer. The truth of it can be doubted
only where a denial of it is made in an answer, or proof is
'offered against it, neither of which is now before us. The
next objection, founded on some supposed contradictions in the
bill, as if not knowing the existence of the defence when he
delivered the cotton on which it is founded, can be reconciled
onvarious hypotheses, which need not here be detailed. For,
however this may be, we think the allegations sufficiently
distinct on a general demurrer.
The validity of the defence as alleged is resisted as the
last objection, and rests on- the ground, that he had an opportunity to make it at lar and omitted to improve it. This
principle is conceded to be correct, if the defence was then
known. But the bill avers he was ignorant of the existence
of the defence when the judgment -was recovered. This excuse in some instances might not avail him at law. It has
been settled, that in an action at law, if the party omits to
make a defence which, existed'to a part or all of the cause
of action, he can afterwardihave no redress in a separate legal
proceeding. Tilton v. Gordon, 1 N. Hamp. 83; 7 D. & E.
269; 1 Ld. Raym. 742; 9 Johns. 232; 2 N. Hamp. 1 0 1 ;L 1 2
Mass. 263. In such case, he can sometimes obtain relief by
a petition for a new trial, but seldom in any other manner.
In certain instances, if the defence arose out of something
subsequent to the orig" -al cause of action, such as a part payment of money, or a delivery" of property to be applied in part
payment, and the creditor' neglected to make the application,
it has been held that this may be treated even at law as a distinct. transaction, the creditor having thus rescinded or failed to
fulfil his promise to apply the money, and a separate action be
then maintained to recovei it back.. Snow v. Prescott, 12 N.
Hamp. 535; 7 N. Hamp. 535.
However this should be at law, there is strong equity
and. substantial justice in it, and*much more in cases where,
as is usual, the debtor is defaulted, having, no defence to the
original cause of action, and supposes that the creditor, in
making up judgment, will deduct all payments and all promised allowance, and does not discover the neglect to do it till
after execution -hasissued.
The present application being in equity and not at law,
a party in the former is clearly entitled to an injunction, if
there was accident, or mistake, or fraud, in obtaining the judgment.
So ignorance of a defence goes far, sometimes, to repel negligence, though standing alone it may not be a sufficient ground.

120

SUPREME COURT.
Davis v. Tileston' et al.

for such relief. See 1 Bibb, 173; Cook, 175; 4 Hayw. 7;
4 Mumford, 130; 6 Hammond, 82; Brown v. Swann, 10 Peters, 498, 502; 2 Swanston, 227; Thompson v. Berry, 3
Johns. Ch. 395.
On this point, however, we give no decisive opinion, because all of us are not- satisfied that a clear remedy can be
given -at law on these facts by a separate action, and as we
have jurisdiction of this cause on- the other ground of fraud,
we advert to this merely as being one of the plausible reasons
in favor of an injunction, till the whole matters between the
parties can be further investigated. (See reasons for this course
in United States v. Myers,. 2 Brock. 516; 1 Wheat., 179; 2
Caines's Cas. in Err. 1;, 10 Johns. 587; 1 Paige, Ch. 90.)
The existence of fraud in obtaining the original judgment,which is the other ground assigned for relief, is next to be considered. It is not only alleged' generally, but in the details, so
far as already specified, in this opinion. A general allegation of
it in the bill would have been sufficient, if so certain as to render the subject-matter of it clear. (Nesmith et al. v. Calvert, 1
Woodb. & Minot, 44; Smith v. Burnham, 2 Sumner, 612; and
Jenkins v. Eldridge, 3 Story, R. 181.) The- demurrer admits
the fraud thus set out, and the law is undoubted, that our jurisdiction in equity extends over frauds generally, and in a-special
manner one like this, to which it is doubtful whether any remedy existed by law when defending the original action. 2
Caines's Cas. in Err. 1; 10 Johns. 587; 1 Paige Ch. 90; 2.
Stuart, 420.
The character of this fraud,'as admitted by the demurrer to
exist, is one of great injustice to the community, it being equitable, no less than legal, in Mississippi, by an express statute,
for debtors of a bank to make payment to it in its own bills.
(Laws of Miss., A. D. 1842, p. 140.)
It seems generally allowable, even on common law principles, as a set-off. See the express declaration to that effect by
this court in The United States v_.Robertson, 5 Peters, 659;
see also Planters' Bank v. Sharp et al., at this term.
Looking probably to a transaction much like the -present,
the court, in 5 Peters, say, - " So far as these notes were in
bossession of the debtor at the time he was summoned as a garnishee, they form a counter claim, which diminishes the debt
to the bank to the extent of that counter claim." But how
the balance is to be paid in respect to notes, the court for]ore
to give any opinion (p. 684).
Any assignment. or other proceeding got up with the fraudulent intent of preventing the exercise of that right, as is here alleged and admitted, cannot receive the countenance of this court.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

121

Davis *v. Tileston et al.

But we do not decide on the extent at law to which such a defence can be made in Mississippi, or in respect to the manner of.
paying the balance; as all our conclusions here rest entirely on
the averments and the admission of their correctness by the de.murrer.
In coming to our conclusions, we by no means would be understood, as before intimated, to approve all the language or
forms of allegation adopted in this bill. But we are forced to
think that enough is stated in it; in substance, to give us jurisdiction, and to bntitle the complainant to relief, when the statement is not denied by the respondents.
The judgment below in favor of the demurrer is, therefore,
reversed. But in order that justice may be done between these
parties on the answer and any evidence either of them may
wish.±o file, final judgment is not rendered here for the plaintiff, Tut the case is remanded, in order that leave" may be given
to the'respondents to withdraw their deniurrer, and the cause
be heard on the bill and answer, if no evidence is desired -to be
put in; or on these and -uch evidence as the parties may wish
to offer.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said District Court sustaining the demurrer to the bill of complaint be and the same is
hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and the
same is hereby remanded to the said District Court, in order*
that leave may be given to the respondenti to withdraw their
demurrer, and that the cause nay be heard on the bill and an-.
swer, if the parties do not desire to put in any evidence, or on
the bill and answer and such evidence as the parties may wish
to offer.

VOL. VI.

