284

SUPREME COURT.
Bush v. Marshall et al.

It is insisted that "the action is brought wrong; and that,
if the judgment be reversed, the plaintiffs cannot recover, because of the nonjoinder of XKer isa defendant."
The action against the sureties, omitting the principal, is
sustained by the Louisiana practice. In Maria Griffing, Adm'x,
v. Caldwell, 1 Robinson, 15, it was held that a creditor has
the right, but he is under no obligation, to include the principal and surety in the same suit. And in Smith, Adm'r, v.
Scott, 3 Robinson, 258, it is said a surety, who binds himself
with his principal, in solido, -is not entitled to the benefif of
discussion, and may be sued alone for the whole debt. So in
Curtis v. Martin, 5 Martin, 674, it is laid down, that the surety
may be sued without the principal.
In Barrow v. Norwood, 3 Louisiana Rep. 437, the court
held, where.the obligation is joint, all the obligors must be made
parties to the, suit. But that was not a case of suretyship.
The action wa brought against one of three indorsers.
On the grounds above stated, the judgment of the Circuit
Court is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, conformably to this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
'On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be and the, same is hereby reversed, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit
Courtwith directions-to award-a venire facias denovo.

Jom D. B'usH,

APPELLANT, V. JACOB MARSHALL AND WLiAx

B.

WHITESIDES. -

Where the holder of a preemption right to lots in the town of Dubuque sold them
to another person, the facts, that the vendor had received certificates of his right,
although the land-officers were not satisfied with their sufficiency, and that the
vendor acted as the undigputed owner, were sufficient to negative the charge of
fraud in his representing his title to be good.
The relinquishment, by the vendor, of his title to the United States, with a view
to a public sale and completion of his title, was not fraudulent ,towards thevendee, if it was the purpose of the vendor to enable -himself to convey alperfecttitle to his vefidee.

If, at the public sale, the vendee himself became the purchaser, be became a trustee for his original vendor; and if, at the public sale, the original vendor became
the purchaser, the title inured to the benefit of his vendee.

JANUARY TERM, 1848..Bush v. Marshall et al.

285

"

THE following statement of the case was the brief of -Mr.
UYoward, who, argued it.

Thig was an appeal from the Supreme Court of Iowa Territory, sitting as a court of equity, under the following circumstances.
On the 2d of July, 1836, Congress passed an act (chap. 262,
5 Statutes at Large, 70) for laying off the town of Dubuque,
amongst other towns, under the direction of the surveyor-general. The lsV section directed lots to be laid out in a certain'
manner, and a plat returned to the Secretary of the Treasury,
and within six months thereafter the lots should be sold to the
.highest bidder. The 2d section directed the lots to be classed
according to their values into three classes, viz. at $ 40, $ 20,
and $ 10 per acre, respectively; and gave a right of preemption
to those persons who had obtained a prmit"to settle, or who
had bctually-occupied and. improved the. lots, paying for the
lot according to its class.
On'the 3d of March, 1837,. Congress passed another hct
-(chap. 36, 5 Statutes at Large, 178), amendatory of the former,
substituting a board of commissioners for the surveyor. They
were empowered to "hear evidence, and determine all claims
to lots' ; to reduce the. evidence to wrfnng, which they were
directed to file with the register and receiver, together with a
certificate in favor of each person having the right of pregmptiori. Upon payment for the. lot being made to the receiver,
the receiver was. directed to give a receipt for the same, and
the register to issue a certificate of purchase, to be transmitted
to the commissioner of the general- land-office, as in other cases
of, the sale 'of. public lands.
The 3d section directed the register and receiver to expose
the residue of the lots topublic.,ale, after advertising, &c.
I On the 8th of February, 1839, Marshall and Whitesides sold
to Bush. a pregmption right to two lots in the town of Dubuque, viz. No. 7 and No. 194. The .deed'is not upon the
record, but the consideration is stated in the bill, and admitted.
in the answ(er (Rec..3, 6), to have been three thousand dollars,
one half of which, viz. $1,500, was paid in cash by Bush.
To secure the payment of the other half,- Bush executed a
mortgage to Whitesides, and also gave his promissory note to
Marshall'for $ 1,790, payable on or before the 1st- of October,
1839. "Of this $ 1,790, $ 1,500 was for the purchase of the
lots, and the remaining $290 was for rent -in arrear, which
was transferred to Bush.
.

.It appears from the evidence of B. R. Petrikin; the. egister
in the land-office- in the town of Dubuque, that.", Bush: came
frequently to the land-office to enter the lots No. 7 and No.

2N

SUPREME COURT.
Bush9. Maishall et aL.

4I94, under the preemption law, but was not allowed to do so
by the land-officers, because thA-roof fled by William B.
Whitesides with the commissioners, under the law laying off.
the town of Dubuque, did not satisfy the land-officers as being
sufficient to maintain a right under the law in favor of Whitesides's preemption."
It appears, also; frcffn the same evidence, that the land-officers "had received instructions 'from the general land-office,
to expose all lots to puMic sale where the claimants should relinquish their right to pregmption (under the law laying off the
town) to'ihe United States."
In September, 1840, the lots in the town of Dubuque were
offered at pvblic sale. Bush went to the land-office, and protested against the lots No. 7 and No. 114 being offered at public
sale.,
Previous to the sale, however, it appears, from the testimony
of Dougherty, that a "committee of arrangements had been
Vppointca for the purchase of lots in the town of Dubuquee";
that there was a "public bidder," who was a peison selected
by the claimants t6 lots in-the town of Dubuque, to purchase
the lots they claimed, as they were offered at the public sale.
, It appears from the evidence of Dougherty, that the 'committee of arrangements called on Bush, and informed him that
the committee desired him to make his relinqmshment to lot
No. 7, which he positively refused to do. The committee, then
erased the 'name of Bush, and inserted the name of Whitesides,
and informed Whitesides immediately of the same; -when he,
the gaid Whitesides, came before the committee, and made his
relinquishment to said'lot.
It appears, also, from the testimony of Petikin, the register,
that .-Whitesides came to the land-office, and. -produced- the
deeds in relation to the property before the officers of the landoffice, and the said officers considered that the mtid Whitesides
hakd a right to relinquish his pregmption right, and -thereupon
the said Whitesides .did relinquish; in consequence of which
the lots No. 7 and No. 14 were put up at public sale.
The following statement of facts was agreed upon in the
court below.
It is agreed the -following statement of facts may be used, in
the saxhe manner as if the same were proved by witnesses on
the hearing of the above-causes: 1st. That the lots mentioned in the foregoing pleadings
were sold at a public sale of lots- in the town of Dubuque, by
twe United States, in
last, at which sale John D. Bush,
above named, became the purchaser of lot No. 7, and the abovenamed Willian B. Whitesides of lot No. 194.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

: 287

Bush v. Marshall'et al.

"2d. That said lots would not have been put up and sold at
said sale, 'unless the said William B. Whitesides had relinquished all claim to the same to the United States previous to
said sale; ankd that said Whitesides did thus relinquish, previous
to the same being put up to sale, and for the express purpose
of having them sold at said sale.
3d. That said Bush objected and protested'to said Whitesides
against the said Whitesides thus relinquishing.
4th That previous to said. sale, and at the time of.said relinquishment, and'subsequent thereto (but previous to the sale),
said Bush was informed by E. 0. Dougherty and Whitesides,
and by said Whitesides's~agent, that his objedt, in having the
said lots put up to sale was expressly with aview that the title to them might be perfected in said Whitesides, .so that he
could make a good title to said Bush, upon said Bush paying
the purchase-money for said lots. . And also, that- said Whitesides,, by himself, or agent duly authorized for said. purpose, did
propose and offer to said Bush, that.if said Bush would bid for
said lots, and agree that his.purchase should be under the contract for them set out in ihe pleading in the above causes; saidWhitesides would make no opposition to his so doing, -butwas
perfectly willing said Bush should become the purchaser with
this understanding; but that said Bush utterly refused so to
do; when said Bush was informed by said Whitesides, or by
his agent, that said Whitesides would, bid for said lots at said
sale, in order to enable him to 'comply with his contract with
said Rush. That said Whitesides and Bush werethe 'oly bid-.
ders for said lots at said sale, 'and that Philip S. *Dadewastlie
bidder for said Whitesides, of which the said- Bush, previous to
and at the'time of said sale, was advised and informed.- That.
the. memorandum at the foot of the deed or mortgage, that
said Bush was to furnish the money to pay for said lots, was
there inserted by the express agreement and understanding of said Bush, at the time of -executing said deed ant mortgage.
I The public hale took place in September, 184O, after Bush
At the sale,'the
had.refused to purchase under his contract. A
publie bidder and Bush were the only bidders for the two lots
No. 7 and No. 194, the public bidder bidding for Whitesides, of
which Bush was informed previous to and at the time of said
sale. The lot No. 7 was bid off to Bu3h, and No. 194 -to,
Whitesides.
In -April, 1841, Whitesides and Marshall- filed a bill in the
District Court of Dubuque county, praying a foreclosure of the
mortgage and sale of both lots. After an. answe.r and a genr9l replication, the court decreed' for the complainants, and ordered -both lots to be sold.- .An appeal was. taken .to the Su-

SUPREME COURT..
Bush v. Marshall et'al.

preme Court of Iowa, 'where the decree of the court below
was affirmed, and the cause was brought by appeal to this
court.'
It was argued by Mr. Berr.y (in a printed argument) and
Mr. Howard, for the appellant, and Mr. May, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This'suit oiiginated in the District Court for Dubuque county, in the Territory of Iowa. It was a bill in chancery to
foreclose a mortgage given by the appellant, Bush, to Whitesides. The lrbperty mortgaged consisted of two lots (numbered 7 and 194) in the town of Dubuque, which Whitesides
had sold and conveyed on the same day to the mortgagor, for
the snum of $3,000; and the mortgage (dated 8th February,
1839) wasgiven to secure the sum of $ 1,500, the balance of
the purchase-money.
At the time of this transaction, the United States had not
yet offered the lands on which the town of Dubuque was sit,uated for sale. But notwithstanding the occupants of lots
were mere tenants at sufferance only, they proceeded to make
valuable improvements, under the expectation of the grant of
a right of predmption from the -government, or, at feast, that
they could complete their title by purchase from it, when the
lots should be offered for sale.
These possessions and improvements were treated as valid and
subsisting titles by the settlers, and were the subjects of contract and sale by conveyances in the forms usual for passing a
title in fee. On one of the lots which was the subject of the
mortgage in question, a. tavern-house and other improvements
were erected, for which the tenant paid.a rent of seventy dollars per month at-the time of this purchase. The deed from.
Whitesides to Bush was not put in evidence, but, from the recitals of the mortgage and admissions of the answer, it appears to have been a deed in fee simple, with a covenant of
general warranty. The mortgagor is estopped by his deed from
denying seizin, and cannot make out a sufficient defence unless
by proving payment of~the money, want of consideration, or
fraud which-will avoid the contract.
Accordingly, the appellant, in his anwer, has set up two
grounds of defence by way of avoidance of his deed. First,
fraudulent misrepresentation by the vendor to -induce him to
make the purchase; and, secondly, want of consideration from
failure of title.
1st. The fraudulent misrepresentation charged consists of
three particulars. First, that the-vendor represented, : that he

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

289

Bush v. Mars-hall et al.

held a valid pregmption right to the lots, by virtue of the laws
of the United States in relation to town lots in the town of
Dubuque"; secondly, that he represented that the fixtures in'
the tavern, to wit, the bar shelves and .counter, formed a part
of the property sold, whereas they were, claimed and taken
away by Hale, the tenant, and the house much injured by the
moving and tearing away of said fixtures; and, thirdly, that by
falsely representing Hale, the tenant, to be punctual in his payments, Bush was prevailed on to give his note to the complainants for:The sum of $290, for the rent of the unexpired term;
whereas'Hale was not punctual, and defendant was unable to
collect the rent from him.
- The latter two of these charges may be summarily disposed
of by the remark, that there is no evidence in the case of any
representations by the complainants on'the subject ; and as the
matter alleged in the answer is not responsive to the bill, but
set up by way of avoidance, the defendant was bound to
prove it.
But the first is the one chiefly relied on in the argument, and
deserves more particular notice.
It is proved by Davis, the scrivener who drew the deed and
mortgqe, that Whitesides told .Bush "1that he, Whitesides,
had a predmption to the property." Was this representation
false? The only evidence on the subject is in the testimony
of Petrikin, the register of the land-office, who swears,. "that
the commissioners, appointed under the act of .Congress-laying
off the towns of Dubuque, &c., filed in the land-office certificates in favor of Whitesides's pregmption to these lots, No. 7 and
No. 194." He states, also, "that the land-officers had instructions from the general land-office to expose all lots to public
sale, where the claimants should relinquish their right of preemption to the United States." He states, moreover, "that the
land:-officers were not satisfied with the regularity or sufciency
of Whitesides's certificate" ; but whether these doubts or opinions were well founded or not does not appear from- any testimony in the case. The facts, also, that W!.itasides was permitted to relinquish the pregmption right to the United States,
and.that no -other person laid any claim to the possession and
preemption of these lots excepi Whitesides, and Bush, claiming
under him, are conclusive, when taken in connection with evidence-of a certificate in his favor by the commissioners, to
sh6w that the representation of. Whitesides was not false or
fraudulent, and that defendant has wholly failed to support this
allegation, as set forth in his answer.
But it has been contended, that -this relinquishment, made by
Whitesides to the United States against the consent of Bush,
voL. V.
25

290

SUPREME COURT.
Bush v. Marshall et al.

was -fraudulentl andtinjurious to the interests 6f Bush. . To
this argument two answers may be given, either of which is
conclusive. ' First,' that there is no allegation in the pleadings
on the .ubject; and, secondly, the'evidence clearly showsi.that,
although'Whitesides did relinquish his pregmption to the Uniteda States, and that, too, without the consent of Bush, yet the
act was not fraudulent, as it was not intended, and did not tend,
ito do any injury to Bush. Whitesides, by his warranty, was
bound, under penalty of $ 3,000, to obtain a good title for Bush,
cost what it 'may, while Bush was bound to pay only the minmum or pregmptioii price. The relinquishment of his preemption right by Whitesides was not intended as an abandonment of his claim; but was a plan adopted by himself, in
common -with the other claimants of lots in Dubuque, as the
most convenient method of obtaining a title. By thus suffering them to be exposed to auction, they ran the risk of being
compelled to pay more than the minimum or preemption price
for a title, but could not-get it for less. The record admits that
Bush knew "that Whitesides's object in having the lots put
up to sale was expressly with a view that the title to them
might be perfected. in said Whitesides, in order that he could
make a good -title to Bush." It is not easy to apprehend how
fraud can be predicated of the conduct of Whitesides, who, it
is admitted, was using every endeavour to fulfil his contract,
-and obtain a good title for his vendee. As to the 'alleged fraud
on the government by the conduct of the people in Dubuque
on this occasion, it is silfficient to say that the question is
not raised in the. pleadings, nor the "fact proved in the evi.
dence.
"
'We are of opinion, therefore, that the appellant has wholly
failed-to show any'fraud or misrepresentation on the part of his
vendors, which would justify a court of chancery in annulling
an executed contract.
Indeed, the facts of the case tend rather to show that the
fraud, if any, in this transaction, may be more justly charged to
the party who is so liberal in imputing it to others.
If Bush'could have thwarted Whitesides in his endeavours
to procure the legal title for him, if he could hold the lot on
which the tavern-house and im.rovements were situated (and
valued at $ 2,200) for his bid of less than twenty dollars, and
then recover the $ 2,200 from Whitesides, on his warranty, he
will have effecied what is commobly called. a speculation;
but one in the perpetration of which he ought not to expect
the' aid of a court of equity. , The anxious disavowal of an
intention ,"to .defraud. or wrong the complainants" contained
in the defendant's answer, was not called out by any charge

SANUARY

TERM, 1848..

291

Bush v. Marshall et al.

in -complainants' bill. -but seems rather to have resulted from a.
consciousness that his conduct was justly liable to such aA inputation.
H. The other ground of avoidance is failure of consideration.
The answer allegeo, that, at the public sale by the United
State, lot No. 7 was purchased by defendant himself, and
therefore the vendor is una ble to comply with his contract by
making him a title, and, moreover, that Whitesides.has become
the purchaser of lot No. 194, and therefore he, Bush, was without. title'to it.
*This defence seems founded on an entire mistake or ignorance of the law; as the facts alleged lead to a directly cohtrary
cbnclusio,,.and show that the defeldant has aTcomplete legal'
title. If Whitesides sold' to him with. covenant of warranty,
and afterwards purchased the legal title, as the answer asserts,
with 'regard to lt No. 194, then is the title vested in Bush, the
vendee, by estoppel, and no TArther conveyance is necessary.
As to lot No. 7, Bush, having obtained possession under
Whitesides, cannot, by the purchase of an outstanding title,
defeat the claim-of his vendor. It is a well-established rule of
equity "that if a.vendee buys up.a better title than that of the
vendor,, and the vendor was guilty of no fraud, he can only be
compelled to refund to the vendee the amount of money paid
for the better title." '"Equity treats-the purchaser as a trustee
for his vendor, because he holds, under him; and acts done t6
perfect the title by the former, when in possession of the land,
.inure to the benefit of him under whom the pos.ession was- oh.tained, and through whom a knowledge of a defect of title was
obtained. The vendor ind vendee stand in the relation of
landlord and tenant; the vendee cannot disavow the vendor's
title2' (See Galloway v. Findlay, .12 Peters, 295, and cases

there cited.)
In the.present case, the vendee has bought in, for twenty;.dIlars;'the legal title to'a :property worth more than two thousand,
the -possession of which he received from his vendor,'; and not
.'oinly so,-but, 'contrary to goad faith and fair dealing; he has interfered to overbid his vendor, who was using every endeavour
to purchase the title for the use of his vendee, in fulfilment of
lhis; own covenants. The appellant has paid no more (or, 'if
more, so little as to be unworthy of notice) than he. agreed to
pay for the puipose of getting the legal title. He has got a
good title to the property, and ought- in justice and equity to
.y for it the full consideration hich he has covenanted to
pay.

The decree of the Supreme Court of Iowa must therefore

292

SUPREME COURT.
MoMicken v. Webb et al.

be affirmed, with costs, with leave to the appellees to sell the
mortgaged property in the mode prescribed by law, unless the

appellant shall pay the amount of said decrde, ,with interest
thereon and the costs, within sixty days from the filing of the

record in this case in the proper court of the State of Iowa,

Order.
This cause came onto be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa, and was
Vrgued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here

ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that tbe decree
of the said Supreme Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per
centum per annum, with leave to the appellees to sell the mortgaged property in the mode prescribed by law, unless the .Appellant shall pay the amount of said decree, with interest
thereon, and the costs, within sixty days from the filing of the
mandate in this case in the proper court of the State of Iowa..

CHARLES MCMICKEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. Amos WEBB, MARY
ANN SMITH, IN HER 6WN RIGHT AND As TUTRIX, &C., AND IRA
SMITH, IN HIS OWN CAPACITY AND AS TUTOR TO THE MINORS,
CATHtARINE AND SAIAH SMITH.
Where a promissory note, payable to a firm, was signed by one of the partners
in the firm together with two other persons, and suit was brought upon it against
these two other persons in the name of the payee partner, upon the ground, that
the note was intended for his individual benefit, and that the insertion of the
name of the firm as payees was an error, it was 'clearly his duty to prove such
error upon the trial.
If these two other persons were merely sureties (a fact for the jury), proof of such
error would not make them liable Beyond the terms of their contract, unless
they were privy to and agreed to the same.' Neither a court of law nor equity
wil lend its aid to affect sureties beyond the plain and necessary import of their
undertaking. This is the doctrine of this court, of the State courts, and of Eng.
land.
The payee partner having brought into the evidence the terms upon which the
partnership was dissolved, by which it appeared to be his duty to collect the
assets, pay-the debts, and settle the concernt of the partnership, it was competent
fbr the jury to judge whether the note was given provisionally and desighed to
abide the settlement of the affairs of the firm, and if so, then it became necessary for the payee partner to prove the fulfilment of these duties before any right
of action upon the note accrued to him.
The note being drawn by one of the partners payable to his own firm, this drawer
partner was entitled' to one half of it, and the obligation of the sureties was
diminished pro tanto.
Where the plaintiff excepted to the opinion of the court, which opinion was more
adverse to the defendants than to the plaintiff, this court will not, at the instance
of the plaintiff, reverse the judgment, although there may have been error in
the instructione, provided that error consisted in giving the plaintiff too Much.

