JANUARY TERM, 1848.

279

United States v. Hodge et al.

THE

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

v. A. HODGE AND

LEVI PSARCE.
Where the bill of exceptions appears upon its face to have been regularly taken,
the court cannot presume against the rerord.
Where a mortgage was given by a postmaster to secure the post-office department,
and the Circuit Court was asked to instruct thejury, that, according to the true interpretation of the mortgage, there was contained therein no stipulation or agreement to extend the time, or preclude the government from stung the principal and
sureues upon the postmaster's bond, and the court refused, upon .the ground that
the jury were the proper judges of the fact whether time was given, on a perusal
of the mortgage; this was error in the court. It is the duty of the court to construe all written instruments given'in evidence, as a question of law.
Payment under this mortgage could not be enforced until after the lapse of six
months from its date. But its acceptance by the government did not release the
sureties upon the bond, because, in order to discharge the surety by giving time,
the time which is given must operate upon the instrument which the surety has
signed. The mortgage here was-only a collateral security, which was beneficial
to the surety.
A motion for a new trial waives the right to a writ of error in those circuits only
where the courts have adopted a rule to this effect; and m those circuits the
right should. be waived upon the record, before the motion for a new trial is
heard.
The practice in Louisiana allows the sureties to be sued without joining-the pnncipal.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

It was an action brought agams, the defendants in error, as
the securities upon th, bond.of the postmaster of the city of
New Orleans. The facts of the case are stfficiently set forth
in the opinion of the court.
It -was argued. by Mr. Clifford (Attorney-General), for the
United -States, and by Mr May and Mr Brent, for the defendants in error.

Of the argument of the Attorney-General

the reporter hag no notes.
Mr May and Mr Brent, for the defendants in error, di.
vided their argument into three heads, viz.

-

I. That the mortgage discharged the defendants from all lia.
bility on their bond to the plaintiffs.
IL That the exceptions were not properly taken.
]II. That the action was erroneously brought.
Before entering upon the argument, the preliminary remark
was made, that although the court below may have erred in
refusing to instruct the jury, yet if the party was not prejudiced
by it, this court would not reverse. 5 Peters, 135, 9 Gill &
Johns. 439.
If in point of law the judgment ought to be affirmed, the
court will affirm it, notwithstanding error. 8 Peters, 214.
I. The mortgage discharged the defendants from alliability
on their bond.

280

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Hodge et al.

This-proposition mvolvesthree, VIz.
1st. The facts attending the. execution of the mortgage.
2d. The law authorizing it.
3d. The law applying to and expounding it.
With rnspect to the first subdivision, viz. the facts, the counsel examined the record, to show that the execution of the
mortgage was concealed from the sureti6s, that it was exhibited to the Postmaster-General, and by him referred to the auditor, in whose office it was filed oif the 19th November, 1839,
and nothing further was done until the 7th January, 1840.
2d. The law authorizing it. (This branch of the argument
is omitted, as the court did not appear to question it, inasmuch
as the acceptance of the mortgage, is considered to be the act
of the United States.)
3d. The law applying to and expounding it. This is the
important inquiry in the case. The- defendants were sureties
of Ker, who was the principal m the bond, on which this suit
is brought. The United States agree with the principal, with-

out the knowledge or consent of ihe sureties, in order to secure
the payment of his debt, and agree for a large and valuable
consideration to give him time for the payment of the debt.
The United States receive from the principal a mortgage of

valuable property to secure tl.e whole -of their debt. This discharges the sureties, because tine for the payment of the debt
is given, and it is a higher security for the debt.
It is a general rule of law, lying at the foundation of all
these contracts, that "a party taking a surety is bound to notice the nature of his engagement, and protect hin.?' 'Hence,
the law on this subject is very strict. 7 Price, 132, Pitman
on Prmc. and Surety, 167, 170, 182, 183, 3 Menvale, 277;
1 Moore & Payne, 759, Holt's Nisi Prus Cases, 84, 2
McLean, 74, 10 Peters, 266, 268, 7 Johns. 337, 7 Taunt.
53, 2 Marsh, 363.
That time for the payment of the debt is given by this
mortgage, the following authorities show
12 Wheat. 554,
505, 5 Howard, 206 ;3 Wash. C.C.R. 71, 3 Younge & Coilyer, 188, 189, 7 Harr. & Johns. 103, 8 Bing. 156.
A creditor, by giving time of payment, undertakes that he
will not during the time given receive the debt, from any surety of the debtor, for the instant any surety paid it, he. would
'have a right to demand and recover it from his principal. 4
Bing. 719.
If giving time might injure the surety, he is discharged. It
is not necessary that in point of fact he is injured. The law
is the same even if he is benefited. He is the judge of that.
7 Price, 225, 232, 234.

JANUARY TERM'1848.

281

United'States v. Hodge et al.

This mortgage was also a higher security for the debt. In
Louisiana, it amounted to a- judgment. Code of Practice. art.
732, 733, 6 Martin, N. S. 465; 15 Peters, 170.
A judgment is a security of a higher nature, and merges a
"bond. 1 Chitty, P1. 49, 50, 1 Peters, C. C. R. 301, 18 Johns.
477, 11 Gill & Johns. 14, 15; 6 Cranch, 253, 2 Har. &
Johns. 474.
This mortgage is then a confession of judgment, with a stay
of execution for.six months, and will discharge the surety.
6 Munf. 6, 3 Call, 69, 6-Gill & Johns. 168.
IH. The action was erroneously brought. (The counsel
cited many cases from the English authorities and from other
States, to show that all the obligors should have been sued,
and the following authorities from Louisiana. Code of Practice, 330, note, 4 New Series, 435, 4 La. Rep. 107, 2 Robinson, 389.)
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the coun.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court -for the Eastern
District of Louisiana.
William H. Ker, being appointed postmaster of the city of
New Orleans, in 1836, gave a bond, with the defendants as his
security, ifi-the" sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, for the
faithful discharge of his duties-as postmaster. Having failed
to perform-those duties, an action was commenced on the bond
againstIns-securities, alleging a large defalcation by Ker, and
claiming the'penalty of the bond.
In their defence the defendants set up a mortgage which was
executed by Ker the 15th of'August, 1839, on property real
and personal, to secure the payment to the post-office department of a sum not exceeding sixty-five thousand dollars, or
such sum as might be found due on a settlement, from and
after pix months from the date of the mortgage
This mstrument, -which gives time-for the payment of the mdebtment by
Ker, it is pleaded, releases the defendants as, the sureties of
Ker.
A jury, being impanelled, found a verdict for the defendants.
A motion for a new trial was made and overruled. No excep.tion lies to this decision. The motion is made to the sound
discretion of the court.
The -luestions arise on certain instructions to the jury prayed
for by-the district attorney, none were asked by the defendants.
It is objected, that it does not- appear that the exceptions
were taken on the trial, and signed by the judge during the
term. The bill of exceptions states, that, "on the trial of the
24*

2$2,

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Hodge et al.

cause, the district attorney requested the court to charge the
3ury," &c., and at the close, "to which opinions of the court,
refusing to charge as requested, the district attorney excepts,
ana prays that the bill of exceptions, with -the documents referred to therein, be signed, sealed, and made a part of the
record, which is accordingly done," and which is signed by
the judge. Upon its face, this bill of exceptions appears to
have been regularly signed, and the court cannot presume
against the record.
The first, fifth, seventh, ninth, and tenth instructions, refused by the court, are not so connected with the case as to require a consideration. Nor is it deemed necessary to consider
the instructions given as asked or as modified by the court, until
we come to the eleventh and last prayer. In this the district
attorney requested the court to instruct the jury, "that, according to the true interpretation of said mortgage, there was
and is contained therein no stipulation or agreement to extend
the time, or preclude the government from suing the principal
and sureties on said bond." This the court refused to gwe,
on the ground that the jury were the proper judges of the
fact whether tune was given, on a perusal of the mortgage.
In this the court erred. It is its duty to construe all written
instruments given in evidence, as a question of law.
Payment under the mortgage could not be enforced until
after. the lapse of six months from its date. And it appears
that the mortgage was designed to cover the whole amount of
Ker's defalcation. But the important question is, whether this
mortgage- suspended the legal remedy of the department on the
official bond of the postinaster. There is no provision in the
mortgage to this effect. And it cannot be successfully contended, that taking collateral security merely can suspend the
remedy on the bond. The holder of a bill of exchange, by
taking collateral security of the drawer, not giving time, does
not release the Indorser. James v. Badger, 1 Johns. Cas. 131;
Kermedy v. Motte, 3 McCord, 13, Hurd v. Little, 12 Mass.
50., Ruggles v. Patten, 8 Mass. 480.
Givmg tune for payment, to discharge the mdorser, must
eperatA --non the instrument indorsed by him. Now if the
post-offic, denartment had iby the mortgage, suspendeUd the
riht of action on the bond for the time limited m the mortgage,
it might have released the suteties. But no such condition is
expressed, and none such can be implied. The mortgage does
not-purport to-be given in lieu of or in discharge of the bond.
It is merely a collateral security, which operates beneficially
to the, defendants. For if they shall pay- the defalcation o*f
Ker, or somuch of it as shall amount to the penalty of the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

283

United Sta"es 9;)'odge.et al.

bond, and the. mortgaged property shall be sufficient to covet
the whole mdebtment, there can be no question that the sureties would be subrogated to a due proportion of the rights ofthe department m the mortgage.
Th principle is in no respect different from that winch
arises on a promissory note or bill, where collateral security is
taken. In the authorities above cited, it was considered that,
where an indorser takes an indemnity for indorsing a note, he
waives- a notice of demand. But if the- holder of the- note
take additional security from the drawer, the mdorser is not
released. And it cannot be material of what character the.
collateral security may be. It may consist of promissory notes
not :due, a mortgage payable on tine, or any thing else, it does
not affect the remedy on the original instrument. This. can
only be done by an express agreement,. for a valuable consideration. The -remedy on the -collateral mstrument iswholly immaterial, unless it discharges or postpones that on -the originaL
obligation. There is no, such condition in the. mortgage under
considerdtion, and.. consequently it can.m -no respect affect or:
suspend the remedy of the post-office department on the bond;
If the remedy on an instrument is suspended, for a valuable
consideration, the mdorser or security us released, because his
right to discharge the obligation and be subrogated to the-rights
of the'holder of the paper is also suspended. But a contract
to give time is void, 4nd does not release the security, unless
it be founded upon a valuable consideration. It must be a
contract winch a court of law or equity can enforce. Now
there is no contract in the mortgage which suspends -the right
of action on the official bond. Consequently, no injury is done
to the. sureties on that .'bond. They are, left. free to act for
their-own interests, as they could have acted before the mortgage. The principle on which. sureties are released is not a
mere shadow without substance. It is founded upon a restriction of the rights of the -sureties, by which they are supposed
to be injured. But by no possibility can they be mjured in
the case under consideration. On the contrary, it is clear that
the mortgage may operate beneficially to them, if they shall
pay the amount of their' bond. And the Circmt Court should
have instructed -the.jury to tis effect.
The motion for a new trial was not a waiver of a wn. of
-error. In some of the circuits there is a rule of court to this
effect. But effect could be given to that rule only by requrmg a party to waive on the record a writ of error, before his
motion for a new trial is heard. In.the greater part of the circuits no such rule exists. It 'does not appear to have -been
adopted in Louisiana.

284

SUPREME COURT.
Bush v. Marshall et al.

It is insisted that "the action is brought wrong; and that,
if the judgment be reversed, the plaintiffs cannot recover, because of the nonjoinder of XKer isa defendant."
The action against the sureties, omitting the principal, is
sustained by the Louisiana practice. In Maria Griffing, Adm'x,
v. Caldwell, 1 Robinson, 15, it was held that a creditor has
the right, but he is under no obligation, to include the principal and surety in the same suit. And in Smith, Adm'r, v.
Scott, 3 Robinson, 258, it is said a surety, who binds himself
with his principal, in solido, -is not entitled to the benefif of
discussion, and may be sued alone for the whole debt. So in
Curtis v. Martin, 5 Martin, 674, it is laid down, that the surety
may be sued without the principal.
In Barrow v. Norwood, 3 Louisiana Rep. 437, the court
held, where.the obligation is joint, all the obligors must be made
parties to the, suit. But that was not a case of suretyship.
The action wa brought against one of three indorsers.
On the grounds above stated, the judgment of the Circuit
Court is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, conformably to this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
'On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be and the, same is hereby reversed, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit
Courtwith directions-to award-a venire facias denovo.

Jom D. B'usH,

APPELLANT, V. JACOB MARSHALL AND WLiAx

B.

WHITESIDES. -

Where the holder of a preemption right to lots in the town of Dubuque sold them
to another person, the facts, that the vendor had received certificates of his right,
although the land-officers were not satisfied with their sufficiency, and that the
vendor acted as the undigputed owner, were sufficient to negative the charge of
fraud in his representing his title to be good.
The relinquishment, by the vendor, of his title to the United States, with a view
to a public sale and completion of his title, was not fraudulent ,towards thevendee, if it was the purpose of the vendor to enable -himself to convey alperfecttitle to his vefidee.

If, at the public sale, the vendee himself became the purchaser, be became a trustee for his original vendor; and if, at the public sale, the original vendor became
the purchaser, the title inured to the benefit of his vendee.

