292

SUPREME COURT.
MoMicken v. Webb et al.

be affirmed, with costs, with leave to the appellees to sell the
mortgaged property in the mode prescribed by law, unless the

appellant shall pay the amount of said decrde, ,with interest
thereon and the costs, within sixty days from the filing of the

record in this case in the proper court of the State of Iowa,

Order.
This cause came onto be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa, and was
Vrgued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here

ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that tbe decree
of the said Supreme Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per
centum per annum, with leave to the appellees to sell the mortgaged property in the mode prescribed by law, unless the .Appellant shall pay the amount of said decree, with interest
thereon, and the costs, within sixty days from the filing of the
mandate in this case in the proper court of the State of Iowa..

CHARLES MCMICKEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. Amos WEBB, MARY
ANN SMITH, IN HER 6WN RIGHT AND As TUTRIX, &C., AND IRA
SMITH, IN HIS OWN CAPACITY AND AS TUTOR TO THE MINORS,
CATHtARINE AND SAIAH SMITH.
Where a promissory note, payable to a firm, was signed by one of the partners
in the firm together with two other persons, and suit was brought upon it against
these two other persons in the name of the payee partner, upon the ground, that
the note was intended for his individual benefit, and that the insertion of the
name of the firm as payees was an error, it was 'clearly his duty to prove such
error upon the trial.
If these two other persons were merely sureties (a fact for the jury), proof of such
error would not make them liable Beyond the terms of their contract, unless
they were privy to and agreed to the same.' Neither a court of law nor equity
wil lend its aid to affect sureties beyond the plain and necessary import of their
undertaking. This is the doctrine of this court, of the State courts, and of Eng.
land.
The payee partner having brought into the evidence the terms upon which the
partnership was dissolved, by which it appeared to be his duty to collect the
assets, pay-the debts, and settle the concernt of the partnership, it was competent
fbr the jury to judge whether the note was given provisionally and desighed to
abide the settlement of the affairs of the firm, and if so, then it became necessary for the payee partner to prove the fulfilment of these duties before any right
of action upon the note accrued to him.
The note being drawn by one of the partners payable to his own firm, this drawer
partner was entitled' to one half of it, and the obligation of the sureties was
diminished pro tanto.
Where the plaintiff excepted to the opinion of the court, which opinion was more
adverse to the defendants than to the plaintiff, this court will not, at the instance
of the plaintiff, reverse the judgment, although there may have been error in
the instructione, provided that error consisted in giving the plaintiff too Much.

JANUIARY TERM, 1848.

293

McMicken v. Webb et al.

THig case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
It was formerly, in a preliminary stage of it, before this
court, and is reported in 11 Peters, 25.
The facts of the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error,-and
Mr. Tones, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinioii of the court.
The record in this cause being encumbered with matter
deemed wholly irrelevant to the true points'in controversy between the parties, much of this matter the court will pass over,
embracing within its!view such portions of the record only as
regularly present those points, and 'the rulings of the Circuit
Court with respect to them. In this view, little .elge need be
presented except the pleadings in thd cause, the note on which
this action is founded, the fact of a copartnership between the
plaintiff in error and James H. Ficklin, and the agreement
comprising the terms on which the copartnership was dissolved,
these three last-mentioned documents being referred to in the
pleadings and"appealed to by the parties on both sides of this
cause to sustain the positions on which they respectively rely;
and, lastly, the instructions prayed by the parties and given by
the Circuit Court.
This is, according to the peculiar proceedings in the State of
Louisiana, in action at law, although, from the mode of proceeding by petition, from the introduction into that petition of
various matters dehors the instrunient set out as the immediate
cause of action, and from the converting in one proceeding
parties standing sui juris with those who sustain a representative character, it bears a striking resemblance to a suit in
equity.
The petition states, that, some time in the year 1815, the
plaintiff and one James H. Ficklin formed a -copartnership
and transacted business under the name of McMicken and
Ficklin; that about the 8th of September, 1817, the said
copartnership was dissolved by mutual consent; that at the
time of said dissolution there was a stock of goods on hand,
which said Ficklin took and purchased at cost, with five per cent.
addition thereon, and for the payinent of one half of said stock
of. goods he gave to the petitioner a promissory note, dated
September 20th, 1817, due an -payable on the 1st day of
March, 1819, to the order of McMicken and "Ficklin, for the
sum of $ 4,866.93 , executed .by said Ficklin, by Jedediah
25*

294

SUPREM&E COURT.
McMicken v..Webb et al.

Smith, and Amos Webb, the defendant, whereby.the drawers
-became bound to pay the whole of.the said note, which 'note
is annexed as a part of the petition.
The petitioner then proceeds as follows:..
" Your.petitioner further shows that said obligation was eironeously made payable to McMicken and Ficklin, though in truth
and in fact said note was dated and executed subsequent- to the
said dissolution of said firm, and was made towards and in behalf and for the sole and individual benefit of your petitioner,
the joint name, or the name of the late firm, being used and
intended for your petitioner's sole benefit, - said Ficklin being
in no wise a party or interested therein except as one of the
obligots.
" Your petitioner further shows, that since the execution of
the said note or obligation, the abbve-mentioned Jedediah Smith,
one of the cobbligors thereof, died, leaving his wife, the said
Mary Ann Smith, and two mino' children, Catharine and
Sarah, all of whom now own ind possess all the property and
estate by the said Jedediah Smith left at his decease.
"The mother in right of her community, and said minors as
heirs, and the said Mary Ann Smith, the widow of said deceased, has since married one Ira Smith, the said defendant
herein, by reason of which said several premises, the said Mary
Ann, Catharine, and Sarah have become obligated and bound,
in solido, to pay your petitioner the whole amount of said note
or obligation, together with interest, according to the tenor and
effect thereof, -which they refuse, though often and amicably
demanded to pay.",
The note on which ,this action was instituted and referred
to in the'petition is in the following words" St. Fran'isvifle,Sept. 20th, 1817.
$4,866.93 . On the first day of March, 1819, we, or
either of us;' promise to pay, jointly or separately, mto. McMicken and Ficklin, or order, four thousand eight hundred and
sixty-six dollars ninety-three ahd a half cents, being for valu6
received, -with ten per cent. interest after due until paid.
JAMEs. H. FICKLIIE,

JED. SmTH,

Amos WEBB.
The only remaining documentary evidence referred to in the
petition, and in accordance with which it is alleged that the
note in question was executed, is found in the agreement entered into by McMicken and Ficklin upon the dissolution of
their copartnership, and is in 'the following words : -

JANUARY- TERM, 1848.

295

McMicken v. Webb et a].

"Memorandum of an agreement, made and entered into this
8th day of September, 18i7, between Charles McMicken, jun.,.
and James H. Ficklin, both of the town of Sti Francisville,
lately trading under the firm of McMicken and Ficklin; that
they have this day by mutual consent dissolved their copartnership aforesaid, and that Charles'McMicken, jun., is put in
full possession of all the books, notes, and accounts, and all
other papers relating to the firm aforesaid, with full- power to
settle and collect all the'dues and demands owing to the said
firm, either at law or otherwise, by exchange or re~xchange
of notes or accounts, or any other mode he may think advantageous to the concern; and when in funds 8ufficient to pay
off all debts that are due by the firm 'aforesaid, -to pay the
same, until full and 'final payment and settlements are made;
and to employ at his discretion such person or persons as he
shall think necessary; for-the completion of the business; and
that James H. Ficklin take all the goods on hand at cost, with
an advance of five per cent..on the whole amount, payable as
follows, viz. three thousand by his draft on Flower & -Finley,.
with their acceptance thereof, payable the 1st March, 1818,
and their acceptance in the same manner (or some good house
in New Orleans in their stead) for any further sum to meet
the one half of the whole amount of goods, payable on the
1st day of May, 1818, and for the remaining half he gives his
joint note, with Amos Webb and Jedediah Smith, payable on
the 1st March, 1819; and by the non-compliance of James H.
Ficklin in giving the aforesaid acceptances and note, this
agreement to remain null and void, so far .as the sale of the
goods to him; and all the sales of goods by him, for -the pe.
niod of thirty days, the time allowed him to comply with the
foregoing, shall be carried to the joint benefit of the last firm.
"In witness whereof we hereunto subscribe our names, the
day and late above written.
CHARLEs McMIcEN."
Several pleas were interposed by the defendants or respondents below to the demands in the petition. The court deem it
necessary to advert to sucb of these pleas only as are connected with the points. comprised in the rulings of the judge at
circuit.
Thus in the3d plea it is deied that the note in question
was made to the petitioner, and that Ficklin, Webb, and Smith
ever promised to pay the money therein mentioned to McMick-en alone, or that the note was made on behalf of McMicken,
or that the partnership name of McMicln and Ficklii was in-

296

SUPREME COURT.
McMicken v. Webb et al.

tended. to be used for -the benefit of McMicken alone. They
insist upon the contract as apparent on the face of the note,
and -call for strict proof of the allegations of the petitioner.
They aver that it was well known that Webb and Smith signed
the note as sureties, - that, if there ever was any consideration for their obligation, it has failed, and that neither Ficklin,
as principal, nor Webb and Smith, as sureties, were ever bound
to .pay this note.
4. They plead further, and specially, a want of consideration, averring that Ficklin, as partner, was entitled to one half
the stock; that he paid McMicken for one hair by drafts and
acceptances, mentioned in the article of dissolution, which
were paid; that'the demand of McMicken for the note of
Ficklin, Webb, and Smith for the other half was a fraudulent
contrivance, or an error or misconception of the parties, and
could form no legal consideration for the note.
5. They further plead, that the note was executed by Ficklin, as principal, and Webb and Smith, as sureties, to MeMicken
and Ficklin, of which firm Ficklin was a partner; that by the
dissolution of the firm one half of Ficklin's responsibility was
extinguished by confusion, and Webb and Smith became thereby absolved pro tanto; that, under the agreement for the dissolution, McMicken had received $ 10,000 more than was requisite to pay the debts'of the firm, for which excess he was accountable by the above agreement, and that thf;reby the note,
to which Webb and Smith were mere sureties, was paid.
They ftirther plead, that the note became due by its terms
on the 1st day of March, 1819; that Ficklin died in 1817,
leaving a will and -appointing executors ; that his estate has
been regularly represented by executors since his death, and
that by the laches of McMicken, in not settling thd affairs of
the concern or suing on the note from 1819 to 1835, he is
barred by his negligence and by lapse of time..
And, lastly, they'insist that, upon the dissolution of the firm
of McMicken and Ficklin, McMicken had received all the books,
notes, and claims due to the firm, and bound himself to settle
all the affairs of the concern out of these funds, so far as they
should prove adequate; that Ficklin was to take the goods on
hand, to pay McMicken for one half of that stock in certain
acceptances, and to execute his note, with Webb and Smith as
sureties, for .the remaining half in value, subject to a contingent responsibility upon the settlement of the concern by
McMicken; that MeMicken had not made such settlement according to the terms of the agreement of dissolution, and
therefore had no right of action against the representatives of
Ficklin or the respondents.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

297

McMicken v. Webb et al.

-

At the trial of this cause, the following instructions prayed
for by the defendants were- given by the court, and made the
subjects of exception by the plaintiff-: 1st. That as plaintiff had alleged that there Was error in
making the note sued on, drawn in favor of and payable to
McMicken and Ficklin, and that said note ought properly to
have been made in favor of Charles cMicken only, plaintiff
could not recover without proving such error and mistake; and
if no such error or mistake was proved, the verdict of the jury
ought to be in favor of defendants; for, without such proof,
McMicken alone could not recover on a note drawn in favor of
MeMicken and Ficklin.
2d. That if the jury were satisfied that Webb and Smith
were originally only sureties, and that whatever consideration
there was for the note passed between McMicken as one party, and Ficdin as the other party, in such case, an express
written contract on the part of sureties is to be strictly construed in their favor, and they could only be made liable on
their contract in the form and manner in which they had entered into it; and no proof of any error or mistake, as between
the principal parties to the contract, could make -mere sureties
liable beyond the terms of the contract, unless they were privy
to and agreed to the same; and if plaintiff could only recover
against the principal party to the contract sued on by showing
,error or mistake in that contract, the verdict of the jury as regarded the sureties should be in their favor.
4th. That if the jury believed that the note sued on grew
out of the settlement of the partnership affairs of McMicken and
Ficklin, and was given provisionally in relation thereto, and
that MeMicken had chaiged himself witi the settlement of the
partnership' affairs, that then MeMicken Acnnot recover on this
note without a findl liquidatioli and settlement of the partnership affairs; and. that if, under the circumstances aforesaid,
McMicken persists in submitting the suit on this note to the
decision of the jury, their verdict ought to be for the defendant.
5th. That if-the jury believed that the note sued on was
given to attend on a settlement and liquidation of the partnership affairs of McMicken and Ficklin, and McMicken charged
himself with the liquidation and settlement of the partnership
affairs of McMicken and Ficklin, and that McMicken has received partnership assets sufficient to pay the debts of the partnership, in such case plaintiff McMicken ought not to recover, and the verdict of the jury ought to be for the defendants.
6th. That if the jury believed that Ficklin was a partner of
the house of McMicken and Ficklin, to whom the note was

SUPREME COURT.
McBicken v. Webb et al.

payable, and that the said house has long since been dissolved, and that the same Ficklin was principal debtor, and
Amos Webb and Jedediah Smith were only sureties in the
note sued on, that these facts created a confusion of the characters of creditor and debtor; and whenever such event happened, there was a payment of the note to the exteni of the
correlhtive characters of debtor and creditor, which in this case
was one half.
7th. That if the jury believed that the note sued on was
given in. pursuance of the terms of the dissolution of partnership between McMicken and Ficklin, and under an implied
agreement that, if the- debts due to the partnership were not
-sufficient to'pay the debts due by the partnership, then Ficklin
and his sureties were to make good and supply one'half of the
deficiency, and that McMicken charged himself with the liquidation of the partnership affairs in 1817, and that McMicken
had not rendered an account of such liquidation before bringing this suit, it was competent for the jury to say that there
was such a laches, neglect, and default on his part as discharged tlie-sureties.
1st. We can, perceive no objection to the xuling of the court
'in this instruction; neither argument nor authority can be
called for, to sustain a position so elementary and so trite'as
that the allegation anti proof must correspond. In this case,
the petitioner alleges a separate and exclusive right in himself;
the proof *hich he, adduces discloses an equal right in another.
He avers this discrepancy to -bethe result of error; he must
certainly reconcile this contradiction, or his claim is destroyed
by conflict with itself.
2d. This second instruction we hold to be correct. Even as
betvween principals, a court will not bind parties to conditions
or obligations to which they have not bound themselves, according to a fair interpretation of their contract. *How far any
written contract may be.explained, as between parties c6nfess*edly principals, by evidence aliwnde, is a nice and difficult
question, alrays approached with doubt and caution; but as
against a surety, neither a court of law nor a court of equity
will lend its aid to affect him beyond the plain and necessary
import of his undertaking. Equity will not, as against him,
assist in completing an imperfect or defective instrument, much'
less will it add a new term or condition to what he has stipu-,
lated.' He must be permitted to remain inprecisely the situation in which he has placed himself; and it is no justification
or excuse with another, for attempting to change his situa"tion,
to allege or show that he would be benefited by such~change.
He .is said to possess an interest in the.letter of his contract.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

299

McMicken v. Webb et a.

That this is the doctrine in England we see in the cases of
Nisbet v. Smith, 2, Bro. Ch. R. 579, Rees v. Berrington, 2
Yes. jr. 540, and Boultbee v. Stubbs, 18 Ves. 20. It -is the
doctrine of this court, so declared in the case of Miller v. Stewart et al., 9 Wheat. 680. It is probably thedoctrine of all the
States; yid. Croughton v. Duvall,- 3- Call, 69; Hill v. Bull, 1
Gilmer, 149. If, then, Webb and Smith were mere sureties in
the note declared on, the -plaintiff could not, by setting, up another contract as formed or as intended to be formed between
himself and Ficklin, transfer the resppnsibility of these sureties to such contract, differing in' its- terms from that which
they had in.fact executed.
4th and 5th, which should be numbered the 3d and 4th
instructions. These two instructions are essentially the same.
The petitioner, in his count or petition, sets out the fact of the
dissolution of the firm of McMicken and Ficklin, and refers'to
the agreement of dissolution as evidenie of th6 conditions on
which it took place, and of the rights vested and the obligations imposed by that agreement. It is from this document
that we gather the facts of the transfer of the goods on hand
to Ficklin, in consideration of the acceptances to be procured
and of the note to be executed by him, with Webb and Smith
as his sureties, and the further facts of McMicken's possession'
of all the books, notes, and accounts of the firm, and of his
obligation to collect the resources and to pay the debts and
settle all the affairs of the concern, so far as the means placed
at his command were adequate for- these ends. The above
facts, disclosed by the petition and the agreement of dissolution,
were certainly competent evidence for the consideration of the
jury, and from which they might infer the purpose for which
the note to McMicken" and Ficklin -was executed, the duty
of McMicken to settle the jartnership affairs, and to pay the
debts of the concern with the funds pladed at his disposal; and
if they should infer from these facts, that the note executed.
to McMicken and Ficklin was given provisionally, and designed
to abide the settlement of the affairs of the firm, and, -that
McMicken was bound by the agreement of'dissolutionmto liquidate and settle the affairs of the firm, then the jury werie bound
to find that the fulfilment of these obligations on -lie part of
McMicken should precede any right of action on the note, and
that, without proof of such fulfilment, they were equally-bound
to find for the defendants.
6th. This instruction affirms a position, as to which, we presume, there can be no room for difficulty or doubt; namely, that
on the note given by Ficklin to his own firm of MclAicken and
Ficklin, with Webb and Smith as sureties, Ficklin, as a part-

300

SUPREME COURT.
McMicken v. Webb et a].

ner, was entitled to one half, upon the dissolution of the firm,
and that thereupon, pro tanto, the obligation of these sureties
would cease, as Ficklin could have no right of action against
himself to compel payment to himself.
7th. With regard to the instruction numbered 7, given on the
prayer of the defendant, we deem it to be in substance the
same with Nos. 3 and 4, which having been already examined and approved, it is unnecessary to review in detail the
.same questions in the last instruction.
There is, also, though not designated by any number, what
is denominated in the record an "additional charge" prayed
by the defendants. This, upon examindtion, being found a
mere general legal'proposition in the language of the 2094th
article of the Civil Code, and no immediate application or connection of which to the pleadings or testimony in this case
being attempted nor being perceived by the court, it.
is passed
by as immaterial and unimportant.
On the part of the plaintiffs, there are instructions prayed,
and designated on the record as No. 2 and No. 3; and in No. 2
by'the irregular ordinal arrangement of 4th and 7th; in No. 3
in the -arrangement of 1st, 2d, and 3d.
Instruction 4th, in the first division, is in the following words:
"That the defendants to this suit, having bound themselves
in solido, cannot claim the right or oblige the plaintiff to. discuss the. property of Ficklin or his succession. (Civil Code,
art. 3015, 3016.)
The court below very properly disposed
of this prayer (as it might have disposed of what was called
the additional charge prayed on bbhalf of the defendants), by
justly remarking, that its applicability to the cause was not
perceived, as the defendants were not endeavouring to interfere
with the pro.perty or affairs of Ficklii any farther than to assert the true import and character of their own contract with
Melickeh and Ficklin; which they had an unquestionable right
to do.
With regard to the prayers 1st, 2d, and 3d, in No. 3, although
their re'evancy to the true issues taken in thiscause is not
showti, and the opinion of the court is perhaps not sustainable
with respect to them, yet. as that 'opinion, so far as expressed,
is more adverse to the defendants than to the plaintiff, and the
dfendants have not asked its reversal, no right can be recognized 'in
the plaintiff to complain that he has failed to obtain
all he required, when he has already obtained too much. Upon
an examination of this somewhat anomalous and confused
record, we have come to the conclusion, that the judgment
of the Circuit Court should be, and it is hereby accordingly
affirmed.

JANUARY TERY,,-1848.

301

Planters' Bank v. Sharp et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the .United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be. and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

TiIE PLANTEES' BANK OF. Mississippi, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THOMAS L. SHARP, EDWARD ENGLEHARD, AND HENRY HAMPToN BRIDGES,

DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
MATTHIAS- W. BALDwn , GEORGE VAIL, AND GEORGE HUFTY, MERCHANTS AND PERSONS IN TRADE UNDER THE !NAME, STYLE, AND

Fin

OF BALwur, VAIL, & HurTY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JAMES

PAYNE, ABNER E. GREEN, AND ROBERT Y. WOOD, DEFENDAHNTS IN,
ERROR.
Where a bank was chartered with power to "have, possess, receive, retain, and
enjo to themselves and their successors, lands, rents, tenements, hereditaments,
goods, chattels, and effects of what kind soever, nature, and quality, and the
same to grant, demise, alien, or dispose of for the good of the bank,' and also
"to receive money on deposit and pay hway the same free of expense, discount
bills of exchange and notes, and to mike loans," &c., and, ill the course of business under this charter, the bank discounted and held promissory notes, and
then the legislature of the State passed a law declaring that "it shall not be lawful for any hank in the State to transfer, by indorsement or otherwise, any note,
bill receivable, or other evidenee of debt; and if it shall appear in evidence,
upon the trial of any action upon any such note, bill receivable, or other evidence
debt, that the same was transferred, the same shall abate upon the jplea of the
defendant," - this statute conflicts with the Constitution of the United States,
and is void.

TxESE two cases were both brought up, bywrit of error issued
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the
High Court of Errors and Appeals for the State of. Mississippi.
They were kindred cases, and were argued together. Although the court pronounced an opinion in each case separately, yet the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Daniel treats them
as they were argued, and hence it becomes necessary to blend
the two cases together. The facts in each case will be stated,
then the arguments of counsel, and then the opinions of the
court, with the separate opinion of Mr. Justice McLean, and the
dissenting one of Mr. Justice Daniel.
PLANTERS' BANE V. SHARP. AND OTHERS.

On the 10th of February, 1830,the legislature of Mississippi
VOL. VI.
26

