738

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Syllabus.

386 U. S.

ANDERS v. CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 98.

Argued March 14, 1967.-Decided May 8, 1967.

Counsel, appointed by a California appellate court on petitioner's
motion to prosecute the appeal of his felony conviction, concluded
after studying the record and consulting with petitioner, that there
was no merit to the appeal and so advised the court. He also
advised it that petitioner wished to file a brief in his behalf. Petitioner's request for another attorney was denied. He then filed a
brief pro se and a reply brief to the State's response. The
appellate court, after examining the record, affirmed the conviction. Six years later, petitioner, seeking to reopen his case on the
ground that he had been deprived of the right to counsel on his
appeal, filed in the appellate court an application for habeas corpus,
which the court denied the same day. The court stated that it
had again reviewed the record and determined the appeal to be
"without merit" (but failed to say whether it was frivolous or
not) and that the procedure here followed the California system
for handling indigents' appeals approved by that State's Supreme
Court as meeting the requirements of Douglas v. California, 372
U. S. 353. Claiming, inter alia, that the judge and prosecutor
had erroneously commented on his failure to testify, petitioner
filed with the State Supreme Court an application for habeas
corpus, which that court denied without giving any reason for its
decision. Held: The failure to grant this indigent petitioner seeking initial review of his conviction the services of an advocate,
as contrasted with an amicus curiae, which would have been
available to an appellant with financial means, violated petitioner's rights to fair procedure and equality under the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 741-745.
(a) This Court
on the first appeal
as of right enjoys
"is forced to shift
358. P. 741.

has consistently held invalid those procedures
of a conviction where the rich man who appeals
the full benefits of counsel while the indigent
for himself." Douglas v. California, supra, at

(b) The Sixth Amendment's requirements for the right to
counsel are made obligatory upon the States by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335. P. 742.

ANDERS v. CALIFORNIA.
738

Opinion of the Court.

(c) Counsel's bare no-merit conclusion was not an adequate
substitute for petitioner's right to full appellate review. To
satisfy the requirement of substantial equality and fair process
counsel must be an active advocate, not just an amicus curiae.
Pp. 742-743.
(d) If counsel conscientiously decides that the appeal is wholly
frivolous he should so advise the court and request permission to
withdraw, at the same time furnishing the court and the indigent
with a brief of anything in the record arimbly supporting the
appeal. P. 744.
(e) If after full review the court finds any legal points arguable
it must appoint counsel to argue the appeal; otherwise it may
dismiss the appeal as far as federal requirements are concerned
or decide the case on the merits if state law requires. P. 744.
Reversed and remanded.

Ira Michael Heyman, by appointment of the Court,
384 U. S. 925, argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
George J. Roth, Deputy Attorney General of California,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
were Thomas C. Lynch, Attorney General, and William E.
James, Assistant Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.
We are here concerned with the extent of the duty
of a court-appointed appellate counsel to prosecute a
first appeal from a criminal conviction, after that attorney has conscientiously determined that there is no merit
to the indigent's appeal.
After he was convicted of the felony of possession of
marijuana, petitioner sought to appeal and moved that
the California District Court of Appeal appoint counsel
for him. Such motion was granted; however, after a
study of the record and consultation with petitioner, the
appointed counsel concluded that there was no merit to
the appeal. He so advised the court by letter and, at
the same time, informed the court that petitioner wished

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Opinion of the Court.

386 U. S.

to file a brief in his own behalf. At this juncture, petitioner requested the appointment of another attorney.
This request was denied and petitioner proceeded to file
his own brief pro se. The State responded and petitioner filed a reply brief. On January 9, 1959, the District Court of Appeal unanimously affirmed the conviction, People v. Anders, 167 Cal. App. 2d 65, 333 P.
2d 854.
On January 21, 1965, petitioner filed an application
for a writ of habeas corpus in the District Court of
Appeal in which he sought to have his case reopened.
In that application he raised the issue of deprivation of
the right to counsel in his original appeal because of
the court's refusal to appoint counsel at the appellate
stage of the proceedings.1 The court denied the application on the same day, in a brief unreported memorandum opinion. The court stated that it "ha[d] again
reviewed the record and [had] determined the appeal
[to be] without merit." The court also stated that
"the procedure prescribed by In re Nash, 61 A. C. 538,
was followed in this case .... . 2 'On June 25, 1965,
petitioner submitted a petition for a writ of habeas
1Previously, on January 24, 1964, petitioner, while on parole, had
been arrested and convicted of the felony of burglary which was

affirmed on appeal. We granted certiorari, ante, p. 264, vacated
the judgment below and remanded for further consideration in

light of Chapman v. California,ante, p. 18.
2 In re Nash, 61 Cal. 2d 491, 393 P. 2d 405 (1964), held that the
requirements of Douglas v. California,372 U. S. 353 (1963), are met
in the event appointed counsel thoroughly studies the record, consults
with the defendant and trial counsel and conscientiously concludes,
and so advises the appellate court, that there are no meritorious
grounds of appeal; and provided that the appellate court is satisfied
from its own review of the record, in light of any points personally
raised by the defendant, that appointed counsel's conclusion is

correct.

The appeal then proceeds without the appointment of

other counsel and deeision is reached without argument.

ANDERS v. CALIFORNIA.
738

Opinion of the Court.

corpus to the Supreme Court of California, and the
petition was denied without opinion by that court on
July 14, 1965. Among other trial errors, petitioner
claimed that both the judge and the prosecutor had
commented on his failure to testify contrary to the
holding of this Court in Griffin v. California,380 U. S.
609 (1965). We have concluded that California's
action does not comport with fair procedure and
lacks that equality that is required by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
I.
For a decade or more, a continuing line of cases has
reached this Court concerning discrimination against the
indigent defendant on his first appeal. Beginning with
Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S. 12 (1956) where it was held
that equal justice was not afforded an indigent appellant
where the nature of the review "depends on the amount
of money he has," at 19, and continuing through Douglas
v. California, 372 U. S. 353 (1963), this Court has consistently held invalid those procedures "where the rich
man, who appeals as of right, enjoys the benefit of
counsel's examination into the record, research of the
law, and marshalling of arguments on his behalf, while
the indigent, already burdened by a preliminary determination that his case is without merit, is forced to shift
for himself." At 358. Indeed, in the federal courts,
the advice of counsel has long been required whenever
a defendant challenges a certification that an appeal is
not taken in good faith, Johnson v. United States, 352
U. S. 565 (1957), and such representation must be in
the role of an advocate, Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S.
674, 675 (1958), rather than as anicus curiae. In Ellis,
supra, we concluded:
"If counsel is convinced, after conscientious investigation, that the appeal is frivolous, of course, he
may ask to withdraw on that account. If the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Opinion of the Court.

386 U. S.

is satisfied that counsel has diligently investigated
the possible grounds of appeal, and agrees with
counsel's evaluation of the case, then leave to withdraw may be allowed and leave to appeal may be
denied." At 675.
In Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335 (1963), the
Sixth Amendment's requirement that "the accused shall
enjoy the right . . . to have the Assistance of Counsel
for his defence" was made obligatory on the States by
the Fourteenth Amendment, the Court holding that "in
our adversary system of criminal justice, any person
haled into court, who is too poor to hire a lawyer, cannot
be assured a fair trial unless counsel is provided for him."
At 344. We continue to adhere to these principles.
II.
In petitioner's case, his appointed counsel wrote the
District Court of Appeal, stating:
"I will not file a brief on appeal as I am ofothe
opinion that there is no merit to the appeal. I have
visited and communicated with Mr. Anders and have
explained my views and opinions to him . ...
[H]e wishes to file a brief in this matter on his
own behalf."
The District Court of Appeal, after having examined the
record, affirmed the conviction. We believe that counsel's bare conclusion, as evidenced by his letter, was not
enough. It smacks of the treatment that Eskridge received, which this Court condemned, that permitted a
trial judge to withhold a transcript if he found that a
defendant "has been accorded a fair and impartial trial,
and in the Court's opinion no grave or prejudicial errors
occurred therein." Eskridge v. Washington State Board,
357 U. S. 214, 215 (1958). Such a procedure, this
Court said, "cannot be an adequate substitute for the
right to full appellate review available to all defendants"

ANDERS v. CALIFORNIA.
738

Opinion of the Court.

who may not be able to afford such an expense. At 216.
And in still another case in which "a state officer outside the judicial system" was given the power to deprive
an indigent of his appeal by refusing to order a transcript merely because he thought the "appeal would
be unsuccessful," we reversed, finding that such a procedure did not meet constitutional standards. Lane v.
Brown, 372 U. S. 477 (1963). Here the court-appointed
counsel had the transcript but refused to proceed with
the appeal because he found no merit-in it. He filed
a no-merit letter with the District Court of Appeal
whereupon the court examined the record itself and
affirmed the judgment. On a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus some six years later it found the appeal
had no merit. It failed, however,. to say whether it
was frivolous or not, but, after consideration, simply
found the petition to be "without merit." The Supreme
Court, in dismissing this habeas corpus application, gave
,no reason at all for its decision -and so we do not know
the basis for its action. We cannot say that there was
a finding of frivolity by either of the California courts
or that counsel acted in any greater capacity than merely
as amicus curiae which was condemned in Ellis, supra.
Hence California's procedure did not furnish petitioner
with counsel acting in the role of an advocate nor did
it provide that full consideration and resolution of the
matter as is obtained when counsel is acting in that
capacity. The necessity for counsel so acting is highlighted by the possible disadvantage the petitioner suffered here. In his pro se brief, which was filed in 1959,
he urged several trial errors but failed to raise the point
that both the judge and the prosecutor had commented
to the jury regarding petitioner's failure to testify. In
1965, this Court in Griffin v. California,supra, outlawed
California's comment rule, as embodied in Art. I, ยง 13,
of the California Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Opinion of the Court.

386 U. S.

III.

The constitutional requirement of substantial equality
and fair process can only be attained where counsel acts
in the role of an active advocate in behalf of his client,
as opposed to that of amicus curiae. The no-merit
letter and the procedure it triggers do not reach that
dignity. Counsel should, and can with honor and without conflict be of more assistance to his client and to the
court.8 His role as advocate requires that he support his
client's appeal to the best of his ability. Of course, if
counsel finds his case to be wholly frivolous, after a conscientious examination of it, he should so advise the court
and request permission to withdraw. That request must,
however, be accompanied by a brief referring to anything
in the record that might arguably support the appeal. A
copy of counsel's brief should be furnished the indigent
and time allowed him to raise any points that he chooses;
the court-not counsel-then proceeds, after a full examination of all the proceedings, to decide whether the case
is wholly frivolous. If it so finds it may grant counsel's
request to withdraw and dismiss the appeal insofar as
federal requirements are concerned, or proceed to a decision on the merits, if state law so requires. On the
other hand, if it finds any of the legal points arguable
on their merits (and therefore not frivolous) it must, prior
to decision, afford the indigent the assistance of counsel
to argue the appeal.
S For

comparative purposes see Tate v. United State8, 123 U. S.
App. D. C. 261, 359 F. 2d 245, and Johnson v. United States, 124
U. S. App. D. C. 29, 360 F. 2d 844, which outline the practice
followed in the District of Columbia. These guidelines are elaborated in more detail in a "Statement to be Handed by the Clerk
to Appointed Counsel" which has been prepared by the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. We indicate no
approval of the requirements set out in the statement or in the cases.

ANDERS v. CALIFORNIA.
738

STEWART,

J., dissenting.

This requirement would not force appointed counsel
to brief his case against his client but would merely
afford the latter that advocacy which a nonindigent defendant is able to obtain. It would also induce the court
to pursue all the more vigorously its own review because
of the ready references not only to the record, but also
to the legal authorities as furnished it by counsel. The
no-merit letter, on the other hand, affords neither the
client nor the court any aid. The former must shift
entirely for himself while the court has only the cold
record which it must review without the help of an advocate. Moreover, such handling would tend to protect
counsel from the constantly increasing charge that he was
ineffective and had not handled the case with that diligence to which an indigent defendant is entitled. This
procedure will assure penniless defendants the same
rights and opportunities on appeal-as nearly as is practicable-as are enjoyed by those persons who are in a
similar situation but who are able to afford the retention
of private counsel.
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It isso ordered.
MR.JUSTICE STEWART, whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK and
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN join, dissenting.

The system used by California for handling indigent
appeals was described by the California Supreme Court
in In re Nash, 61 Cal. 2d 491, 495, 393 P. 2d 405, 408:
"We believe that the requirement of the Douglas
case [372 U. S. 353] is met . . .when, as in this

case, oounsel is appointed to represent the defendant
on appeal, -thoroughly studies the record, consults
with the defendant and trial counsel, and conscientiously concludes that there are no meritorious

OCTOBER-TERM, 1966.
STEWART,

J., dissenting.

386 U. S.

grounds of appeal. If thereafter the appellate court
is satisfied from its own review of the record in the
light of any points raised by the defendant personally
that counsel's assessment of the record is correct, it
need not appoint another counsel to represent the
defendant on appeal and may properly decide the
appeal without oral argument." (Emphasis added.)
The Court today holds this procedure unconstitutional,
and imposes upon appointed counsel who wishes to withdraw from a case he deems "wholly frivolous" the requirement of filing "a brief referring to anything in the record
that might arguably support the appeal." But if the
record did present any such "arguable" issues, the appeal
would not be frivolous and counsel would not have filed
a "no-merit" letter in the first place.*
The quixotic requirement imposed by the Court can be
explained, I think, only upon the cynical assumption that
an appointed lawyer's professional representation to an
appellate court in a "no-merit" letter is not to be trusted.
That is an assumption to which I cannot subscribe. I
*The Court concedes as much when it states such a brief should
be filed only when counsel believes the case to be "wholly frivolous"
and then goes on to hold "if [the California appellate court] finds
any of the legal points arguable on their merits (and therefore not

frivolous) it must . .. afford the indigent the assistance of counsel . . . ." Ante, p. 744. (Emphasis added.)
Even accepting the Court's requirement, one would have to perceive an "arguable" issue in Anders' case in order to remand it for
a new appeal. The most that all of the courts and lawyers who

have examined his case have turned up is a claim that the prosecutor commented on his silence at trial. But Anders' conviction was
affirmed by the California District Court of Appeal six years before
Griffin v. California,380 U. S. 609, was decided. Our later decision
in Tehan v. Shott, 382 U. S. 406, was based on the premise that
prior to Griffin the practice of commenting on the defendant's silence

was well established and thus did not raise an "arguable" issue. Cf.
O'Connor v. Ohio, 385 U. S. 92.

ANDERS v. CALIFORNIA.
738

STEWART, J., dissenting.

cannot believe that lawyers appointed to represent indigents are so likely to be lacking in diligence, competence,
or professional honesty. Certainly there was no suggestion in the present case that the petitioner's counsel was
either incompetent or unethical.
But even if I could join in this degrading appraisal of
the in forma pauperis bar, it escapes me how the procedure that the Court commands is constitutionally
superior to the system now followed in California. The
fundamental error in the Court's opinion, it seems to me,
is its implicit assertion that there can be but a single
inflexible answer to the difficult problem of how to
accord equal protection to indigent appellants in each of
the 50 States.
Believing that the procedure under which Anders'
appeal was considered was free of constitutional error,
I would affirm the judgment.

