MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. HILLMON.

285

Statement of the Case.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.HILLMON.
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILLMON.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILL-

MON.
CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILLMON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Nos. 181, 182, 183, 184. Argued March 2, 3, 1892. -Decided

May 16,1892.

Under Rev. Stat, § 921, a court of the United States may order actions
against several insurers of the same life, in which the defence is the
same, to be consolidated for trial, against their objection.
The consolidation for trial, under Rev. Stat. § 921, of actions against several
defendants, does not impair the right of each to three peremptory challenges under § 819.
The intention of a person, when material, may be proved by contemporaneous declarations in his letters, written under circumstances precluding
a suspicion of misrepresentation.
Upon the question whether a person left a certain place with a certain other
person, letters written and mailed by him at that place to his family, shortly
before the time when other evidence tends to show that he left the
place, and stating his intention to leave it with that person, are competent evidence of such intention.

ON July 13, 1880, Sallie E. Hillm6n, a citizen of Kansas,
brought an action against the Mutual Life Insurance Company, a corporation of New York, on a policy of insurance,
dated December 10, 1878, on the life of her husband, John W.
Hillmon, in the sum of $10,000, payable to her within sixty
daysafter notice and proof of his death. On the same day the
plaintiff brought two other actions, the one against the New
York Life Insurance Company, a corporation'-of New York,
on two similar policies of life insurance, dated respectively
November 30, 1878, and December 10, 1878, for the sum of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statembnt of the Case.

$0
each; and the other against the Connecticut Mutual
Life Insurance Company, a corporation of Connecticut, on a
similar policy, dated March 4, 1879, for the sum of $5000.
In each case, the declaration alleged that
ilhnon died on
March 17, 1879, during the continuance of the policy, but that
the defendant, though duly notified of the fact, had refused to
pay the amount of the policy, or any part thereof; and the
answer denied the death of Hillmon, and alleged that he,
together with John H. Brown and divers other persons, on or
before November 30, 1878, conspiring to defraud the defendant, procured the issue of all the policies, and afterwards, in
March and April, 1879, falsely pretended and represented that
Hillmon was dead, and that a dead body which they had pro.
cured was his, whereas in reality he was alive and in hiding.
On June 14, 1882, the following order was entered in the
three cases: "It appearing to the court that the above-entitled
actions are of like nature and relative to the same question,
and to avoid unnecessary cost and delay, and that it is reasonable to do so, it is ordeied by the court that said actions be,
and the same are hereby, consolidated for trial." To this
order the defendants excepted.
On February 29, 1888, after two trials at which the jury had
disagreed, the three cases came on for trial, under the order of
consolidation. Each of the defendants moved that the order
be set aside, and each case tried separately. But the court
overruled the motion, and directed that, pursuant to that order,
the cases should be tried as one cause; and to this each defendant excepted.
At the empanelling of the jury, each defendant claimed the
right to challenge peremptorily three jurors. But the court
ruled that, the cases having been consolidated, the defendants
were entitled to three peremptory challenges only; and, after
each defendant had peremptorily challenged one juror, ruled
that none of the defendants'could so challenge any other jurors:
and to these rulings each defendant excepted.
At the trial the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
show that on or about March 5, 1879, Hillmon and Brown left
Wichita in the State of Kahsas, and travelled together through

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE 00. v. HILLDION.

287

Statement of the Case.

Southern Kansas in search of a site for a cattle ranch; that on
the night of March 18, while ttey were in camp at a place
called Crooked Creek, Hillmon was killed by the accidental
discharge of a gun; that Brown at once notified persons living
in the neighborhood; and that the body was thereupon taken
to a neighboring town, where, after an inquest, it was buried.
The defendants introduced evidence tending to show that. the
body found in the camp at Crooked Creek on the night of
March 18 was not the body of Hlilhnon, but was the body of
one Frederick Adolph Walters. Upon the question whose
body this was, there was much conflicting evidehce, including
photographs and descriptions of the corpse, and of the marks
and scars upon it,,and testimony to its likeness to Hillmon and
to Walters.
The defendants introduced testimony that Walters.left his
home at Fort Madison in the State of Iowa in March, 1878,
and was afterwards in' Kansas in 1878, and in January and
February, 1879; that during that time his family frequently
received letters from him, the last of which was written from"
Wichita; and that he had not been heard from since March,
1879. The defendants also offered the following evidence:
Elizabeth Rieffenach testified that she was a sister of Frederick Adolph Walters, and lived at Fort Madison; and thereupon, as shown by the bill of exceptions, the following
proceedings took place:
"Witness further testified that she had received a *letter
written from Wichita, Kansas,. about the 4th or 5th day of
March, 1879, by her brother Frederick Adolph; that the letter
was dated at Wichita, and was in the handwriting of her
brother; that she had searched for the letter, but could not
find the same, it being lost; that she remembered and could
state the contents of the letter.
"Thereupon the defendants' counsel asked the -question:
'State the contents of that letter.' To which the plaintiff
objected, on the ground that the same is incompetent, irrelevant, and hearsay. The objection was sustained, and the
defendants duly excepted. The following is the letter as stated
by witness:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

"Wichita, Kansas,
"March 4th or 5th or 3d or 4th -- I dont know - 1879.
"Dear sister and all: I now in my usual style drop you a
few lines to let you know that I expect to leave Wichita on or
about March the 5th, with a certain Mr. Hillmon, a sheeptrader, for Colorado or parts unknown to me.- I expect to see
the country now. News are of no interest to you, as you are
not acquaintedhere. I will close with compliments to all
inquiring friends. Love to all.
"I am truly your brother,
FRED. ADOLPH WALTERS."

Alvina D. Kasten testified that she was twenty-one years of
age and resided in Fort Madison; that she was engaged to be
married to Frederick Adolph 'Walters; that she last saw him
on March 24, 1878, at Fort Madison ; that he left there at that
time, and had not returned; that she corresponded regularly
with him, and received a letter about every two weeks until
IMarch 3, 1879, which was the last time she received a letter
from him; that this letter was dated at Wichita, March 1, 1879,
and was addressed to her at Fort Madison, and the envelope
was postmarked "Wichita, Kansas, March 2, 1879;" and that
she had never heard from or seen him since that time.
The defendants put in evidence the envelope with the postmark and address; and thereupon offered to read the letter in
evidence. " The plaintiff objected to the reading of the letter,
the court sustained the objection, and the defendants excepted.
'This letter was dated "Wichita, March 1, 1879," was signed
by Walters, and began as follows:
"Dearest Alvina: Your kind and ever welcome letter was
received yesterday afternoon about an hour before. I left
Emporia. I will stay here until the fore part of next week,
and then will leave here to see a part of the. country that I
never expected to see when I left home, as I am going with
a man by the name of Hillmon, who intends to start a sheep
ranch, and as he promised me more wages than I could make
at anything else I concluded to take it, for a while at least,

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. IHILLMON.

289

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

until I strike something better. There is so many folks in
this country that have got the Leadville fever, and if I could
not of got the situation that I have now I would have went
there myself,; but as it is at present I get to see the best portion of Kansas, Indian Territory, Colorado, and Mexico. The
route that we intend to take would cost a man to travel from
$150 to $200, but it will not cost me a cent; besides, I get
good wages. I will drop you a letter occasionally until I get
settled down; then I want you to answer it."
Rulings upon other questions of evidence, excepted to at
the trial, are not reported, because not passed upon by this
court.
The court, after recapitulating some of the testimony introduced, instructed the jury as follows: "You have perceived
from the very beginning of the trial that the conclusion to be
reached must practically turn upon one question of fact, and
all the large volume of evidence, with its graphic and varied
-details, has no actual significance, save as the facts established
thereby may throw light upon and aid you in answering the
question, Whose body was it that on the evening of March
18, 1879, lay dead by the camp-fire on Crooked Creek? The
decision of that question decides the verdict you should
render."
The jury, being instructed by the court to return a separate
verdict in each case, returned verdicts for the plaintiff against
the three defendants. respectively for the am6unts of their
policies, and interest, upon which separate judgment8 were
rendered. The defendants sued out four writs of error, one
jointly in the three cases as consolidated, and one in each case
separately.
Xr. Julien . Davies, (A&.
1F Green and -Mr. E. 1.
Short were on his brief,) for the New York Company, contended as to the consolidation of the causes:
The right of the Circuit Court to try separate causes of a
like nature or relative to the same question at the same time
and before the same jury, and to consolidate causes, rests upon
section 921 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
VOL. OXT.V-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Under this statute causes could be tried together, but not
,ncessarily thereby consolidated. The ideas are distinct be•tween trying causes together or consolidating them for trial
by order, and directing them to be tried as one cause, and
therefore virtually consolidating them.
Under this section, speaking generally, two classes of cases
in which in the Circuit Courts of the United States a trial of
different causes of action has been had properly at the same
time and before the same jury, when such causes were of a like
nature or relative to the same question: (1) Where one case
is ordered to be tried and the other cases are ordered to abide
the event of the one ordered for trial; (2) Where there is an
absolute consolidation of different causes of action against the
same defendants.
The class of cases, to which those before the court belong,
constitutes a third class, in which a consolidation for trial of
different causes of action against different defendants for the
purposes of saving time has been ordered.
We claimed that the court had no power to make the order
here complained of, because: (a) The causes were not of a
like nature or relative to the same question; (b) An order for
consolidation for purposes of trial where there are different
defendants is not conformable to the usages of courts for
avoiding unnecessary costs or delay in the administration of
justice, and is not reasonable. Tidd's Pr. (3d Am. ed.) 614;
Morley v. Glenfworth, 5 Halsted, (10 N. 1. Law,) 241; ffoward
v. Ohamber'lin, 64 Georga, 654, 696.
-Mr. a&muel A. Biggs and Ab. E. B. WYheat (with whom
were -Yr. John Hutchings and fr. R?. J. Borghalthaus on the
brief) for defendant in error.
When the actions were so consolidated that the matter of
impanelling a jury was to be proceeded with, § 819, Rev. Stat.
was applicable, and limited the parties to three challenges. 1
Thompson on Trials, § 46 and n. 1.
If each plaintiff in error was entitled to three peremptory
challenges, then of course the defendant in error would have

TTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. HILLMON.

291

Argument for Defendant in Error.

been entitled to the same number; so that twelve jurors,
equivalent to a full panel, could have been peremptorily challenged without the consent of either one of the defendants;
or if each plaintiff in error was entitled to three peremptory
challenges and defendant in error to only three, then in addition to this favor being three to one against defendant in error
each defendant might have been required to see half of a full
panel peremptorily challenged off in addition to the six challenges allowed by that section.
As to the 86th assignment of error relating to testimony of
Miss Alvina Kasten it will be noticed that the envelope was
introduced in evidence and that witness showed when and
from whence she received the letter, but the contents of the
letter were not permitted to be given to the jury. Considering
that, togethdr with the 74Uth and 85th assignments of error, we
submit that the contents of the three letters therein referred
to were incompetent and hearsay. Neither was written by
Walters at a time when he expected to die; the statements'
therein were not made under the obligation of -an oath, nounder circumstances in law equivalent thereto; nor under
any such circumstances as would render or make them r'es
gestte as to any act or fact competent to be proven. Whether
he did or went according to any statement in either of those
letters, or whether he had anything to do with any other per*son, or whether he made or had any transaction with any
other person, or knew or had seei any other person named in
either of said letters, were questions of fact to be proved as
any other fact; and his statement thereof or of any intention
in any of said letters expressed, was not competent evidence
against any other person whomsoever. Such statements were
not r'es gestoe as to any fact, material or competent in this case,
but only of the fact of writing the letters.
The contents of those letters were no more competent than
a letter written by any other person to any other person would
have been if such last mentioned letters had contained similar
statements therein, or aniy other statement. Insurance Co. v.
Guardiola,129 U. S. 642; State v. Af edlieott, 9 Kansas, 257;
Simpson v. Smith, 27 Kansas, 565; State v. Smith, 35 Kansas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

618; Dwyer v. Dunbar, 5 Wall. 318; People v. .Fong Ah
Sing, 64 California, 253; State v. Draer, 65 Missouri, 335,
340; Barield v. Britt, 2 Jones (Law) N. 0. 41; S. C.62 Am.
Dec. 190; Leiber v. Commonwealth, 9 Bush, 11; Lund v.
Tyngsborough, 9 Cush. 36; S. .59 Am. Dec. 159; 6ommonwealth v. Densnwore, 12 Allen, 535; Rex v. -Mead, 2 B. & C. 605.
WF.
Jlfr. EYdward S. Ishan?, (with whom were _Hr. Jaes
Green and ill>. lWillicm G. Beale on the brief) for the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, plaintiff in error.
MIZ. JUSTICE XRIAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The order of the Circuit Court that the three actions be consolidated for trial, because they appeared to the court to be of
like nature and relative to the same question, because it would
avoid unnecessary cost and delay, and because it was reasonable to do so, was within the discretionary piower of the court,
under section 921 of the ]Revised Statutes, which provides, in
substantial accordance with the act of July 22, 1813, c. 14, § 3,
(3. Stat. 21,) that "when causes of a like nature or relative to
the same question are pending before a court of the United
States, or of any Territory, the court may make such orders
and rules concerning proceetyngs therein as may be conformable to the usages of courts for avoiding unnecessary costs or
delay in the administration of justice, and may consolidate
said causes when it appears reasonable to do so.'.
The consolidation rule, introduced in England by Lord
Mansfield, to avoid 'the expense and delay attending the trial
of a multiplicity of actions upon the same question arising
under different policies of insurance, enabled the several insurers
to have proceedings stayed in all actions except one, upon
undertaking to be bound by the verdict in that one, to admit
all facts not meant to be seriously disputed, and not to file a
bill in equity or bring a writ of error; and was considered as
a favor to the defendants; and insurers under different policies
could not obtain such a rule without the plaintiff's .consent.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. HILLMON.

293

Opinion of the Court.
1 Tidd's Practice (9th ed.) 614, 615; X1cGregor v. Iiorsfall, 3
M. & W. 320. The English practice appears to have be m followed in early times -in New York. Oarnman v. New - York
Ins. Co., 1 Gaines, 114; S. C. Coleman & Caines, 188; Thompson v. Shepherd, 9 Johns. 262. The later cases in New York,
cited at the bar, were governed by statute. Brewster v.
Stewart, 3 Wend. 441; .ftayor v. .Mayor, 64: How. Pract. 230.
Where the English consolid~tion rule has not been adopted,
the American courts% state and federal, have exercised the
authority of ordering several actions by one plaintiff against
different defendants to be tried together, whenever the defence
is the same, and unnecessary delay and expense will be thereby
avoided. Den v. Eimble, 4 Halst. (9 N. J. Law) 335; lforley.
v. Glentworth, 5 Halst. (10 N. J. La v) 241; Vitherlee v. Oeean
Ins. Co., 24 Pick. 67; Wiede v. Insurance Cos., 3 Chicago
Legal News, 353; Andrews v. Spear, 4 Dillon, 470; Keep
v. Indianapolis & St. Iouis Railroad, 3 McCrary, 302; 1
Thompson on Trials, § 210. The learning and research of
counsel have produced no instance in this country, in which
such an order, made in the exercise of the discretionary power
of the court, unrestricted by statute, has been set aside on bill
of exceptions or writ of error.
But although the defendants might lawfully be compelled,
at the discretion of the court, to try the cases together, the
causes of action remained distinct, and required separate verdicts and judgments; and no defendant could be deprived,
without its consent, of any right material to its defence,
whether by way of challenge of jurors, or of objection to evidence, to which it would have been entitled if the. cases had
been tried separately. Section 819 of the Revised Statutes
provides that in all civil.cases "each party shall be entitled to
three peremptory challenges; and in all cases where there are
several defendants or several plaintiffs, the parties on each side
shall be deemed a single party for the purposes of all challenges under this section." Under this provision, defendants
sued together upon one cause of action would be entitled to
only three peremptory challenges in all. But defendants in
different actions cannot be deprived of their several challenges,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

by the order of the court, made for the prompt and convenient
administration of justice, that the three cases shall be tried:
together. * The denial of the right of challenge, secured to thq
defendants by the statute, entitles them to a new trial.
There is, however, one question of evidence so important, so
fully argued at the bar, and so likely to arise upon another
trial,, that it is proper to express an opinion upon it.
This question is of the admissibility of the letters written
by Walters on the first days of March; 1879, *which were
offered in evidence by the defendants, and excluded by the
court. "In order to determine the competency of these letters,
it is important 'to' consider the state of the case when they
were offered to be read.
The matter chiefly contested at the trial was the death of
John W. Hilhnon, the' insured; and that depended upon the
question whether the body found at Crooked Creek on the
night of March 18, 1879, was his body, or the bodv of one
Walters.
Much conflicting evidence had been introduced as to the
identity of the body. The plaintiff had also introduced evidence that Hillmon and one Brown left Wichita in Kansas on
or about March 5, 1879, and travelled together through Southern Kansas in search of a site for a cattle ranch, and that on
the night of March 18, while they were in camp at Crooked
Creek, Hillmon was accidentally killed, and thathis body'was
taken thende and buried. The defendants had introduced
evidence, without objection, that Walters left his home and
his betrothed in Iowa in March, 1878, and was afterwards in
Kansas until March, 1879; that during that time he corresponded regularly with his family and his betrothed; that the
last letters received from him were one received by his betrothed on March 3 and postmarked at Wichita March 2, and
one received by his sister about March 4 or 5, and dated at
*Wichita a day or two before; and that he had not been heard
from since.
The evidence that Walters was at Wichita on or before
March 5, and had not been heard from since, together with
the evidence to identify as his the body found at Crooked

'MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. HILLMON.

295

Opinion of the Court.

Creek on March 18, tended to show that he went from Wichita
to Crookdd Creek between those dates. Evidence that just
before March 5 he had the intention of leaving Wichita with
Hillmon would tend to corroborate the evidence already admitted, and to show that he went from Wichita tb Crooked
Creek with Hillmon' Letters from hirA to his family and his,
betrothed were .the natural, if not the only attainable, evidence
of his intention.
The position, taken at the bar, that the letters were competent evidence, within the rule stated in Ngicholls v. TFeb, 8
Wheat. 326, 337, as memoranda made in the ordinary cour..
of business, cannot be maintained, for they were clearly not
such.
But upon another ground suggested they should have been
admitted. A man's state of mind or feeling can only be manifested to others by countenance, attitude or gesture, or by.
sounds or words, spoken or written. The nature of the fact
to be proved is the same, and evidence of its proper tokens is
equally competent to prove it, whether expressed by aspect or
conduct, by voice or pen. When the intention to be proved is
important only as qualifying an act, its connection with that
act must be shown, in order to warrant the admission of declarations of the intention. But whenever the intention is of
itself a distinct and material fact in a chain of circumstances,
it may be proved by contemporaneous oral or written declarations of the party.
The existence of a particular intention in a certain person
at a certain time being a material fact to be proved, evidence
that he expressed that intention at that time is as direct evidence of the fact, as his own testimony that he then had that
intention would be. After his death there can hardly be any
other way of proving it; and while he is still alive, his own
memory of his state of mind at a former time is no more likely
to be clear and true than a bystander's recollection of what
he then said, and is less trustworthy than letters written by
him at the very time and under circumstances pr'ecluding a
suspicion of misrepresentation.
The letters in question were competent, not as narratives of

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

facts communicated to the writer by others, nor yet as proof
.that he actually went away from Wichita, but as evidence
that, shortly before the time when other evidence tended to
show that he went away, he had the intention of going, and
of going with Hllmon, which made it more probable both that
he did go and that t4e went with Hillmon, than if there had
been no proof of such intention. In view of the mass of conflicting testimony introduced upon the question whether it was
the body of Walters that was found in Hillmon's camp, this
evidence might properly influence the jury in determining that
question.
The rule applicable to this 'ase has been thus stated by this
court: "Wherevur the bodily or mental feelings of an individual are material to be proved, the usual expressions of such
feelings are original and competent evidence. Those expressions are the natural reflexes of what it might be impossible
to show by other testimony. If there be such other testimony,
this may be necessary to set the facts thus developed in their
true light, and to give them their proper effect. As indepen(lent explanatory or corroborative evidence, it is often indispensable to the due administration of justice. Such declarations
are regarded as verbal acts, and are as competent as any other
testimony, when relevant to .the issue. Theit truth or falsity
is an inquiry for the jury." Insurance Co. v. .Afosley, 8 Wall.
397, 404, 405.
In accordance with this rule, a bankrupt's declarations, oral
or by letter, at or before the time of leaving or staying away
from home, as to his reason for going abroad, have always
been held by the English courts to be competent, in an action
by his assignees against a creditor, as evidence that his departure was with intent to defraud his creditors, and therefore an
act of bankruptcy. Bateman v. Bailey, 5 T. R. 512 ; Rawson
v. Haigh, 9 J. B. Moore, 217; S. C. 2 Bing. 99; Smith v. Cramer, 1 Scott, 541; 5. C. 1 Bing. N. C. 585.
The highest courts of New Hampshire and Massachisetts
have held declarations of a servant, at the time of leaving his
master's service, to be competent evidence, in actions between
third persons, of hisreasons for doing so. Hadley v. Carter,

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. HILLMON.

297

Opinion of the Court.

8 N. I1. 40; Elmer v. Fessenden, 151 Mass. 359. And'the
Supreme Court of Ohio has held that, for the purpose of proving that a person was at a railroad station intending to take
passage on a train, previous declarations made by him at the
time of leaving his hotel were admissible. LTake Shore &c.
Railroad v. HZerrick, 29 Northeastern Reporter, 1052. See
also Jaekson v. Boneham, 15 Johns. 226; Gorham v. Canton,
5 Greenl. 266; .Kilburnv. Bennett, 3 Met. 199; Lund v. Tyngsborough, 9 Cush. 36.
In actions for criminal conversation, letters by the wife to
her husband or to third persons are competent to show her
affection towards her husband, and her reasons for living apart
from him, if written before any misconduct on her part, and :f
there is no ground to suspect collusion Trelawney. v. Coleman, 2 Stark. 191, and 1 B. & Ald. 90; Tillis v. Bernqrd, 5
Oar. & 1. 342, and 1 Moore & Scott, 584; S. C. ,8Bing. 376;
1 Greenl. Ev. § 102. So letters from a husband to a thi. .person, showing his state of feeling, affection and synpathy for
his wife, have been held by this court to be competent evidence,
bearing on the validity of the marriage, when the legitimacy
of their children is in issue. Gaines v. 1?elf, 12 How. 472,
:
520, 534.
Even in the probate of Wills, which are required by law to
be in writing, executed and attested in prescribed forms,'ye!t
where the validity of a will is questioned for want of nifitpj
capacity or by reason of fraud and undue influence, or whete
the will is lost and it becomes necessary to prove its contents,
written or oral evidence of declarations of the testator befo.e
the date of the will has been admitted, in Massachusetts an4
in England, to show his real intention as to the disposition ot
his property, although there has been a difference of opinion
as to the admissibility, for such purposes, of his subsequegiit
declarations. Shailer v. Bumstead, 9- Mass. 112; Sugden :,v.
St. Leonards, 1 P. D. 154; Woodward v. Goulstone, 11 Ap;"*
Cas. 469, 478, 484, 486.
In Skailer v. Bumstead, upon the competency of-eviden e
offered to show that a will propounded. for probate "wa not
the act of one. possessed of testamentary capacity, or Vag

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

obtained by such fraud and undue influence as to subvert the
real intentions and will of the maker," Mr. Justice Colt said:
"The declarations of the testator accompanying the act must
always be resorted to as the most satisfactory evidence to sustain or defend the will, whenever this issue is presented. So
it is uniformly held that the previous declarations of the testator, offered to prove th6 mental facts involved, are competent. Intention, purpose, mental peculiarity and condition,
are mainly ascertainable through the medium afforded by the
power of language. Statements and declarations, when the
state of the mind is the -fact to be shown, are therefore received as mental adds or conduct." 99 Mass. 120.
In Sugden v. St. Leonards, which arose upon the probate
of the lost will of Lord Chancellor St. Leonards, the English
Court of Appeal was unanimous in holding oral as well as
written declarations made by the testator before the date of
the will to be admissible in evidence. Lord Chief Justice
Cockburn said: "I entertain no doubt that prior instructions,
or a draft authenticated by the testator, or verbal declarations of what he was about to do, though of course not conelusive evidence, are yet legally admissible as secondary evidence of the contents of a lost will." 1 P. D. 226. Sir
George Jessel, MvI. IR., said: "It is not strictly evidence of the
contents of the instrument, it is simply evidence of the intention of the person who afterwards executes the instrument.
It is simply evidence of probability -no

doubt of -a high

degree of probability in some cases, and of a low degree of
probability in others. The cogency of the evidence depends
very much on the nearness in point of time of the declaration
of intention to the period of the execution of the instrument."
I P. D. 242. Lord Justice Mellish said: "The declarations
which are made before the will are not, I apprehend, to be
taken as evidence of the contents of the will which is subsequently made
they obviously do not prove it; and wherever
it is material to prove the'state of a person's mind, or what
was passing in it, and what were his intentions, there you may
prove what he said, because that is the only means by which
you can find out what his intentions were." 1 P. D. 251.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANGE CO. "v. I-ILLMON.

299

Opinion of the Court.

Upon an indictment of'one Hunter for the murder .of one
Armstrong at Camden, the Court of Errors and Appeals of
New Jersey unaniiiously held that Armstrong's oral declarations to his son at Philadelphia, on the afternoon before the
night of the mulrder, as v~ell as a letter written by him at the
same time and place to his wife, each stating that he was.
going with Hunter to Camden on business, were rightly
admitted in evidence. Chief- Justice Beasley said: "In the
ordinary course of things, it was the usual information that a
man about leaving home would communicate, for the convenience of his family, the information of his friends, or the
regulation of his business. At the time it was given, such
declarations could, in the nature of things, mean harm to no
one; he who uttered. them was bent on no expedition of mischief or wrong, and the attitude of affairs at the time entirely
explodes the idea that such utterances were intended to serve
any purpose but that for which they were obviously designed.
If it be said that such notice of an intention of leaving home
could have been given without introducing in it the name of
Mr. Hunter, the obvious answer to the suggestion, I think, is
that a reference to the companion who is to accompany the
person leaving is as natural a part of the transaction as is any
other incident or quality of it. If it is legitimate to show by
a man's own declarations that he left his home to be gone a
week, or for a certain destination, which seems incontestable,
why may it not be proved in the same way that a designated
person was to bear him company? ' At the time the words
were uttered or written, they imported no wrongdoing to,
any one, and the reference to the companion who was to go
with him was nothing more, as matters then stood, than an
indication of an additional circumstance of his going. If it was
in the ordinary train of events for this man to leave word or
to state where he was going, it seems to me it was equally so
for him to say with whom he was going." Hunter v. State,
11 Yroom (40 N. J. Law) 495, 534, 536, 538.
Upon principle and authority, therefore, we are of opinion
that the two letters were competent evidence of the intention
of "Walters at the time of writing them, which was a: material

