OCTOBER TEI~i, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

submitting the questions involved to the determination of the
appellate tribunal; while if the judgment be reversed the
minority of the stockholders of defendant in error would. be
deprived of the benefit of an adjudication in its favor. But
although the latter niight be thereby subjected to the delay
and expense of further litigation, they would still be free to
vindicate whatever rights they are entitled to.
Without considering or passing upon the uherits of the case
in any respect, we deem it most consonant to justice to
.reverse the judgment and remand the caseforfurther proceedings in conformity to, law, and it is so ordered.

HOYT v. HORNE.
APPPAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF'MASSAGCHUSETTS.
"No. 3S6.

Argued April 26, 2T, 1892.-Decided May 16, 1892.

Te

machine manufactured under letters patent No. 347,043, issued August
10, 1886, to John H. Horne for "new and useful improvements in rag
engines for beating paper-pulp" is an infringement of the first claim in
letters patent No. 303,374, issued August 12, 1884, to John Hoyt, for a
rag engine for paper making.
Whether it infringes the second claim in Htoyt's patent is not decided.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 303,314, issued August 12, 1884-, to John Hoyt, for
a rag engine for paper making. "This invention," said the
patentee in his specification, "relates to engines for beating
rags and similar fibrous material into pulp for the manufac'ture of paper. In these machines a beater-roll set with kniN ..s
aroufid its periphery is used, in combination with a bed-plate
also set with knives, the said parts being placed in a tank or
vessel in which a constant circulation Of the material to be
pulped is maintained.

HOYT v. HORNE.
Statement of the Case.

"Heretofore ordinarily the material has been circulated
horizontally around an upright partition termed a ' mid-fellow,' and the beater-roll and bed-plate have been placed in the
alley or channel between this mid-fellow and one side of the
tank. The beater-roll lifted the material over a sort of dam,
(termed a 'back-fall,') and the Miaterial thlen flowed by the
action of gravity around the mid-fellow and entered again
between the beater-roll and the bed-plate. It has, however,
been proposed to dispense with the mid-fellow and have the
material turned under the back-fall and bed-plate. In either
case, however, the circulating force is that of gravity due to
the piling up of the liquid or semi-liquid on the side of the
back-fall opposite from the beater-roll. Consequently the flow
is comparatively feeble, and it is necessary to use a large quantity of water in order to prevent the fibre in suspension from
depositing. In the present invention a much more rapid and
vigorous circulation is maintained. 'The beater-roll is placed
at one end of the vat, which is of a depth sufficient to contain
it, and the other part of the vat is divided by a horizontal
partition or division, which extends from the beater-roll
nearly to the other end. The material to be pulped is carried
around by the beater-roll, and is delivered into the upper section above the partition. It .flows over the partition, then
passes down around the end of the same, and returnis through
the lower section of the vat to the beater-roll. The bed-plate
is placed at the bottom of the vat under the beater-roll. The
beater-roll not only draws in the material, creating a partial
vacuum in the lower section of the vat, but delivers it into the
upper section with considerable force, impelling it forward
very rapidly. By the aid of this more rapid as well as more
vigorous circulation not only is the material returned more
quickly, and therefore acted upon more often, by the beaterroll in the same time, but it may be worked with a much less
quantity of water, and thereby very important advantages
may be secured. These advantages are, first, in the improved
quality of the product, for wh~en a considerable body of the
fibrous material is drawn between the knives the different
pieces are rubbed together and thus disintegrated without

.304:

OCTOBER TERM, .891.
Statement of the Case.

destroying the length and felting quality of the fibre, whereas
when the pulp is thin the pieces are ground individually, as it
were, between the knives, and the integrity of the fibre in
large measure destroyed; secondly, in the greater quantity
of pulp which can be prepared in a medium of given size,
owing to the larger proportion of fibrous material in the
charge; and, thirdly, in avoiding the liability of the fibrous
material depositing out of the liquid and lodging in the
channels.
"The operation of the engine is as follows: The beater-roll
and bed-plate knives being adjusted properly, the vat is filled
with the rags or fibrous material to be pulped and the proper
quantity of water. The beater-roll being revolved at the
proper speed-say, for a roll four feet in diameter, at the
speed of one hundred and twenty revolutions per minutethe rags and liquid are drawn .between the knives, are carried
up by the beater-roll, and thrown over the edge of the plate
P. They flow around the partition, N with considerable - elocity and return again and again to be acted upon by the
knives. , The roll is revolved until the pulp is properly reduced.
"1Modifications may be made in details of construction without departing from the spirit of the invention, and part' thereof
can be separately used if desired."
The claims alleged to have been infringed were as follows:
"1. The. improvement in beating rags to pulp in a rag
engine having a beater-roll and bed-plate knives, consisting in
circulating the fibrous material and liquid in vertical planes,
drawing the same between the knives at the bottom of the vat,
carrying it around and over the rolland delivering it into the
upper section of the vat, substantially as described.
"2. A rag engine for paper-making, comprising the vat, the
beater-roll mounted on a horizontal shaft in one end of the
vat, and the horizontal partition dividing the body of the vat
into an upper and a lower section or passage, the fibrous material and liquid being carried from the lower section between
the knives and delivered over the top of the beater-roll into
the upper section or passage, substantially as described."
The device employed by the defendant was manufactured

HOYT v. HORNE.
Staternient of the Case.

under letters-patent No. 34:7,043, issued August 10, 1886, to
John iH. Home, the defendant. With relation to the peculiar
feature of his invention he stated in his specification as follows: "One great difficulty hitherto in the construction of
these engines, whateyer may be the path of travel given to
the material contained in them, consists in the fact that the
various fibres or bunches of fibre, after being placed within
the engine, maintain concentric paths of movement with
respect to each other. Thus a piece of stock located near the
sides of the tub, or one placed near the mid-feather, will continue to tiavel in concentric paths until the engine is emptied,
except in case manual labgr is applied with a paddle to disturb
their courses and compel them to deviate therefrom; hence it
is obvious that the fibre travelling the more rapidly will be
reduced more quickly, and the 'stuff' is of uneven quality.
"The essential object of my invention is to effect a change
in the course of the material iti the engine automatically and
obliquely to the longitudinal axis of the engine during each
complete passage thereof around the tub, and thereby thoroughly mix the stock. Thus the particles which are nearest the
mid-feather in one passage about the tub, and which therefore
travelled the fastest, are directed and changed obliquely across
the engine prior to their passage about the roll, and hence they
will emerge and are located near the side. Such stock will
consequently travel the slowest during the next passage around
the tub, since it remains contiguous to the retaining-walls
of the latter. This mixing and stirring of the material within
the tub is effected primarily by- the shape of the tub in crosssection, the width of which is equal to the active face of the
roll, or thereabouts, the latter located in one end thereof.
Thus to effect the desired change in the path of movement of
the stock the proportions of the tub are altered, and in crosssection the two passages formed in the tub by the mid-feather
are twice as deep as they are wide, or thereabout. Again, the
stock is permitted to fil the entire width of the -engine just
prior to its entrance beneath the roll, and also immediately
after leaving the same; hence-the mid-feather terminates a
VOL. CxLV-20

306

OOTOBER TERI-r, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

short distance before reaching the roll, and the stock, as it
approaches the latter, as before premised, is permitted to
spread out and fill the entire width of the engine.
After the passage of the stock between the roll and the bedplate, the particles composing it are directed upon and over
the back-fall, which here extends entirely across the engine
and in front of the roll, but contracts, as it extends away from
the latter, until it unites with the mid-feather, whence it is continued downward between the latter and the side of the engine
to the bottom of the tub. This contraction of one-half its
width again restores the mass of stock to a general vertical
position, and the latter is so maintained until just prior to its
return passage beneath the roll. Thus it will be evident that
the fibres composing the material in process of being pulped
cannot travel in continuous concentric paths of movement, but
are changed and forced obliquely of the engine, whereby a
thorough mixing of the sto6k is automatically effected by the
spiral motion imparted to it both before and after leaving the
roll."
The case was heard in the Circuit Court upon pleadings and
proofs, and a final decree entered dismissing the bill upon the
ground that the defendant had not infringed the plaintiff's
patent. 35 Fed. Rep. 830. From this decree the plaintiff
appealed to this court.
.Ab'. Philip 3auo and -lb'. Anthony Pollok f6r appellant.
-lr. FJrederick P. Fish (with whom was Mr.
ardson on the brief) for appellee.

F. ." Rich-

MR. JusTioE BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The engine in ordinary use by paper makers foi the reduction of rags to pulp prior to the invention in question consisted of.'a tub about fourteen feet in length with straight
sides and semicircular ends. Through the centre of this ran
ra vertical partition called the mid-feather, extending lengthwise of the tub, and with sufficient room between the ends of

HOYT,. -HORNE.
Opihion. of the Court.

the partition and the ends of the tub to allow the pulp to pass
around from one side of the tub to the other. Midway *ofthe
tub and between the mid-feather and one side was a wheel or
beater-roll, armed with knives, placed longitudinally upon the,
periphery of the wheel. Beneath the roll were corresponding
knives in the bed-plate, and by the, revolution of the wheel the
rags were drawn between these knives and reduced to pulp.,
At one, side of the roll the bottom, of the tub was curved
upwards forming a ridge or dam, termed a back-fall, about
four inches high extending across the channel parallel with the
roll. The beater-roll revolved away from the top of the backfall, and the material being lifted by the rotation of the roll
to the top of the back-fall, slid down the incline by gravity,
which was the only force acting to cause a flow of nearly
thirty feet, from the back of the beater-roll around to the front
of it again. The speed of the pulp was thus necessarily very

slow.
1. The novelty and patentability of the Hoyt patent were
not denied, though two prior patents were referred to for the.
purpose of limiting its claims. The Umpherston engine was
patented in England in April, 1884, a few months before the
Hoyt patent was issued in this country. This machine differs
from the old tub only in the fact that the mid-feather runs horizontally instead of vertically, and the return passage or channel
for the pulp is underneath instead of alongside of the channel
containing the beater-roll. Apparently the only advantage
which it possesses over the old one is in economy of floor space.
The Cooke engiie, patented in England in 1880, is a machine
of the type kno~ih-as disk-grinders, and is not a beating
engine of the type of the machines involved in this suit. It
has no beater-roll, thle grinding being done by two disks at
the end of the tub between which the pulp is drawn in at the
centre of the disks, and works its way outward to the periphery between the grinding surfaces. It seems to us- to have
little bearing upon the present case except'in the fact that the
grinding mechanism is located at the end of the tub instead of
in the centre.
The Hoyt engine diffe's from the old tub in ordinary use

OCTOBER TERM-f, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in two or three important particulars.

First, the beater-roll

is located at the end of the, tub, instead of in the centre, having in this particular a certain resemblance, to the. Cooke
machine; second, the mid-feather runs horizontally instead of
vertically, a feature in which it resembles the Umpherston
engine; and, third, the beater-roll extends across the whole
width of the tub, and its revolutions are toward instead of
away from the top of the back-fall or dam. The result of
this is such a greatly increased speed in the flow of the pulp
that it is said to be brought in contact with the knives twelve
times as often as was possible in the old tub or engine.
The circulation of the material around the roll in vertical
planes is the salient feature of the Hoyt invention, and its
utility is shown in its general adoption by paper inakers.
2. The main question in the case is that of infringement.
In the defendant's engine the beater-roll is also located at the
end of the tub and extends across its entire width; the top of
the back-fall or dam also extends across the entire width in
front of the beater-roll, but narrows at one side as it descends
to the bottom of the tub to one-half of its width. The midfeather is made.vertical instead of horizontal, so that the pulp
after it leaves the dam circulates in a horizontal instead of a
vertical plane; but as it returns to the beater-roll it passes
back under the dam, spreading out to the entire width of the
tub, and is taken up by the beater-roll precisely as in the
Hoyt patent. It is insisted by the defendant in this connection that there is no infringement of the first claim of the
Hoyt patent, since the pulp is not circulated "in vertical
planes," nor is it delivered by the beater-roll "into the upper
section of the vat," as specified in that claim. Literally it is
not. A technical reading of the specification undoubtedly
required that the mid-feather should run horizontally instead
of vertically; but the object of this was that the pulp should
bo received and delivered by the beater-roll along its entire
length, viz.: across the entire width of the tub, and this is
accomplished in the same way in both devices. In both
engines the beater-roll revolves toward the top of the dam or
back-fall, and a similar acceleration of speed is obtained. How

HOYT v. HORNE.
Opinion of the Court.

the pulp shall cir6ulate at the other end of the tub is -amatter
of small consequence so long as it shall circulate in vertical
planes at the point where it comes in contact with the roll.
An additional function.is claimed for the Horne device in
the fact that the pulp, falling as it descends the d~m from a
vertical to a horizontal plane in a kind of torsional current,
is more thoroughly mixed than in the 'Hc~yt device, where the
pulp continuies-to flow in parallel lines from the time it is
delivered by .the beater-roll to the. time it is received by it
again. This may be true, and defendant's engine may be in
this particular an improvement upon the other; but he has
none the less succeeded in appropriating all that was of value
in the Hoyt device, viz.: the beater-roll at the end of the tub,
extending across its entire width, and the circulation of the
pulp in vertical planes at the only point where such circulation is of value. The substitution of a vertical for a horizontal mid-feather at the inoperative end of the tub is merely
the use of an old and well known mechanical equivalent,
and obviously intended to evade the wording of the claims
of the Hoyt patent. Winans v. _Denmeal, 15 How. 330.
Indeed, the ingenuity displayed in this evasion is only equalled
by the ingenuity with which it is concealed in the specification of the defendant's patent,. and the function of a
more thorough mixture of the pulp put forward as the salient
feature of the invention. The actual intent to .evade is the
more manifest from the fact that Horne, under a contract
with the plaintiff, made seventeen machines according to the
plaintiff's patent, but owing to some disagreement as to the
quality of the work done by him, the contract was terminated,
and Home began the production of his own engines, and subsequently took out a patent for his invention.
We are, therefore, of opinion that defendant's machine is
an infringement, of the first claim of the plaintiff's patent.
Whether it be an infringement of the second claim admits of
more doubt, since that contemplates a horizontal partition
dividing the body of the vat into an upper and lower section or
passage. 'We do not, however, find it necessary to pass upon
this question.

