INTERSTATE COM: COIM ISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD.

263

Syllabus.

to impose a duty of -seventy-five cents a ton on the weight 'of
iron ore is expressed in clear and unambiguous language.
American N1_et and Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468,
474.
The evidence put in on the part of the defendant, and
objected to by the plaintiff, that the iron ores of the United
States which resemble, and were like, and had the same characteristics as; the imported iron ores in question, were deal"
in in the United States without, an allowance for moisture, was
justified by the evidence which 'had been put in on the part of
the plaintiff; and the explanation made by the court, as before
set forth, that the testimony was received as bearing directly
upon the weight and credibility of the testimony on the part of
•the plaintiff, was sound. The evidence, too, was proper under
the claim of custom set up by the plaintiff.
We gee no ground for a reversal of the judgment, and it is

Afflned.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BALTI-

MORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Wo. 889.: Argued March 17, 18, 1892. "Decided May 16,1892.

The issue by a railway company engaged in interstate commerce of a
" party-rate ticket" for the transportation of ten or more persons from
a place situated in one Stftte or Territory to a place situated in another
State or Territory, at a rate less than that charged to-a single individual,
for a like transportation on the same trip, does not thereby make "an
unjust and unreasonable charge" against such individual within the
meaning of § 1 of the act of February 4, 1887; to regulate commerce, 24:
Stat. 379, c. 104; nor make an "unjust discrimination" against him
within the meaning of § 2 of that act; nor give "an undue or unreason1
able preference or advantage ' to the purchasers of the party-rate ticket
within the meaning of § 3.
Section 22 of that act, as amended by the act of Iarch 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855,
862, c. 382, § 9, provides that discriminations in favor of certain nersons

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
therein named shall not be deemed unjust, but it does not forbid discriminations in favor of others under conditions and circumstances so
substantially alike as to justify the same treatment.
So far as Congress, in the act to regulate commerce, adopted the language
of the English Traffic Act, it is to be presumed that it had in mind the
construction given by the English courts to the adopted language, and
-intended to.incorporate it into the Statute.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

This proceeding was originally instituted by the filing of a
petition before the Interstate Commerce Commission by the
Pittsburg, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company against
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to compel the
latter to withdraw from its lines of road, upon which business
competitive with that of the petitioner was transacted, the so-

called "party-rates," and to decline to give such rates in future
upon such lines of road; also for an order requiring said company to discontinue the practice of selling excursion tickets at
less than the regular rate, -unless such rates were posted in its
offices as required by law. Thepetition set forth that the two
roads were competitors from Pittsburg westward; that the
Baltimore and'Ohio road had in operation upon its competing
lines of road so-called "party-rates," whereby "parties of ten
or more persons travelling together on one ticket will be.transported over said lines of road between stations located thereon,
at two cents per mile per capita, which is less than the rate
for a single person; said rate for a single person being about
three cents per mile."
There was another charge that the defendant was in the
habit of selling excursion tickets without posting its rates for
the same in its offices; but this charge was subsequently
abandoned.
The answer of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
admitted that it had at one time in effect the so-called" partyrates," but prior to the filing of the complaint had withdrawn
said rates, not that it believed that they were illegal, but
because it was claimed by other companies that said rates
were put into effect in violation of an agreement between
companies belonging to a certain association of which defend-

INTERSTATE C0M. COMMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD.

265

Statement of the Case.

ant was a member. It further averred that said rates were in
no way a violation of the act to regulate commerce, and were
an accommodation to the public, necessary to the business of
theatrical and other amusement companies, and that when
the legality of such rates was properly raised for decision, it
was prepared to defend the legality of the same. The answer
further denied the right of the complainant to institute the
proceeding, and prayed that the complaint might be dismissed.
The cause was heard before the Commission, which found
"that so-called party-rate tickets, sold at reduced rates, and
entitling a number of persons to travel together on a single
ticket or otherwise, are not commutation tickets within the
meaning of section 22 of the act to regulate commerce, and
that when the rates at which such tickets for parties are sold
are lower for each member of the party than rates contemporaneously charged for the transportation of single passengers
between the same points, they constitute unjust discrimination, and are therefore illegal." It was ordered and adjudged
"that the defendant, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, do forthwith wholly and immediately cease and desist
from charging rates for the transportation over its lines of a
number of persons travelling together in one party, which are
less for each person than rates contemporaneously charged by
said defendant under schedules lawfully in effect for the transportation of single passengers between the same points."
The defendant r6ad having refused to obey this mandate,
the Commission, on May 1, 1890, pursuant to section 16 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, filed this bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio for a.
writ of injunction to restrain- the defendant from continuing
in its violation of the order of the Commission. The bill set
up the proceedings which had theretofore been taken before
the Commission, and set forth as its gravamen that the defendant had wholly disregarded and set at naught the authority
and order of the Commission in that regard, and had wilfully
and knowingly disobeyed said order, and had not ceased and
desisted from allowing party-rates as it had been ordered to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.-

do; and had upon divers occasions since the service of said
order charged rates for the transportation over its lines of a
number of persons travelling together in one party which were
less for each person than rates contemporaneously charged
under schedules lawfully in effect between the same points for
the transportation of persons, citing a number of instances of
such disobedience.
The answer admitted the proceedings set forth in the bill,
but denied that it had been made to appear to therCommission
that defendant had violated the provisions of the act to regulate commerce, or that the Commission had duly and legally
determined the matters and things in controversy and at issue
between the parties; and averred that several of the coficlusions of fact stated in the report of the Commission were not
true, or justified by the evidence produced at the hearing; and
that the conclusions of law contained in the report, and the
interpretation therein given to the act, were'not correct. It
admitted that it had not wholly ceased charging rates for
-transportation over its lines for a number of passengers travelling together in one party upon one ticket, which are less for
each person than rates contemporaneously charged by it for
the transportation of single passengers between tht same
points, and admitted a violation of the order of the Commission.
The seventh and eighth paragraphs of the answer are the
material ones, and are here given in full:
"1. That for many years prior to the passage of the said
'Act to Regulate Commerce,' all the railroad carriers in. the
-United States had habitually made a rate of charge for passengers making frequent trips, trips for long distances, and
trips in parties of ten or more, lower than the regular single
fare charged between the same points, and such lower rates
were universally made at the date of the passage of said act.'
To carry .on this universal practice many forms of tickets were
employed to enable different classes of passengers to enjoy
these lower rates, and so stimulate travel. To meet the needs
of the commercial traveller the thousand-mile ticket was used;
to meet the needs of the suburban resident or frequent traveller,

INTERSTATE COA. COMIMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD. 267
Statement of the Case.

several forms of tickets were used, e.g. monthly or quarterly
tickets, goodjfor any number of trips within the specified time,
and ten, twenty-five or fifty-trip tickets, good for the specified
number of trips by one person, or for one trip by the specified
number of persons; to accommodate parties of ten or more, a
single ticket, one way or round trip, for the whole party, was
made up by the agent on a skeleton form furnished for the purpose; to accommodate excursionists travelling in numbers-too
large to use a single ticket, special individual tickets were issued
to each person. Tickets good for a specified number of trips
were issued also between cities where travel was frequent. In
short, it was an established -principle of the business that whenevertbe amount of travel more than made up to the carrier for
reduction of the charge per capita, then such reduction was
reasonable aria'just in the interests both of the carrier and of
the public. Long experience has proved the soundness of the
principle. Under its application grew up the business of commercial travellers, the enormous suburban business, the constant tra:vel between large cities, and the excursion business.
Under its application has grown up also the business of travelling companies or parties, which has reached an aggregate of
many hundreds- of thousands of dollars, and which depends
for its existence upon a continuance of the transportation rates
under which it has grown up.
"8. That since the passage of the said 'act to regulate
commerce,' this respondent has continued as theretofore the
.practice above stated, of making a lower charge on passenger
travel, in consideration of the amount and frequency of the
travel, arid with that purpose and to accommodate the various
classes of passeligers, it has continued in use all the forms of
ticket described in the ;next preceding section. That the
charge fixed by it for the transportation of parties of ten or'
more, on a single ticket, bas been two cents per mile per
capita-, which is the same rate charged on thousand-mile tickets,
and is a higher rate than it charges on long-distance passenger travel, and excursion travel, and higher than its general
rate for suburban travel on time or. other suburban' tickets.
That the said charge for -the transporktion of parties on a

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

single ticket is just and reasonable, affording a fair compensa,
tion to the carrier, and for the best interests both of the carrier
and of the public, because any higher rate would destroy the
business. That the business reasons, circumstances and conditions which induced this respondent to make such lower charge
for the transportation of parties as aforesaid, and that make it
the interest of this respondenf as a carrier to make such lower
charge, are precisely the same reasons, circumstances and conditions that induce it and make it its interest to fix a lower
charge for the transportation of passengers buying mileage
tickets, time or trip tickets, and oxcursionists. That while so- called partk-rate tickets are used principally by travelling
amusement companies, because no other form of ticket meets
the requirement of such companiies, yet this respondent has
avoided confining such tickets to any class of business, by
offering them on the same terms to the public at large. That
this respondent has obviated the danger that such lower charge
for parties might be taken advantage of by speculators or
ticket brokers, by issuing only one ticket for the whole party.
And respondent avers that, as such tickets are now issued by
it'they are not and cannot be used for speculative purposes,
and afford no opportunity for evading the law in the hands of
ticket brokers. This respondent further avers that it may
rightly and legally make a charge per capita for persons travelling on said party-rate tickets, lower than its charge for a
single passenger making one trip between the same points, the
chaiacter, circumstances and conditions of the service being
substantially different, and that the making of such lower
charge per capita to the member of the party makes or gives
no undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to him, and
subjects no person, company, firm, corporation or locality,
or particular description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
The answer further averred the illegality of the order of
the Commission, and averred "that by the true construction
of the act the second section thereof requires the same charge
for transportation service only in cases where the commercial
circumstances and conditions are substantially similar, and the

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD. 269
Statement of the Case.

third section. requires the same charge to be made only when
a difference in charge would work a prejudice or disadvantage
to some one without reason therefor. That the twenty-second
section, so far from making exceptions to an otherwise absolute
rule, was inserted merely as additional precaution to insure
the giving to the second and third sections of the act the construction which Congress intended. That the twenty-second
section is a legislative declaration; that under the provisions
of the second section of the act, circumstances and conditions
of a commercial nature are to be considered, and among such
circumstances and conditions, in the case of passenger traffic,
the amount of service purchased or contracted for, and the
interest of the carrier in stimulating travel are to be considered."
Uponkthe hearing before the Circuit Court upon pleadings
and proofs the bill was dismissed, separate opinions being delivered by Judges Jackson and Sage. 43 Fed. Rep. 37.
From this decree the Interstate Commerce Commission appealed to this court. The provisions of the Interstate Commerce act, so far as -the same are material to this case, are set
forth in the margin.'
1 AN ACT TO REGULATE COMMERCE.

"SEC. 1. That the provisions of this act shall apply to any common carrier or carriers engaged in the tragsportation of passengers or property
wholly by railroad, or partly by railroad and partly by water when both are
used, under a common control, management, or arrangement, for a continuous carriage or shipment from one State or Territory . . . to any
other State or Territory.
"All charges made for any service rendered, or to be rendered in the
transportation of passengers or property as aforesaid, or in connection
therewith, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of such
property, shall be reasonable and just; and every unjust and unreasonable
charge for such service is prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
"SEC. 2. Thqt if any common carrier subject to the provisions of this
act shall, diraly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback orother device, charge., dbmand, collect or receive from any person or persons
a greier or less compensation for any service rendered, or to be rendered,
in the transportation of passengers or property, sxt "Jectto the provisions
of this act, than it charges, demands, collects or receives from any other
person or-persons for doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

A fred G. Sfford (with
i2'1.Samuel Skellabargerand .Mr.
whom were Air. Attorney General and Air. J. At. Wilson on
the brief) for appellant.
Section 2 of the act is one creating a prohibition and rule
of commerce not embraced" in section 1, (prohibiting unreason:
able charges,) and creates an offence that is not embraced in
section 1.
The thing required by section 2 is equality in charges for
like and contemporaneous service in transportation of persons
or property.. By the provisions, therefore, of this section, to
service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially
similar circumstinces and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed
guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited and declared
to be unlawful.
"SEc. 3. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the.
provisions of this act to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or any particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to
subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or
any. particular description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudide or disadvantage in any respect whatsbever."
" SEc. 22 as amended by the act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855, c. 382, § 9,
p. 862. That nothing in this act shall prevent the carriage, storage or
handling of property free or at reduced rates for the United States, State
or municipal governments, or for charitable purposes, or to or from fairs
and expositions for exhibition thereat, or the free carriage of destitute and
homeless persons transp6rted by charitable societies, and the necessary
agents employed in such transportation, or the issuance of mileage, excursion or commutation passenger tickets; nothing in this act shall be
construed to prohibit any common carrier from giving reduced rates to ministers of religion, or to municipal governments for the transportation of
indigent persons, or to inmates of the National Homes or State Homes for
Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, and of Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphan Homes,
including those about to enter and those returning home after discharge,
under arrangements with the boards of managers of said homes; nothing
in this act shall be construed to prevent railroads from giving free carriage
to their own officers and employ~s, or prevent the principal officers of any
railroad company or companies from exchanging passes Or tickets with
other railroad companies for their officers and employ6s; and nothing in
this act contained shall in any way abridge or alter the remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions of this act are in addition to such remedies: Provided,That no pending litigation shall in any way
be affected by this act."

INTERSTATE C0M. COMMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD. 271
Argument for Appellant.

.harge for the same service, contemporaneously rendered, un-qual prices, is rendered unlawful, without regard to its being
violative of the rule of justice and reasonableness of charge
established by section 1.
It is therefore no answer to the proposition that party-rate
tickets are prohibited by section 2, to say, or to show, that
party-rate tickets are no more than just and reasonable and
are merely fairly compensatory considered by themselves.
.Afessenger v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 37 N. J. Law, 531;
Chicago & Alton Railroad v. People, 67 Illinois, 11; Great
l-estern Railway Co. v. Sutton, L. R. -H. L. 226; Parker v.
Great Western Railway Vo., 7 Man. & Grang. 253; Crouch v.
Railway Co., 9 Exch. 556; Piddington v. Southeastern Railway, 5 0. B. (N. S.) 111; Garton v. Bristol & Exeter Railway,
1 Best & Smith, 112; Bramley v. Southeastern Railway, 12
0. B. (N. S.) 63; Baxendale v. Great Western Railway, 14 0. B.

(:s
.) 1.

There cannot be, and there is not, the slightest doubt about
this provision of the statute being one establishing a clear and
peremptory rule of charge -applicable to all common carriers,
and requiring absolute equality of charge in a designated case
or class of cases.
What that case or class of cases is to which this positive
and peremptory rule of all equality is inflexibly applicable,
according to section 2, is also made as plain by the statute as
words can make it. The service" so subjected to this rule of
equality is one which requires to have in it the following elements of sameness or identity. The two services contrasted
must be:
(1) Like service; (2) They must be contemporaneous; (3)
They must be in "a like kind of traffic;" (4) The services
must be rendered "under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions."
If the subject matter of the charge has in it these four elements of sameness, then neither the court below, nor, so far as
we know, anybody else, has ever questioned that the statute
makes the obligation-to make the charge equal, and the violation thereof a crime.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

Now, apply this to the present case. The service rendered
by the carrier on the two classes of tickets- single and partyrate- are identical in the following elements: (1) The service
is "like" in each case so far as it relates to the manner of rendering it, each being rendered by transportation in the same
car; (2) The service is "like" in that it is rendered by, carrying a passenger over the same identical line; (3) The service is
"like" in their being carried in the same direction; (4) The
service is "like" in that it is rendered at the same time; and
(5) The service is "like" in that the subject of transportation
is the same, to wit, a human being, or several such.
Then coming to the question of the identity or similarity of
conditions. The conditions of the service are "similar" in
each and every one of the five particulars just enumerated in
regard to the character of the services; and the conditions are
similar in the following respects: (1) The conditions are "similar" so far as relates to the manner of rendering the seryices,
each being rendered by transportation in the same car; (2) The
conditions are "similar" in that the services are rendered by
carrying a passenger, one or more; (3) The conditions are
"similar" in that the services are rendered. at. the same time;
(4) The conditions are "similar" in that the passengers are
carried in the same direction and over the same line; (5) The
conditions are "similar" in that the subject of transportatio'n
is the same, to wit, a human being.
Thus far on the question of "like" services and the "similarity" of conditions, there is, we apprehend, no differenc6 of
opinion.
The result, therefore, of this analysis is this, that the only
difference between the two services, thus contrasted, is that
the ticket upon which the "'party-rate " passengers are carried
is one covering more than on6 human being, and was purchased by one application or payment, and the persons represented by the ticket are alleged to be required to travel together, as one company; whereas, in the case- of,a single ticket,
it represents but one person. The question is thus reduced to
this: Whether the transportation f two persons on one ticket
differs from the transportation of two persons on two tickets,,

INTERSTATE COM. COMUSS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD.

273

Argument for Appellant.

on the same train? The court below held that it did. In this
we submit that it erred.
How is the service itself, renctered by the carrier, changed
in its intrinsic qualities by the fact that, in one case a ticket
for one is bought, and in the other case a tic--t for more than
one? What is the difference either in the service rendered,
or the -conditions under which it was rendered? There is no
difference.
Another view taken by the court below, which, we submit,
was erroneous, is that this entire statute was intended to add,
as between common carriers and their customers, nothing in
the way of securing justice between the carrier and such customers, and also as between the several customers of the carrier,4that is not secured to them by the common law; -that, in
so far as it defines and fixes rights and obligations as between
the public and the carrier, it is simply declaratory of the common law, and adds no new rights or obligations, and only defines preexisting rights and obligations, and adds facilities for
enforcing them. If by this is meant the common law as declared to be in such cases as Railroad 0o. v. People, 67 Illinois,
11, and iXfessenger v. PennsylvaniaRailroadCo., 36 N. J. Law,
407, we have no controversy on this point. But if it means
the common law as declared in Great Tlestern Railway Co. v.
Sutton, L. R. 4 H. L. 226, which fiolds, that, by such common
law, "like services" under similar conditions must be compensated "reasonably," and no more, but not necessarily
"equally," then we do most confidently submit that such
position is erroneous; and, if enforced, virtually repeals, in all
of its essential provisions, the interstate commerce law.
Reduced to its exact substance, this position of the court is
that neither section 2, nor-any other section establishes any rule
of "equality" of charge, and leaves all, as the court assumes
it was at common law, a subject. matter to be contracted
about; subject to no other limitation than that "unjust discrimination" should not be made. And having thus abolished
sectioi 2, or robbed it of all signification in the way of prohibition of inequality, the court concludes that section 22 is
not "exceptive "1in its nature; but is, as the court says, "inVOL. CXLV-18

"

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

serted merely as an enumeration of a class of persons and
things not within either the letter or spirit of the interstate
commerce act, which it would be lawful to discriminate in
favor of without its being so provided in section 22." This
emasculates the entire act, and renders it utterly insignificant
and worthless, except in so far as it may turn 'out to be- useful
in securing the enforcement of the obligations establis'ned by
the common law.
Neither in .England nor in-the States in this country where
equality clauses are inserted in the statutes, has this position
been adopted. Great Western Railway Co. v. Sutton, ubi
supra; Atihison, Topeka &c. Railroad v. Denver & New
Orleans Railroad,110 U.-S. 667, 684. In the latter case it
was held that these English statutes added new remedies and
rights of action securing equality of charge which did not before exist, according to this English view of what was the
common law..
This court has, in a recent case, repeated what it has in
substance often held b6fore, namely, that after a statute has
received from the courts its final and settled interpretation,
the'construction becomes, in effect for purposes of interpretation, a part of the statute itself as much as if such interpretation were embodied in the words of the act; and if that statute
is adopted' by future legislatures after its meaning is thus
judicially settled by the highest courts of the country, then it
will be assumed and presumed by the courts, in construing.
that new law, that it was the design of the legislature that the
statute should have the same meaning under the re6nactment
that the courts had given to it before the reenactment. German Bank v. Franklin County, 128 U. S. 538; Douglass v.
Pike County, 101 U. S. 677, 686, 687.
Applying that rule to this case, the equality clauses in the
English statute had, when the Interstate Commerce Act was
enacted, received this interpretation: "When it is sought to
show that a charge is extortionate, as being contrary to the
statutable obligation to charge equally, it is immaterial
whether the charge is reasonable or not; it is enough to show
that the company carried for some other person or class of

INTERSTATE COM. COM 4ISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD. 2 T5
Opinion of the, Court.

persons at a lower charge, during the period throughout which
the party complaining was charged more under like circum..
stances. Great Western Railway Co. v. Sutton, ubi supra.
It must therefore be assumed that the equality clause found
in section 2 of this act is a law; that it is a law which means
what~i says, and that it does peremptorily require equality of
charge for substantially "like" service, rendered under substantially "similar" conditions, and that it is a new and additional obligation created by statute.that can never be whistled
down or contracted away as against the public, according to
the discretion of the carrier and the party with whom he
deals. And it being already established that there is no substantial difference in the service rendered on the sale of one
ticket to transport ten persons on a given train, and that rendered on the sale of one ticket to transport one person on the
same train, whichwould entitle the company to make a difference in the rate, that would seem to dispose of this branch
of the case.
.1&. John K. Cowen and Mr. -HughL. Bond, JTr., for appellee.
MR. JUsTicE BRowx delivered the opinion of the court.

Prior to the enactment of -the act of February 4, 1887, to
regulate commerce, commonly known as the Interstate Commerce Act, 21 Stat. 379, c. 104, railway traffic in this country
was regulated by the principles of the common law applicable
to common carriers, which demanded little more than that
they should carry for all persons who applied, in the ord'er in
which the goods were delivered at the particular station, and
that their charges for transportation should be reasonable. It
was even doubted whether they were bound to make the same
charge to all persons for the same service; .?itchburg Railroad
Co. v. Gage, 12 Gray, 393; Baxendale v. Eastern Counties
Railway Co., 4 0. B. (N. S.) 63; Great Western -ailway Co. v.
Sutton, L. R. I HI. L. 226, 237; Ex parte Benson, 18 South
Car. 38; Johnson v. Pensacola Railway Co., 16 Florida, 623;

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

though the weight of authority in this country was in favor
of an equality of charge to all persons for similar services. In
several of the States acts had been passed with the design of
securing the public against unreasonable and unjust discriminations; but the inefficacy of these laws beyond the lines of
the State, the impossibility of securing concerted action between the legislatures toward the regulation of traffic between
the several States, and the evils which grew up under a policy
of unrestricted competition, -suggested the necessity of legislation by Congress under its constitutional power to regulate
commerce among the several States. These evils ordinarily
took the shape of inequality of charges made, or of facilities
furnished, and were usually dictated by or tolerated for the
promotion of the interests of the officers of the corporation or
of the corporation itself, or for the benefit of some favored
persons at the expense of others, or of some particular locality
or community, or of some local trade or commercial connection, or for the destruction or crippling of some rival or hostile line.
The principal objects of the Interstate Commerce Act were
to secure just and reasonable charges for transportation; to
prohibit unjust discriminations in the rendition of like services
under similar circumstances and conditions; to prevent undue
or unreasonable preferences to persons, corporations or localities; to inhibit greater compensation for a shorter than for a
longer distance over the same line; and to abolish combinations for the pooling of freights. It was not designed, however, to prevent competition between different roads, or to
interfere with the customary arrangements made by railway
companies for reduced fares in consideration'df increased mileage, where such reduction did not operate as an unjust discrimination against other persons travelling over the road. In
other words, it was not intended to ignore the principle that
one can sell at wholesale cheaper than at retail. It is not all
discriminations or preferences that fall within the inhibition
of the statute; only such as are unjust or unreasonable. - For
instance, it would be obviously unjust to charge A a greater
sum than B for a single trip from Washington to Pittsburg;

IINTERSTATE COM. COMMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD.

277

Opinion of the Court.

but if A agrees not only to go but to return by the same
route, it is no injustice to B to permit him to do so for a
reduced fare, since the services are not alike, nor the circumstances and conditions substantially similar, as required by
section 2 to make an unjust discrimination. Indeed, the possibility of just discriminations and reasonable preferences is
recognized by these sections, in declaring what shall be deemed
unjust. We agree, however, with the plaintiff in its contention that a charge may be perfectly reasonable under section
1, and yet may create an unjust discrimination or an unreasonable preference under sections 2 and 3. As was said by Mr.
Justice Blackburn in Great Wfestern Railway Co. v. Sutton,
L. R. 4 H. L. 226, 239: "When it is sought to show that the
charge is extortionate as being contrary to the statutable obligation to charge equally, it is immaterial whether the charge
is reasonable or not; it is enough to show that the company
carried for some other person or class of persons at a l(wer
charge during the period throughout which the party complaining was charged more under the like circumstances."
The question involved in this case is, whether the principle
above stated as applicable to two individuals applies to the
purchase of a single ticket covering the transportation of ten
or more persons from one place to another. These are technically known as party-rate tickets, and are issued principally
to theatrical and operatic companies for the transportation of
their troupes. Such ticket is clearly neither a "mileage" nor
an "excursion" ticket within the exception of sebtion 22; and
upon the testimony in this case it may be doubtful whether it
falls within the definition of '' commutation tickets," as those
words are commonly understood among railway officials. The
words "commutation ticket" seem to have no definite meaning. They are defined by Webster (edition of 1891) as "a
ticket, as for transportation, which is the evidence of a contract for service at a reduced rate." If this' definition be
applicable here, then it is clear that it would include a partyrate ticket. In the language of the railway,however, they
are principally, if not wholly, used to designate tickets for
transportation during a limited time between neighboring

OCTOBER TERMW, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

towns or cities and suburban towns. The party-rate ticke
upon the defendant's road is a single ticket issued to a part:
of ten or more, at a fixed rate-of two cents per mile, or a dik
count of one-third from the regular passenger rate. Th
reduction is not made by way of a secret rebate or drawback
but the rates are scheduled, posted and open to the public a
large.
But, assuming the weight of evidence in this case to be tha"
the party-rate ticket is not a "1commutation ticket," as thai
word was commonly understood at the time of the passage o1
the act, but is a distinct class by itself, it does not necessarily
follow thatt such tickets are unlawful. The unlawfulnes,
defined by sections 2 and 3 consists either in an "unjust discrimination" or an "undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage," and the object of section 22 was to settle beyond
all doubt that the discrimination in favor of certain persons
therein named should not be deemed unjust. It does not
follow, however, that there may not be other classes of persons in whose favor a discrimination may be made without
such discrimination being unjust. In other words, this section is rather illustrative than exclusive. Indeed, many, if
not all, the excepted classes named in section 22 are those
which, in the absence of this section, would not necessarily be
held the subjects of an unjust discrimination, if more favorable terms were extended to them than to ordinary passengers.
Such, for instance, are property of the United States, state or
municipal governments; destitute and homeless persons transported free of charge by charitable societies; indigent persons
transported -at the expense of municipal governments; inmates
of soldiers' homes, etc., and ministers of religion, in favor of
whom a reduction of rates had been made for mnny years
before the passage of the act. It may even admit of serious
doubt whether, if the mileage, excursion or commutation tickets
had not been mentioned at all in this section, they would have
fallen within the prohibition of sections 2 and 3. In other
words, whether the allowance of a reduced rate to persons
agrceing To travel one thousand miles, or to go and return by
the ame road, is a "like and contewnporaneous service under

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISS. v. (B. & 0. RAILROAD.

279

Opinion of the Court.

substantially similar conditions and circumstances" as is rendered to a person who travels upon an ordinary single-trip
ticket. If it be so, then, under state laws forbidding unjust
discriminations, every such ticket issued between points within
the same State must be illegal. In view of the fact, fhowever,
that every railway company issues such tickets; that there is
no reported case, state or federal, wherein their. illegality has
been questioned; that there is no such case in England; and
that the practice is universally acquiesced in by the public, it
would seem that the issuing of such tickets should not be held
an unjust discrimination or an unreasonable preference to the
persons travelling upon them.
But whether these party-rate tickets are commutation tickets proper, as known to railway officials or not, they are obviously within the commuting principle. As stated in the
opinion of Judge Sage in the court below: "The difference
between commutation and party-rate tickets is, that commutation tickets are issued to induce people to travel more frequently, and party-rate tickets are issued to induce more
people to travel. There is, however, no difference iaprinciple
between them, the object in both cases being to increase travel
without unjust discrimination, and to secure patronage that
would not otherwise be secured."
The testimony indicates that for many years before the passage of the act it was customary for railroads to issue tickets
at reduced rates to passengers making frequent trips, trips f6rlong distances, and trips in parties of ten or more, lower than
the regular single fare charged between the same points; and
such lower rates were universally made at the date of the passage of the act. As stated in the answer, to meet the needs
of the commercial traveller the thousand-mile ticket was issued;
to meet the needs of the suburban resident or frequent traveller, several forms of tickets were issued. :For example,
monthly or quarterly tickets, good for any number of trips
within the specified time; and ten, twenty-five or fifty-trip
tickets, good for a specified number of trips by one person,, or
for one trip by a specified number of persons; to accommodate
parties of ten or more, a single ticket, one way or round trip,

OCTOBER TER1r, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

for the whole party, was made up by the agent on a skeleton
form furnished for that purpose; to accommodate excursionists travelling in parties too large to use a single ticket, special
individual tickets were issued to each person. Tickets good
for a specified number of trips were also issued between cities
where travel was frequent. In short, it was an established
principle of the business, that whenever the amount of travel
more than made up to the carrier for the reduction of the
charge per capita, then such reduction was reasonable and just
in the interests both of the carrier and of the public. Although
the fact that railroads had long been in the habit of issuing
these tickets would be by no means conclusive evidence that
they were legal, since the main purpose of the act was to put
an end to certain abuses which had crept into the management
of railroads, yet Congress may be presumed to have had those
practices in view, and not to have designed to interfere with
them, except so far as they were unreasonable in themselves
or unjust to others. These tickets then being within the commutation principle of allowing reduced rates in consideration
of increased mileage, the real question is, whether this operates
as an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to this
particular description of traffic, or an unjust discrimination
against others. If, for example, a. railway makes to the public
generally a certain rate of freight, and to a particular individual residing in the same town a reduced rate for the same
class of goods, this may operate as an undue preference, since
it enables the favored party to sell his goods at a lower price
than his competitors, and may even enable him to obtain a
complete monopoly of that business. Even if the same reduced rate be allowed to every one doing the same amount of
business, such discrimination may, if carried too far, operate
unjustly upon the smaller dealers engaged in the same business, and enable the larger ones to drive them out of the
market.
The same result, however, does not follow from the sale of
a ticket for a number of passengers at a less rate than-for a
single passenger; it does not operate to the'prejudice of the
single passenger, who cannot be said to be injured by the fact

INTERSTATE COX. CONMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD.

281

Opinion of the Court.

that another is able in a particular instance to travel at a less
rate than he. If it operates injuriously toward any one it is.
the rival road, which has not adopted corresponding rates;
but, as before observed, it was not the design-of the act to
stifle competition, nor is there any legal injustice in one person
procuring.a particular service cheaper. than another. If it be
lawful to issue these tickets, then the Pittsburg, Chicago and
St. Louis Railway Company has the same right to issue them
that the defendant has, and may cofnpete with it for the same
traffic; but it is unsound to argue that it is unlawful to issue
them because it has not seen fit to do so. Certainly its construction of the law is not binding upon this court. The evidence shows that the amount of business done by means of
these party-rate tickets is very large; that theatrical and
operatic companies base their calculation of profits to a certain extent upon the reduced rates allowed by railroads; and
that the attendance at conventions, political and religious,
social and scientific, is, in a great measure, determined by the'
ability of the delegates to go and come at a reduced charge.
If these tickets were withdrawn, the defendant road would
lose a large amount of travel, and the single-trip passenger
would gain absolutely nothing. If a case were presented
where a railroad refused an application for a party-rate ticket
upon the ground, that it was not intended for the use of the
general public, but solely for theatrical troupes, there -would
be much greater reason for holding that the latter were
favored with an undue preference or advantage.
In order to constitute an unjust discrimination under section
2, the carrier must charge or receive directly from one person
a greater or less compensation than from another, or must
accomplish the same thing. indirectly by means of a special
rate, rebate or other device; but in either case it must be for
a "like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of
a like kind of traffic, under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions." To bring the present case within the words
of this section, we must assume that the transportation of ten
persons on a single ticket is substantially identical with the
transportation of one, and, in view of the universally accepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

fact that a man may buy, contract, or manufacture on a large
scale cheaper proportionately than upon a small scale, this is
impossible.
In this coniiection we quote with approval from thbe opinion
of Judge Jackson in the court below: "To come within the
inhibition of said sections, the differences must be made under
like conditions; that is, there must be contemporaneous service in the transportation of like kinds of traffic under substantially the same circumstances and conditions. In respect
to passenger traffic, the positions of the respective persons, or
classes, between whom differences in charges are made, must
*be compared with each other, and there must be found to exist
substantial identity of situation and of service, accompanied
by irregularity and partiality resulting in undue advantage to
one, or undue disadvantage to the other, in order to constitute
unjust discrimination."
The English Traffic Act of 1854 contains a clause similar to
section 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act, that "no such company shall make or give any undue or. unreasonable preference
or advantage to or in favor .of any particular person or com•pany, or any particular description of traffic, in any respect
whatsoever, nor shall any such company subject any particular
person or company, or any particular description of traffic, to
any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any
respect whatsoever."
In Hozier v. Caledonian Railway, 17 Sess. Cas. (2d Series)
302, (S. C. 1 Nev. & acn. Railway Cases, 27,) complaint was
made by one who had frequent occasion to travel, that passengers from an intermediate station between Glasgow and Edinburgh were charged much greater rates to-those places than
were charged to other through passengers between these terini; but the Scotch Court of Session held that the petitioner
had not shown-any tiile or interest to maintain the proceeding; his only complaint being that he did not choose that parties travelling from Edinburgh to Glasgow should enjoy the
benefit of a cheaper rate of travel than he himself could enjoy.
"It, provides," said the court, "for giving undue preference to
.parties ari passve in the matter, but you must bring them into

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISS. v. B. & 0. RAILROAD.

283

Opinion of the Court.

competition in order to give them an interest to complain."
This is in substance holding that the allowance of a reduced
through rate worked no injustice to passengers living on the
line of the road, who were obliged to pay at a greater rate.
So, in Jones v. Eastern Counties Railway, 3 C. B. (N'l. S.) 718,
the.court refused an injunction to compel a railway company
to issue season tickets between Colchester and London upon
the same terms as they issued them between Harwich and
London, upon the mere suggestion that the granting the latter,
the distance being considerably greater, at a much lower rate
than the former, was an undue and unreasonable preference
of the inhabitants of Harwich over those of Colchester. Upon
the other hand, in Ransome v. Eastern Counties Railway, 1
0. B. (N. S.) 437, where it was manifest that a railway company charged Ipswich merchants, who sent from thence coal
which had come thither by sea, a higher rate for the carriage
of their coal than they charged Peterboro' merchants, who had
made arrangements with them to carry large quantities over
their lines, and that the sums charged the Peterboro' merchants
were fixed so as to enable them to compete with the Ipswich
merchants, the court granted an injunction, upon the ground
of an undue preference to the Peterboro' merchants, the object
of the discrimination being to benefit the one dealer at the
expense of the other, by depriving the latter of the natural
advantages of his position. In Oxlade v. Northeastern Railway, I U. B. (N. S.) 451, a railway company was held justified
in carrying goods for one person for a less rate than that at
which they carried the same description of goods for another,
if there be circumstances which renderthe cost of carrying the
goods for the former less than the cost of carrying them for
the latter, but that a desire to introduce northern coke into a
certain district was not a legitimate ground for making special
agreements with different merchants for the carriage of coal
and coke at a.rate lower than the ordinary charge, there being
nothing to show that the pecuniary interests of the company
were affected; and that this was an undue preference.
In short, the substance of all these decisions is that railway
companies are only bound to give the same terms to all per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sons alike under the same conditions and circumstances, and
that any fact which produces an inequality of condition and a
change of circumstances justifies an inequality of charge.
These traffic acts do not appear to be as comprehensive as our
own, and may justify contracts which with us would be obnoxious to the long and short haul clause of the act, or would be
open to the charge of unjust discrimination. But so far as relates
to the question of "undue preference," it may be presumed
that Congress, in adopting the language of the English act,
had in mind the constructions given to these words by the
English courts, and intended to incorporate them into the
statute. .McDonaldv. Hovey, 110 U. S. 619.
There is nothing in the objection that party-rate tickets
afford facilities for speculation and that they would be used by
ticket brokers or "scalpers" for the purpose of evading the
law. The party-rate ticket, as it appears in this case, is a
single ticket covering the transportation of ten or more persons, and would be much less available in the hands of a ticket
broker than an ordinary single ticket, since it could only be
disposed of to a person who would be willing to pay two-thirds
of the regular fare for that number of people. It is possible
to conceive that party-rate tickets may, by a reduction of the
number for whom they may be issued, be made the pretext
for evading the law, and for the purpose of cutting rates, but
should such be the case, the courts would have no difficulty in
discovering the purpose for which they were issued, and applying the proper remedy.
Upon the whole, we are of the opinion that party-rate
tickets, as used by the defendant, are not open to the objections found by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and are
not in .violation of the act to regulate commerce, and the
decree of the court below is, therefore,

-Affirmed.

