OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Inland &o. Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551; Kane v.
_qrtliern Central Railway, 128 U. S. 91; Hough v. Railway
Co., 100 U. S. 213; Indianapolis &c. Railroad v. Horst, 93
Judgment affirmed.

U. S. 291:

MEAGHER v. MINNESOTA THRESHER MANUFAC-

TURING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM

COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 1545. Submitted May 2, 1892.-Decided May 16,1892.

A judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Mix-nesota overruling a
demurrer Interposed by one of many defendants, and remanding the case
to the trial court for further proceedings, is not a final judgment which
can be reviewed by this court.
MOnON TO

DISmSS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

. . CusAman X. -Davisand Xr. - ]?rank F.' .A. Cutcheon
foi the motion.
-Mr. Horace G. Stone opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JuSTiE

FuLLER delivered the opinion ofthe court.

One McKusick recovered judgment in the District Court of
Washington County, -Minnesota, against the corporation of
Seymour, Sabin & Co., and in aid of execution brought an
action praying for a sequestration of the stock, property, things
in action and effects of the corporation, and the appointment
of a receiver to take charge thereof and carry on its business
until sale or other disposition. A receiver was accordingly
appointed, qualified and entered upon the administration of the
.omnpany's affairs and effects. An order was entered by the
court requiring the creditors of the corporation to exhibit their
claims in the action, which was. done, among others, by the
Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Company to a very large

MEAGHER v. MINNESOTA THRESHER M'F'G CO. 600
Opinion of the Court.

amount. Subsequently the latter comp~any filed an intervening
petition or complaint in the general winding-up action,, setting
forth the names of some sixty shareholders of the SeymoutSabin corporation, and the amounts of their holdings of stock,
and praying that the court make those named, and all other
persons who might subsequently be found to be shareholders,
parties to the action; require them to answer the petition;
and enforce the liability in respect of stock held by them which
the petition claimed the constitution of the State imposed. It
was also prayed that the court determine the amount of the
assets of the Seymour-Sabin Company available for the satisfaction of the claims of creditors; the amount of its indebtedness; the number of shares of its capital outstanding between
July 5,1881, and May 10, 1881, during which time the indebtedness represented by the claims filed was incurred; the names
of the various holders of stock between those dates; what
shareholders were insolvent; what non-resident; what persons
were entitled to share in the assets and to what extent; and
the amount of any other indebtedness on the part of any of
the defendants to the Seymour-Sabin Company.
The District Court made an order impleading the parties
named as defendants in the action, and requiring them to enter
their appearance and answer within a time limited. Among
the numerous persons thus made defendants, the plaintiffs in
error in this case were included, and they demurred to the
intervening petition or supplemental complaint upon the
ground, among others, that the facts stated were not sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. The petition charged that
defendants were liable upon their stock to the extent of a 'um
equal to the par value thereof for the debts of thfe SeymourSabin corporation under section 3, article 10 of the constitution
of Minnesota, which provided:" "Each stockholder in any corporation (excepting those organized for the purpose of carrying
on any kind of manufacturing or mechanical business) shall be
liable to the amount of stock held or owned by him."
The demurring defendants contended that this was a mere
direction to the legislature of the State to impose such a liability and was not self-executing.
VOL. cxVv-39 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The demurrers of plaintiffs in error and of other defendants
were sent by order of the District Court to a referee to hear
and determine, and niake, report and file such order as. might
be proper. Consent by stipulation was given to the making
and entry of this order, subject to the right, thereby reserved,
"of either party to move, amend, plead over or appeal, as he
or they shall be advised fter notice of the order determining
said issues: Provided, however, that this stipulation shall not
be construed to be or operate as the waiver of any rights of
any party or parties thereto or.of any objection to the jurisdiction of said court which said parity or parties now has or
might now urge;" and this stipulation was signed by the
attorneys for upwards of sixty defendants.
The demurrers were overruled with leave to answer over
within twenty days from the entry of the order, and the present plaintiffs in error took an appeal to the Supreme Court of
Minnesota. That court held that the constitutional provision
was self-executing and created an individual liability on the
part of the stockholder for corporate debts to an amount equal
to the amount of stock held or owned by him, and affirmed
the order of the District Court.- Thereupon the writ of error
from this court was sued out.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota was not a final judgment within section 709 of
the Revised Statutes. It is a judgment affirming with costs an
order which overruled a demurrer. Rule XVIII of the SutMinnesota provides; "Upon the reversal,
preme Court of
affirmance, or modification of any order or judgment of the
District Courts by this court there will be a r'emittiturto the
District C6urt, unless otherwise ordered." 12 Minn. Xr-V;
Manual of Practice, 1872, Rule X -III. The plaintiffs in error
upon the return of the case to the District Court could plead
over, as the order below allowing time for so doing had, before
its -expiration, been superseded by the appeal. Moreover, the
record discloses that in this instance the parties, in view of taking the appeal, expressly stipulated "that after the decision
on said appeal by said Sulireme Court any of said defendants
may answer in the court-below if they see fit to do so, and

