RYAN v. HARD.
Counsel for Appellants.

Fisher,in Yale Lock Co. v. James, 125 U. S. 447, 464, and in
Flower v. Detroit.
In Yale Lock Co. v. Berkshire Bank, a reissue was held invalid, although it was applied for only thirteen days after the
granting of the original, because there was not a clear mistake,,
inadvertently committed, in the wording of the claim; and
the cases of Coon v. Wilson, Ives v. Sargent and Parker &
Clock
7ale Co. were cited and applied.
Whipple Co. v.
In Electric Gas Co. v. Bost6n Electric Co., a reissue was
held invalid because there Was no inadvertence, accident or
mistake, such as would authorize a reissue with new claims,
and the sole object of the reissue was unlawfully to expand
the claims.
We are of opinion that the present reissue is invalid, so far
as the first claim of it is concerned, because it is not for the
same invention as the original patent, and is, therefore, within
the express exception of the statute, (Act of-, July 4, 1836, c.
357, § 13, 5 Stat. 122): There is nothing inconsistent with the
foregoing views, in our decision in Toplif v. T.fol; ante, 156..
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, aind the case reTnanded to that court, with a direction to dismiss the bill,
with costs.

RYAN v. HARD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U=FD* STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 346. Argued April 28,1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

Letters patent No. 241,321, granted May 10, 1881, to Charles H. Dunks and
James B. Ryan, for improvements in swing woven-wire bed-bottoms, are
invalid for want of patentability; all that was done being to suspend a
fabric well known'as a bed-bottom in substantially the same manner thar
other fabrics used for that purpose had been suspended.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
_31r. John,B. Gleason for appellants.
VOL. cxLv-16

OCOTOB R TEIRM, 1891.

242

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. J dmes B. Jenkins for appellees.
Mn.

JUSTICE

BLATCHFoiw delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought April 7, 1887, in the Circuit
Court of the United -States for the Northern District of New
York, by James B. Ryan, Francis A. Hall, William R. Cougle
and Richard W. Elliott, against Chatles H. Hard, John J. Crawford and Henry D. Hard, for an alleged infringement of letters
patent No. 211,321, granted May 10, 1881, to Charles H. Dunks
and James B. Ryan for improvements in swing woven-wire
bed-bottoms. The alleged infringement consisted in the sale
by the defendants of 'woven-wire bed-bottoms, containing the
•patented improvements.- The answer of the defendants set
up, among other things, the want of novelty and of patentability. Issue was joined and proofs were taken, and the Circuit Court, held by Judge Coxe, on August 13, 1888, gave an
opinion in favor of the defendants, (35 Fed. Rep. 831,) in pursuance of which. a decree was entered dismissing the bill.
The specification of .the patent'says:
"C represents a central section of the ordinary woven-wire
fabric in conimon use in bed-bottoms. This fabric is attached,
at either or both elads, to a swinging cross-bar, which, in turn,
is suspended from one of the end rails of the bedstead. By
preference we construct the. swinging bar in two parts - a
lower portio,.D, formed of wood, to which one end of the
woven fabric is secured -by means of suitable pins, or otherwise, and an upper portion, D', provided upon its outer edge
with a series of holes, d, the upper and lower portiofis being
secured to each- other .by rivets, bolts or other analogous de.
vices. -Thus the upper part may be made to assist in securing
the end of the woven fabric, to cover the end of the fabric,
and thus protect the mattress from undue wear, and also as a
Tneans by which to attach the springs E, linlks or other devices
employed to connect said swinging bar with the endrail of the'

1hedstead.
"E E iepresent a series of spiral springs, each connected.at
one end to the swinging bar, and at the other end to the end

RYAN v. HARD.
Opinion of the Court.

rail of the. bedstead, preferably by means of. an interposed
supplemental bar or rail, F, which, in this instance, we have
represented as being a metal- bar provided with holes upon one
edge for the attachment of the springs, and provided, also,
upon the other edge with holes( f, adapted to receive pins, by
iheaus of which said bar F can be attached, either to the end
rail of the bedstead or to a separate rail, G, which, in turn, is
secured to the end rail of the bedstead.
"In Fig. 1 we have shown both nethods of attaching the
bar F to the bedstead, it being attached to the foot-rail B' by
means of a series of bolts, hooks or pins, b; and in case pins
are inserted in the rail B' for this purpose, we prefer to incline
them backward, in order to prevent thebar F from being accidentally detached when in use; or the pins may be provided
with heads, the holes in the end rail of the bedstead being
inclined inwardly at their lower ends, whei the tension of the
springs E will keep the form in position.
"When the bar G is employed its ends m.ay benotched to
engage with the vertical p6sts of,]the bedstead, or With cleats
or ribs secured to the inner faces of the posts or of the side
rails, as the construction of the bedstead shall indicate as being
most convenient; or the end rail of the bedstead may be provided with an inwardly projecting rib having pins or hooks
corresponding to those marked b; or hooks may be attached
to and project from the inner face of the rail in proper position
to receive the bar F.
"Referring to Fig. 4, H B are the side rails, and I I' the
end rails, of a bed-bottom adapted to be applied to a bedstead
of any ordinary or approved construction, and vest upon the
cleats with which such bedsteads are usually provided for the
purpose of supporting a detachable bed-bottom.
"In this construction we pr~fer to dispense with the supplemental rail G and attach the bars F directly to the end rails,,
I I in such manner as to be readily detached therefrom,, in
order to facilitate the rolling up of the spring portions for
transportation.
"By an examination of the drawings it will be seen that the
,cut ends of the woven-wire fabric enter and are secured within

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

a throat formed between the upper and lower faces of the
swinging bar D D', and that the springs or links which connect said bar to the end rail are attached to the bar at the edge
opposite to that at which the woven wire enters the throat,
and in about the same horizontal plane, so that the tension of
the parts tends to maintain the bar in a substantially horizontal plane, thus presenting a suitable surface adapted to support
the mattress without undue wear upon any portion of its lower
surface. So, also, constructing the bar in such manner that it
is adapted to receive a hook formed of one of the convolutions
of the springs E facilitates the employment of such springs as
they are usually found in the market, this result being best
obtained by the employment of a strip of metal for one part
of the bar D D'; but we do not wish to be limited to the use
of metal for that purpose. One advantage which is due to the
use of wood for this bar is the fact that its yielding and elastic
nature permits attachment of the spring-wire of which the
fabric 0 is formed, and the vibrations of the bar, when in use,
without breaking their attached ends.
"By the use of the springs and swinging bars the great strain
upon the woven fabric which is required in beds of other construction may be dispensed with, because the springs may be
made of such strength as will permit the fabric to be supported
with comparatively little tension upon it when the bed is not
sustaining any weight except that of the bedding, the springs
preventing undue sagging of the fabric when the weight of a
person is thrown upon it.
"We do not wish to be limited to any particular description
of springs for connecting the swinging bar or bars with the
bedstead, or with, the supporting frame shown in Fig. 2, as
many other forms of springs might be employed without
departing from the spirit of our invention.
"Whenever in this patent we use the word ' bed-bottom' or
'bed' we wish to be understood as meaning either a removable
construction, like that shown in Fig. 4, which is adapted to be
made and sold as an article of manufacture, separate and apart
from the bedstead with which it is to be used, or a construction adapted to be attached directly to the end rails of an

RYAN v. HARD.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinary bedstead, our invention being equally adapted for use
upon either of such constructions."
The claims are three in number, as follows:
"1. In a bed-bottom, the combination, with an end rail, of
the links or springs, the section of woven-wire fabric, and an
intermediate connecting transverse bar, provided upon one
edge with a throat adapted to receive the ends of a wire, and
upon the opposite side with means for attaching the links or
springs, substantially as described.
".
In a bed-bottom, the combination, with the end rail, of
the links or springs, the section of woven-wire fabric, and an
intermediate connecting bar consisting of a part to which the
fabric is attached, and a part adapted to protect the mattress
from contact with the ends of the wire, substantially as set
forth.
"3. In a bed-bottom, the connecting rail consisting of the
part D, of wood, to which the fabric is attached, and the partD ,of metal, adapted to have the end of the springs E attached
thereto, substantially as set forth."
The opinion of the Circuit Court says: "The essential feature of the invention consists in attaching the woven-wire
fabric to a swinging cross-bar, which in turn is suspended by
helical springs from the end rails of the bedstead. The patentees assert that by this arrangement are secured all the advantages of a swinging bed - elasticity, durability, and resiliency
while sagging in the centre and the sudden jerky motion
common in some bed-bottoms are avoided." It then recites
the first two claims, and proceeds: "Every element of the
combination covered by these claims was concededly old and
well known at the date of the patent. Woven wire had been
used for more than twenty-five years as a fabric for bedbottoms. It had been stretched from end rail to end rail and
fastened by means very similar, to that described in the patent. 'Bed-bottoms made of canvas, cord, sacking, and jointed
links attached to 'swing-bars' had been suspended by helical
springs in analogous combinations. If, for instance, a fabric
of ioven wire were substituted for the canvas of the Loomis
structure, it would probably be an exact anticipation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

complainant's combination." The "Loomis structure" thusreferred to is 'the structure described in letters patent No.
101,029, granted March 22, 1870, to George W. Loomis, for
an improved spring bed-bottom. The specification anid drawings of the Loomis patent show 'a bed-bottom which has an
intervening, vibrating, connecting swing-bar, the office of
which is the same as in the plaintiff's patent, namely, to connect the web with the helical springs. The bed-bottom has a
web of canvas,, an interefing connecting bar, and helical
springs. The web of canvas is fastened at both ends to the
wooden swing cross-bars, which are attached to helical springs
on the opposite sides.
The opinion of the, Circuit Court then. proceeds: "Is there
patentable novelty in this change? It is thought not. If the
patentees had been the first to introduce woven wire into the

art, there would be more difficulty in reaching this conclusion,
but they were not. All that they did was to suspend a fabric
well known as a bed-bottom in substantially the same manner
that other fabrics used for that purpose had been suspended.
If the patentees, instead ot-using woven wire had used some
other woven fabric -woven twine or tape, for example -if
their claims had included carpet or rubber' cloth instead of
woven wire, it will hardly be contended that they would be
entitled to take rank as inventors. Why, then, should the
use of woven wire give them this distinction? Its peculiar
advantages above'referred to as a material for -beds were not
discovered by them. -The idea of swinging a bed-bottom 'was
not theirs. They have substituted one well-kilown material
'for another and nothing more."
The court also said that the same Material had been fastened
to the rigid end rails by similar devices, and that the changes
made by the patentees were only those which would occur to
*a mechanic who had skill enough to adapt the heavy and cumbersome joint to the new circumstances.
We concur with the Circuit Court, and its decree is
Afflrmed.

