OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

FREEMAN v. ASMUS.
APPEjL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 323.

Argued April 20, 21,1892.-Decided May 16, 1892.

The first claim of reissued letters patent No. 3201, granted to George Asmus, November 24, 1868, for an improvement in blast furnaces, on the
surrender of original letters patent No. 70,447, granted to F. W. Liirmann, of Osnabruck, in Prussia, November 5, 1867, namely, "1A blast
furnace with a closed breast, where the slag is discharged through an
opening or openings cooled by water, substantially as set forth," is invalid, because there was nothing in the original specification indicating
that any such claim was intended to be made in the original patent, although the application for the reissue was niade less than a year after
the original patent was granted; and because, as respected that claim,
the reissue was not for the same invention as the original patent, and
was, therefore, within the express exception of the statute (Act of July
4, 1836, c. 357, ยง 13, 5 Stat. 122).
The cases in this court on the subject of reissues, reviewed.
The fact commented on, that the application for the reissue was not signed
or sworn to by the inventor, but only by the assignee of the patent.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by
George Asmus against Margaret C. Freeman, founded on
the alleged infringement of reissued letters patent No. 3204,
granted to said Asmus, November 24, 1868, on the surrender
of original letters patent N6. 10,411, granted to F. W. Liirmann, of Osnabruck, in Prussia, November 5, 1861, for an
improvement in blast furnaces.
On the 12th of July, 1861, Liirmann assigned to Asmus all
the right, title and interest in and to the improvement for
which Lirmann was about to apply for a patent, and the specification for which was signed by him on that day. The patent
was granted to Lfirmann, although the assignment was recorded
in the Patent Office some time before the granting of the
patent.

FREEMAN v. A!I MUS.
Statement of the Case.

On the 3d of November, 1868, Asmus filed in the Patent
Office a petition signed by .himself, but not signed by lDirmann, praying for the reissue of the patent. In that petition,
Asmus stated that he believed that the original patent was
inoperative and invalid by reason of a defective specification,
which defect had arisen from inadvertence and mistake; and
he asked that a new patent might issue -to him for the same
invention, for the residue of the period of the original patent,
under the amended specification therewith presented. The
-path annexed thereto, made by Asmus was sworn to October
24, 1868, and stated that Asmus verily believed that by reason
of an insufficient or defective specification, the original patent
was not "fully valid'and available to him," and that the err'or
had arisen fromt inadvertence, accident or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive intention. Accompanying
the petition and oath was a statement signed by the attorneys
for Asmus, which said: "The errors and defects occurring in
the original specification by-'inadvertence and mistake and
sought to be corrected by this application for a reissue are as
follows: The invention, as described in the original specification and represented in the drawings, clearly comprises a blast
furnace with a closed breast, where the slag is discharged
through an opening or openings cooled with water, but the
claim in the original specification is confined to a slag-discharge
piece or cinder block constructed and attached in a certain specific manner. It is obvious that the cinder block D can be connected to or cast s6lid with the plate ,, without changing the
nature of the invention, and in the new specification this defect
has been corrected and a clause has been added to the claim
with the view to cover the whole ground of the invention."
The answer of the defendant denies the novelty of - the
invention, the alleged infringement, and the validity of the
reissue, and assigns as grounds of such invalidity that the application for the reissue was not assented to, signed or
sworn to by Lirmann; that the reissue was for an invention
different from that claimed in the original patent; and that
the reissue contains much new matter interpolated by Asmus.
Several other defences were also set up.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

With a view to a comparison of the specification of the
original with that of the reissue, the following paper contains"both of the specifications, the parts in italics not being found
in the original, and the parts in brackets not being found in
the reissue:
"Be it -known that [I] F. W. Diirmann, of Osnabruck, in
the Kingdom of Prussia [have] invented a new and useful
improvement in blast furnaces, and I, George -nsmus,
of the
city, county,' and &ate of _Yew York assignee of the said -F.
I. Lurmann, do hereby declare [that] the following [is] to be
a full, clear, and exact description thereof, which will enable
those skilled in the art to make and use the same, reference
being had to the accompanying drawing, forming part of this
specification, in which drawing Figure 1 is a vertical central
section of a furnace [to which my improvement is applied]
built according to this invention. Fig. 2 is a horizontal section through the tuyeres. Fig. 3 isa front elevation of the
slag-discharge piece or cinder block detached. Fig. 4 is a vertical section thereof [of the latter, also detached]. Similar
letters indicate correTondingparts.
"This invention relates to [furnaces for smelting iron ore,
and has for its object to dispense with the 'tymp' or fore
hearth and -the ' wall stone' now in common use in iron blast
furnaces, and to replace the tymp arrangement by such a construction as allows the slag to] certain improvements ii blast
furnaces with a closed breast; and it consists, principally,in
a blastfurnacewith a closed breast,where-the slag is discharged
through an opening cooled with water in such a manner that
the tymp or fore hearth and the wall stone can be dispensed
with, and that the slag can be tapped directly from the hearth.
It consists,further, in a slag-dischargepiece or ' cinder block'
of peculiar construction, as will be hereinafter more fully explained,whereby the building of a furnace according to this
invention and its correct operation are misteriallyfacilitated.
In order to enable those skilled in the art to fully understand
the object of this invention, ITwill firstpoint out the disadvantages of blast furnaces with a fore hearth, such as are now in
common use for melting iron ore. In such [the tymp arrange-

FREEMAN v. ASMUS.
Statement of the Case.

ment]furnaees the slag is driven out [of the furnace] by,frse
being [being first] forced below the tymp stone, which projects
below the level of the tuyeres and intercepts the currents of
air and prevents their escape with the slag which stands in
the [tymp] fore hearth at the same level ag on the hearth, the
slag being discharged only when it rises in the [tymp]fore
hearth high enough to overflow the top of the wall stone that
forms the bottom of the discharging orifice. By this arrangement the tymp stone constitutes a trap which intercepts the
currents of air and causes their pressure to be exerted directly
on the surface of the slag on the hearth. This method of construction has several disadvantages, one of which is the difficulty of keeping the tymp stone and the surrounding parts in
repair; another is, that the pressure of the currents of air or
wind is limited [and counteracted] by the counter-pressure of
the column of slag in the [tymp] fore hearth; and another is
that, one side of the furnace being occupied by the [tymp,]
fore hearth, no tuyere can *be applied on that side, and consequently the supply of wind is irregularly distributed. By the
irnprovenient 'which constitutes the subject-matter of this present invention these disadvantages are overcome [Mly invention
avoids or overcomes these disadvantages] in a simple and
effective manner.
"In [this example of my invention] the drawings the letter
A designates the furnace, and B several tuyeres, which are
arranged therein at a proper height. The furnace is const8'ucted 'with a closed breast, [My furnace has no tymp] and
the sides of the hearth, whether round or square, extend clear
down to the bottom stone, the usual opening, -(not shown in
the drawing,) being made in the lower part of the hearth for
the discharge of the iron. The openings for the tuyeres B
are distributed at equal distances apart in the sides of the
hearth. At a suitable height from the bottom stone [I leave]
an opening is left in the hearth, in which [I place] is placed
a cast-iron or brass slag-discharge piece or cinder block, D,
which is cast or made with numerous channels or pipes running up and down or in other directions through it, as shown
in Figs. 3 and 4. The cinder block [piece] D [is] .may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

formed With a dovetail on its upper end, which is fitted into
the bottom of a stationary metallic plate, C; connected with
the furnace, or it may be attached to said plate in any other
desirable manner, or cast solid with the same, if desired.
[The] This plate [C] is also cast or made with channels or
pipes running through it, and the channels or pipes of said
plate and of the cinder block [piece] D' may be so arranged as
to connect t communicate with each other when the plate>J
and cinder block [piece] D are in their proper poition, [positions] or they may be independent of each other. In the
drawing the plate C is shown above the cinder block, but it
may also be placed beloio or in any other desirable position in
relation to the same. The object of the [saidj channels or
pipes is to permit the plate 0 and cinder block [piece] D to be
cooled by forcing water through them while the furnace is
in operation, proper connections being made for that purpose
with a reservoir of cold water or with a force-pump. One or
more holes are made in the [said piece] cinder block D, through
which the slag is discharged, the shape of said holes being
shown in Figs. 3 and 4, the middle portion being cylindrical,
but each end being conical or flaring. The dimensions of the
[slag-discharge piece] cinder block are a little less than the
opening in which it is placed and the space left around it is
filled with sand, which can be readily removed in case it is
desired to remove the block D to repair it or if it is desired to
have an opening in the hearth to work through, as when any.
irregularity in the smelting process has taken place. The
flow of the cooling water through the [slag-discharge piece]
cinder block D is regulated for the purpose of controlling the
discharge of the slag through it. By allowing much cooling
water to circulate through its water channels or pipes, the
temperature of the block [piece] D is lowered sufficiently to
allow a coating of slag to adhere and choke its "dischaigeopenings, which are of less diameter in the middle than at their
ends. By reducing the flow of cooling water the cinder block
[piece] is allowed to retain a higher temperature, and in consequence the slag is melted out of the discharge openings
and they become clear and open and permit the slag to flow

FREEMAN v. ASMUS.
Statement of the Case.

without interruption. When the slag in the hearth is [lower
than] below the level of the discharge openings the latter are
simply closed by an iron plug [rod]. [My] This invention
can be easily applied by those skilled in the art to which it
belongs, to blast furnaces of the common construction, by
removing the fore hearth and closing the aperture left in the
breast of the furnace under the tymp stone by inserting the
plate C with the cinder block D. [This invention is attended
with several advantages over the common method of *constructing or arranging furnaces, among which I mention the
following:] The principal,advantages derived from this invention are asfollows: First, it permits a higher pressure of
wind. Second, the hearth. is preserved in better condition
than where the common mode of construction is retained.
Third, the labor of the operation of smelting is lessened.
Fourth,, it allokvs one more side of the hearth for a tuyere.
Fifth, it avoids the stoppages of the wind supply now necessary as often as the iron is discharged. Sixth, a considerable
increase is gained in the product of the furnace, while at the
same time the cost of labor and repairs is lessened.
"1Havingthus described this invention, [What] what I claim
as new, and desire to secure by letters patent, is " 1. A blastfurnace with a closed breast, where the slag is
discharged through an opening or openings cooled by water,
substantially as set forth.
1[1.] 2. The slag-discharge piece or cinder block D, constructed and arranged substantially* as described.
"[2.] 3. The [slag-discharge piece] cinder block D, in combination with the plate 0, to which it is ftted [attached,]
substantih11y as described.
1"[3.] 4. The shape of the discharge opening or openings
of the cinder block [piece] D, being made flaring at its ends,
.and of diminished diameter in the middle or central part, substantially as described.
"[4.] 5. The combining [Combihing with] of the slag-discharge piece or cinder block with a series of water channels
or pipes, substantially as and for the purpose above set forth.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

"[5.] -6. Combining with the metallic plate C a series of
water channels or pipes, substantially as and for the purpose
set forth.
"[6.] 7. The method of controlling the discharge of slag
from blast furnaces by regulating the temperature of the slagdischarge piece or cinder block, substantially as described.
"This specification signed by me this [twelfth day of July,
1867,] 24th day of October, 1868.
"[F. W. L-i~AqN.] George Awnlus."
After a hearing on pleadings and proofsj the court entered a
decree, on the 19th of July, 1886, adjudging that the reissued patent was valid; that the defendant had infringed its
first claim; and that the plaintiff was entitled to recover profits
and damages, and referring it to a master to ascertain the
same. The opinion of the Circuit Court was given Mfay 14,
1886, and is reported in 27 Fed. IRep. 684. On the report of
the master, a final decree was made by the court October 12,
1888, awarding to the plaintiff $1000 damages and the costs of
suit. The defendant has appealed to this court.
.Ar. William .D. Baldwin for appellant.
.MaeFeaghwas with him on the brief.

-Mr.Wayne

.r. Tfilliam Bakewell and -Mr. Thomas B. Kerr for appellee.
The validity of the patent in suit is contested on the grounds
that the original patent was not surrendered for good and lawful cause; that the reissue, as granted, is not for the same invention "which was specified in the said original letters patent," but, on the contrary, was obtained on the application of
an assignee, without the knowledge or consent of the inventor,
for the purpose of expanding or enlarging the claims, so as to
cover another and different invention from that described and
claimed in the original letters patent, and that the reissue was
unlawfully and unwarrantably expanded and enlarged to cover
inventions other and different from and broader than those de-

FREEMAN v. ASMUS.
Argument for Appellee.

scribed and claimed in said original letters patent, and that
said reissued letters patent are therefore void.
In the cases on reissue, especially those decided by this
court, it will be found that it is not the mere fact of reissue, or
of a change in the specification or in the' claims, which is the
cause of the trouble. There is always something else which
renders such changes improper, as, for example, that the patentee has slept on his rights and allowed an undue time to
elapse after the grant of the original patent before applying
for reissue, the reasonable time being usually two years in analogy to the right an inventor has to use his invention publicly
for that length of time before, completing his application; or
that the purpose of the reissue is merely to expand the claims
beyond the scope of the. described invention; or that it was
made in order to claim that for which the applicant was refused
a patent by the patent office, withdrawing the claim in order
to obtain his patent; or to introduce into the specification
some new suggestion of invention and base a claim upon it, or
to claim a patent for that which was not claimed in the original. In these cases reissues are held to be invalid.
None of these adverse circumstances exist in this case. We
start with the following facts: (1) That the specification and
drawings of 'the reissue are substantially the same as the
original patent. This appellant's expert admits: (2) That the
only claim in which a decree is asked in fav6r of the appellee
(the first) is for an invention which is (a) clearly and fully
described in the original specification: (b) distinctly stated in
the original specification to be the invention of the applicant:
(c) manifestly the same which the original patent states to be
the gist of the invention: (3) That the application was made
within one year after the date of the original patent: (4) That
there is no evidence that the invention was used by the public
between the dates of the original and the reissue so that no
adverse rights have accrued.
An objection to the reissue is made in the answer that it
was obtained on an application of an assignee and without the
knowledge or consent of the inventor. A sufficient reply to
this is that the reissue was granted under the act of 1836,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

which does not require the consent or knowledge of the
inventor, and that by the act of March 3, 1871, it is expressly
provided that the requirement that in case of reissue by
assignees the specification shall be sworn to by the inventor,
if living, shall not be construed to apply to patents issued and
assigned, (as was the patent in this suit,) prior to July 8, 1870.
In such a, case the reissue was proper. Walker v. Terre
Haute, 44 Fed. Rep. 70, 73.
Nor may it be amiss to advert to the fact that this reissue
was granted in 1868, under the provisions of the 13th section
of the Patent Act of 1836, which expressly authorized the
amendment of the claims of the original patent as well as of
the description of the invention. Prior to the act of 1870 the
word "specification" always meant the claim as distinguished
from the description, as is clearly pointed out in Robinson on
Patents, Vol. 2, Sec. 655 and note 2, and admirably elucidated
by Mr. Justice Blatchford, in Tilson v. Coon, 18 Blatchford,
532-536. Now, the reissue section of the act of 1836 (ยง 13)
provides that on surrender of a patent the Commissioner shall
"cause a new patent to be issued to the said inventor for the
same invention

.

.

.

in accordance with the patentee's

corrected description and speifiation."
In the case of .Hurlbutv. &chillinger,130 U. S. 456, 468, the
original patent was for concrete pavement laid in sections with
strips of tar paper interposed between the sections. The only
claim was "the arrangement of tar paper, or its equivalent,
between adjoining blocks of concrete, substantially as and for
the purpose described." This patent was dated July 19, 1870.
In May, 1871, a reissue was granted with two 'claims, one like
the claim of the original, except for the substitution of the
words "set forth" in place of the word "described." Another
claim was added as follows: "A concrete pavement laid in
detached blocks or sections substantially in the manner shown.
and described."
In this case as in the patent in suit, the invention covered
by the new claim of the reissue was not specifically claimed in
the original, and the reissue application was made within one
year. A clause had beeninserted in the new specification to

FREEMAIN v. ASAIUS.
Opinion of the Court.

the effect that "the tar paper may be omitted and the blocks
formed without interposing anything between the joints," but
this was stricken out by disclaimer. * The reissue was sustained
by this court, and :Mr. Iustice Blatchford,. speaking for the
court, says: "To limit the patent to the permanent interposition of a material equivalent to tar paper would lilfiit the actual
invention." See also Barmes v. Andrews, 122 U. S. 40.
We submit that these examples of the application by this
court of the doctrines of law relating to reissues fully warrant
the reissue in the present case; for, if anything is clear in the
case at bar, it is that the original specification not only fu y
describes the invention claimed in the first claim of the reissue,
but distinctly states it to be the invention sought to be patented, the whole described construction, as well as the claims
necessarily implying the use of a closed breast to the blast furnace with provision for discharging the slag through an opening cooled by water.
1gLz.

JUSTIcE BLATOFFOED,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
-s we are of opinion that the decree below must be reversed,
because of the invalidity of the reissue, it is unnecessary to
consider any other question.
The only claim of the. reissue which, it is now contended,
was infringed, is the first claim, which reads as follows: "1. A
blast furnace with a closed breast, where the slag is discharged
through an opening or openings cooled by water, substantially
as set forth." Claims 2 to 7, inclusive, of the reissue are substantially in the same language as claims 1 to 6 of the original.
Claim 1 in the reissue is entirely new, and it is not contended
here that -the defendant infringed any of the claims of the
original paient, or any clain of the reissue other than claim 1.
It was held -by the Circuit Court that, while claim I of the
reissue was not embraced in 'the original, the matter claimed
by that claim was so embraced; that the language of the original specification clearly described the closed-breast furnace;
that a furnace built in accordance with the language of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

original would be necessarily closed-breasted; that the other
element of claim 1 of the reissue, "where the slag is discharged
through an opening or openings cooled by water," was no less
clearly described in the original; that the drawings originally
filed showed the same; that claim 1 of the reissue might,
therefore, have been embraced in the patent as first issued, or
introduced into the reissue without changing the specification;
that the change made by the reissue simply expressed the
same thing in different terms; that claim 1 of the reissue was,
therefore, not an enlargement of -the invention; that such
additional claim, omitted through inadvertence, accident or
mistake, might be secured by means of a reissue, if applied for
within a reasonable time; that in this case the application was
made a little after the expiration of one year; and that the
question whether the omission occurred through inadvertence,
accident or mistake, was a question for the Commissioner of
Patents.
But we are of opinion that these views cannot prevail in the
present case. It is apparent, from the description contained in
the specification of the original patent, that LDirmann considered
his invention to consist essentially of a removable slag-discharge
piece, cast with numerous channels or pipes running through
it, formed with a dovetail at its upper end fitted into the
bottom of a stationary metallic plate connected with the furnace, and pr6vided with channels or pipes so that water might
flow through the slag-discharge piece and plate, conjointly or
separately, that they might be cooled while the furnace was
in operation. The slag-discharge piece was made removable,
andprovided with one or more holes, the middle portion of
the holes being cylindrical, but each end being conical or flaring. By regulating the flow of water through the slag-discharge piece, its temperature could be lowered sufficiently to
allow a coating of slag to choke the discharge-opening, which
coating could be melted out by diminishing the flow of water
and thus allowing the temperature to rise. The opening could
be closed by an iron block when necessary.
The fundamental devices claimed by Lirmann as his improvements were (1) the metal plate C, provided with water

FREEMAN v. ASMUS.
Opinion of the Court.

channels; (2) the removable slag-discharge piece provided with
water channels; and (3) the method of regulating the discharge of the slag by raising and lowering the temperature
of the slag-discharge piece.
The first claim of the original patent claimed a slag-discharge piece provided with a water circulation, connected with
a water-cooled plate C, having small hour-glass-shaped discharge openings, and capable of being removed from the
furnace when desired. The slag-discharge piece of the second
claim was of the same character as that described in the first
claim. The third claim was for the shape of the slag-discharge
opening, flaring at its ends, and of diminished diameter in the
middle. The fourth claim was for the combination of such
slag-discharge piece and a series of wdter channels or pipes.
The fifth claim was for the combination of the metallic plate
0, with a series of water channels or pipes. The sixth claim
was for regulating the discharge of tthe slag by varying The
temperature of the water-cooled slag-discharge piece.
Asmus, in his testimony, states that his reason for obtaining
a reissue was to make the meaning of the whole invention as
clear as possible; that the reason why he did not apply sooner
for the reissue was that, in arranging a number of furnaces,
they diffeIed more or less in construction, and he had to adapt
his construction according to the circumstances; that this
made ft necessary to give the construction quite different
shapes, retaining always the main points-,' that experience
caused him, in order to prevent mistakes, to find a formula
which expressed. the spirit of the invention in the clearest
way possible, and which flowed plainly from the technical
d~scription given in the original patent; and that the experience and the reasoning derived from it took up some time.
When asked what kind of mistakes he referred to, he said,
"That difference in shape might be taken for a different thing."
-. This testimony shows that, instead of desiring merely to
.remedy formal defects which appeared on the face of the
papers,. Asmus waited until exp6rience and reasoning had
shown* him the broadest formula in which to express the
claims of his patenp so A to cover all possible modifications

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of tbe Court.

While the petition for the reissue states that Asmus believes
that the original patent "is inoperative and invalid by reason
of a defective specification," he does not make that allegation
in his oath, but states in the latter merely that the patent ".is
not fully valid and available to him;" and in the statement
accompanying the petition and oath, his attorneys say that
the claim in the original specification is confined to a slag:
'discharge piece or cinder block constructed and attached in a
certain, specific manner, and that the new first claim is added
"with. the view to cover the whole ground of the invention."
A comparison of the original*specification with tha:t -of the
reissue show*s thal the only substantial, change made'is to
insert in the latter enlarged definitions and descriptions of the
alleged invention, and the new and enlarged first claimi.
In the assignment of July 12, 1867, from LDirmann to
Asmus, which bears date the same day as the signature ofIirmann to the original specification, the latter says that his
invention "is fully described in, the7 specification pertaining
to said applicatidn, which I have signed -tinder oath." The
inventor did not swear to the specification 'filed for'the reissue;
and, although his oath was not required to it, as the law stood
at the time. the reissue was alplied for yet -the fact remains
that the reissue was who.y the work of the assignee and, not
at all of the inventor; and it by no means followed that the
inventor would ever have asserted that there was any error
in the original specification or claims; arising from inadvertence, accident or mistake.
The new matter inserted in the specificatioh of the reissue,
and h'ereinbefore set forth in italics, in conndction with the
omission from' the reissue 'of the parta in brackets contained in
the original, constitdted a broad definition on which to found
claim 1 of the reissue - a--lcaiin, to "a blast furnace with' a
closed breast, where tht slag is dischdrged through an opening or ppenings cooled bywater, substantially as set forth."
In.addition to the description in the original of the connection
of the slag-discharge piece with-the metallic plate 0, it is also
9tated in the ,reissue that such" slag-discharge piece may be
attached to ths plate 0 "in any other desirable 'manne, 'or

FREEMAN v. ASMUS.
Opinion of the Court.

"ast solid with the same, if desired."

This is new matter, as

is also the addition, in the specification of the reissue, that, in

the drawing, the -plate 0 is shown, above the slag-discharge
piece or cinder block, but that itmay also be placed below, or
in any other desirable position in relation to the same. So,
also, it is added in the specification of the reissue that the
invention'can be applied to blast furnaces of the common construction "by removing the fore hearth and closing the aperture left in the breast of the furnace under the tymp stone by
inserting the plate C with the cinder block DY
But the material point is the extension of the invention
claimed, by the addition of claim 1 of the 'reissue, the words
in which,," substantially as set forth," refer to the new matter
in the reissue, that the slag is discharged "through an opening
cooled with water in such a manner that the tymp, or fore
hearth, and the wall stone can be dispensed with." The intention manifestly was to construe the first claim so as to cover
any kind of blast furnace with a closed breast, having a slagdischarge opening cooled in any manner or to any extent by
water. There is nothing in the original specificatibn which
indicates that any such claim was intended to be made in the
original patent. On the contrary, the whole purport of that
specification shows that it was intended to claim only a slagdischarge piece or cinder block constructed and attached in a
specific manner, as is set forth in the stktement of the attorneys of Asmus, accompanying his application for the reissue.
'This case was decided in the Circuit Court, May. 14 , 1886;
and both before and since that there have been numerous decisions in this court which require that the present reissue .be
held invalid, although it was applied for within less than a
year after the granting of the original patent. Those cases
are ffahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354:; Coon- v. TRIson, 113
U. S. 268; 'es v.'Sargent,.119 U. S. 652; Parker & T-4Ypple
Co. v. Yale Olock Co., 123 U. S. 8?; Matthews v. ronclad .Mfg.
Co., 124: U. S. 347; Hoskin v. Fiker,125 U. S. 217; Flower
v. .Detroit,127 U. S.-563; Yale -Lock Co. v. Berkshire Bank,
135,U. S.342; Electric Gas Co. v. Boston Electric Co., 139
U. S. 481.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
In MIrahn v. Harwood, a reissue was held invalid, where it
was clear that the only object of it was to enlarge the claims
of the original patent. The description was not altered in the
least. The claims in the original were clear and explicit, one
of them being retained substantially in the reissue. Nothing
was altered or changed, except to multiply the claims and
make them greater, and that was done, not for the benefit of
the original patentee, but for that of his assignee.
In Coon v. Wilson, the application for the reissue was made
a little more than three months after the granting of the original patent; but it was said that a clear mistake, inadvertently
committed in the wording of the claim, was necessary, without reference tothe length of time; that there was no mistake
in the wording of the claim of the original; that the description warranted no other claim and did not warrant the claim
of the reissue; that th.e description had to be cbange1 in the
reissue to'wrrant its. new' claim; and that the description in
the reissue was not a more clear and satisfactory statement of
what was described inthe briginal, but was a description of a
different thing, so ingeniously worded as to cover what was
claimed in the reissue.
In Ies v. Sargent, the doctrine of Oon v. Wilson was approved and applied.
-The whole subject was reviewed in Parker & IWtipple Co. v.
Y;ale Clock Co., and the dicta in the case.of Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, were considered; and it was held that
what was suggested or indicated in the original specification
was not to be considered as a part of the original invention
intended to be covered by the original patent, unless it could
be seen, from a comparison of the two patents, that the invention which the original was intended to cover emaraced
t.he things thus suggested or indicated in the original specification, and unless the original specification indicated that those
"tlings were embraced in the invention intended to have been
secured by the original patent. The cases of .JaAn. v. Hawood.and Coon v. Vilson were cited and approved.
The 6ase of Parker& MtiFpple .co. v. Yale Clock Co. is cithd
and. applied in -Matthews v. Ironclad -Yfg. Co., in Hoskin v.

