KISSAM v. ANDERSON.
Statement of the Case.

KISSAM v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 202. Argued March ll,14,1892.-

iecided May 16, 1892.

The 3d National Bank in New York was the, correspondent. of the Albion
Bank, a country bank. W., during part of the time in which the transactions in controversy took place, was cashier, and during the remainder was
presidentoftheAlbionBank. During all the timeW. practically managed
that bank, and his co-directors and other, officers had little or no oversight
of its affairs. He was engaged in stock speculations on his own account
in New York, and drew from time to time for his own purposes in favor
of K. & Co., his brokers, on the bank balance with the 3d National Bank.
K. & Co. from time to time returned to that bank sums to be credited to
the Albion Bank. The latter bank eventually became insolvent, being
ruined by fraudulent operations of W. who disdppeared, and was put in
ihe hands of a receiver, who brought suit against K. & Co. to recover the
sums so paid to them by W. out of the balance to the credit of the bank
with the 3d National. K. & Co. claimed to offset the return payments
made by them to the 3d National; but the trial court ruled that they,
were not entitled to do it, and no question in respect of them was submitted to the jury. Held, that the defendants were entitled to have it
submitted to' the jury whether the other directors and officers of the
Albion Bank might not, in the exercise of reasonable and proper care,
have ascertained that these moneys had been deposited to the credit of
the Albion Bank, and whether they would or would not have accepted
such deposits as the return of the moneys to the bank.

Tm- case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
The First National Bank of Albion was organized under
the national banking law December 22, 1803, with a capital
stock of $50,000, consisting of five hundred Shares of $100
each, with a privilege of increase, and in fact afterwards increased to $100,000. " It was reorganized under the act of July
12, 1882, by amended articles of association filed January 12
and approved February 24, 1883. On August 21, 1884, it
closed its doors, and the defendant in error was appointed receiver, and took possession. August 28, 1884. On January 7,
1885, as such receiver he commenced this action against the

plaintiffs iii error in the Circuit Court of the United States for

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the Southern District of New York. On April 25, 1888, the
case was tried before a jury, and a verdict rendered in favor
of the plaintiff for $14',759.71. A judgment was rendered on
the verdict, and to reverse such judgment defendants sued out
this writ of error.
The proposition upon which this suit was maintained was
that A. S. Warner, the cashier of the Albion Bank, wrongfully
withdrew the funds of that bank for the purpose of a personal
speculation in stocks; and that the defendants, Kissam,
Whitney & Co., received those moneys with knowledge that
they were thus withdrawn, and used them for the benefit of
Warner in his stock speculations. The defendants, among
other things, pleaded thaf the most of the money received
from Warner had been returned to the bank; and herein lies
the principal question for our consideration, and to a clear
understanding of all that is involved in it, a detail of the facts
is necessary.
Prior to March 29, 1879, R. S. Burrows was president of
the Albion Bank.; Alexander Stewart, his son-in-law, vicepresident; and Warner, cashier. At that date Burrows died.
Stewart became president, and so remained until he died,
November 20, 1-881, Warner in the meantime remaining
cashier. Thereafter Warner became president, and W. R.
Burrows, a son of R. S. Burrows, cashier, and both continued
as such until shortly before the failure of the bank. -The
bank really belonged to R. S. Burrows in his lifetime, he owning all but twenty shares. The directors, pending the transactions hereafter to be reviewed; were L. Burrows, Alexander
Stewart, W. R. Burrows, Louise C. Burrows and Warner. With
the exception of L. Burrows, who was a brother of R. S. Burrows, the other four were the executors and executrix of R. S.
Burrows; Warner, as appears, being the managing executor as
well as the real official head of the bank. Through his defalcations, which ran up into the hundreds of thousands, the bank
ultimately failed, and a receiver was appointed. The firm of
Kissam, Whitney & Co., the defendants, was formed in May,
1880. Prior to that time the firm of Chase & Atkins had been
in existence for some years, and that firm had bought and sold

KISSAM v. ANDERSON.
Statement of the Case.

stocks for Warner. Whitney and Washburn, who, with Kissam,
composed the firm of Kissam, Whitney & Co., had been clerks
in the employ of Chase & Atkins, and a few months before had
received small interests therein as partners. Kissam had no
connection with that firm. When Chase & Atkins sold out to
Kissam, Whitney & Co. the latter took among other things
the account with Warner. .t that time, and among the
assets transferred, were stocks to the amount of $348,086.19,
held for Warner, and for which KMssam, Whitney & Co. paid
Chase & Atkins. Thereafter, and between that time and
August 26, 1881, Warner sent to defendants 12 checks, the
dates and amounts thereof being as follows:
May 11, 1880 ....................... $10,000
June 9,
Dec. 23,

.

5,000

.........................

............

8,000

Jan. 10, 1881......................

5,000

Feb.' 1,
"Mich.25,

5,000

" 11,
cc 13,
CC 17,
cc 24),

Aug. 9;

c ,26,

" ...........

" .......................
10,000
" .......... 15,000
" ............
". . ........................10,000
" ........
..................... 10,000

"
.......................
"........................
............................

C . ......................

5,000
10,000

10,000

Total..........................$103,000
These checks were drawn by him as "cashier," on the
Third National Bank of New York City, the regular correspondent of the Albion Bank: the first checking being in this
form:
Nl.w Yonx, MYay 11, 1880.
"No. .
"Third National Bank of the City of New York pay to the
order of Kissam, Whitney & Co. ten thousand dollars.
cc$10,000.
A. S. WAuxix,
I
"Cash..F'irst Fat.B'I of Albitm,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and the others substantially like it. The Albion Bank was a
country bank, *ith, as heretofore stated, a capital stock of
$100,000, and an average deposit of about $200,000. On these
checks, Kissam, Whitney & Co. drew from the Third National
Bank the sums named, and used the same in'their customers'
stock transactions. Afterwards, and from time to time, they
returned to the Third National Bank certain sums of money,
which were entered by that bank to the credit of the Bank
of Albion, and notice thereof was sent in the regular course of
business by the former to the latter bank; but by reason of
facts hereafter to be noticed, not all of these deposits were
entered on the books of the Albion Bank. The following is a
statement of the details of such deposits:
Entered in Ledger of Not entered in Ledger
of Albion Bank.
Albion Bank.

Date.

April
c

April
M£arch
April

4, 1881 .....................
14,
2
23,

" ....
.....................
c ......................

3, 1882 .....................
7, 1883 ......................
17,

".

11,
28,
c

" .............................

" ..........
6 ...........

Totals ..........

5,590

00
9,200 00

10,000 00
5,000 00

$6,00000

4,000 00
November 15, "
cc" " ......................
8,000 00
21, "
'7,850 00
December 31, "
7, 1884 ......................
iMarch
April
July,
C

$8,000 00

...............
... ...............

$25,850 00

5,000 00
5,000 00.

5,000
8,000
2,562

00
00
50

$63,352 50

It will be noticed that three of these deposits were made
before the last two checks were sent to defendants. It will
be noticed, also, that the moneys represented by these various
deposits were returned to the same place from which the

KISSAM v. ANDERSON.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

money was received on the checks sent to the defendants, to
wit, the Third National Bank. In other words, the defendants received money belonging to the Albion National Bank
from the Third National Bank; they returned to the Third
National Bank a large portion of the money they had received.
That money was accepted by the Third National Bank, passed
to the credit of the Albion Bank, and the latter notified thereof
in the regular way, to wit, by monthly statements. It is true
that many of these credits were not entered by the latter on
its books. The Albion Bank was at that time managed by
Warner, he being the cashier. There was a book-keeper in
constant attendance, the president occasionally present, and
five directors to supervise; but the active man was Warner,
who was also the real manager of the Burrows estate, which
owned substantially all the stock. The monthly reports from
the Third National Bank, when opened 'at all, were apparently opened by Warner alone. Indeed, after the receiver was
appointed, in 1884, some of these monthly reports were found.
in the vaults of the bank still unopened. There was no direct
and Warner
evidence of any conspiracy between defendants
to take money from the Albion Bank. On the contrary, it
appears that the defendants bought out the business of Chase
& Atkins, at that time buying as a part thereof stocks to the
amount of over $300,000 held for Warner; and it was in carrying on this business already established, and to make good
the required margins, that Warner sent these checks to defendants. His account was a steadily diminishing account
from the time they bought out Chase & Atkins. The court
held them responsible for the amounts thus obtained from the
Albion Bank, on the ground that a cashier has no right to use
the funds of the bank of which he is cashier for his private
business; and that under the circumstances, and in view of
the size of the account and the form of the checks, the defendants must have known that he was using the funds of the bank
'for his private business.
Mr.Joseph HI. Choate and Mr.-George Zabriskie for plaintiffs in error.
r.John . Burrillwas vith them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Benjamin H B'ristow for .defendant in error.
The defendants were not entitled to credit for the sums
paid by them to the Third National Bank. They requested
the court to instruct the jury that
"(1) The defendants are entitled to be credited with the
amounts of money which were deposited by them in the Third
National Bank to the credit of the Bank of Albion;
"(2) The defendants were entitled to be credited with such
of the amounts so deposited by them in the Third National
Bank to the credit of the Bank of Albion, as were entered in
the books of the latter bank and thereon debited to the former
bank;
"(3) In case they find a verdict for the plaintiff it cannot
exceed the .difference between the accounts between the two
banks as contained on their respective books and interest;
"(4) If the jury find a verdict for the plaintiff, it cannot be
for any sum inexcess of the difference bet reen the checks in
suit and the sums paid by the defendant into the Third
National Bank and not entered in the books of the Albion
Bank;
"(5) The plaintiff cannot recover any of the checks in suit
which have been paid out of moneys deposited in the Third
National Bank to the credit of the Albion Bank by Warner or
by his direction."
The court refused these requests, saying further, "I have
ruled during the course of the trial that the fact that the
defendants paid in under Warner's direction to the Third
National Bank the large sums of money which were paid in
is of no materiality as affecting the legal rights of the parties.'
The question raised by all these requests is, in brief, whether
any amounts paid into the Third National Bank to the credit
of the Bank of Albion by Warner, or by the defendants under
his instructions, are to be regarded as reducing the damages
recoverable from the defendants.
It is settled by abundant authority that where one has taken
the property of another damages are not mitigated by showing

KISSAM v. AINDERSON.
Opinion of the Court..

merely that the wrongdoer returned the property Without
the consent of the owner or applied it upon the owner's debts.
It'must appear still further that the owner consented to,
such action or that the proceeds were so applied under legal
process Without connivance of the wrongdoer. "A stranger
could not take the property of his neighbor, haVe it sold
under process, and apply the proceeds in discharging the debts
of his neighbor, and then claim the right to have such payments received as a set-off, or in mitig'ation of the damages
done by the trespass." XolAfee v. Crofford, 13 How. 447,456;
ranmer v. Wilsey, 17 Wend. 91; Otis v. Jones, 21 Wend.
394:; TVehle v. Butler, 61 N. Y. 245; People v. Bank of
_Nora America, 75 IN. Y. 517; .Mo.MichaeZ v. Mason, 13
Penn. St. 214; Barnard v. Jennison, 27 Michigan, 230;
Edmondon v. NYuttall, 17 C. B. (N. S.) 279; Higgins v.
Whitney, 24 Wend. 379; Livermore v. .Yorthrup, 44 IN. Y.
107; Iyon v. Yates, 52 Barb. 237; S'j"rague v. cMKenzie,,
63 Barb. 60; East v. Pace, 57 Alabama, 521.
Mn. JUsTICE BREWER stated the case as above, and delivered
the opinion of the court.
We shall not stop to inquire as to the propriety of the
rulings, so far as they went to charge the'defendants With
liability for the moneys obtained from the Albion Bank;
for, on the other ground we think a new trial must be ordered, and it is impossible to foresee what the developments
may be on that trial.
The court distinctly ruled, as matter of law, that the defendants were not entitled to credit for the moneys. deposited.
'in the Third National Bank to the credit of the Albion Bank,
and submitted no question to the jury in respect thereof.
The principle upon which the court acted is thus stated by
counsel for plaintiff in his brief :
"It is settled by abundant authority that where one has
taken the property of another damages are not mitigated by
showing merely that the wrongdoer returned the property
Without the consent of the owner or applied it upon- the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ownerFs debts. It must appear still further that the owner
consented to subh action or that the proceeds were so applied
under legal process without connivance of the wrongdoer.
' A stranger could not take the property of his neighbor, have
it sold under process, and apply the proceeds in discharging
the debts of his neighbor, and then claim the right to have
such payments received as a set-off, or in mitigation of the
damages done by the trespass.' 3fcAfee v. Croford, 13
How. 447, 456."
We think that principle does not control in this case.
Defendants returned this money to the Albion Bank. They
deposited it with the Third National Bank, the correspondent
of the Albion Bank, and the bank from which they received
the money on the checks from the Albion Bank. In fact,
therefore, the money was placed where it was before it was
taken -in the possession and under the control of the Albion
Bank Not only that, the -Third National Bank, in its due
course of business, by monthly reports, informed the Albion
Bank that they had received, this money, and held it subject
to its order; and it was subsequently, used by the Albion
Bank in drafts drawn by it in favor of other parties. If -it
be said that no officer of the Albion Bank knew of these
deposits except Warner, the wrongdoer, and that he subsequently drew out most of these moneys in drafts to further
other wrongs, the reply is, that the other officers and directors
of the Albion Bank were chargeable with knowledge of these
deposits. If, through their negligence, they did not in fact
know, that is a matter for which the Albion Bank, and not
the defendants, were responsible. Kissam, .Whitney &.XCo.
had no supervision over its affairs, no knowledge as to how
those affairs were managed. They were not called upon to
go to Albion and hunt up the various officers and directors,
and inform them, one by one, personally, that these moneys
had been deposited to their credit in the Third National
Bank. It was enough that they deposited them, and that
that bank, in the regular course of business, by monthly
statements, informed the Albion Bank that it received aid
held those moneys. The learned Circuit Judge seemed to be

KISSAM v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the opinion, that as they had assisted Warner in withdrawing these funds from the bank, they could not escape
responsibility, unless the sum total of his defalcations was
reduced by their deposits to an amount less than that received
from him. In his opinion overruling the miotion for a new
trial, he thus expressed himself: " H ere all the money returned
by Warner was insufficient to replace his defalcations by an
amount much larger than the sum sought to be recovered of
the defendants, and the bank had no knowledge that he had
returned anything to replace what he had misapplied until he
had again misappropriated it. It is not unjust or unreasonable
to compel the defendants to restore such of the funds of the
bank as they received when they are unable to prove that
the bank was not directly or ultimately a loser in consequence
of their acts. It may be that Warner would have misappropriated the money of the bank in other ways if they had
refused to receive the checks, but certainly one teiptation
would' not have been in his path if he had found that he
could not use the paper of the bank for his speculations with
the same facility as though it were- his own money." But
surely they cannot be held for his subsequent wrong-doing.
If they have returned a part of that they assisted him in
wrongfiflly withdrawing, they are pro tante relieved from
responsibility, and are not to be chargeable with his after
misconduct, in respect to which they had no part.. It will
not do to say that they put th6 money where he could check
it out, and therefore, are responsible for what he did with it.
They deposited it to the credit of the Albion Bank, and it
was for the officers and directors of that bank to take care\ of
its deposits. The rule might be different if Warner, the
cashier of the Albion Bank, was the only officer authorized
to draw on the Third. National Bank, or charged with knowledge of the state of the account; but the president and teller
had equal authority, and were equally chargeable with knowledge; in fact, it appears that these officers did draw drafts
on the New York bank and thus diminished the total amount
of deposits, and the other directors, also, were under some
obligation to know the affairs of the bank; and it will not do,

