THE CORSAIR.
Syllabus.

that plaintiffs be admitted into possession of their lands,
and that Patrick account for rents, profits and issues, so far as
he has received them. If the views put forward in their
brief be correct, that these instruments were of no greater
effect than if they had been forgeries, it is difficult to see
how these transfers can be supported, and it needs no argument to show that the consequences of setting them aside
would be disastrous. Certainly, if they were not entitled to
the lands themselves, they would be entitled to recover of
Patrick what he had received for them. Waiving this question, however, it is scarcely within the. bounds of possibility
to suppose that Sophia Felix, if she had located this scrip,
would have realized a tithe of the sum her heirs now demand
of this defendant. The decree prayed for in this case, if
granted, would offer a distinct encouragement to the purchase
of similar claims, which doubtless exist in abundance through
the Western Territories, (Felix herself having received scrip
to the amount of 480 acres, only 120 -of which are accounted
for,) and would result in the unsettlement of large iumbers
of titles upon which the owners have rested in assured security for nearly a generation.
In view of all the facts of this case we think the decree of
the court below dismissing the bill was correct, and it is
therefore
Ajflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

THE CORSAIR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 344. Submitted April 26, 1892.-Decided May 16, 1892.

Admiralty rules 12 to 20 inclusive allow, in certain cases, a joinder of ship
and freight, or ship and master, or alternative actions against ship, master or owner alone; but in no case within the rules can ship and owner

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
be joined in the same libel: whether they may in cases not falling within
the rules is not decided.
A District Court sitting in admiralty cannot entertain a libel in rem for
damages incurred by loss of life where, by the local law, a right of
action survives to the administrator or relatives of the deceased, but no
lien is expressly created by the aet.
When the collision of two vessels causes great pain and suffering to a pas,senger on one of them, followedso closely by death as to be substantially contemporaneous with -it, a libel in remn, where a right of action
exists under a state statute, will not lie for those injuries as distinguished from death as a cause of action.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This was an appea, from a decree of the Circuit Court dismissing a libel for damages sustained by the death of Ella
Barton, against the steam tug Corsair and her owners. Suit
was begun on April 5, 1888, by the filing of a libel by Edward
S. Barton and Elizabeth Barton, his wife, against the steam
tug Corsair upon two distinct causes of action, viz.: one for
damages for the pains and sufferings endured by Ella Barton,
a daughter of the said Elizabeth Barton, in a collision caused
by the said tug Corsair, on which the said Ella Barton was at
the time a passenger, running at full speed into the right
bank of the Mississippi River, on the 14th of April, 1887, at
a point about ten miles above Algiers, (which is opposite to
the city of New Orleans,) in consequence of which said tug
filled with water and sank in ten minutes. The other cause
for action was for danzages sustainedby the said Elizabeth
Barton in the loss of the life bf her said daughter, alleged to
have been caused by the negligence of the officers and crew.
of the tug.
The right to bring this libel was alleged to have accrued
under Article 2315 of the Civil Code of Louisiana., as amended
in 1884, which reads as follows:
"Article 2315. Every act whatever, of man, that causes
damage to another, obliges him by whose fault it happened,
to repair it; the right of this action shall survive, in case of
death, in favor of the minor children or widow of the deceased, or either of them, and in default of these, in favor of

TAE cORSAIR.
Statement of the Case.

the surviving father and mother, or either of them, for the
space of one year from the death. The survivors above mentioned may also recover the damages sustained by them by
the death of the parent, or child or husband, or wife, as the
:
case may be."'
By virtue of an attachment issued upon this libel, the vessel was arrested April 5, 1888, and was released upon a stipu-

lation given by Samuel S. Brown and Harry Brown, by their
duly authorized agent, "claimahats and owners of the steam
tug Corsair." Upon the same day they filed their claim as
owners, averring that "no other persons have any interest
therein,' and subsequently filed exceptions* to the libel upon
the ground that it set forth no cause of action cognizable by
proceedings in erem in admiralty. Upon the hearing of these
exceptions, the court, "considering that no action iii rem lies
in this case," "ordered that the exception be stistained to the
extent of releasing the tug Corsair from the seizure made
under the admiralty warrant issued in the cause, the court
being of the opinion that the statute of Louisiana creates no
lien, upon the vessel." It was "further ordered that libellants be allowed to amend their pleadings and proceed in
_personczrn against the owners of the vessel within ten 'days if
they see fit." On the following day an amended libel was
filed against Samuel S. Brown and Harry Brown in personam
as "owners of the steam tug Corsair," 'adopting and reiterating all the allegations contained in the original libel, .and
praying for a citation against the owners and for an attachment, in -case they should not be found, against their goods
and chattels, credits and effects wherever found.
Process of arrest and -attachment, in the form provided
for by Admiralty Rule 2, was allowed by the District Xudge,
and returned served by the marshal, by seizing and taking
into his possession the steam tug Corsair, and placing a keeper
in charge, and taking anoth6r bond from W. H. Brown &
Sons, with a surety, conditioned that' if "said Owners of the
tug Corsair, William H. Brown & Sons, Samuel S. Brown and
Harry Biown, shall abide by all orders," etc. On the. same
day a claim was filed by Samuel S. Brown and Harry Brown
VOL. 6xLv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

as sole owners of the tug Corsair, etc. Exceptions were filed
to the amended libel by the claimants upon $he ground that
process had not been served upon them; that a warrant of
arrest ought not to have issued, under Admiralty Rule 7, without affidavit or other proper proof showing the propriety
thereof; that proceedings in rem and in personam could not
be joined in the same libel; that "there was no power in the
court to allow the libellants to change this suit from a suit in
'erm to a suit in personam; and that the cause of action was
barred by the prescription of one year according to the law of
the State."
The cause was heard upon these exceptions, and the court
"being of the opinion that the suit and the amended libel is
an action under a special statute of the State of Louisiana
subjecting the owners to liability, whereas the action under
the original libel sprang from the general liability of ships
arrested as offending things under the admiralty law; that
the amendment introduced a new party, and since, at the time
of the amendment being made, more than a year had elapsed,"
the exception was allowed and the suit dismissed.
On appeal to the Circuit Court this decree was affirmed,,
and an appeal taken by the libellants to this court.
.31. Richard De Gry for appellant.
As we have seen, two separate and distinct causes of action
are set out in the libel; one for the pains and sufferings endured by Ella Barton during her lifetime between the time of
the collision and her death; the other for the damages sustained by the libelants directly by the death of Ella Barton.
The present case, as to either cause of action, is not a suit
for damages for a death caused by negligence on the high seas,
but a suit for damages caused by negligence on the Mississippi
River, about one hundred miles above its mouth, and, therefore, under the.jurisdiction of the State of Louisiana.
The second cause of action, alth ugh occurring in the State
of Louisiana, being for the recovery of damages for the
death of a human being, may, if the Louisiana statutes did

THE CORSAIR.
Argument for Appellant.

not apply, be governed by the Harrisbu'rgand Alaska Cases,
119 U. S. 199 and 130 U. S. 201; but the first cause of action,
wherein damages are claimed, for the pains and sufferings
Ella Barton sustained, cannot be governed by those cases, for
it is in no sense a suit to recover damages for the death of
Ella Barton, but is a suit to recover damages which a passenger, during her lifetime, sustained, through the negligence
of the officers and crew of the steam tug Corsair.
This brings us to the inquiry 6is to what is the right of
action and the remedy in admiralty of a passenger for damages sustained on a vessel on which such passenger is being
carried.
Numerous decisions have been rendered by this court, in
proceedings in rem, giving passengers damages for injuries
sustained on vessels through the fault of their officers. The
_3oses Taylor, 4 Wall. 427; The Niew World, 16 How. 469;
The City of Panama,101 U. S. 453.
Now, suppose Ella Barton- had survived her injuries and
brought her suit in admiralty in rem for the pains, injuries
and shock which she sustained in this collision, and thereafter
died, would that suit have died with her? It certainly would
not, because it would pass (if in no other way) by subrogation, under the first part of Art. No. 2375 of the Civil Code
of Louisiana, to the parties therein named. In fact, prior
to the amendment to the Code in 1884, only the claims for the
recovery of such damages'as she sustained passed to the parties named.
In E-arhart v. New Orleans & Carrollton Railroad,17 La.
Ann. 243, (which was a suit by the father and mother,) the law
of Louisiana on this subject, under the above article of the
Code, was stated as follows: "In the words of the statute, it
is a legal subrogation in favor of the persons designated, to
the right of action, of the deceased sufferer, and in case of
suit under that subrogation, the plaintiff should allege his
cause of action as derived from the deceased under the statute."
Therefore, we say the right of action in rem, which existed
in favor of Ella Barton for the injuries and pains she suffered

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

during her lifetime, by reason of the negligence of the officers
and crew of the tug on which she was a passenger, certainly
passed, under the Code, to her father and mother. and that
the suit by them should have been sustained.
3. In response to the third exception, that proceedings in
rein and iv_personain cannot be joined in the same action, we
say there is nothing in the Admiralty Rules of the United
States Supreme Court or those of the District Court of Louisiana prohibiting such a joinder, and the amendment from a
proceeding in rem to one in personam, as we have already
shown, is abundantly supported, and by the best of authority.
4. This exception is the one on which the court dismissed
the suit, because, as it said, said suit was prescribed, under the
state law, by the lapse of one year from the time the disaster
occurred, on the 14th of April, 1887.
The suit was filed on April 5, 1888, and seizure was made
and appearance was entered on that day by the defendants'
filing their claim, and on the same day giving their bond for
the release of thd property.
The suit, therefore, which began in 'em, became by the
appearance of the defendants, to all intents and purposes, a
suit in personam on the day the bond was filed, for thereafter
no judgment could be rendered against the vessel, (which was
discharged from all lien,) but only inrpersondm against claimants and sureties.
The effect of such an appearance and giving bond was
decided in the Fifth Circuit in Roberts v. Tlie i"untsville, 3

Woods, 386. There a ship was libelled for salvage, and a
decree for salvage was rendered. The sureties for the claimants - the owners - were compelled to pay the salvage decree,

anad it was held that the sureties, although subrogated to the
rights of the libellants, could-'not seize the vessel as against
valid mortgagees. Judge :Bradley said: "The salvors themselves ceased to have any lien on the ship after she was
claimed and released from their seizure on the stipulation.
Their claim then became a personal one against the owners
aad stipulators. It has been repeatedly held, that except
where fraud has been practised in procuring the vessel's

THE CORSAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

release, the libellants cannot reseize her. By their discharge
she becomes free, and all anterior liens stand good against her
as before the seizure; so that, if the present libellants were
invested with every right of the salvors, they could not have
recourse to the ship again for the cause of salvage, except as
they would have recourse against any other property of the
owner. See also The Union, 4 Blatchford, 90; The Thite
Squall, 4 Blatchford, 103, and cases there cited by Mr. Iustice
Nelson.
The practice in England is substantially the same. The St.
Johan, 1 Hag. Adin. 334; The Triune, 3 Hag. Adm. 114.
.M. 7oseph P. Hornor and Xrf'. Guy
pellees.

. Hornor for ap-

MR. J USTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This was a libel in rem against the tug Corsair, by the
mother of one Ella Barton, to recover for the loss of her life
in a collision alleged to have been occasioned by the negligence of those in charge of the tug. Exceptions to this libel
were sustained, upon the ground that a suit in qrerm would not
lie for injuries resulting in death; but leave was given to
amend by proceeding inpersonam against the owners of the
tug. Exceptions were also filed to the amended libel upon
the ground that the amendment introduced a new party to
the suit, and, as against such party, the year had elapsed
within which, under the law, the action must be brought.
1. The decree of dismissal so far as it operated upon the
amended libel, was proper for two reasons: First, the amendment to the original libel by introducing the owners of the
tug as parties defendants was in violation of Admiralty Rule
15, providing that "in' all suits for damage by collision, the
libellant may proceed against the ship and master, or against
the ship alone, o4 against the master or owner alone in yersonam."1 These rules, from 12 to 20 inclusive, wero intended to
prescribe a remedy appropriate to each class of cases in admi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ralty, allowing in certain cases a joinder 6f ship and freight,
or ship and master, or alternative actions against the ship,
master or owner alone. In iio case, however, under these
rules, except in possessory suits, can the ship and owner be
joined in the same libel, though perhaps they may be in cases
not falling within the rules. These rules were adopted in pursuance of an act of Congress of August 23, 1842, (5 Stat. 516,)
authorizing this court, amongst other things, to prescribe "the
forms and modes of proceedings to obtain relief "' in suits in
admiralty, and have always been regarded as having the force
of law. They are little more than a recognition and formulation of the previous practice of courts of admiralty in this
country and in England. They have come before this court
in several instances, and have always been treated as obligatory. Thus in _Yewell v. NYorton, 3 Wall. 257, the District
Court, in accordance with the prayer of the libel, issued process in rem against the vessel for a collision, and -citations in
personanm against the master, owner and pilot. On exceptions
being filed for misjoinder, the court ruled that an action against
the owner and pilot could not be joined with the proceeding
in rem, and that the libellant must elect which remedy he
Would pursue; and, he having elected to proceed in r'em
against the steamboat and in ypersonam against the master,
the libel was dismissed as to the owners and pilot, and sustained as against the steamboat and master. The allowance
of this amendment was held by this court to be proper, Judge
Grier observing, however, that the objection that a libel in
rem against a vessel and in ersonaz against the "owner"
cannot be joined was properly overruled. The word "owner"
here is evidently a misprint for"master," as appears from the
syllabus and statement of the case on page 259. Rule 19, prescribing the mode of proceeding in cases of salvage, was discussed by-Mr. Justice Clifford in the case of The Sabine, 101
U. S. 384, in which he said that there was no authority for
holding that salvors may proceed against the ship and cargo
inrem, and in personamn against the consignees of the cargo,
in the same libel, as the rule gave only an alternative remedy
in rem against the property saved, or inpersonam against the

THE CORSAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

party at whose request or for whose benefit the service had
been performed. He found there was no well-considered authority which gave any countenance to the theory that the
two modes of proceeding in rem against the ship and cargo,
and in personram against the owners of the same, might be
joined in the same libel; citing Scho oner Boston, I Sumner, 328, and The Hope, 3 0. Rob. 215: He spoke of the nineteenth
rule as "expressed throughout in the- disjunctive form, and
-plainly requires the action, if against the property saved or
the proceeds thereof, to be in rem, the alternative clause clearly
referring to a case where the property saved has been sold,
and the proceeds of the sale have been deposited in the registry of the court."
A like construction has uniformly been given to this rule
by the, Circuit and District Courts. Tle .Richatrd ]Yoane, 2
Ben. 11,' (Mr. Justice Blatchford;) The Zodiac, 5 Fed. Rep.
220, 223, (Judge Choate;) Atlantio' futual Insurance Co. v.
Alexandre, 16 Fed. Rep. 279, (Judge Brown;) Te Young
America, Brown's Admiralty, 462. Judge Longyear's citations
in the last case intimate that a similar prapctice prevailed in
England, at least until the adoption of the Judicature Act.
2 Conkling's Admiralty, 43; 2 Parsons' Shipping and Admiralty, 378.

Second. If the so-called amended libel be considered as
an independent libel against the owners in ersonam, then it
is clearly defective in. failing to aver that the respondentswere the owners of the tug at the time of the accident.
2. An important question arises in connection with the dismissal of the original libel, which has never been squarely presented to this court before, and that is as to the power of the
District Court to entertain a libel in 'rem for damages incurred
by loss of life, where by the local law a right of action survives to the administrator or relatives of the deceased, btt no
lien is expressly created by the act. A similar question arose
in the case of Ex parte Gordon, 104 . S. 515, where a writ
of prohibition was applied for to enjoin theprosecution of an
action in 'rem for loss of life; but the writ was denied upon
the ground that the liability was within the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the District Court to decide, and any error it might commit
in this particular could only be corrected by appeal. Subsequently in the case of The H rrisburg,119 U. S. 199, it was
held that in the absence of an act of Congress or a state
statute giving a right of action therefor, a suit in admiralty
could not be maintained to recover damages for the death of
a human being, caused by negligence. This was a mere
application to the court of admiralty of a principle which had
been announced by this court as applicable to courts of comThe
mon law in Insurance Co. V. Brame, 95 U. S. 754.
Harrisburg was a Pennsylvania vessel, and the collision
occurred in the waters of Massachusetts, both of which States
gave a remedy by civil action, with a proviso that such action
should be brought within one year after the death; and while
the question of the right to sue in erm for the recovery of
such damages when an action at law had been given therefor
by the state statute, was presented in that case, it was not
decided, since the suit was not begun until nearly five years
after the death, and the case went off upon that ground.
Prior to this decision, a number of libels both in rer, and
in yersonam had been brought for loss of life in the courts of
different districts, and, as a rule, the liability was held to
exist, but the, question whether such liability should be
enforced in.rem, or in. ersonam does not seem to have been
discussed, except in the cases of The Sylvan Glen, 9 Fed. Rep.
335, and The 7ffanhassett, 18 Fed. Rep. 918, in one of which
Judge Benedict, and in the other Judge Hughes, held, that,
while the state statute created a right it did not create
a lien, and that a libel in rem could not be maintained.
Since the decision in the HarrisburgCase, fhat no libel can
lie, except where a right to sue is given by a local statute, the
question has been presented only in the case of The 2forth
Camb 'ia, 40 Fed. Rep. 655, in which Judge Butler adopted
the views expressed in The Sylvan Glen and The .tlanhassett.
In The Oregon, 45 Fed. Rep. 62, a. lien was given by the
state statute and was enforced in the Admiralty.
A similar question under Lord Campbell's Act allowing
damages to be recovered "whensoever the death of a person

THE OORSAIR.
Qpinion of the Court.

shall be caused by wrongful act, neglect or default," has been
the subject of much discussion in the courts of England. By
the Admiralty Court Act of 1861, sec. 7, jurisdiction was
given to the High Court of Admiralty over "any claim for
damage done by any ship," and by sec. 35 "the jurisdiction
conferred by this act on the High Court of Admiralty may
be exercised either by proceedings in remn or by proceedings in
[personan." Giving a construction to these provisions,-it was
held by Sir Robert Phillimore in 1867, in The Sylpk, L. R. 2
Ad. & Ec. 24, that personal injuries were included by the
words "damage done by a ship,' and that proceedings in Tem
might be taken for damages occasioned by such injuries. In
the subsequent case of The Guldfaee, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec. 325,
the same rule whs applied to a suit for damages instituted by
the personal representatives of a seaman who had been killed
in a collision. This was subsequently affirmed in The Exylorer, L. R. 3 Ad. & Ec. 289, deided in 1870. The same
question came before the Court of Queen's Bench iipon an
application for a writ of prohibition in the case of Smith v.
Brown, L. R. 6 Q. B. 729, in 1871, wherein it was held that
the word "damage" did not include loss of life and personal
injury, and that the Admiralty Court Act conferred no jurisdiction upon the High Court of Admiralty to entertain a suit
under Lord Campbell's Act. The judgment of the court in
this case was delivered by Lord Chief Justice Cockburn, and
concurred in with some doubt by Mr. Justice Blackburn.
Notwithstanding this prohibition, however, the Court of
Admiralty continued to assume jurisdiction of actions in -rem.
brought by the personal representatives of a deceased person.
This appears from the case of The Franconia,2 Prob. Div.
163, Sir Robert Phillimore-being of the opinion that he was
bound by the case of The Beta, L. R. 2 P. C. 447, in which
the judicial committee of the Privy Council had held that the
word "dmage" referred to injuries to the person as well as
to proper2ty. On appeal to the Court of Appeal, his judgment
was affirmed by -a divided court. The question was again
raised before the Admiraltf Division of the High Court 6f
Justice, in the case of The iTera Cruz, 9 Prob. Div. 88, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

which Mr. Justice Butt did not discuss the question, but
held, in deference to the previous decisions of Dr. Phillimore,
that an action in rer, would lie by the widow and administratrix of the master of a British schooner against the Vera Cruz,
and that the plaintiff should recover a moiety of the damage
she had sustained, both vessels being adjudged to be in fault.
On appeal the Court of Appeal, 9 Prob. Div. 96, held that it
was not bound by its former decision by a divided court in
the case of The Franconia,and reversed the judgment of the
Admiralty Division. The case was again appealed to the
House of Lords, and the judgment of the court below was
affirmed. 10 App. Cas. 59, 65, 66, 67, 73. Lord Chancellor
Selborne in delivering the opinion held that the 35th section
of the Admiralty Court Act above cited showed that "while
an option to proceed in rem or in personam is given as to the
jurisdiction conferred by the act, yet from the very nature of
such an option every case provided for by the act is regarded
as a proper case for a proceeding in rem.; and accordingly the
appellant, considering that the 7th section brought cases under
Lord Campbell's Act within the purview of the Admiralty
jurisdiction, justly "uponthat hypothesis held it to mean such
actions as were capable of being brought by a proceeding like
the present in rem; and if the action cannot be so brought,
then I apprehend it will follow ex converso that the 7th section does not extend to this description of claim." "No one
can say," said he, "that Lord Campbell's Act relates expressly
to claims for damage done by ships; and this section in
the act of 1861 relates to that and to nothing else.
Every word of that legislation" (Lord Campbell's Act) "being
as it appears to me, legislation for the general case, and not
for particular injury by ships, points to a common law action,
points to a personal liability, and a personal right to recover,
and is absolutely at variance with the notion of a proceeding
in rem." Lord Watson concurring, said: "I entertain no
doubt that a right of action such as is given, by Lord Campbell's Act in a case like the present is not a 'claim for damage
done by a ship' within the meaning of the 7th section of the
Admiralty Court Act, 1861."

THE CORSAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

This is the last expression of the highest court of England
upon the question of proceeding in rer under Lord Campbell's
Act, and must be regarded as settling the law of that country
that such jurisdiction is not conferred. That, notwithstanding
this, an action inpersonam will lie in the Admiralty Division
is evident from the case of The Bernina, 11 Prob. Div. 31, in
which the Admiralty took cognizance of the case, and upon
appeal to the Court of Appeal, 12 Prob. Div. 58, and subsequently to the House of Lords, 13 App. Cas. 1, the jurisdiction
was sustained, a trial by jury being now permitted.in that
court, although the main question discussed was as to the
principle involved in the case of Thorogood v. Biyan, 8 1.B.
115, which was overruled. While these cases turn upon the
construction of the English acts, the courts have been guided
in such construction by principles which are of general application both in this country and in England.
A maritime lien is said by writers upon maritime law to be
the foundation of every proceeding in
nem
in the Admiralty.
In much the larger class of cases, the lien is given by the
general Admiralty law, but in other instances, such for example as insurance, pilotage, wharfage, and materials furnished
in the home port of the vessel, the lien is given, if at all, by
the local law. As we are to look, then, to the local law in
this instance for the right to take cognizance of this class of
cases, we are bound to inquire whether the local law gives a
lien upon the offending thing. If it merely gives a right of
action inversonarnfor a cause of action of a maritime nature,
the District Court may administer the law by proceedings in
personam, as was done with a claim for.half pilotage dues
under the law of New York, in the case of Bxa farte .MoNiel,
13 Wall. 236, but unless a lien be given by the local law, there
is no lien to enforce by proceedings in rei in the Court of
Admiralty.
The Louisiana act declares, in substance, that the right of
action for every act of negligence, which causes damage to
another, shall survive, in case of death, in favor of the minor
children or widow of the deceased; and in default of these, in
favor of the surviving father and mother, and that such sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

vivors may also recover the damages sustained by them by
the death of the parent, child, htisband, or wife. Evidently
nothing more is here contemplated than aft ordinary action
according to the courser of the law as it, is administered in
Louisiana. There is no intimation of a lien or p-ivilege upon
the offending thing, which, as we have already held, is necessary to give a court of admiralty jurisdiction to proceed in
-rem.
3. We do iot find it necessary to express an opinion whether
a libel in rem will lie for injuries suffered by the deceased before her death, a right of action for which passes to the immediate relatives, under the Louisiana statute, since there is no'
proper averment in the libel to shoW-that such damages were
suffered. It is true that the seventh paragraph alleges that
from the time the "tug struck the bank of the river to the
time she sunk," (about ten minutes,) "and the said Ella Barton
was drowned, she, said Ella Barton, suffered great mental and
physical pains and shock, and endured the tortures and agonies
of death." But there is no averment from which we cangather that these pains and sufferings were not substantially
cotemporaneous with her death and inseparable as matter of
law from it. Yearney v. Boston & Worcester Railroad, 9
Cush. 108; llollenbek v. Berkshire Railroad Co., 9 Cush.
478; Kennedy v. Standard Sugar R e.fnery, 125 Mass. 90;
_kforan v. Hollings, 125 Mass. 93. Had she suffered bodily
wounds and bruises, from the result of which she lingered and
ultimately died, it is possible that her sufferings during her
illness would give a separate cause of action; but the very fact
that she died by drowning indicates that her sufferings must
-have been brief, and, in law, a mere incident to her death.
Her fright for a few minutes is too unsubstantial a basis for a
separate estimation of damages.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Aijirmed.

