SESSIONS v. ROMADKA.
Syllabus.

SESSIONS v. ROM-ADKA.
ROMADKA v. SESSIONS.
APPEALS FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Nos. 262, 263.

Argued March 30, 31, 1892. -Decided April 25, 1892.

An assignee in bankruptcy is not bound to accept the title to a patent for
an invention, vested in the bankrupt at the time of the bankruptcy, if,
in his opinion, it is worthless, or may prove to be burdensome and unprofitable; and his neglect for a year, during which he winds up the
estate, to assume the ownership of such property, and his statement to
a person desiring to purchase it-that he has no power to do anything
with it and that the bankrupt is the only one who can give title, are
convincing proof of an election not to accept it.
It does not lie in the mouth of an alleged infringer of a patent to set up
the right of an assignee in bankruptcy to the patent as against a title
acquired from the bankrupt with the consent of the assignee.
Section 4917 of the Revised Statutes, which provides for disclaimers
"whenever, through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any
fraudulent or deceptive intention., a patentee has claimed more than that
of which he was the original or first inventor or discov'erer," and allows
the patentee to "1make disclaimer of such parts of the thingpatented as
he shall not choose to claim or hold by virtue of the patent.or assignmeat,. stating therein the extent of his interest in such patent," is broad
enough to cover disclaimers made to avoid the effect of having included
in a patent more devices than can properly be made the subject of a
single patent.
The power of a patentee to disclaim is a beneficial power, and ought not to
be denied except when resorted to for a frau9 lent and deceptive purpose.
The effect of delay by a patentee to make a disclaimer under Rev. Stat. ยง
4917 until after the commencement of an action for the infringement of
his patent goes only to the recovery of costs.
Where the Revised Statutes adopt language of a previous statute which
had been construed by this court, Congress must be considered as adopting that construction.
The invention patented by letters patent No. 128,925, issued July 9, 1872, to
Charles A. Taylor for an improvement in trunks was novel and patentable; and the letters patent are infringed by the fasteners constructed in
accordance with the descriptions in letters patent No. 145,817 dated December 23, "1873, and the improvements thereon descibed in letters

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
patent No. 163,828, dated April 10, 1875, both issued to Anthony V.
Romadka.
The pioneer in an art, who discovers a principle which goes into almost
universal use, is entitled to a liberal constiuction of his claim.
When a patented invention is infringed by its use upon another article of
which it forms an inconsiderable part, taking the place of something
previously serving the same uses, and there is no established royalty by
which to measure the damages, they may be ascertained by finding the
difference between the cost of the patented article and the cost 6f the
article which it displaces; but this rule may be modified, if law and justice seem to require it.
When it is doubtful from the evidence whether the word, patented, could
be affixed to a manufactured article, or whether a label should be attached
with a notice of the patent, under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 4900, the
judgment of the patentees is entitled to weight in determining the question.
A defendant in a suit for the infringement of letters patent, who relies upon
a want of -knowledge on his part of the actual existence of the patent,
should aver the same in his answer.
When an assignee in bankruptcy refuses to accept a transfer of a right of
action existing in the bankrupt at the time of the bankruptcy, and
abandons it to the bankrupt before the expiration of the time within
which an assignee in bankruptcy could bring suit upon it, the right of
action of the bankrupt and of a purchaser fromhim are governed by the
general statute of limitations, and not by the rule prescribed for an
assignee in bankruptcy.

THE court stated the case as follows.:
This was a bill in equity by the appellanV Sessions for the
infringement.of letters patent No. 128,925, issued July 9, 1872,
to Charles A. Taylor, for an improvement in trunks.
The patent included several devices used in the manufacture
of trunks. First, a yielding roller to be applied to the outside
of the trunk; s~cond, inspring catches to hold the trunk shut;
third, in a brace of peculiar construction applied to the outside of the trunk for the purpose of holding up the lid; and,
fourth, in a sprifig arm for supporting the tray whewt turned
up.. In' the specification the patentee made the following
statement withregard to the spring catch, which was the only
feature of the invention climed to have been infringed in
this suit:,
"Instead of providing the top of the trunk with the usual

SESSIONS v. RO1MA.)KA.
Statement of the Case.

straps for fastening it down, I attach to its front two spring.
catches, I, and to the top two tangs or plates, J, which lock
into and are held by the catches. Each catch consists of a
metal socket, e, provided with a hinged latch or hook, f, and
with a flat spring, g, which bears against the lower end of the
latch, and keeps its upper end pressed inward against the
socket. The upper end of the latch or hook is provided with
a prong, i, which extends through into the socket as shown in
Fig. 4, the upper side of the p rong being bevelled off, as shown.
The tangs on the top or lid are provided with bevelled ends
and with holes, or openings, as shown. When the top is
pressed down, the tangs slide down into the sockets and the
prongs, i, of the latches lock through them, in the. manner
shown in Fig. 4, so as to hold the top or lid down securely.
In order to unlock latches it is only necessary to turn back
the upper ends of the hooks or latches so as to draw the prongs
out of the tangs. After the latches are turned back a certain
distance the springs hold 'them in position, as shown in Fig. 1
and in dotted lines in Fig. 4, so that it is only necessary to
attend to one of them at a time."
The only claim which was alleged to have been infringed
was the third, which reads as follows:
"3. The spring catches, I, constructed and applied to the
fiont of the body, .as described, in combination with the
tongues or hasps, J, on the top, when arranged to operate as
set forth."
The answer denied the validity of the patent and infringement of the same: After the testimony had been taken, the
plaintiff entered with the Commissioner of Patents a disclaiiner
of all the claims of the patent except the one in suit, and upon
the hearing upon pleadings and proofs the court adjudged the
patent to be valid, and that the defendants had infringed, and
referred the case -to. a master to ascertain and report to tho
court the number of trunk fasteners made, used and sold by
defendants, and the profits which they had received and which
had accrued to them since December 12, 1874, from .their
infringement, together with all damages in excess of such
profits sustained by plaintiff and his assignor since that date.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Subsequent to the entry of the interlocutory decree, which was
opened for that purpose, and pending proceedings before the
master, the defendants by leave of the court amended their
answer by alleging that the title to the patent was in the
assignee in bankruptcy of one Poinier, who assigned the
patent to the plaintiff subsequent to his adjudication in bankruptcy. The bill was also amended by averring that the
assignee never accepted title to the patent, but neglected and
refused, to assert any claim thereto, and that he is now
estopped from claiming any title or exercising any dominion
over such patent, or the invention thereby secured; and is also
barred by the provisions of the bankruptcy act requiring suit
to be brought within two years after the accruing of any
cause of action. In his report, made under the order of the
court, the master found that the testimony left no doubt that
"at the date of the granting of the patent to Taylor .the
only known device for accomplishing the results produced by
the trunk fastener was the ordinary trunk strip used in conjunction with the simple dowel pin. It seems, therefore, that
the profits for which the defendants must account to complainant under the decree of this case are to be found by arriving
at the cost of making and applying the strap and dowels and
deducting therefrom the cost of making and applying the infringing trunk fastener manufactured and sold by the defendants."
Figuring upon this basis, the master found that the sum of
$11,455.03 had been saved by the defendants by the m.nufacture and use of 2500 gross of fasteners admitted to have been
made and used by them, over what it would have cost them
to have made and applied the straps aid dowels necessary and
proper.to have been used for the same purpose in lieu of such
infringing fasteners. No computation was made of damages
for -the reason that the testimony showed that the profits
allowed by him largely exceeded any actual damage sustained
by the plaintiff. Exceptions were filed by both parties to this
report, and a "final decec was entered sustaining the exceptions filed by the defdqdants to the master's report, vacating
and setting ,aside such report, and decreeing nominal damages

SESSIONS v. ROI IADKA.
Argument for Romadka.

for the infringement. 21 Fed. :Rep. 124. Both parties appealed from this decree to this court.
.Ab'. C.

. .Mitchell for Sessions.

Mr. F. C. Winkler (with whom was Mr. J. G. Flanders on.
the brief) for Romadka.
I. Under the sweeping language of the Bankrupt Act, all
the bankriipt's property, of every species, whether scheduled .
or not, passed to the assignee. Comegys v. fasse, I Pet. 193;
_ilnor v. 2fetz, 16 Pet. 221; Clark 'v. Clark, 17 How. 315.;
Phelps v. 3_3Donald, 99 U. S. 298. The transfer being by
operation of law and by public record is ipso facto effective
against any subsequent purchaser, though not recorded. Prime
v. Brandon .1f'g Co., 16 Blatchford, 453. The pssignee can
neither be required nor permitted'by a speculative discretion
to settle questions of ownership between himself and the bankrupt. Berr'y v. Gillis, 17 N. H. 9; S. C. 43 Am. Dec. 584;
Tillary v. .Morris,5 Carr. & Payne, 6; Streeter v. Sumner,
31. \. H. 542; .Aount v. .Manhaitan,Co., 41 N. J. Eq. 211.
There can be no doubt that this patent right (and all rights
under it) vested completely and absolutely in the assignee in
bankruptcy. Mo'rse v. Godfrey, 3 Story, 364; Phillips v.
Helmbold, 26 N. "J. Eq. 202; Wickersham v. 2Ticholson, 14
S. & R. 118; S. C. 16 Am. Dec. 478; 3 ats v. fanufacturers'
.Nat.Bank, 64 Penn. St. '74; Bank v. Sherman, 101 U. S. 403.
This suit, therefore, stands as if Henry W. Poinier, notwithstanding his bankruptcy, brought suit on the patent, seeking
to recover, on what he had assigned to his creditors.
It is claimed, however, that an assignee has the discretion to
reject onerous or unprofitable assets and that in such case they
revert. to the bankrupt; and- a line of cases, resting upon- a..
line of English cases, is relied upon as supporting this. contention. We submit that this principle is subject to the following
limitations.
First. It is of course true that the assignee may fail to
reduce specific property to his possessibn, and in that case the
VOL. cXLV-3

OCTOBER TERTMr, 1891.
Argument for Romadka.

party having possession will have his possessory title, which
will be protected against the assaults of any mere trespasser.
This is necessarily confined to corporeal property. It can
have no application to a patent right. That passes at once by
the assignment and requires, and can have, no act of reducing
it to possession. There can be no adverse possession. Infringers may perhaps, to the extent of their infringement, hold a
quasi adverse possession. This may, unless timely action is
brought, protect them in the enjoyment of the fruits of their
acts. But there is and can be no adverse possession of the
right. It is not a "thing in possession."
Secondly. There are some things which, when assigned,
impose upon the assignee who accepts the assignments the
obligations of a covenantor, obligations which are enforceable,
not against the*property only by way of lien, but against 'the
assignee personally, as against a promisor. The common
instance of this is a lease. The assignee of a lease, by reason
of privity of estate, .becomes personally bound by its covenants. Hence it is held that an assignment in bankruptcy
does not operate to vest this kind of property in the assignee,
but that it vests only upon his express acceptance.
Subject to these two modifications, all property of the bankrupt, not exempted by statute, vests absolutely in the assignee.
It is not sound that the assignee may say to the bankrupt, This
thing, I think, is not worth much and I will .let you keep it.
The law,vests it in the assignee without regard to value. The
only case in which such a transaction can have any effect is.
where possessory rights accrue as a consequence. The supposed exception as to "unprofitable" property rests wholly
upon English authority. It does not, therefore, exist except so
far as it. is recognized by English adjudications. A mere dictum or use of a word where The actual -questionis not involved
,cannot extend it.
No claim is made that the patent was ever reassigned to'
PQiliier. He did not schedule it. The assignee never knew
of its existence. The principle of our bankrupt law was:
(1) To divesLthe ban-i~,pt of all his property; not.exempt, and
make it over aosolutely to his creditors for the payment of his

SESSIONS v. RO MADKA,.,
Argument for Romadka.

debts; (2) To leave to the bankrupt all he might thereafter
earn, and give him release frbm his old debts upon compliance
with proper conditions.
The property transferred to the assignee he does not get
back unless his debts are paid in full: -An assignee may be
discharged, or an assignee may die, but the trust remains
while there is property unadministered and debts remain unpaid. "No principle," says Judge Story, "is more firmly
established than that a trust will never fail for want of a
trustee."
Hence we find that when long after estates in bankruptcy
have appaiently beeA closed assets are found to exist, the
court will appoint a new trustee to take charge of and administer them. Clark v. C016k, 1-7 How.,315."
I. The patent is void on its face, for that it covers several
distinct inventions, and this defect cannot be cured by disclaimer.
The Taylor patent of 1872 covers four entirely distinct inventions, in no way connected in design and consideration.
The patent is therefore void. -Evans v. Eaton, 3 Wheat. 506;.
Barrett v. 1all, 1 Mason, 447; .Jloody v .Fiske, 2 Mason, 112;
Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story, 273.. The decision of the department,
as well as of the, courts, has been uniform that such diverse
inventions cannot be united in one patent.
This patent was held. void by the court below for this
reason. Sessions v. lomadka, 21 Fed. Rep. 121; but the
court held that thd defect was within the remedial reach of a
disclaimer. Thereupon, on the 30th of July, 1884, John H.
Sessions, the complainant, filed a disclaimer of the first, second
and fourth claims. All infringement had ceased a year before
this disclaimer was filed.
It is true that if this patent could be saved bya disclaimer
it saved the suit. But did it save damages which accrued before it was filed? Perhaps it did so far as they accrued to the
party who files the disclaimer. But could it possibly save
damages which accrued to the former owner, Poinier? He
has not disclaimed. While he held the patent. it was void.
What claim for damages could he transfer to plaintiff in 1878?

.36

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Argument for Romadka.

If he transferred none, how can any subsequent act of Sessions create them?
III. The allowance of nominal damages only was correct.
The, burden of proof to show the defendants' profits is wholly
on the complainant. Garretsom v. Clark, 15 Blatchford, 70;
S. C. on appeal, 111 U. S. 120; -Dobson v. Zartford Carpet Co.,
114 U. S. 444; Goulds' _Man'g Co. v. Cowing, 1. Blatchford,
243; . C. 14 Blatchford, 315; Ingersoll v. .Musgrove, 14
Blatchford, 541. Unless he furnishes the requisite evidence
on every essential point, he can have nominal damages only.
Rude v. Westcott, 130 U. S. 152. The mode adopted by the
master furnished a false test.
And further, so far as the damages before the assignment
by Poinier are concbrned, ihe right to recover them never
passed out of him.
IV. Section 4900 of the Revised Statutes provides that "it
shall be the du'ty of all patentees, and their assigfis
vending any patented article

.

.

.

to give sufficient notice

to the public that the same is patented, either by fixing
thereon the word 'patented,' together with the day and
year the patent was granted, or when from the character of
the article th1as cannot be done, by fixing to it or to the package wherein one or more of them is enclosed, a label containing the like notice, and in any suit for infringement by the
.party failing so to- mark, no damages shall be recovered by
the plaintiff, except on proof that the - defendant was duly
notified of the infringement and continued after such notice
to make, use or vend the article so patented."
The complainant in this case was a large manufacturer and
vendor of the 'patented article in question. Two specimens
offered in evidence were sworn to by him as .embodying the
patent and to be of his manufacture. 'It was obvious to the
court -from their inspection that it could not be truthfully
said of them that "from the character of the article" the
affixing of the word "patented" with the date of the patent
"could not be done.", The complainant claimed in general
terms that he had notified defendants by letter, but made no
sufficient proof to that effect.

SESSIOKNS 0: ROMADKA.

..37

Opinion of the Court.

The statute is that no damages shall be recovered by the'
plaintiff "except on _proof that the defendant was duly 'notifed of the -infringement and continued. afteo such notice to
make, use or vend the article so patented."
Here is a notice to be given which is expected to be acted
upon, and the non-action will involve substantial pecuniary
consequences. We submit that such a notice must be given
in writing; also, that a complainant who would rely upon
it, in place of complyirg with the statute duty of marking
his goods, 9hould allege it and make satisfactory proof.
It is no answer to say that the defendants "doubtless" knew
of the Taylor patent. That is not "being notified of the
infringement." The rights enjoyed by complainant are great.
They levy tribute on the whole country. They are p,privilege.
But they are purely statutory. Compliance with the statute
is the condition precedent to their enjoyment. As the benefits conferred are great, it is but due that compliance with
that condition should be insisted on. At best complainant
would be entitled to damages only after notice given.
V. This was a'mere claim for a tort to third persons. It
passed to the assignee by the assignment.' The assignee had
to assert it by suit within two years after his appointment.
When it passed back to the bankrupt by reason of the refusal
of the assignee to take it, assuming such to be the case, it
passed subject to the statute of limitations governing the
assignee, and had to be asserted within the two years, which
was riot done.
. . J'sTcE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
'opinion of the court.
1. Defendants attack: the'title f' the plaintiff t5 this patent upon the ground that Poinier, who bought the patent of
Taylor in 1872, and subsequently, in 1878, sold it to Sessions,.
bad, prior to such' sale, and in September, 1876, been duly
adjudicated a bankrupt in the District Court of the United
States for.the District of New Jersey, and an assignee appointed, in whom, it is claimed, the legal title to the patent

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

vested. It seems, however, that roinier did not include this
patent in his schedule of assets, upon the ground, as he said,
of its being unproductive property and of no value. Indeed,
all that he seems to have done with the patefit was to make a
lot of trunk fasteners in 1872, which proved to be failures, and
which appear to have been the cause of his insolvency. He
made no others for the three years before he went into bankruptcy. On May 15, 1877, he received his' discharge, and on
INovember 27 of the same year his asignee was discharged.
On June 12, 1878, thirteen months 4fter Poinier had received
his discharge, and six nionths after his assignee had been
discharged, Sessions bought a shop right of Poinier, for which
he paid him $500, and in the same year purchased the patent
itself, for which he paid him $1000 additional. Mr. Shepard,
who acted as the agent of the plaintiff in making this purchase, testifies that he went to Newark on the morning of
June 6,1878," and inquired for Henry W. Poinier. "I was
informed that one Mr. Miller was his assignee, and'that I
could learn of his affairs by seeing him. I then went to the
office of Mr. Miller and found him there, introduced myself,
and told him that I had come to see him about a patent for a
trunk fastener which was owned by Henry W. Poinier, and
under which said Poinier had been making trunk fasteners;
and I asked Mr. Miller if he would sell me said patent, or give
me a shop right thereunder, as the assignee of Mr. Poinier.
Mr. Miller replied that. he could not do so; that the estate was
all settled up; he had made his return to the court, and, had
been discharged as assignee, and he had no power to do anything
in the matter. I asked him what I could do, and he said the
only thing was to go to Mr. Poinier; that Poinier was the
only one who could give me any title. . . . I learned that
Mr. Poinier was in Rochester." While the assignee does not
recollect the conversation, there is nothing to disprove Mr.
Sessions's version of it; nor is it strange that Miller did not
recollect it, as he acted as assignee in-some six or seven hundred
cases, and could hardly be expected to remember all the transactions connected with them. It is undisputed that Shepard
went to Newark to find Poinier, and subsequently went to,

SESSIONS v. ROMALDKA
Opinion of the Court.

Rochester and found him there. The first assignment from
Poinier was executed August 16, 1878, and conveyed only the.
title to the patent itself; but a second assignment, bearing
date September 24, included also all rights of action for
infringement from the-date that Poinier himself. acquired the
title to it.
While, under the provisions of the bankrupt law, the title
to this patent undoubtedly passed to the assignee in: bankruptcy of Poinier, it passed subject to an election on his part'
not to accept it, if, in his opiiiion, it was worthless, or would
prove to be burdensome and unprofitable. And he was
entitled to a reasonable time to elect whether he would accept
it or-not. Anerican. File Co. v. Garrett, 110 U. S. 288, 295;
.Lwrence, 3
Spcrhawk v. Yekeq, 142 U. S. 1; Amory ijr
Cliff. 523, 535.
In this case the assignee had taken a year to wind up the
estate, and had given no sign of his wish to assume this property, if indeed he knew of its existence, On being asked with
reference to it by the proposed purchaser, he replied that the
estate was all settled up, that he had no power to do anything
in the inatter, and that Poinier was the only one who -could
give a title. A plainer election not to accept can hardly be
imagined. Granting that up to that time he had known
nothing about the patent, it was his duty to inquire into the
matter if he had any thought of accepting it,-and not to mislead tle plaintiff's agent by referring him to the bankrupt as
the proper person -to apply to. Under the circumstances,
plaintiff could do nothing but purchase of -P6inier. Bearing
in mind that no claim (o this property is now made by the
assignee, but that his alleged title to it is set iVp by a third
person, who confessedly has no interest ifi it himself, it is
entirely clear that the defendanis 6ught not to prevail as
against a purchaser who bought it of the bankrupt after the
assignee had disclaimed any interest in it.
Had the existence of this patent been concealed by the
bankrupt, or the assignee- had discovered it subsequently after his discharge -and desired to take possession of it for
the benefit of the estate, it is possible the bankruptcy court

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

might reopen the case and vacate the discharge for that purpose. Clark v. Clark, 17 How. 315. But it does not lie in
the mouth of an alleged infringer to set up the right of the
assignee as against a title from the bankrupt acquired with
the consent of such assignee.
It "squite evident from the facts stated that this patent,
which seems to have been the cause of Poinier's insolvency,
was thought to be of little or no value, that the assignee so
regarded it, and that its real value was only discovered when
the plaintiff had brought to bear upon the manufacture of the
device his own skill and enterprise.
2. Defendants are charged with infringing the, third claim
of the Taylor patent, which was for a spring fastener, modifications of which are now in almost universal use, as a substitute for the old-fashioned strap and buckle., Upon the hearing
in the court below, it was. claimed the patent was invalid by
reason of the joinder of distinct inventions in the same patent
- inventions, which, though applicable to the same article, viz.:
a trunk, do not co-operate in the use of such article. The
court below was evidently inclined to this opinion, but permitted the plaintiff to enter a disclaimer of all the claims but
the one in suit. Whether these different devices were properly
embodied in the same patent or not, we think this was a proper
case for a disclaimer under section 4917. While the lariguage
of this section provides for disclaimers "whenever, through
inadvertence, accident or mistake, and without any fraudulent
or deceptive intention, a patentee has claimed more than that
of which he 'was the original, or first inventor or discoverer,"
it allows the patentee to "make disclaimer of such parts of thething patented as he shall not choose to claim or hold by
virtue of the patent or assignment, stating therein the extent
of his interest in such patent." We think this section broad
enough to cover disclaimers made to avoid the effect of having
included in the patent more deyices than could properly be
made the subject of a single patent. The power to disclaim is
a beneficial one, and ought not to be denied except where it is
resorted to for a fraudulent and deceptive purpose. In Tuck
v. B.Panikill, 6 BRatchford, 95, a disclaimer was allowed by

SESSIONS v. ROMADKA.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Blatchford where two or more inventions were
covered by a single claim. In Hailes v. Alhany Stave Co.; 123
U. S. 582, 587, it was said by Mr. Justice Bradley to be" usually
and properly employed for the surrender of a separate claim
in a patent, or some other distinct and separable matter, which
can be exscinded without mutilating or changing what is left
standing."
The only difficulty connected with the question of the disclaimer in this case arises from the final, sentence of section
4917, that "no such disclaimer shall affect any action pending
at the time of its being filed, except so far as may relate to
the question of unreasonable neglect or delay in filing it."
There is an unfortunate choice of language here which has
rendered this sentence very ambiguous -and difficult of construction. It was held by Mr. Justice Story in Reed 'v. Cutter,
1 Story, 590, 660, that, if the disclaimer were filed during the
pendency of the suit, the plaintiff would not be entitled to thebenefit thereof in that suit-a ruling which had also been
made in 1Fyet/k v. Stone, 1 Story, 273, 294. It was held in
Tuck v. Brazhill, 6 Blatchford, 95, that the provision meant
that a suit pending when a disclaimer is filed is not to be
affected by such filing so as to prevent the plaintiff from
recovering in it, unless it appears that the plaintiff unreasonably neglected or delayed to file the disclaimer. And such
was also the ruling of Mr. Justice Kelsbn iii Cuyan v. Serrell,
1 Blatchford, 244; and, in .UaZl v. Wiles, 2 Blatchford, 194,
198. ' We think that section 4917 ought to be read in conne6tion with section 4922, providing that the patentee may maintain a suit at- law or in equity for the infringement of any part
of the thing patented, notwithstanding the specifications may
embrace'more than that of which the patentee was the first
inventor or discoverer; bilt in every such case in which a judgment or decree shall be rendered for the plaintiff no. costs
shall be recovered, unless the proper disclaimer has been entered at the Patent Office before the conmmencement of the
suit. oThis was practically the construction given to corresponding sections of the act of 1837 by this court in Smith v.
.Nichols,21 Wall. 112; and of the Revised Statutes in Dutnbar

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

v. 2fyers, 941 U. S. 187, 193. Under section 4922 the effect of
delaying a disclaimer until after the commencement of the
suit goes ofily to the recovery of costs. We adhere to that construction. Congress, having in the Revised Statutes adopted
the language used in the act of 1837, must be considered to
have adopted also .the construction given by this court to this
sentence, and made it a part of the enactment.
3. The essential feature of the Taylor patent consists of a
plate attached to the body of the trunk, which contains a
socket and hinged catch, and a double acting spring whose
function is to hold the catch either open or shut, and a tang
fastened to the lid, which, as the lid is closed, drops into the
socket holding the catch, which, when closed, holds the lid
firmly in place. It also acts as a dowelto keep the cover from
racking.
Of the alleged anticipating devices the patent to Gaylord
of 1861 is a trunk lock, not, as ih this case, a fastener, designed
to supplement the lock, and differing from the old-fashioned
and well-known trunk lock principally in discarding the hinged
hasp and using a rigid tang attached to the cover, which sinks
into the socket iA the body of the trunk prepared to receite
it, and is there self-locked, but is unlocked only with an ordiliary key. It was not designed at all to supersede the buckle
and strap, but was only a substitute for, and an improvement
upon, the ordinary lock. In short, it is a modification of the
spring lock previously used upon trunks.
The Roulstone patent of 1866 is for an improvement in
travelling bags, and shows'a spring-locking device for securing
the two parts of the bag firmly together. It has no features
in common with the trunk fastener of Taylor, and is not
adapted to hold the lid of a trunk firmly to the body. It has
no means for holding the catch out of engagement when, desired, and is wholly unlike the modern trunk fastener.
The patent to Semple of 1868 covers an angle plate upon the
trunk cover, provided at the end side with a dQwel in combination with a small plate upon the box, provided with a loop
into which the dowel enters, and at the front side witha hasp
and staple to be used with a padlock. The object was to

SESSIONS v. ROMADKA.
Opinion of the Court.

fasten and hold together the box and the cover of the trunk,
but the means provided for accomplishing this are so different
from those employed by Taylor that they can hardly be compared.. Besides the device is evidently of no utility.
The patent to Cutter of 1868 was also for an improvement in
trunk locks, especially adapted for security against an unauthorized opening of the trunk, and operated only by an independent and detachable key. It appears to be self-locking
and does not differ materially from the ordinary spring lock.
It is not a trunk. fastener, as distinghished from a lock, and is
not designed to be used as a substitute for the strap and
buckle.
The patent to Locke of 1871 consists of straps made of hoop
iron, steel or brass, or other metals which yield readily, their
upper ends resting loosely in caps or escutcheons, so as to have
a slight degree of lateral play, the lower ends being formed
dovetailed and adapted to engage with catches attached to the
body of the trunk. The lower end of the strap rides over
the lugs of the catches until the cover is fully closed, when the
inclines of the strap and the lugs coincide, and the straps then
drop into place and remain locked. This device is undoubtedly
a fastener, as distinguished from a lock, -but it lacks the rigid
tang, the hinged catch, the spring-in short,.all the essential
features of the Taylor invention.
The Hillebrand patent is also for a trunk lock, and, like the
others, is operated by an independent key, and also lacks the
features of the Taylor patent.
The Ransom patent is for a trunk fastener, consisting of two
parts, one of which is attached to the, body of the trunk and
the other to the lid. It does not, however, contain the socket
open at the top and designed to receive a rigid tang, nor does
it contain the other mechanism of the Taylor patent. Whileintended to accomplish the same purpose, the means used are
*so different that it is far from being an anticipation
There are none of these patents which contain the peculiar
combination of thdeT'ylor devic&, none which, had Taylor
known of them,. would have suggested his own invention.
W*hile his device -is-soim- hat Qrude, as compaxed -with the im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

proved styles of trunk fasteners now in use, it contains the
underlying principle of all of them. In short, we find no difficulty in holding that there is patentable novelty in the Taylor fastener, and that it is not knticipated by'any of' the
devices put in evidende. If there were any doubt of this, in
view of the fact that Taylor seems to -have been the first to
invent a practical trunk fastener to take the place of the oldfashioned strap and buckle, and that, improved upon, as it undoubtedly has been, it has completely taken the place of the
earlier devices, we should be inclined to resolve this doubt in
favor ol the-patentee.
4. The 'question of infringement is not so easy, asI the
Romadka patent,' under which the defendants manufacture,
approximates more cldsely to the ordinary form of the spring
lock than does the Taylor patent. The difference between the
two patents, however, is more in their outward appearance than
in their substantial features. Both resemble the spring lock in
having a rigid tang with a notch in it -to receive a catch
actuated by a spring, and in being self-locking if the catch be
closed when th& tang enters the socket; both differ from it in
the fact that the device may be unlocked without the aid of a
key by a simple motion of the.finger, and hence is not designed
to protect against unauthorized opening. The essential features of each are the same. Both have a rigid tang attached
to the cover of the trunk -in the Taylor patent with a hole
in it, and in the Romadka patent with a notch to receive
the- catch; both have a socket attached to the body of the
trunik containing a hinged catch actuated by a spring which
fits into the hole or notch in the tang. In the Tiylor patent
the catch is held open and shut by a flat spring, and operates
at right angles to the plane of the trunk; in the Romadka device the catch is held by i-wire spring, and is moved sideways
or parallel with the plane of .the trunk by a slight projection
at the side of the socket. Both are identical in principle,
'No. 163,028, issued April 10, 1875, to Anthony V. Romadka, stated by
him to have ".for its object a certain improvemeht upon the fastener
patented to me, December 23, 1873," by letters patent No. 145,817, of that
date. - [REPORTER.]

SESSIONS v-. ROMADKA.

45

Opinion of the Court.

,operation and design, though the trunk fasteners now in ordinary use resemble the Taylor more than the Romadka patent.
In view of the fact that Taylor was a pioneer in the art of
making a practical metallic trunk fastener, and invented a
principle which has gone into almost universal use in this,
country, we think he is entitled to a liberal construction of his
claim, and that the Romadka device, containing as it does all
the elements of his combination, should be held an infringement, though there are superficial dissimilarities in their construction.
5. It only remains to consider the question of damages.
Before the invention of these fasteners, straps and buckles
were universally used to hold the lid of the trunk fast to the
body, in aid of the lock, and dowels appear to have been in
common use to prevent a lateral movement of the lid. Trunks
with straps to support the lock were considered imperfect and
unserviceable, and the dowels had become a recognized necessity, except where strength and durability were of no consequence. In this connection the master allowed the difference
between the cost of trunk fasteners and the straps, buckles
and dowels previously in use for the same purpose, and the
court overruled the measure of damages thus adopted, and entered a decree for nominal damages only.
I It seems the defendants did not manufacture these fasteners
for sale, but did manufacture them for use on the trunks made
and sold by them. Obviously their profits upon the entire
trunk would not be a proper measure of damages, since the
fasteners were only an inconsiderable part of the trunk, and
profits upon the entire article are only allowable where such
article is wholly the invention of the patentee, or where its
entire value is properly and legally attributable to the patented feature. Seymour v. McCormick, 16 How. 480; Mowry
v. WFitney, 14 Wall. 620; Littlefteld v. -Perry,21 Wall. 205;
Garretson v. C0a&rk, 111 U. S. 120. This court -has, however,
repeatedly held that, in estimating damages in the absence of
a. royalty, it is proper to consider the savings of the defendant
in the use of the patented device over what-was known and in
general use for the same purpose anterior to the date of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

patent. Thus, in .Mowry v. IYkitney, 14 Wall. 620, 649, it was
said by Mr. Justice Strong, that "it is the additional advantage the defendant derived from the process - advantage beyond what he had without it -for which he must account."
In that case the master reported the difference between the
cost of certain car wheels and the price for which they were
sold as the profits realized by the defendant, thus charging
him the profit obtained from the entire wheel, instead of that
resulting from the use of. the patentee's invention in a part of
the manufacture. It was held -not to be a legitimate'construction of the findings that the benefit which the defendant derived from the use of the complainant's invention was equal to
the aggregate of profits he obtained from the manufacture and
sale of the wheels as entireties, after they had been completed;
but that the question to be determined was -what advantage
did the defendant derive from using the complainant's invention over what he had in using other processes then o'bn to
the public and adequate to enable him to obtain an equally
-beneficial result? The same principle was applied in the case
of the Cawood Patent, 94 U. S. 695, 710, in which the defendant made use of an infringing swage block for the purpose
of reforming the ends of railroad rails which bad-become exfoliated by wear, and it was held that the gain in mending
these rails by the use of the plaintiff's device, compared with
the cost of mending on the common anvil, and the saving in
fuel and labor, were the proper measure of damages. "They
had the choice of repairing them on the common anvil or on
the complainant's machine. By selecting the latter, they saved
a large part of what they must have expended in the use of
the former. To that extent they had a positive advantage,
growing out of their invasion of complainant's patent." The
subject is also fully considered in the case of Tilghman v.
Proctor,125 U. S. 136, in which it was held that the plaintiff
may, instead of damages, recover the amount of gains and
profits the defendants have made by the use of his invention,
over what they would have had in using other means then
open to the public and adequate to enable them to obtain an
equally beneficial result. The patent in this case was for a

SESSIONS v. ROMADKA.
Opinion of the Court.

process of manufacturing fat acids and glycerine from fatty
bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure. In his report of damages- the master found that the
complainant derived no profit from the invention otherwise
than by granting licenses to others to use the same, but that
the defendant had derived large profits and savings by the use
of the plaintiff's patented process, which plaintiff sought to
recover in the suit. It was held by this court that, when a bill
in equity is filed by the owner against the infringers of a patent, the 'plaintiff is entitled to recover the amount of gains
and profits the defendant has made by the use of his invention,
not those he might reasonably have made, but those which he
did make, or, in other words, the fruits of the advantage
which he derived from the use of that invention over what he
would have had in using other means then open to the public
and adequate to enable him to obtain an equally beneficial
result.
An analogous rule was applied in Tilliarnl v. Railroad
Company, 18 Blatchford, 181, 185, wherein the patent was
for an improvement in locomotive lamps, which enabled the
burning of kerosene instead of lard oil in locomotive head
lights. The defendant used a number of the patented lamps
on its locomotives, and it was held that its profits were the
difference between the cost of the kerosene which it burned
and the lard oil which it woluld have had to burn in lieu
thereof but for the use of th4 plaintiff's lamps." "The statute," said Mr. Justice Blatchford,. (Rev. Stat. ยง 4921,) "expressly gives to the plaintiff, on a recovery in a suit in equity
for an infringement, ' the profits' to be accounted for by the'
defendant.

.

.

.

The defendant made its election when it

infringed and subjected itself to a suit iaequity, and the plaintiff is entitled to the result of the choice he made of suing in
equity and not at law. The plaintiff made his inventions for
the purpose of enabling any one using' them to successfully
burn kerosene oil in lamps for locomotive head lights, and to
obtain the full advantage of its great light-producing capacity.
The defendant used them for that purpose and with that result, and must pay the profits 'or savings made thereby."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

We see no reason why this measure of damages should not
be applied to this case. The only argument to the contrary
is that the instances in which this court has applied this rule
are confined to those wherein the defendant has made use of
the-complainant's invention in the operation and conduct of
his business, and that it ought not to be extended to cases
in which the defendant manufactures- and sells the devices.
Without questioning at this time the soundness of this contention,-we think this case' falls within the former rather than
within the- latter category. The defendant does not maikufacture and sell trunk fasteners as such, but he does make and
use them in the business' 6f manufacturing trunks, and the
difference between such use of them and the use of the oldfashioned strap and buckle represents his profits. If the defendant manufactured and sold trunk fasteners to be attached
to trunks by his vendees, it might be justly claimed that he
did not use them; but -ifhe manufactures them solely to be
attached to trunks made and sold by himself, it is none the
less a use bf thein than ft he had used the trunk to which they
were .attached for his. own purposes. If, to put an analogous
case. a person made a business of manufacturing and selling
steam engines to which he attached a patented lubricator, it
could hardly be claimed that he was a manufacturer and seller
of lubricators, -but he would clearly be liable as a user of
-them.
In such case it makes no. difference whether his general
business has been conducted at a profit or loss, or whether
he has derived an additional profit from the sale of trunks
equipped with this device over those not so equipped, although
the presumption would be, from the saving made by him in
the use of this device, that an additional profit upon the sale
of the trunks Was made, unless it were. shown that the use of
this device in some way resulted in, a diminution of profits
upon the entire manufacture As was said in the Cawood
.Patent, 94: U. S: 695, '710: "If their general business was unprofitable, it .was the less so in consequence of their use of the
plaintiifs property. They gained; therefore, to the extent
that they saved themselves from loss. In settling an account

SESSIONS v. ROMADKA.
Opinion of the Court.

between a patentee and an infringer of the patent the question
is, not what profits the latter has made in his business, or from
his manner of conducting it, but what advantage has he derived from his use of the patented invention." See also
Tilghrman v. Proctor,125 U. S. 136.
The master apparently computed the profits received by the
defendants from the infringement upon the basis of the interlocutory decree referring the case to him to ascertain and
report the number of fasteners made and used by the defendants, and the gains, profits and advantages they received from
the infringement, etc.; and as, in the view we have taken of
this case, there was nothing inequitable in this measure of
damages, we see no reason for disturbing the report .of the
master in that particular.
6. Furtier objection is made to a recovery of profits in this
case upon the ground of a non-compliance with the requirements of :Rev. Stat. sec. 4900, in -failing "to give sufficient
notice to the public that the same" (that is, the article) "is
patented, either by affixing thereon the word 'patented,' together with the day and year the patent was granted, or
when, from the character of the article this cannot be done,
by fixing to it, or to the package wherein one or more of them
is enclosed, a label containing the like notice; and in any suit
for infringement, by the party failing so to mark, no damages
shall be recovered by the plaintiff, except on proof that the
defendant was duly notified of the infringement, and continued, after such notice, to make, use or vend the article so
patented." The averment of the bill in this connection is
"that great numbers of trunk catches, containing and embodying the said invention

.

.

.

have been manufactured by

your orator and the previous owners of said letters patent,
which said catches- were marked with the word ' patent ' and.
with the year and day of the month of the date of said letters
patent; that the public generally have acknowledged the.
validity of said letters patent and have generally acquiesced
in the right aforesaid of your orator." It appears that the
plaintiff did stamp upon the larger sizes the fact and the date
of the patent, but that he failed to affix such stamp to the
VOL. CXLV-1

OCTOBER- TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

smaller sizes, on account of the difficulty of marking them in
such way that the mark would be legible when the catches
were japanned or tinned. It is not altogether clear that the,
stamp could not have been made upon the smaller sizes, but,
in a doubtful case, something must be left t6-the judgment of
the patentee, who appears in this case to have complied with
the alternative provision of the act, in affixing a label to the
packages in which the fasteners were shipped and sold. He
testified in this connection that, with thl two small sizes, it
was impracticable to cast the stamp upon the castings; but
that he always marked the packages "patented." The fact
that triis device was patented could hardly have escaped the
notice of Romadka, since the earliest fasteners made under the
patent, which were manufactured and sold by Poinier, were
duly stamped, and Romadka.had dealt with him, bqught bags
of him, and said to Sessions that he could have bought the
patent for a low price. Although there is an averment in the
answer that the defendants have no knowledge or information
save from said bill of complaint, whether the catches were
marked with the word "patented," etc., and therefore deny
the same, there is no denial of their knowledge that the
Taylor device was patented; and in view of the fact that all
letters patent are recorded, with their specifications, in the
Patent Office, a record which is notice to all the world, it is
not an unreasonable requirement that the defendant, who
relies upon a want of kfiowledge upon his part of the actual
existence of the patent, should aver the same in his answer,
that the plaintiff may be duly advised of the defence. Rubber
Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 801; Allen v. Deacon, 10 Sawyer, 210.
7. A further point is made that the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover for any profits accrued prior to September 12, 1876,
when Poinier was adjudicated a bankrupt that any. right of
action which he then possessed passed to his assignee and, so
long as it remained in his hands, became subject to the statutory limitation of two years within which, by Rev. Stat. sec.
5057, the assignee is bound to institute suit. It is insisted that
if he abandoned the claims against third parties for infringe-

SESSIONS v. ROADKA.
Opinion of the Court.

ment he abandoned them subject to the limitation of two
years within which he was himself obliged to bring suit, and
that Poinier himself, and the plaintiff, his assignee, took them
subject to that limitation. In this connection the defendant
relies upon the case of Kenyon v. W-isley, 147 Mass. 476, In
this case the assignee abandoned to the bankrupt the right to
sue upon a promissory note which he considered worthless, and
the plaintiff brought suit upon the same nine years after the
adjudication and assignment. It was held, that the plaintiff
had no right to recover; but the decision was placed upon the
express ground that the assignee did not elect to abandon the
claim, and did not consent to a suit upon it by the plaintiff,
until after his right of action was barred by the statute: and
it was held that, as the right of suit upon the note was barred
while in the hands of, the 2signee, it was not revived by the
election of the assignee to abandon it to the plaintiff. In Gifford v. 1el~ms, 98 U. S. 24, and in Wisner v. Brown, 122
U. S.214, it was held by ths*court that purchasors of property
from an assignee in bankruptcy could not maintain a suit in
equity against third persons claiming adverse interests in such
property, if, at the time of the purchase from the assignee, his
right of action was, under the bhnkruptcy act, barred by the
lapse of time.
In Greene v. 'aylor, 132 U. S. 415, 443, the court went a
step further, and held that if, at the time of the purchase from
the assignee, the statute had begun to run against the claim
or right in the hands of such assignee, the purchaser took the
right subject to the statutory limitation, and to the consequence
that when sufficient additional time should have run against it
in the hands of the purchaser to make up the entire two years,
the claim or right would be .wholly barred. "No initiation of
a new period of limitation, under any statute, begins to run in
favor of the purchase' at the time of his purchase, whether the
two years wholly elapsed, or only a part thereof elapsed, while
the claim was owned by the assignee." We are of opinion,
however, that this. rule does not apply where the assignee,
before the expiration of the statutory time, elects to abandon
the property to the bankrupt. In such case the abandonment

