BARDON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

535

Opinion of the Qourt.

dence was offered as to the value of the supposed right sold,
and consequently no foundation laid for any recovery.
t follows that the judgment must be reversed, and the cause
remanded,with directions to the eourt below to grant a
new trial, a'nd to take further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion.

BARDON

v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.

APPEAL FOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DI&SRICIT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 343.

Argued April 27, 28,1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

Land which, at the time of the grant of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, e.217, of
public lands to the orthern Pacific Railroad Company, was segregated
from the public lands within the limits of the grant by reason of a prior
preemption claim to it, did not, 5y the cancellation of the preemption right
before the location of the grant pass to the company, but remained part
of the public lands of the United States, subject to be acquired by a subsequent preemption settlement followed up to acquisition of title.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

XPr. John B. Sanborn and Xr. WFilliam
pellant.

. VFilas for ap-

Mr. James i hNaught (with whom were Mr. F X. -Dudley,
.X. A. H. Garland and -Mr. H. J. -aay on the brief) for
appellee.
MR.JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the ophiion of the court.

The plaintiff, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, a
corporation organized under the act of Congress of July 2,
1861, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217, entitled "An act granting lands to
aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
Lake Superior to Puget's Sound on the Pacific coast by the
northern route," and having its principal places of business
in the city of New York, in the State of New York, and in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the city of St. Paul, in the State of Minnesota, brings this
suit against Mary Bardon, a citizen of Wisconsin, to charge
her as trustee of certain real property held by her in that State,
and compel her to convey the same to the company.
The bill, as amended, sets forth the most important provisions of the act of Congress organizing the company and
authorizing it to "locate, construct, furnish, maintain and
enjoy, a continuous railroad and telegraph line with the appurtenances, namely, beginning at a point on Lake Superior, in
the State of Minnesota or Wisconsin, thence, westerly, by the
most eligible railroad route, as should be determined by your
orator, within the territory of the United States, on a line north
of the forty-fifth degree of latitude, to some point on Puget's
Sound, with a branch via the valley of the Columbia River to
a point at or near Portland, in the State of Oregon," and vesting it with the powers, privileges and immunities necessary
to carry into effect the purposes of the act.
By the third section of the act a grant of land is made to
the company. The section, so far as it bears upon the questions involved, is as follows:
"SE. 3. And be it further enacted, That there be, and
hereby is, granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
its successors and assigns, for the purpose of .aiding in the
construction of said railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific
coast, and - to secure the safe and speedy transportation of
The mails, troops, munitions of war and public stores, over
tiae route of said line of railway, every alternate section of
public land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side of
said railroad line as said company may adopt through the
Territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of
land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever on the line thereof the
United States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted or
otherwise appropriated, and free from pregmption, or other
claims or rights, at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and whenever, prior to said

BARDO

v. -NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

537

Opinion of the Court.

time, any of said sections or parts of sections shall have been
granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected
by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections and designated
by odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits
of said alternate sections: Provided, That if said route shall
be folnd upon the line of any other railroad route to aid in
the construction of which lands have been heretofore granted
by the United States, as far as the routes are upon the same
general- line, the amount of land heretofore granted shall be
deducted from the amount granted by this act: Provided
further, That the railroad company receiving the previous
grant of land may assign their interest to said Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, or may consolidate, confederate and associate with said company upon the terms named in the first
section of this act."
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company, under this act of
incorporation, proceeded to designate the general route of its
proposed road, and afterwards to have its line definitely fixed.
The necessities of the case do not require us to go into a very
close consideration of these matters. The admissions of counsel reduce the questions for decision within narrow limits. It
is conceded that the premises in controversy lie within the
place limits of the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, and that the title to them would pass to that company under the grant and the compliance of the company with
its conditions, unless they are excepted from the grant by the
facts admitted in the pleadings and the stipulation of parties.
Among the facts admitted are these: That on and prior to
September 12, 1855, the tract of land, in relation to which this
suit was brought, had been surveyed by the United States and
was a part of the public domain, subject to sale by preemption
and otherwise as then provided by law; that on that day.
James S. Robinson, Jr., settled upon the land, and that he was
at the time a qualified preemptor; that on the 21st of September following he filed his declaration of settlement upon
the land, under the preainption laws, with the register dnd re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ceiver at the proper land office of the United States; that he
died without maing final proof on the preimption claim or
paying the government f6r the land; that after his death his
heirs, on the 30th of July, 1857, made payment for the land
and received the receiver's receipt therefor and a certificate of
purchase from the register, with the statement that, on its
presentation to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
the heirs would be entitled to receive a patent for the land;
that on the 5th of August, 1865, this preemption entry was
cancelled by the Commissioner of the General Land Office for
alleged failure to furnish proof of cbntinuous residence prior
to July 30, 1857; that Robinson did not , 'in his lifetime, pay
to the government the money required under the preemption
laws of the United States to acquire title to the land, except
such fees as are paid to local officers at the time of filing a
preemption application; and that whatever money was paid
for and on account of the land, prior to 1865, was paid by the
heirs of Robinson, except the fees mentioned, and whatever
money was thus paid was refunded to the heirs by the government upon the cancellation of the pre~mption claim.
It is thus seen that when the grant to the Northern Pacific
-Railroad Company was made, on the 2d of- July,. 1864, the
premises in controversy had been taken up on the preemption
claim 6f Robinson, and that the preemption entry made was uncancelled; that by such preemption entry the land was not at
the time a part of the public lands; and that no interest therein
passed to that 8ompany. The grant is of alternate sections
of public land, and by public land, as it has been long settled,
is meant such land as is open to sale or other disposition under
general laws. All land, to which any claims'or rights of others
have attached, does not fall within the designation of public
land. The statute also says that whenever, prior to the definite location of the route of the road, and of course prior to
the grant made, any of the lands which would otherwise fall
within it have been granted, sold, yeserved, occiipied by homestead settlers, or preempted or otherwise disposed of, other
lands are to be selected in lieu thereof under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior. There would therefore be no

BARDON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

53

Opinion of the Court.

question that the preemption entry by the heirs of Robinson,.
the payment of the sums due to the government having been
made, as the law allowed, by them after his death, took the
land from the operation of the subsequent grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, if the preemption entry had
not been subsequently cancelled. But such cancellation had
not been made when the act of Congress gianting land to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company was passed; it was made
more than a year itfterwards. As 'the land preempted then
stood on the records of the Land Department, it was severed
fr6m the mass of the public lands, and the subsequent cancellation of the pregmption entry did nbt restore it to the public
domain so as to bring it under the operation of previous legislation, which applied at the time to land then public. The
cancellation only brought it within the category of public land
in reference to future legislation. This, as we think, has long
settled doctrine of this court.
been
In the
Wilcox v. .ackson, 18 Pet. 498, 513, this court 4eld that
whenever a tract of land has been legally appropriated to any
purpose, fr6m that moment it becomes severed from the mass
of public lands, and no subsequent law, or proclamation, or
sale will be construed to embrace it, or to operate upon it,
although no reservation of it be made. The validity and
effect of the appropriation do not depend upon its not being
subjected afterwards to pancellation because of the omission
of some-particular duty of the party claiming its benefit.
In Witherspoon v. .Duncan,4 Wall. 210, 218, this court held
that if a party entitled by law to enter land at the land office.
does so, when the certificate of entry is given to him, a cbntract is executed between him and the government, and thereafter the land ceases to be a part of the public domain. Tl.
court considered the question whether there was any difference in such case between a cash and a donation entry, the
one being complete when the money was paid,, and the other
not until it was confirmed by the General Land Office and a
patent issued. There, it is true, the question was as to the
power of a State to tax the land before the patent issued, and
the court said if the law on the subject is complied with and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

the entry conforms to it, it is difficult to see why the right to
tax does not attach as well to the donation as to the cash
entry. In either case, when the entry is made and a certificate is given, the particular land is segregated from the mass
of public lands and becomes private property.
In Hastings &c. Railroad Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357,
361, this court, in commenting upon the decision in the case
last cited, said: "The fact that such an entry may not be confirmed by the land office on account of any alleged defect
therein, or may be cancelled or declared forfeited on account
of non-compliance with the law, or even declared void, after a
patent has issued, on account of fraud, in a direct proceeding
for that purpose in the courts, is an incident inherent in all
entries of public lanids." And it added: "In the light of
these decisions, the almost uniform practise of the department
has been to regard land, upon which an entry of record valid
upon its face has been-made, as appropriated and withdrawn
from subsequent homestead entry, preemption, settlement, sale
or grant until the original entry be cancelled or declared forfeited; in which case the land reverts to the government as
part of the public domain, and becomes again subject to entry
under the land laws."
The case of .eavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad
v. United States, 92 U. S. 33, well illustrates this doctrine.
It was here at October term, 18'T5, and was elaborately argued.
It was a suit in equity brought by the United States to establish their title to certain tracts of land, and to enjoin the railroad company from setting up any right or claim to them.
A grant had been made by the act of Congress of March 3,
1863, to the State of Kansas of certain tracts of land lying in
what is. known as the " Osage country," to aid in the construction of certain railroads and telegraph lines in that State.
Within the limits of the Osage country there had been
reserved by treaty with the Great and Little Osage tribes of
Indians certain described tracts of land in that State so long
as they might choose to occupy the same. (I Stat. 240.) The
act contained words of conveyance similar to those used in
other grants by Congress to aid in the conistructioia of rail-

BARDON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

541.

Opinion of the Court.

roads, without a specific exception of any lands as being subject to the use of the Indians. The only exceptions to the
granting clause were: 1st, that in case it should appear that
the United States had, when the lines or routes of the road
and branches were definitely fixed, sold any section or any
part thereof granted, or that the right of preemption or
homestead settlement had attached thereto, or the same had
been reserved by the United States for any purpose whatever,
then it should be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to
cause to be selected for the purposes aforesaid, from the public
lands of the United States nearest to tiers of sections above
specified, so much land, in alternate sections or parts of sections, designated by oqld numbers, as should be equal to such
lands as the United States had sold, reserved or otherwise
appropriated, or to which the right of preemption or homestead settlements had attached as aforesaid; and, 2d, that lands
previously reserved to the United States by an act of Congress,
or in any other manner by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any internal improvement, or for any other
purpose whatsoever, were reserved from the operation of the
act, except so far as it might be found necessary to locate the
routes of the road and branches through such reserved lands,
in which case the right of way only should be granted, subject
to the approval of the President of the United States. After
the granting act was passed the Indian title or right of occupancy was extinguished.
On the argument of the case the United States maintained
that the granting act, though not mentioning the claim of the
Indians, did not affect their lands, and was not intended to do
so. The railroad company, on the contrary, contended that
although the grant did not operate upon .Any specified lands
until the road was located, it covered the lands in controversy,
and by the extinction of the Indian title they had, .in the
proper sense of the term, become public lands. But the court
answered that the grant was made for the purpose of aiding a
work of internal improvement, and did not extend beyond that
intent; that the grant was one in prcesenti; and that the words
" there be and is hereby granted" were those of absolute

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

donation. "They vest," said the court, "a present title in the
State of Kansas, though a survey of the lands and a location
of the road are necessary to give precision to it and attach it
to any particular tract."
The lands granted were designated by odd-numbered sections within certain definite limits, and only the public lands,
said the court, owned absolutely by the United States were
subject to survey and division into sections, and to them only
was the grant applicable. It embraced, therefore, only Such
as could at the time be sold and enjoyed, and not those which
the Indians, pursuant to treaty stipulations, were left free to
enjoy. In affirmnance of its views the court added that since
the land system was inaugurated the grants of the government,
either to individuals or to aid in works of internal improvement, had always been recognized as attaching only to so
much of the public domain as was subject to sale or other
disposal, although the roads of many subsidized companies
passed through Indian reservations, observing that such grants
could not be otherwise construed, for Congress could not be
supposed to have thereby intended to include land previously
appropriated to another purpose, unless there was an express
declaration to that effect. A special exception- of it was not
necessary, because the policy which dictated them confined
them to land which Congress could rightfully bestow -without
disturbing existing relations and producing vexatious conflicts.
In Buttz v. The NYorthern, Pacito Railroad,119 U. S. 55,
a portion of the land granted was in the occupation of certain Indian tribes, and the act provided that the United
States should extinguish, as rapidly as might be consistent
with public policy and the welfare of the Indians, their title
to all lands falling under the operation of the act and acquired in the donation to the road -a provision which distinguished the grant from the one in The Leavenworth Case.
In The Buttz Case, the grant passed the land, therefore, to the
railroad company subject to the Indians' right of occupancy,
which could only be interfered with or determined by the
United States.
In The Leavenworth Case, the appellant, the railroad com-

BARDON v. NOfR1THERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

543

Opinion of the Court.

pany, contended that the fee of the land was in the United
States, and only a right of occupancy remained with the
Indians; that under the grant the State would hold the title
subject to their right of occupancy; but as that had been
subsequently extinguished, there was no sound objection to
the granting act taking full effect. The court, however,
adhered to its conclusion, that the land covered by the grant
could only embrace lands which were at the time public
lands, free from any lawful claim of other parties, unless
there was an express provision showing that the grant was
to have a more extended operation, citing the decision in
MIlcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, to which we have eferred
above, that land once legally appropriated to any purpose
was thereby severed from the public domain and a subsequent sale would not be construed to embrace it, though not
specially reserved. And of the Indians' right of occupancy it
said, that this right, with the correlative obligation of the
government to enforce it, negatived the idea that Congress,
even in the absence of any positive stipulation to protect the
Osages, intended to grant their land to a railroad company,
either absolutely or curlb onere. "For all practical purposes,"
the court added, "they owned it; as the actual right of
possession, the only thing they deemed of value, was secured
to them by treaty, until they should elect to surrender it to
the United States."
Three justices, of whom the writer of this opinion was one,
dissented from the majority of the court in Die Leavenworth
Case; but the decision has been uniformly adhered to since
its announcement, and this writer, after a much larger experience in the consideration of public land grants 'since that
time, now readily concedes that the rule of construction
adopted, that, in the absence of any express provisioh indicating otherwise, a grant of public lands only applies to lands
which are at the time free from existing claims, is better and
safer, both to the government and to private parties, than
the rule which would pass the property subject to the liens
and claims of others. The latter construction would open a
wide field of litigation between the grantees and third parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

A principle somewhat analogous to the one expressed in
The Leavenworth Case was announced in Kansas PacifJc Railway Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629. There a homestead
claim had been filed in the land office by one Miller upon
part of an odd-numbered section lying within the place limits
of the grant of land to the Union Pacific Railroad Company.
The claim was recognized by a certificate of entry before the
route of the company's road was definitely located. Subsequently to the defihite location, Miller abandoned his entry
and purchased the land from the railroad company, and to
him a certificate of sale was given. This certificate of sale
afterwards passed to one Lewis Dunmeyer, to whom the company gave a dead purporting to convey a good title. After
iller's purchase the homestead entry was cancelled. One
G. B. Dunmeyer then made an entry of the land under the
homestead law, claiming that by Miller's abandonment of the
former entry and its cancellation the land had not been
brought within the grant, but had reverted to the mass of the
public land. Lewis Dunmeyer then brought an action against
the company in the state court of Kansas, on the covenant in
the deed for a good title, and recovered judgment, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, and from that
court was brought here. The question, among others, considered was the effect of the abandonment of the homestead
claim by Miller upon the ownership of the property. It was
contended that although Miller's homestead claim had at-.
tached to the land within the meaning of the exception of the
gTant

before the line of definite location was filed, yet, when

he abandoned his claim so that it no longer existed, the exception ceased to operate, and the l9nd reverted to the company; .and that the grant, by its inherent force, reasserted
itself and extended to and covered the land as though it'had
never been within the exception. But the court rejected this
view, stating that it was unable to perceive the force of the
proposition, observing: "No attempt has ever been made to
include lands reserved to the United States, which reservation afterwards ceased to exist, within the grant, though this
road, and others with grants in similar language, have more

BARDON v.

ORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

545

Opinion of the Court

than once passed through military reservations for forts and
other purposes, which have been given up or abandoned as
such reservations, and were of great value; .nor is it understood that in any case where lands had been otherwise disposed of, their reversion to the government brought them
within the grant." Not only does the land once reserved not
fall under the grant should the reservation afterwards from
any cause be removed, but it does not then become a source
of indemnity for deficiencies in the place limits. Such deficiencies can only be supplied from lands within limits designated by the granting act or other law of Congress. The
land covered by the preemption entry being thereby excepted
from the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
was also thereby excepted from any withdrawals from sale or
preemption of public lands for its benefit.
From the decisions cited, and approving, as we do, the reasons on which they are founded, it follows that the land in
controversy, upon which Robinson had made a preemption
claim as early as September 12, 1855, it being then open to
preemption sale, and subsequently filed his declaration of settlement under the preiemption laws, and by whose heirs, after
his death, payment of the purchase price had been made, and
to them a receiver's receipt therefor given, and a certificate of
entry issued to them, was severed from the mass of public
lands from which the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company could alone be satisfied. That preemption entry remained of record until August 5, 1865, when it was cancelled,
but this was after the date of the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and also after the dates of the Aev_
eral grants made to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of railroad and telegraph lines within that State.
The cancellation, as already said, did not have the effect of
bringing the land under the operation of the grant to the
Northern Pacific Railroad, Company; it simply restored the
land to the mass of public lands to be dealt with subsequently
in the same manner as any other public lands of the United
States not covered by or excepted from the grant.
No disposition was subsequently made of the land thus reVOL. cxLv-35

