OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Without more, what we have said in the preceding case is
sufficient to dispose of this, and the decree of the Circuit Court
is
_A

ftrmed.

WILLARD v. WILLARD.
APPEAL FROM- THE SUPREME COURT
LIUEBIA.
No. 318. Argued April 18, 1892.-

OF

THE

DISTRICT OF 00-

Decided May 2,1892.

Under the act of August 15, 1876, c. 297, relating to partition of real estate
in the District of Columbia, a tenant in common in fee, whose title is
clear, may have partition, as of right, but by division or sale, at the
discretion of the court.
A pending lease for years is no obstacle to partition between owners of the
fee.
A bill in equity, under the act of August 15, 1876, c. 297, need set forth no
more than the titles of the parties, and the plaintiff's desire to have partition by division of the land, or, if in the opinion of the court this cannot be done without injury to the parties, then by sale oT the land and
division of the proceeds.

THis was a bill in equity filed January 3, 1888, by Henry
K. Willard against Joseph C. Willard, under the act of August
15, 1876, c. 297, (which is copied in the margin,3 for partition
1

An act relating to partition of real estate in the District of Columbia.

SEC. 1. All tenants in common and coparceners of any estate in lands,
tenements or hereditaments, equitable as well as legal, within the District
of Columbia, may, in the discretion of the court, be compelled in any court
of competent jurisdiction to make or suffer partition of such estate or
estates. In proceedings for partition all persons in interest shall be made
parties in the same manner as in cases of equity jurisdiction. And in proceedings for partition under this act, the court may, in addition to the
powers herelit conferred, exercise such powers as are or may be conferred
by virtue of the general equity jurisdiction of the court.
SEC. 2. The court, in all cases, in decreeing partition, may, if it satisfactorily appears that said lands and tenements, or any estate or interest
therein, cannot be divided without loss or injury to the parties interested,
decree a sale thereof, and a division of the money arising from such sale
among the parties, according to their respective rights and interests.

WILLARD v. WILLARD.
Statement of the Case.

of land in the city of Washington, bounded on Pennsylvania
Avenue on the south, Fourteenth street on the east, and F
street on the north, containing more than 33,000 square feet,
and with the building thereon known as Willard's Hotel.
The allegations of the bill were that .the plaintiff and the
defendant were the owners of the land in fee simple, as tenants
in common, and each the owner of an undivided half; that the
plaintiff became and was the owner of his half under a deed
from Henry A. Willard, dated December 1, 1887, and duly
recorded; and that the plaintiff desired to have partition of
the land, and to have his share thereof set apart to him in
severalty; or, if in the opinion of the court the land could
not be specifically divided between the parties without loss
and injury to them and to the purposes for which the land was
used, that for the purposes of partition it might be sold, and
the proceeds divided between him and the'defendant; and he
prayed for partition accordingly.
The answer, filed March 6, 1888, alleged that the plaintiff's
father, Hlenry A. Willard, and the defendait were the owners
in fee simple, as tenants in common, of the land; and that it
was of great value, and for the past twenty-five years and upwards had been leased by Henry A. Willard and the defendant to different persons for hotel purposes, and was now under
lease and used as a hotel at a remunerative rental; that the
defendant had no knowledge of the conveyance to the jlaintiff, and required proof thereof; and denied that the defendant should be compelled to make or suffer partition of the
land, or that it was within the power of the court to deprive
him, against his will and without his consent, of his interest
and estate in the whole land, either by a partition in severalty
or by a sale thereof.
SEc. 3. In all such sales, unless the court shall by special order direct or
require, on good cause shown, that the sale be made for cash, the purchase
money shall be payable one third on day of sale, one third in one year,
and one third in two years thereafter, with interest, the deferred payments
to be secured to the parties, according to their respective interests, by good
and sufficient mortgage upon the premises so sold, which shall be subject
to the approval of the court. "19 Stat. 202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

A general replication was filed, and proofs taken, which
showed the following facts: The defendant and Henry A.
Willard-made a lease of the land for five years and four months
from January 1, 1884, at an annual rent of $20,500, to Phoebe
D. Cook, which was afterwards assigned, with the lessors' consent, to Orrin G. Staples. On December 1, 1887, Henry A.
Willard conveyed to the plaintiff an undivided half of the
land, in fee simple, by deed duly recorded. The property was
peculiarly adapted to hotel purposes, and was worth in its
present condition more than $600,000, and could not be divided
without serious loss.
The court in special term, on July"7, 1888, ordered a sale in
accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress, and appointed trustees to make a sale and conveyance, and to pay
the proceeds into court. The decree was affirmed in general
termi on Octobh 22, 1888. 6 Mackey, 559.
The defendant appealed to this court, and assigned the following errors in the decree:
"1st. The property was under lease for a term of years at
the time the bill was filed, and the plaintiff not entitled to
possession.
"2d. Under the act of Congress of August 15, 1876, a tenant in common has not an absolute right to partition, but it is
discretionary with the court, and something besides the existence of the tenahcy must be averred and shown in order to
call such discretion into exercise, which was not done in this
case."
Mr1&. Williarl?,F. XAattingly for appellant.
At common law coparceners alone had the right to demand
partition. By the Stat. 31 H. VIII, this right was extended
to joint tenants 'and tenants in common of estates of inheritance, and by 32 H. VIII to estates for life or years and estates'
in a different maner and by different tenants. The proceeding was at law, and was a partition of the property in kind.
The right to a sale depends altogether upon statute, and will
only be directed when the facts and circumstances required by

WILLARD v. WILLARD.
Argument for Appelant.

statute to authorize it are affirmatively made to appear.
onus is always on him who seeks the sale.

The

Prior to the passage of the act of Congress under which this

bill is filed, there were two acts of the Assembly of the State
of Maryland, in force in this .District,under which real estate
could be sold for purposes of partition; the act of 1785, c. 72,
§ 12, and the act of November, 1786, c. 45, § 8; both of which
will be found in 2 Kilty's Laws of Maryland.
Referring to these two acts the 'Court of Appeals of that
State in .Mewshaw v. .ewshaw, 2 Maryland Ch. 12, decided
that to give the court jurisdiction under these acts the bill
should allege that a sale would be for the advantage of the
parties, and the allegation must be established by admission if
the parties are of age, or by evidence if not of age, and if so
established the court has power to decree a sale. Prior to the
act of 1876, under which this action is biought, it was never
claimed in this jurisdiction that, where the parties were all
adults, the court could decree a sale.. Thequestion, if it was
one, was early decided. H~astings v. Granberry,3 Cranch 0.
C. 332.
The property at the time this bill was filed being in the
possession of a tenant under a lease for years, the complainant
had only a reversionary interest, and, not being entitled to
the possession, had no right to demand partition. HTUnnewell v. Taylor, 6 Cush. 472; Baldwin v. Aldrich, 34 Vermont, 526; S. C. 80 Am. Dec. 695; Hubard v. 1?icart, 3
Vermont, 207; S. C. 23 Am. Dec. 198.
Under the act of Congress, partition is not a matter.of
right, but in express terms is made discretionary with the
court; and the simple averment of a tenancy in common is
not sufficient to justify a decree.
A complainant can only recover according to his averments
and proofs, and unless under this statute every tenant in common has an absolute right to a partition, no matter what the
circumstances may be, then the complainant must aver'facts
in his bill which would justify the court in the exercise of a
judicial discretion, to decree partition. He must, under all
the authorities, bring his case within the provisions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

statute on the face of his bill; .and, if the statute, notwithstanding the tehancy in common, gives the court a discretion
to partition or not, then facts must be averred and proved
which will afford the court information upon which it can
exercise its discretion. If no such facts appear, then there is
nothing upon which the court can be called upon to act. We
Tespectfully submit that this is the only safe and proper rule
of construction, and tie one intended by Congress in making
the relief sought permissive, (not mandatory,) and discretionary with the court.
We further submit that it isa serious matter to a man advanced in years, having a fortune invested in a piece of real
estate, yielding a fair income and increasing in value, for -a
court, at the demand of a co6wner who comes in as a mere
volunteer, to say, we will sell this property, conVert your ,reaI
estate into money, or promises secured by mortgage on the
property, whether you wish it or not.
If Congress had intended such to be the law it would have
said "all tenants in common and coparceners in lands shall be
comnelled to make or suffer partition," and not "may id the
discretion of the Court" be so compelled.
Xir. Xartin T. Aorris, (with whom was Mr. G. E. Hramilton on the brief,) for appellee.
MR.

Ju5STIoE

GnY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
In a court having general jurisdiction in equity to grant
partition, as in a court of law, a tenant in common, whose
-title in an undivided share 6f the land is blear, is entitled to
partition, as a matter of right, so that he may hold and enjoy
his property in severalty. Story Eq. Tur. §§ 653, 656; Parker
v. Gerard, Ambler, 236; Calmady y. Calmady, 2 Yes. Jr.
568; liseley v. 1"indlay, 3 Rand. 361; Smith v. Smith, Hoffman Oh. 506, and 10 Paige, 470; Donnell v. .Aateer, 7 Iredell
Eq. 94; Campbell v. .owe, 9 Maryland, 500.
Under the English statutes of 31 H. VIII, c. 1, and 32 H.
VIII, c. 32, in force in the State of Maryland before 1801, and

WILLARD v. WILLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore in the District of Columbia, any tenant in common
in fee might compel partition'af law by division of the estate
held in common. Alexanders British Statutes in Maryland,
311, 312, 332; -Lloyd v. Gordon, 2 Har. & McH. 254:; Rev.
Stat. D. C. § 92. It is unnecessary to consider how far the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia had equity jurisdiction in cases of partition before the act of Congress of
August 15, 1876, c. 297, because this act expressly empowers
the court, exercising general jurisdiction in equity, in its discretion, to compel all tenants in common of any estate, legal
or equitable, to make or suffer partition, either by division of
the estate, or, if it satisfactorily appears that the estate cannot
be divided without loss or injury to the parties interested, then
by sale of the estate and division of the proceeds among the
partie., acegording to theip respective rights and interests.
19 Stkt. 202. This statute, while it authorizes the court to
-compel a partition by division or by sale, at its discretion, as
the facts appearing at the hearing may require, does not affect
the general rule, governing every court of law or equity having jurisdiction to grant partition, that partition is of right,
and not to be defeated by themere unwillingness of one party
to have each enjoy his own in severalty.
In equity, as at law, a pending lease for years is no obstacle
to partition between owners of the fee. Co. Lit. 46a, 167a ;
Com. Dig. Parcener, C. 6; Wilkinson v. Joberns, L. R. 16 Eq.
14;
uunt v. flazelton, 5 N. H. 216; Woodworth v. Campbell,
5 Paige, 518; T&ruston v. Zifinke, 32 Maryland, 571; Cook v.
Webb, 19 Minnesota, 167. The decision in Ilunnewell v. Taylor, 6 Cush. 472, cited by the appellant, was governed by an
express statute of Massachusetts authorizing a petition for partition "by any person who has an estate in possession, but not
by one who has only a remainder or reversion," which was
presently modified by an enactment that partition might be
had notwithstanding the existence of a lease- of a whole or
part of the estate. Mass. Stat. -1853, c. 416, § 1; Gen. Stat.
c. 136, §§ 3, 67; Pub. Stat. c. 178, §§ 3, 68. In Moore v. Shan
non, 6 Mackey, 157, there was an outstanding life estate, so
that the plaintiff was not in possession of the freehold, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was therefore denied partition. See Co. Lit. and Com. Dig.
ubi supra; Evans v. Bagshaw, L. R. 8 Eq. 469, and L. IR.
5 Ch. 340; B own v. Brown, 8 N. H. 93.

The present bill, after setting forth the titles in feo of the
parties, alleges that the plaintiff desires to have partition of
the land and his share set apart to him in severalty, or, if in
the opinion of the court this cannot be done without injury
to the parties and to the purposes for which the land is used,
then by sale of the land and division of the proceeds, and prays
for partition accordingly. The bill, following the statute, and
seeking partition in either mode, as the court in its discretion
might think fit, is in proper and sufficient form. Any allegation of special reasons for partition, or for having it made in
one way or in the other, would have been unusual and superfluous. The decisions in Maryland, cited by the appellant,
were made under statutes authorizing partition only when it
would be for the interest and advantage of the parties that
the land should be sold, and therefore held that it must be so
alleged in the petition. Tomlinson v. .1caig, 5 Gill, 256;
.fewshaw v. -Aewshaw, 2 Maryland Ch. 12.
This disposes of the only errors assigned or argued. It is
not denied, and could not be, upon the proofs, that, if the
plaintiff was entitled to partition, it was rightly ordered to be
made by sale, and not by division of the estate.
Decree afflmed.
Mm. JusTIc BREWER was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision.

