o4ss 'V.UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

CROSS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT
No. 1525.

Submitted April 25,1892. -Decided

OF COLUIAhBIA.

May 16, 1892.

Under the act of February 6, 1889, "to provide for writs of error in capital cases," 25 Stat., 655, c. 113, a writ of error does not lie from this
court to the Suprem& Court 'of the District of Columbia to review a
judgment of that court in general term affirming a judgment of the
trial court convicting a person of a capital crime.
MOTiON

TO

Disass.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
.i J, olicitor Generalfor the motion.
-Mr. Charles Xamrice Smith and A-r. Joseph Shillington
opposing.
MR.

CmF JUsTioE FuLreR delivered the opinion of the

court.
William D. Cross was tried upon an indictment for murder
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding a
criminal term, in March, 1890, and a verdict of guilty'having
been returned, and a motion for a new trial heard and overruled, was sentenced to death. He thereupon prosecuted an
appeal to the court in general tdrm, which reversed the
conviction and granted a new trial. 19 Dist. Columb. 562.
A second trial was had at the June, 1891, special criminal
term, which again resulted in a verdict of guilty, and, a
motion for a new trial having been made and overruled, he
was, July 30, 1891, sentenced to be executed January 22,
1892. From this conviction he prosecuted an appeal to the
court in general term, which, on January 12, 1892, finding
no error in the record, affirmed the judgment. The opinion,
by Cox, Z., will be found in 20 Washington Laiv Rep. 98.
On January 21 a writ of error from this court was allowed,.

OCTOBER TERf, 1891.
Opiion of the Qourt.

on petition, by the Chief Justice of that court, citation was
signed and served, and the time for filing the record enlarged.
On the same day an order was entered by the court in
general term, "that the execution of the sentence of death
pronounced against the defendant by the special term of
this court on the thirtieth day of July in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-one, t6 take
place on the twenty-second day of January, 1892, be and the
same is hereby postponed until the tenth day of June, 1892,
between the same hours specified in-the said judgment of the
said special term."
The case comes before us on motion to dismiss the writ of
error.
Under acts of Congress, th Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia consists of one chief justice and six associate
justices, appointed by the President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, and holding their offices during
good behavior. Special and general terms of the court, and
appeals from the former to the latter, are provided for. General terms may be held by three justices, two constituting a
quorum, vhile special terms are held by one justice. Any
one of tie justices may hold a criminal court for the trial
of all-crimes and offences arising in the District. Rev. Stat.
Dist. C61. §§ 750, 753, 754, 757, 762, 763, 772; 19 Stat. 240,
c.. 69, § 2; 20 Stat. 320, c. 99, § 1.
iBy the act of July'7, 1838, 5 Stat. 306, c. 192, a Criminal Court
was established in the District of Columbia; and it was held
in Ex parte B'adley, 7 Wall. 364, at our December term,
1868, that under the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 762, c.
91, by which the courts of the District were reorganized, the
Criminal Court still remained a separate, and independent
court, although held by a justice of the Supreme Court of the
District created by the act, and that the only jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court in criminal cases was in an appellate
form. But by the act of June 21, 1870, 16 Stat. 160, c. 141,
it was provided, as now. embodied in section 753 of the Revised Statutes of the District, that the several general terms

CROSS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and special terms of the various courts, circuit, district, and
criminal, should be considered terms of the Supreme Court of
the District, and that the judgments, decrees, sentences, etc.,
of the general terms, and of the special terms, and of the
various courts should be the judgments, decrees, sentences, etc.,
of the Supreme Court, but that this should not affect the
right of appeal as provided by law.
Section 772 reads: "Any party aggrieved by any order,
judgment or decree, made or pronounced at any special term,
may, if the same involve the merits of the action ob proceeding, appeal therefrom to the general term of the supreme
court, and upon such appeal the general term shall review
such order, judgment or decree, and affirm, reverse or modify
the same, as shall be just."
And under section 770: "The supreme court in general
term, shall adopt such rules as it may think proper to regulate the time and manner of making appeals from the special
term to the general term," etc.'
The act of February 25, 1879, 20 Stat. 320, c. 99, forbade
any justice to sit in general term to h/ear an appeal from any
judgment or decree or order which he may have rendered at
special term.
By. the act of 1838 a writ of error lay to the Criminal
Court from the Circuit Court of the District, and postponement of execution in capital cases was provided for, and this
was carried into § 845 of the District Revised Statutes.
The Supreme Court sitting at special term and the Supreme
Court sitting -in general term are the same tribunal, but the
court in general term exercises appellate -powers and is an
appellate court, although it may also exercise jurisdiction in
hearing matters in the first instance, (Rev. Stat. Dist. Col.
§§ 770, 800,) and the final judgments~or decrees which may be
brought here by appeal o'r writ of error are those rendered by
the general term. Such review may be had when the matter
in dispute exceeds $5000, (Rev. Stat. § 705; 20 Stat. 320,
c. 99, § 4; 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, § 1; Rev. Stat. 'Dist. Col.
§§ 846, 847.) but necessarily this does not apply to criminal
cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The language of sections 846, 847 of. the Revised Statutes
of the District of Columbia in reference to the reexamination
of the final orders, judgments or decrees of the Supreme
Court of the District is taken from the act of March 3, 1863,
12 Stat. 762, 764, c. 91, § 11, which was itself adopted from section 8 of the act of February 27, 1801, 2 Stat. 103, c. 15,
repeated in the act of February 25, 1879, 20 Stat. 320, c. 99,
§ 4, and referred to in the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443,
c. 355, and is always coupled with the provision that the
appellate jurisdiction should not be exercised except where
,the matter in dispute exceeds a certain sum, or, under the act
of 1885, where the validity of a patent or copyright is involved
or the validity of a treaty or statute of or authority exercised
,under the United States is drawn in question.
We have, of course, no general authority to review, on error
or appeal, the judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United
States in cases within their criminal jurisdiction, or those of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia or of the Territories; and when such jurisdiction is intended to be conferred, it should be done in- clear and explicit language.
Farnsworth v. fHontana, 129 U. S. 104; United States v.
Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, 320; United States v. .ore, 3 Cranch,
159.
United States v. 21ore was decided in February, 1805, and
from that time it has been assumed that criminal cases could
not be brought from the courts of the District to this court.
In such cases, remarked Mr. Justice Miller in Ew parte
Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328, 329, "The act of Congress has made
the judgment of that court conclusive, as it had a right to do,
and the defendant having one review'of his trial and judgment has no special reason to complain."
By sections 651 and 697 of the Revised Statutes provision
was made for a review of question's arising in criminal cases
under certificates of division of opinion, and this was so provided as early as 1802. Act of April 29, 1802, § 6, 2 Stat.
156, 159, c. 31. But this provision has never been supposed
to refer to the courts of the District of Columbia.
By section five of the Judiciary Act of March 3. 1891. 26

CROSS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 826, c. 517, it is provided that appeals and writs of error
may be taken "from the District Courts or from the existing
Circuit Courts directly to this court in cases of conviction of a
capital or otherwise infamous crime;" and we have been constrained to hold that the judgments of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia in criminal cases are not embraced
by the provisions of that section. In re Heath, Petitioner,
144 U. S. 92. Unless, therefore, as is indeed not disputed,
this writ of error comes within the act of Congress of February 6, 1889, entitled "An act to abolish Circuit Court powers
.of certain District Courts of the United States and to provide
for writs of error in capital cases and for other purposes," 25
Stat. 655, c. 113, it cannot be maintained.- This act contains
seven sections, of which the first five relate, in substance, to
the establishment of Circuit Courts for the Eastern District of
Arkansas, the Northern District of Mississippi, and the Western District of South Carolina, and the withdrawal of'Circuit
Court powers from certain District Courts. The seventh provides when the act shall take effect.
Section six is as follows: "That' hereafter in all cases of
conviction of crime the punishment of which provided by law
is death, tried before any court of the United States, the final
judgment of such court against the respondent shall, upon the
application of the respondent, be reexamined, reversed or
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States upon a
writ of error, under such rules and regulations as said court
may prescribe. Every such writ of error shall be allowed as
of right and without the requirement of any security for the
prosecution of the same or for costs. Upon the allowance of
every such writ of error, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
the court to which the writ of error shall be directed to forthwith transmit to the Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United
States a certified transcript of the record in such case, and it
shall be the duty of the Clerk of -the Supreme-Court of the
United States to receive, file and docket the same. Every
such writ of error shall during its pendency operate as a stay
of proceedings upon the judgment in respect of which it is
sued out. Any such writ of error may be filed and docketed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

'in said Supreme Court at any time in a term.held prior to the
term named in the citation as well-as at the term so named;
and all such writs of error shall be advanced to a speedy hearing on motion of either party. When any such judgment
shall be either reversed or affirmed the cause shall be remanded to the court from whence it came for further proceedings in accordance with the decision of- the Supreme Court,
and the court to which such cause is so remanded shall have
,power to cause such judgment of the Supreme Court to be
carried into execution. No such writ of error shall be sued
out or granted unless a petition therefor shall be filed with
clerk of the court in which the trial shall have been had during the same terni or within such time, not exceeding sixty
days next after the expiration of the term of the court at
which the trial shall have been had, as the court may for
cause allow by order entered of record." Taking the sixth
section in connection with the others, it would be quite within
accepted rules of construction to conclude that it refers only to
Circuit and District Courts of the United States, and this is
worthy of mention, though not the ground of our dcIision.
It is contended on behalf of the government that the writ
of error will not lie because the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia is not a court of the United States, within the
intent and meaning of the -section. _cAllister v. United
.State8, 141 U. S. 174, is cited with the decisions referred to
therein, ,as sustaining that view; but it is to be remembered
that that case referred to territorial courts only; and, moreover, if the disposal of the motion turned on this point, the
words "any court of the United States" are sa comprehensive
that, used as they are in connection with convictions subject
to the penalty of 'death, the conclusion might be too technical
that Congress intended to distinguish between courts of one
class and of the other. But the difficulty with the section is
that it manifestly does not contemplate the allowance of a
writ of error to any .appellate tribunal, but only to review
the final judgment of the court before which the respondent
was tried, where such judgment could not otherwise be
reviewed by writ bf error or appeal. It is the final judgment,

CROSS '.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

of the trial court that may be reexamined upon the application of the respondent, and it is to that court the cause is to
be remanded, and by that court that the judgment of this court
is to be carried into execution. The obvious object was to
secure a review by some other court than that which passed
upon the case at nisiprius. Such review by two other courts
was not within the intention, as the Judiciary Act of March
3, 1891, shows. This is made still clearer by the further provision that no such writ of error "shall be sued out or granted
unless a petition therefor shall be filed with the clerk of
the court in which the trial shall have been had during
the same term or within such time, not exceeding sixty dayg
next after the expiration of the term of the court at which
the trial shall have been had, as the court may for cause allow
by order entered of record." This language is entirely inapplicable to the prosecution of a writ of error to the judgment
of an appellate tribunal affirming the judgment of the trial
court. And the case before us shows this.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia sitting in general term in review of the sentences of the Criminal Court held
by one of the justices, occupies the same position as any other
court with appellate jurisdiction. It has in this case affirmed the
judgment of the Criminal Court. The -writof error from this
court was not granted upon a petition ified during the term,
or within sixty days next after the expiration, of the term,
of the court at which the trial was had and sentence pronounced, yet the statute is explicit that no such writ of error
shall be sued out or granted unless -thus applied for. Ball v.
United States, 140 U.S. 118, 129. What happened here would
happen in most, if not all, cases if appellate tribunals were embraced by the section. Compliance with the law would be
wellnigh, if not altogether, impossible.
It is to be observed that the writ runs to the judgment of the
general term, yet if this man goes to his death, it.is not by force
of the judgment of the general term, but of the sentence of the
criminal term. The court in general term did indeed postpone
the execution of the 'entence to another day, a postponement
rendered necessary by the granting of this writ, but its judgment
VOL. cxLv-37

