OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

stored to the public domain until December 2, 1871, when it
seems that one Owen Sheridan applied for a homestead entry
upon it, and was permitted to make such entry, and the same
remained of record until the 30th of June, 1880, when it was
cancelled. From that time the land continued a part of the
unappropriatpd public lands of the United States until the 24
of January, 1881, when the appellant, Mary Bardon, made her;
preemption settlement upon it and afterwards followed up
the settlement with all the steps required by law for the acquisition of the title. On the 14th of Febrfuary, 1881, she
fied her declaratory statement therefor; on the 8th of June,
1882, she made her final proofs; on the 22d of June she made
her payment for the land, and on the 19th of January, 188-7,
the Secretary of the Interior issued to her a patent of the
United States for the land in the form provided by law.
There was nothing in any of the proceedings of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, or of the companies to whom
the land granted to Wisconsin was conveyed by the State,
or in the acts of the appellant, which in any respect impaired
her right to the completion of her preemption claim, or to the
full fruition of her perfected title.
It follows that
The, decree m/ust be reversed, and the cause be remanded to
the Circuit Court, with a direction to dismiss the bill;
and it is so ordered.

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
ERRoR ~O TIM CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE,

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 316. Submitted April 18, 1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

Although, under the ruling in Wallach v. Van Byswick, 92 U. S. 207, the
defendant in a proceeding for confiscation under the confiscation act of
July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, c. 195, and Joint Resolution No. 63, of the
same date, 12 Stat. 627, had no power of alienating the re'tersion or

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Statement of the Case.
remainder which was still in him after confiscation and sale, still an
alienation of it by him by a.deed of warranty, accompanied by a covenaut of seizin on his part, estopped him and all persons claiming under
him from asserting title to the premises agaiist the grantee, his heirs
and assigns, or from conveying it to any other parties.
The general pardon and amnesty'made by the public proclamation of the
President at the close of the war of the rebellion had the force of public
law.

Tnm court stated the case as follows:
This is an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiffs to
recover of the defendant two lots of land in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, with the buildings thereon, known as Nos. 50
and 52 West Pearl Street in that city. The plaintiffs below,
who are also plaintiffs in error here, are the children and only
heirs of Thomas J. Jenkins, deceased. They are residents and
citizens of West Virginia. Two of them, Albert Gallatin
Jenkins and George R. Jenkins, are minors under the age of
twenty-one years, and appear by their mother and guardian.
The defendant is a citizen of Ohio and a resident of Cincinnati.
The petition, the designation given to the first pleading in
the case, alleges that prior to 1863 Thomas J. Jenkins was the
owner of the real estate mentioned, which is fully described,
and that while such owner he joined the rebel army, and such
proceedings were had in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Ohio in the year 1863; that
the property was confiscated, and-the life estate of Jenkins was
sold, and the defendant William A. Collard, then or subsequently in the year 1865, and during the lifetime of Jenkins,
became the owner of the life estate; that Jenkins died on the
1st day of August, 1872; and that thereupon the plaintiffs
became seized of the legal estate in the premises and entitled
to the possession thereof; but that the defendant since that
time has unlawfully kept them out of possession. The petition
also sets forth that the defendant has been receiving the rents,
issues and profits of the premises from the first day of August,
1872, up to the commencement of this action without the consent of the plaintiffs, and has refused to account for them;
that their yearly value has been, on the average, eighteen hun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

dred dollars; and that the plaintiffs have been deprived of all
profit and benefit from the premises since that time, to their
damage of forty thousand dollars. They therefore pray judgment for the possession of the premises and for the damages
alleged.
The defendant appeared to the action and set up nine
defences. The first defence, which was. substantially the
general issue, was subsequently withdrawn. To the several
other defences demurrers were interposed and all of them,
except the one to the second defence, were sustained, and no
further proceeding respecting them was taken. The second
defence was as follows:
"For a second defence the defendant says that he denies
that such proceedings were had in the District Court of the
United States within and for the Southern District of Ohio, in
the year 1863, or at.any other time, that the said property.
was confiscated, but defendant avers that in a proceeding instituted in said court in the year 1863, a decree was entered in
the words and figures following, to wit:
"'District Court United States, Southern District of Ohio.
"'The United States
"'Lots and Stores Nos. 50 and 52, Pearl Street, Cincinnati.
"'This cause came on for hearing at this term, upon the
libel of information filed herein, and upon the evidence in the
case, and the court find that, in pursuance of law, the attorney
of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio did
issue to the marshal of said district his warrant in writing
bearing date March 9th, 1863, commanding him to seize for
the cause set forth in said waant all the right, title, and
interest of one Thomas J. Jenkins, in and to the real estate
described in said warrant, and in said libel of information, and
that in pursuance thereof the said marshal, on the 12th day of
March, 1863,. seized said real estate and notified the tenants
thereof, and also W. A. Collard, agent of said Jenkins, of such
seizure by notice in writing. That afterwards, on the 7th day
of March, 1863, a writ of monition issued out of this court,

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Statement of the Case.

under the laws thereof, to said marshal, by virtue whereof the
usual notice prescribed by law and by the rules of this court
to all persons interested in said real estate to appear in this
court on thefirst Tuesday of April, 1863, to assert their claims,
if any they have, in said real estate, was given by said marshal, which notice was duly published in the Cincinnati Daily
Gazette, a newspaper printed and of general circulation in said
district, for ten days from and after March 18, 1863, and all
persons interested having made default, and the default of all
persons being duly entered, aiad the court having heard the
testimony of the witnesses proving that said Thomas J. Jenkins, of the State of Virginia, at the date of said seizure, was
the owner of said property, and that ever since the 1,7th day
of Jult, 1862, the said Thomas J. Jenkins was, and now is, in
the army service of the rebels in arms against the United
States, to wit, in the State of Virginia; and the court further
find that the allegations in said libel are true in fact, and that
the life estate of said Jenkins in said real estate is justly and
legally forfeited to the United States in pursuance of law, for
the causes set forth in said libel.
"' It is further ordered, sentenced and decreed that the life
estate of said Thomas J. Jenkins be, and the same is, hereby
condemned as enemies' property, and that the same lbe appraised, advertised and sold in the manner pointed out by the
rules of this court, and to that end the necessary process is
ordered to be issued to the marshal-to make sale of said real
estate in the manner aforesaid, and that upon such sale he
bring the proceeds into this court for distribution; and it is
further ordered that the rights of all loyal people to share in
such distribution are hereby reserved for further hearing.'
"Defendant says that the above was the only decree touching said property, except the decree' of confirmation of the
sale and distribution of proceeds.
"Defendant says that thereafter such proceedings were had
in said cause that there was sold and conveyed by the marshal, in accordance with said decree, the life estate of said
Thomas J. Jenkins to one Edward Bepler.
"Defendant says that by reason of the premises all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

estate of said Jenkins in said property was not condemned
and sold, but that there remained in him the reversion or
remainder in fee of said property after said life estate sold to
said Bepler. Defendant further says that after the termination of the civil war said Thomas J. Jenkins bargained and
sold to the defendant, in consideriation of the sum of eighteen
thousand dollars paid to said Jenkins by defendant, all the
interest and estate of said Jenkins in said property, and did
execute and deliver to the -defendant, on the 26th day of
August, 1865, a deed in fee simple, with covenants of general
warranty, binding himself and his heirs, and Susan L. Jenkins, wife of said Thomas J. Jenkins, did join in said deed and
did release all her right and expectancy of dower in said property.

"Defendant further says that on the 6th day of June, 1865,
said Edward Bepler did execute and deliver to the defendant
a deed for said life estate purchased by him at said sale. Defendant says that by reason of the premises he became the
owner in fee simple of the property and entered into possession thereof and so continued to the present time."
To this defence the plaintiffs demurred on the ground that
it constituted no defence and was insufficient in law on its
face; and they claimed and asked the court to hold that by
the decree set up there was an adjudicated forfeiture, and .sale
of the lots described under the confiscation act of Congress of
July 17, 1862, 12 -Stat. 589, c. 195, and the joint resolution of
even date therewith, 12 Stat. 627, and that there was not left'
in Thomas J. Jenkins any interest which he could convey by
deed, but that all which could become the property of the
United States and could be sold by virtue of a decree of condemnation and order of sale was the life estate of Thomas J.
Jfenkins, and that a decree condemning the fee could have no
greater effect than to subject the life estate to sale, and therefore the deed executed and delivered by him ofi the 26th day
of August, 1865, was a nullity, and the plaintiffs inherited and
were entitled to the property as prayed for in their petition.
But the court held that by reason of said decree all the estate
of Thomas J. Jenkins in the property was not condemned and

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

sold, but only a technical life estate therein, and that there
remained in him the reversion or remainder in fee of the property after the termination of the life estate sold to said Bepler,
which he could sell and convey by deed, and which he did sell
and convey by the deed of August 26th, 1865, and that consequently the plaintiffs' had not inherited any interest in the
property, and overruled the demurrer; to which the plaintiffs
excepted. The plaintiffs then had leave to reply to the defence, and they replied as follows: "That by the proceedings
in the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, in the year 1863, all the estate of Thomas J.
Jenkins in the property was confiscated and sold, and there
did not remain in him the reversion or remainder in fee after
the sale to Bepler; that they admit the execution and delivery
of a deed to the defendant on the 26th day of August, 1865,
by Thomas 5. Jenkins, at Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio, but
deny that Jenkins had any interest in the property at that
time which he could convey, and aver that defendant took
nothing by the deed from him." To which reply the defendant demurred, and, after hearing the case, the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio, at
October term, 1888, held that only the technical life estate of
Thomas J. Jenkins was confiscated by the said decree, and
that there was left in him the reversion or remainder, which
he sold and conveyed to the defendant by the deed of August
26, 1865, and that consequently the-plaintiffs had no interest
in the property, and sustained the demurrer; to which ruling
the plaintiffs excepted. And the plaintiffs not desiring to
plead further, the court gave judgment for the defendant for
the reasons stated in overruling the demurrer.
To review that judgment the case is brought to this court
on writ of error.
&If.S. A. XAler for plaintiffs in error.
.xr.J. D. Brannan and Mr. John, C. Healy for defendant
inerror.

OCTOBER TERI

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The important questions presented in this case relate to the
nature and duration of the estate condemned and sold by the
decree of the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio in the proceedings taken for the confiscation
of the property of Thomas J. Jenkins, under the act of Congress of. July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, and to the poiver of disposition possessed by him over the naked fee or property in
reversion, after the termination of the confiscated estate. The
questions must find their solution in the interpretation given
to the provisions of that act and to the terms of the decree.
The act is entitled "An act to suppress insurrection, to punish
treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels and for other purposes."
In one of the earlier -cases in this court under this act, it was
earnestly contendedzthat the act was not passed in the exercise
of the war powers of the government, but in the execution of
the municipal power of the government to legislate for the punishment of offences against the United States. Such was the
contention in MAfiller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268, 308, 369.
The court, however, was of opinion that only the first four sections, which were aimed at individual offenders, were open to
that objection; and admitted that they were passed in the exercise of the sovereign, and not the belligerent, rights of the
government; but held that in the 5th and following sections
another purpose was avowed, not that of punishing treason and
rebellion, as described in the title, but the other purpose there
described, that of seizing and confiscating the property of rebels. The language of the 5th section is that "to insure the
speedy termination of the present rebellion it shall be the duty
of the President of the United. States to cause the seizure of
all the estate and property, money, stocks, credits and effects
of the persons hereinafter named in this section, and to apply
and use the same, and the proceeds thereof, for the support of
the army of the United States." And the court, stating that
the avowed purpose of the act was not to reach any criminal

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

personally, but to insure the speedy termination of the rebellion, which the court had recognized as a civil war, held that
this purpose was such as Congress in the situation of the country might constitutionally entertain, and that the provisions
made to carry it out, namely, confiscation, were legitimate,
unless applied to others than enemies. The act, therefore, in
execution of this purpose, provided for judicial proceedings in
rern, for the condemnation and sale of the property mentioned,
after its seizure, to be brought in any District or Territorial
Court of. the United States, which should conform as nearly
as possible to proceedings in admiralty and revenue cases; and
it declared that if the property should be found to have belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, or who had given aid
or comfort thereto, the same should be condemned as enemies'
property, and become the property of the United States, and
might be disposed of as the court should decree, and the proceeds thereof paid into the Treasury of the United States for
the purposes stated. After the act embodying this and
other provisions had passed both houses of Congress and been
presented to President Lincoln for approval, it was ascertained
that he was of opinion that in some of its features it was unconstitutional, and that he intended to veto it. His objections
were that in several of its clauses the provision of the Constitution concerning forfeitures not extending beyond the life of
the offender was disregarded. Art. III, sec. 3. To meet this
objection, which had been communicated to members of the
House of Representatives, where the bill originated, a joint
resolution, explanatory, as it was termed, of the act- but which
might more properly be designated amendatory of the act and
restrictive of its operation - was passed by the House and sent
to the Senate. That body, being informed of the objections
of the President, concurred in-the joint resolution. It was
then sent to the President, and was received by him before
the expiration of the ten days allowed him for the consideration of the original bill. He returned the bill and resolution
together to the house where they originated, with a message,
in which he stated that, considering the act and the resolution
explanatory of the act as being substantially one, he approved
and signed both. 12 Stat. 589 and 627.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The joint resolution declares that the provisions of the third
clause of the 5th section of the act shall be so construed as
not to apply to any act or acts done prior to its passage, "nor
shall any punishment or proceedings under said act be so
construed as to work a forfeiture of the real estate of the
offender beyond his natural life." No decree condemning real
property of persons seized under the act, could therefore
extend the forfeiture adjudged beyond the life of the offending owner. During his life only could the control, possession,
and enjoyment of the real property seized and condemned be,
appropriated. To that extent the property vestea in the
United-States upon its condemnation and passed to the purchaser to whom the government might afterwards sell it.
What then was the situation of the remainder of the estate
of the offending party after the condemnation and sale ? The
proceedings did not purport to touch any interest in the property or control of it beyond his life. When that ceased, his
heirs took the property from him. They could not take anything from the government, for it had nothing; the interest
it acquired by the condemnation passed by the sale to the
purchaser. The reversionary .interest or remainder of the
estate must have rested somewhere. It could not have been
floating in space without relationship to any one. The logical
conclusion would seem to be that it continued in the offending
owner. This, we think, follows, not only from the language
of the act, but from decisions of this court construing its provisions, though some of the latter contain declarations that its
possession is unaccompanied with any power of disposition
over the future estate during his life.
In Bigelow v.'.Forrest, 9 Wall. 339, which came before this
court at December term, 1869, it was held that the act of
July 17, 1862, and the explanatory resolution of the same
date, were to be construed together, and that thus construed
all that could be sold by virtue of a decree of condemnation
and order of sale under the act was a right to the property
seized terminating with the life of the offending person, and
that the fact that he owned the estate in fee simple, that the
libel was against all his right, title, interest and estate, and

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

that the sale and marshal's deed professed to convey as much.
did not change the result. The District Court, said this court,
under the act of Congress, had no power to order a sale which
would confer upon the purchaser rights outlasting the life of
the party, and had it done so it, would have transcended its
jurisdiction. This was the unanimous decision of the court.
In .Day v. 7ificou, 18 Wall. 156, before this court at October
term, 1873, it was held also by the court unanimously that,
under the confiscation act and joint resolution explanatory of
it, only the life estate of the person for whose offence the
land had been seized was subject to condemnation and sale,
and that the fact that the decree may have condemned the
fee did not alter the case.
In TFallach v. 'Fan Riswick, 92 U. S. 202, 207, which was
before this court at October term, 1875, it was held that, after
an adjudicated forfeiture and sale of an enemy's land under
the confiscation act, and the joint resolution accompanying it,
there was not left in him any interest which he could convey
by deed. This ruling was not made upon any express provision of the statute. There is no personal disability imposed
by its provisions upon the offending party beyond the forfeiture
of his estate during his life. It was made by the court, apparently upon what it considered the policy of the confiscation
act. The purpose of the act, it said, and its justification,
was to strengthen the government, aid to enfeeble the public
enemy by taking from his adherents the power to use their
property in aid of the hostile cause. "With such a purpose,"
it added, "it is incredible that Congress, while providing for
confiscation of enemy's land, intended to leave in that enemy
a vested interest therein, which he might sell. and with the
proceeds of which he might aid in carrying on the war against
the government." In this ruling, the court, in addition to tho
statutory effect of the decree as a conveyance to the United
.States of the title to the land for the life of the offending
party, made the decree impose upon him a disability or disqualification to hold or transfer an estate .which the United
States did not acquire or condemn.
Though the ruling in Wallach v. 'an Riswick was foll6wed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in several cases- in Pike v. Wassell, in 1876, 94U. S. 711, and in
French v. Wade, in 1880, 102 U. S. 132- this court subsequently held, in 1884, in Avegno v. Schmidt, 113 U. S. 293,
that the heirs at law of a person, whose life interest in real
estate was confiscated under the confiscation act of July 17,
1862, took at his death by descent from him and not from the
United States under the act, and, in 1887, in Shields v. ScAif 124
U. S.351, 355, that the confiscation act of July 17, 1862, construed in connection with the joint resolution of the same date,
made no disposition of the confiscated property after the death
of the owner, but left it to devolve upon his heirs, and not by
donation from the government.
It is not to be overlooked that previous to the decision of the
case of Wallach v. Van Riswik a general amnesty and pardon had been proclaimed by the President throughout the land
to all who had participated- in the rebellion, thus relieving
them from the disabilities arising from such participation.
Estates and interests in land,. present and future, which had
not for such participation been previously condemned and sold
to others, fell at once under the control and disposition of the
original owners, as though the offences alleged against them
had never been committed. The pardon and amnesty did not
and could not change the actual fact of previous disloyalty, if
it existed, but, as said in Carlisle'v. United States, 16 Wall.
147, 151, "they forever closed the eyes of the court to the perception of that factas an element in its judgment, no rights of
third parties having intervened." * As repeatedly affirmed by
this 6oart, pardon' and amnesty in legal .contemplation not
merely release offenders from the punishment prescribed for
their offences, but obliterate the offences themselves.
In illinois Central Railroad Co. :v. Bosworth, 13"3 U. S.92,
100, 102, 104, i05, which w-as here at October term, 1889, we
have the latest expression of this court upon the subject we have
been considering, Ind also on' the effect of pardon and amnesty
upon the disabilities imposed upon parties whose life estates had
been confiscated under the act of July 17, 1862, and the accompanying joint resolution. That was an action brought by the
surviving children of A. W. Bosworth, dedeased, to recover pos-

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

session of one undivided sixth part of a tract of land in New
Orleans, which formerly belonged to their father. The peti*tion stated that the latter, having taken part in the war of the
rebellion, and done acts which made him liable to the penalties
of the confiscation act, the said one-sixth part of the land was
seized, condemned and sold, under the act, and purchased by
one Burbank, in May, 1865; that A. W. Bosworth died in
October, 1885; and that the plaintiffs, upon his death, became
the owners in fee simple of the said one-sixth part of the prop-'
erty of which the defendant, the -Illinois Central Railroad
Company, was in possession. The company filed an answer
setting up various defences, among others, tracing title to
themselves from Bosworth, by virtue of -an act of sale executed
by him and wife in September, 1871, disposing of all their interest in the premises with full covenants of warranty. They also
alleged that Bosworth had, before the act of sale, not only been
included in the general amnesty proclamation of the President,
issued on the 25th of December, 1868, but had received from
him a special pardon on the 2d of October, 1865, and had
taken the oath of allegiance and complied with the terms and
conditions necessary to be restored to, and reinvested with, the
rights, franchises and privileges of citizenship.
The principal question involved in the case was whether, by
the effect of the pardo and amnesty granted to A. W. Bosworth, he was restored to the control and power of disposition
over the fee'simple or naked property in reversion, expectant
upon the determination of the confiscated estate in the property in dispute. "The question of the effect of pardon and
amnesty," said the court, "on the destination of the remaining
estate of the offender, still outstanding after a confiscation of,
the property during his natural life, has never been settled by
this court." In lThllackv. 'Fan Riswic, the court said it "was
not called upon to determine where the fee dwells during the
continuance of the interest of a; purchaser at a confiscation
sale, whether in the United States, or in the purchaser subject
to be defeated by the death of thp offender." It had* been
also suggested that .the fee remained in the person whose
estate was confiscated, but without any power in him to dis-°

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pose of or control it.

"Perhaps," said Mr. Justice Bradley,

in speakifig for the court, and referring to those different suggestions, "it is not of much consequence which of these theories, if either of them, is the true one; the important point
being that tlie remnwnt of the estate, whatever its nature, and
wherever it went, was never beneficially disposed of, but remained, so to speak, in a state of suspended animatioii." And
again he said,- "it is not necessary to be over-cdrious about the
intermediate state in which the disembodied shade of naked
ownership may have wandered during the period of its ambiguous existence. It is enough, to know that it was neither
annihilated, nor confiscated, nor appropriated to any third
party. The owner, as a punishment for his offences, was disabled from exercising any acts of ownership over it, and- no
power to exercise such acts was given to any other person.
At his death, if not before, the period of suspesion comes to
an -end, and the estate revives and devolves to, his heirs at
law." "It would seem to follow," added the learned justice,
"as a logical consequence from the decisions in Aveg.o v.
Schmidt and Shields v. Sc.if, that after the confiscation of
the property the naked fee (or the naked ownership, as denominated in the civil law) subject, for the lifetime of the offender
to the interest or usufruct of the purchaser at the confiscation
sale, remained in the offender himself; otherwise, how could
his heirs takeit from him by ifiheritance? But, by reason of
his disability to dispose of, or touch it, or affect it in any manner whatsoever, it remained, as before stated, a mere dead
estate, or in a condition of suspended-animation. We think
that this is, on the whole, the most reasonable view. -. There
is no corruption of blood; the offender can transmit. by descent; his heirs take -from him by descent; why, then, is it
not most rational to conchide that the dormant and siispended
fee has continued'in him?" And the court held after full
consideration that'the disabilities which prevented the off6ni
ing party- Bosworth - from exercising power over the' suspended fee, or naked property, was removed by the pardon
and amnesty, and that he was restored to all his rights, privileges and immunities, as if he had neveioffended, except as to

JENKINS v. COLLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

those things which had become vested in other persons; and
that, among other things, "he was restored to the control of
so much of his property and estate as had not become vested
.either in the government or in. any other person; especially
that part or quality of his estate which had never been forfeited, namely, the naked residuary ownership of the property,
subject to the usufruct of the purchaser under the confiscation
proceedings."
In the confiscation proceedings, under which the property in
controversy was condemned and sold the decree of the United
States District Court adjudged, from the proof presented, that
Thomas J. Jenkins, the party whose property was proceeded
against, was, at the date of its seizure, the owner of the property, which consisted of certain real estate described, and had
been since July 11, 1862, and was in the service of the rebels,
in arms against the United States, and that his life estate in
the said real estate was justly and legally forfeited, and it
ordered that suck life estate be condemned and sold, and that
the necessary process be issued to the marshal to make such
sale and bring the proceeds into court. Upon this decree a
sale and conveyance were made by the marshal of th.e life
estate of said Jenkins to one Edward Bepler. The only sale
and conveyance executed under the decree as thus seen, were
of the life estate of Thomas J. Jenkins in the real property in
controversy. No condemnation was had or sale made of any
other estate in the premises.
In some of the cases, as, for instance, Bigelow v. Forrest,
9 Wall. 339, a condemnation and sale had been made of the
property in fee, and it was held to be valid as a condemnation
and sale of the life estate of the offending owner; but the
reverse is not true. When the lesser estate -the life estateis sold, the sale cannot be held to pass the larger estate -the
fee.
Of the reversion or remainder of the estate of the offending
party no disposition was ever made by the government. It
must, therefore, be construed to have remained in him, but,
under the ruling in WallacA v. 'Van
Ziswick, without any
power in him to alienate it during his life. That disability

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was in force when h executed, with his wife, the deed of the
premises, August 26, 1865. The proclamation of pardon and
amnesty was not made by the President until December 25,
1868. This deed, however, was accompanied with a covenant
of seizin on his part, and that he would warrant and defend
the title against the lawful claims of all persons whomsoever.
Admitting that he had no present estate in the premises, and
none in expectancy, he was at liberty to add to his deed the
ordinary covenants of seizin and warranty, and the same legal
operation upon future acquired interests must be given to them
as when accompanying conveyances of parties whose property
has never been subject to confiscation proceedings. That -warranty estopped him and all persons claiming under him from
asserting title to the premises against the grantee and his heirs
and assigns, or conveying it to any other parties. When, subsequently, the general amnesty and pardon proclamation was
issued, the disability, if any, that had previously rested upon
him against disposing of the remaining estate, which had not
been"confiscated, was removed, and he stood, with reference to
that estate, precisely as though no confiscation proceedings had
ever been had. The amnesty and pardon in removing the disability, if any, resting upon him, respecting that estate, enlarged
his estate, the benefit of which enured equally to his grantee.
The removal of his disabilities did not affect the purchaser's
right under the decree of confiscation. The latter remained
in the full enjoyment of the property during the life of the
offending party, but he had no claim upon the future estate,
nor did the heirs of the offending party have any such claim
upon it as to preclude the operation of any previous warranties
by him respecting it. 'Fan RFensselaer v. Kearney, 11" How.
297; I vine v. Irvine, 9 Wall. 617. As the general pardon
and amnesty to all persons- implicated in the rebellion are not
pleaded- by the defendant, to relieve the offending party;
whose life estate in the premises in controversy was confiscated, from his disabilities respecting the reversionarr interest,
or naked fee in the premises, itis claimed that no benefit can
be derived from them. But this. result does not follow from
the omission in pleading, for the pardon and amnesty were

