MfEEHAN v. VTALENTINE.
Statement of the Case.

may, after said decision on appeal, take any action in said lower
court which they might take at the present time."
It will be observed that plaintiffs in error are only a portion
of the defendants who were proceeded against by the intervening petition, and what has become of the others does not
appear. The case should have been determined as to all, before
our interposition, if justifiable in any view, could be invoked.
Under the complaint, accountings must be had and proofs
taken as to the amount of the proceeds of the insolVent corporation's estate; the rights of claimants therein; thfe liability of
directors and shareholders, if any, upon other accounts, etc., and
the amount to be paid by each shareholder must be decreed. If
this were a decree of the Circuit Oourt, it would come within
the rule that to be final the court belbw should have nothing to
do but to execute it if affirmed. Keystone Iron Co. v. ffartin,
132 U. S. 91. And as q judgment of reversal by a state
court with leave for further proceedings in the court of original jurisdiction is not subj ct to review here, Bostwickl v.
Brinkerhof,106 U. S. 3 ; Rice v. Sanger, 144 U. S. 191, this
is also true of a judgment merely affirming an interlocutory
order, however apparently decisive of the merits.
Writ of error dismissed.

MEEHAN v. VA ,ENTMN.
ERROR TO THE co~ourr COURT OF THE UNrED STATES FOR
EASTERN DISTRI0T OV PENNSYLVANIA.
No. :12. Argued November 11, 12,1890. -Decided

T

May 16,1892.

One who lends a sum of money to a partnership under an agreement that
he shall be 'paie, interest thereon at all events, and shall also be paid one
tenth of the yearly profits of the partnership business if those profits
exceed the sum lent, does not thereby become liable as a partner for the
debts of the partnership.

Tins was an abtion 6f assumpsit brought by Thomas J.
Meehan, a citizen of Mfaryland, against John K. Vaentine,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

,executor of William G. Perry, both citizens of Pennsylvania,
alleging Perry to have been a partner with Lawrence W.
Counselman and Albert L. Scott, under the name of L. W.
Counselman & Co., and counting on promissory notes of
various dates from August 10, 1883, to :November 25, 1884,
signed by that firm, endorsed to the plaintiff, and amounting
in all to about.$10,000, with interest. The defendant denied
that Perry was a partner in the firm.
At the trial, the plaintiff put in evidence the- following
agreement:
"L. W. Counsebnan.

Albert L."Scott.

Office of L. W. Counselman & Co., oyster and fruit packers,
corner Philpot and Will streets.
"Baltimore, Md., March 15, 1880.
"For and in consideration of loans made and to be made to
us by Win. G. Perry, of Philadelphia, amounting in all to the
sum of ten -thousand dollars, for the term of one year from
the date of said loans, we agree to pay to said Win. G. Perry,
in addition, to the interest thereon, one tenth of the net profits
over and above the sum of ten thousand dollars on our business for the year commencing May 1'st, 1889, and ending May
1st, 1881,- i.e. if our net profits for said year's business exceed the sum of ten thousand dollars, then we are to pay to
said W. G. Perry one tenth of said excess of profits. over and
above the said sum of ten thousand dollars; and, it is further
agreed that if our net profits do not exceed the sum of ten
thousand dollars, then he is not to be paid more than the
interest on said loan, the same being added to notes at the
time they are given, which are to date from the time of said
loans and payable one year from date.
"L. W. CouNsELMMA & Co."
Also the following endorsement thereon; "March 2, 1881:
This contract and agreement is to continue one year longer
on the same basis - i.e. from May 1st, 1881, until May 1st,
L. W.- COUxSBLmAK & Co."
1882.'

MEEHAN v. VALENTINE.
Statement of the Case.

Also three further renewals of the, agreement from year to
year, the first of which was by letteri dated March 18,'1882,
from L. W. Counselman & Co. to Perry, with the same heading as the original agreement, and saying: ""We hereby renew
the agreement made with you May 1, 1880, which is to the
effect that we will guarantee you- ten per cent interest upon
loans amounting to $10,000, and that if the net" profits of our
business is over $10,000 for the year commencing May 1,
1882, and ending April 30th,.1883, we will in lieu of the ten,
per' cent interest give you ten per cent of the profits. We
have tvo propositions for partnership May 1st, and if we
accept either we will then, if you desire, return your loan."
The other renewals, dated April 4, 1883, and March 15,
1884, were substantially like the oriainal agreement of March
15, 1880, except that in the agreement of April 4, 1883, the
rate of interest was specified as six per cent.
The plaintiff, further offered in 'evidence six promissory
notes, amounting in the aggregate to $10,600, given by the
firm to Perry in the months of March, May and June, 1884.
The plaintiff also called Scott as a witness, who testified
that the firm was composed of L. W. Counselman and himself; that it was engaged in "the fruit and vegetable packing
and oyster business" in Baltimore;, that Perry was in the
stationery business in Philadelphia; that the $10,000 mentioned in the agreement was paid by him to the firm, receiving their notes for it, and remained: in the business throughout,
no part of it having been repaid; that from'time, to time he
lent other sums to the firm, which were repaid; that he was
an intimate .friend of the witness and visited him every few
weeks; that these visits were not specially connected With the
business, though oii such occasions Perry "usually went down
to the place of business and talked business;" that he annually
asked and received from the firm accounts of profit and loss;
that the accounts showed an annual profit, which varied from
year to year, amounting for the second year to $11,000 or
$12,000; that it being then found'difficult to tell at the
end of the year exactly what the profits would be, it was
agreed with Perry. that he should thenceforth receive $1000

. 614

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

each year, leaving the final settlement until the whole business was settled up; and that he received under the agreement
about $1500-thd first year and $1000 each subsequent year.
On cross-examination, the witness stated that the firm made
an assignment to the plaintiff for the benefit of creditors on
April 30, 1885; that their liabilities were from $60,000 to
$70,000, about half of which -was with collateral security, and
he did not know whether it had been paid out of such security;
that the assets realized less than $2000; that, so far as he
knew, no dividend had been paid; and, in regard to the $10,000
received from Perry, the witness testified as follows: "Q. Mr.
Counselman and yourself did owe this $10,000 to the estate of
M9r. Perry, did you? A. Theyhad my notes for it. Q. Did you
or did you not owe it? A. It was capital he had in the business the same as ours. We owed it to him. Of course we
owed it to him if we did not lose it."
At the close of the plaintiff's evidence, the defendant moved
for a nonsuit, on the ground that there was no evidence to
show that Perry was liable as a partner. The court so ruled,
and ordered a nonsuit. 29 Fed. Rep. 276. The plaintiff duly
excepted to the ruling, and sued out this writ of error.
X.1r. SamueZ Shellabargerand Xir.. Jeremiah X. Wilson for
plaintiff in error.
In Baylis v. Travellers' Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316, 321, this
court says: "The right of trial by jury in the courts of the
United States is expressly secured by the Seventh Article of
Amendment to the Constitution, and Congress has, by statute,
provided for the trial of issues of fact in cases by the court
without the intervention of a 'jury, only'when the parties
waive their right to a jury by.a stipulation in writing." And
in Iarshallv. Hubbard, 111 U. S.415, it said, in effect, that
it is the duty of the court to give. to the party the benefit of
every inference that could be fairly drawn from the evidence,
written and oral; and that it is only when the party is so
given the benefit of every such inference, that could be,fairly
drawn from the evidence, that the court is justified in withdrawing the case from the jury.

MEEHAN v. VALENTINE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

We axe, therefore, remitted to the *question whether the
evidence for the plaintiff, as disclosed by the record, was of
such a conclusive character as that, after giving, to the plaintiff the benefit of every inference that could be drawn from
it, it was of such a conclusive character as to compel the court,
in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, to grant the nonsuit which was granted.
The original contract, and its extensions, gave Perry an
interest in the profits as such. In this regard, the contracts
were not a mere method of securing to him usurious interest,
or of measuring his compensation. Taken by itself, this
makes out arimafaciecase of partnership.
The leading case on this point in this court is Berthold v.
Golds2nvith, 24 How. 536, which has'ever since been recognized
by this court and the other Federal courts as authority, and
the leading one, upon the questions as to what tests guide in
determining the question of partnership. In that case it was
said: "Actual participation in the profits as principal, we
think, creates a partnership as between the parties and third
persons, whatever may be their intentions in that behalf,
and notwithstanding the dormant partner was not expected
to,participate in the losses beyond the amount of the profits.
Every man who, has a share of the profits of a trade or business ought, also, to bear his share of the loss, for the reason
that, in taking a part of the profits, he takes a part of the
fund of the trade on which the creditor relies for payment."
Grace v. Srgit, 2 W. Bl.998; WTaugh v. Carver,2 H. Bl. 235.
Actual partnership, as between the creditor and the dormant
partner, is considered by the law to subsist where there has
been a parficipation in the profits, although the participant
may have expressly stipulated with his associates against all
the usual incidents of that relation. 'Pond v. Pittard,3 M. &
W. 357. That rule, however, has no application whatever to
a case of service or special agency where the employ6 has no
power as partner in the firm and no interest in the profits as
property, but is simply employed as a servant or special agent,
and is to receive a given sum out of the profits, or a portion
of the same, as compensation for his services."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

This case was decided in 1860, the same-year in which the
case of Cox *v. Hickman ,- 8 H..L. Cas. 268, was decided, and
although the court below seemed to regard that case as deciding that a participation in the profits as profits, as distin'guished from a stipulation for.tlieir being paid as a means of
measuring compensation, did not show a partnership, as held
in Berthold v. Goldsmith, yet we -do not- see that it did so
decide, or that the case is at all in conflict, for our purposes,
with the case of Berthold v. Goldsmith.
The English case was one where the question was whether
certain "scheduled creditors," (who were to be paid a share
of such profits As should accrue from their debtor's business,
under ' deed creating a trustee,) should be deemed partners;.
and the House of Lords held that they were not made partners in the business; just as this cburt, stating the rule in the
case already quoted from, says, that where the employ6 has
iio power as.partner in the firm .business, and no interest in
the profits as profits, but is shnply employed as a servant or
agent, there the party receiving a share of the profits is not
made a partner. But, aside from this, this court has, since
the decision in Cx v. Hickman, recognized thie accuracy of
the opinion in Berthold v. Goldsmith. It is so recognized
in the cases of Seymour v. Freer, 8 Wall. 202, '221; Hunt
v. Oliver, 118 II. S.211, 221.
In Hackett v. Stanley, 115 N. Y. 625, a partnership was
held to arise out. of a written contract in no material respects
different from the one in the case at bar. See also Richard,
son v. Rughitt, 76 N. Y. 55; Burnett v. 8nyder, "76 N. Y.
344; Curry v. Fowler,*87
. Y. 33; Cassidy v. Hall, 97
N. Y. 159; Cljft v. Barrow, 108 N. Y. 187.
See also Parkerv. Canfield, 37 Conne-Pticut, 250, where the,
facts are very similar to those in the case at bar.
For the decisions in -Massachusetts see Prattv. Iangdon,
12 Allen, 544 ; . C. 93 Am. Dec. 61 ; Fitchv. Rf-drington, 13
Gray, 468; S. C. 74A
Am. Dec. 64:1 ; Holmes v. Old Colony Railroad, 5 Gray, 58; Brigham v."Clark, 100 Hass 430; Getchell
v. Foster, 106 Mass. 42; Pettee v. ApRetm, 114'Mass. 114.
For the rule in Ohio see Wood v. VFallette, 7 Ohio St. 172;
Farmers' Insurance Co. v. Ross, 29 Ohio St. 429.

MEEHAN v. VALENTINE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

As to Maryland, see .Rowland v. Long, 45 Maryland, 439.
Filson v. Edmonds, 130 U. S. 472, in no degree conflicts
with our present position, that being a case where the alleged
contract of partnership did no more than sectire to Edmonds
10 per cent interest on vouchers bought for him by his agent,
Squires.
In ZTaza d v. Hazard, 1 Story,. 371, (1840,) it was held that
a partnership as to third persons might arise between the. parties by mere operation of law, against the intention of the
parties; whereas, as between the parties it would exist only
when such is the actual intention of the parties. See also
Cheap v. Cramond, 4 13.& Ald. 663; _Peacock v..Peacool, 16
Yes. 49; ExparteHamper,17 Ves. 403; ExparteHodgkinon,
19 Yes. 291; Ex parte -Langdale,18 Ves. 300; ffeskeith v.
Blanchard, 4 East, 44; ffuzzy v. TFatson, 10 Johns. 226;
Dob v. Hal .y, 16 Johns. 34; S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 293..
Thus it appears to be settled that the written contract entitling Perry to a share of the net profits, at least, makes out a
primz facie case of partnership, and therefore entitled the
plaintiff to introduce, as against Perry's estate, the declarations.
of his copartners, as is held in Plea'ants v. iFant, 22 Wall.
116, 120, where it is said that "one of the most approved criteria of the existence of the partnership, in such cases, is the
right to compel an account of profits in equity." In the case
at bar such a result follows in equity, from the covenant in
the written contract that Perry shfould have one-tenth of -the
net profits in excess" of $10,000.
While it is true that, as between creditors and copatners,
it is immaterial, as bearing upon the liability of secret partners
to creditors, whether the creditors, when they give trust to
the firm, knew of the paitnership of the secret partner or not,
and it is also immaterial as to whether the partners meant to
make a partnership; yet it is also true, in ca es like the present, that the question as to what was the intention of the
partners, regarding the formation and existence of a partnership, is a material circumstance in the case. Clift v. Barrow,
108 N. Y. 92.
In view-of this principle of law, as well as in view of all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence which was withdrawn from the consideration of the
jury by the court, it seems to us quite impossible to reach
the conclusion that there was not error in the withdrawal of
these questions of fact from the jury.
-Mr. Richard C. -)ale and 21r. Samuel Dickson (with whom
was Mr. ffenry P. Br wn on the brief) for defendant in
error.
M3. JUSTIoE GPAY, after stating the case as abovb, deliv6red
the opinion of the court.

The granting of a nonsuit by the Circuit Court, because in
its opinion the plaintiff had given no evidence sufficient to
maintain his action, was in accordance with the law and practice of Pennsylvania prevailing ii the courts of the United
States held within that State, and is subject to the revision of
this court on writ of error. Central Tran-sportation Co. v.
Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 38-40. The real question in
this case, therefore, is whether the evidence introduced by the
plaintiff would have been sufficient to sustain a verdict in hisr
favor.
The requisites of a partnership are that thb parties must
have joined together to carry on a trade or adventure for their
common benefit, each contributing property or services,, and
having a community of interest in the profits. Ward v.
Thompson, 22 How. 330, 334.
Some of the principles applicable to the question of the
Jiability of a partner to third persons were stated by Chief
Justice Marshall in a geiteral way as follows: "Thepower of
an agent is limited by the authority given him; and if he
transcends that authority, the act cannot affect his principal;
he acts no longer as an agent. The same principle applies.to.
partners. One binds the others so far only as he is the agent
of the others." * "A man who shares in the profit,'although
his name may not be in the firm, is responsible for all its
debts." "Stipulations [restricting the powers of partners]
may bind the partners, but ought not to affect those to whom
they are unknown, and who trust to the general and well"

MEEHAN v. VALENTINE.
Opinion of the Court.

established commercial law."

Winshi v. Biant o

United

States, 5 Pet. 529, 561, 562. And the Chief Justice referred'
to WTaugA v. Carver, 2 H. B1. 235; Ecparte zlamper, 17 Ves.
403, 412; and Gow on Partnership, 11.
How far sharing in the profits of a partnership shall make
one liable as a partner has been a subject of much judicial
discussion, and the various deftiitions have been approximate
rather than exhaustive.
The rule formerly laid down, and long acted on as established, was that a man who received a certain share of the
profits as profits, with a lien on the whole profits as security
for his share, was liable as a partner for the debts of the partnership, even if it had been- stipulated between him and his
copartners that he should not be so liable; but that merely
receiving compensation for labor or services, estimated by a
certain proportion of the profits, did not render one liable as
a partner. Story on Partnership, c. 4; 3 Kent Com. 25 note,
_parte Hamper, above cited; Pott v. Eyton, 3 0. B.
32-34;
32, 40; Bostwic v. Champion, 11 Wend. 571, and 18 Wend.
175, 184, 185 ; Burcile v. Eckart, 1 Denio, 337, and 3 N. Y.
132; Denny v. Cabo , 6 Met. 82; Fitch v. Harrington, 13
Gray, 468, 4-74; Brundred v. .Muzzy, 1 Dutcher (25 N. J.
Law) 268, 279, 674. The test was often stated to be whether
the person sought to be charged as a patner took part of the
profits as a principal, or only as an agent. Benjamin v. Porteus, 2 H. BI. 590, 592; Collyer on Partnership (1st ed.) 14;
Smith Mere. Law (1st ed.) 4; Story on Partnership, § 55.;
.domis v. .farskall, 12 Conn. 69, 78; Burcide v. Eckart,'1
Denio, 337, 341; Hallet v.'Desban, 14 La. Ann. 529.
Accordingly, this court, at December term, 1860, decided
that a person employed to sell goods under an agreement that
he should receive half the profits, and that they should not be
less than a certain sum, was not a partner with his employer.
"Actual participation in the profits as principal," said Mr. Justice Clifford in delivering judgment, ",creates a partnership as
between the parties and third persons, whatever may be their
intentions in that behalf, and notwithstanding the dormant
partner was not expected to participate in the loss beyond the

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

amount of the profits," or "may have expressly stipulated with
his assobiates against all the usual: incidents to that relation.
That rule, however, has no application whatever to a 'ease of
service or special. #gency, where the employ6 has no power
as a partner in the firm and no interest in the profits, as property, but is simply employed as a servant or special agent, and
is to receive a given sum out of the profits, or a proportion of
the same, as a compensation for his services." Berthold v.
Goldrnith, 24: ow. 536, 542, 543. See also Seymour v. -Freer,
8 Wall. 202, 215, 222-226; Beokwith v. Talbot, 95 U. S. 289,
293; -Edwardsv. Tracy, 62 Penn. St. 374; Birnett v. Snyder,

81 N. Y*'*50, 555.
Mr. Justice Story, at the beginning of his Commentaries on
Partnership, first published in 1841, said: "Every partner is
an agent of the partnership; and his rights, powers, duties
and obligations are in many respects goyerned by the same
rules and principles as those of an agent. JA partner, indeed,
virtually embraces the character both of a principal and of an
agent. So far as he acts for himself and his own interest in
the common cdcerns of the partnership, he may properly be
,deemed a principal; and so -far as he acts for his partners he
may as properly be deemed an agent. The principal distinction
between him and a mere agent is, that he has a community of
interest with the other partners in the whole property and business and responsibilities of the partnership ;. whereas an agent,
as such, has no iiiterest in either. Pothier considers partnership
as but a species of mandate, saying, Contractus societatis, non
sicus ac cantractus mardati:" Afterwards, in discussing the
reasons and the limits of the rule by which one may be charged
as a partner by reason 6f having received part of the pr6fits of
the partnership, Mr.Justice Story obseeved that the rule was
justified, and the cases in Which it had been applied reconciled,
by considering that " a participation in the profits will ordinarily
establish the existence of a partnership between the parties in
favor of third persons, in the absence of all other opposing
circumstances," but that it is not "to be regarded as anything
more, than mere presunupti-veproof-thereof, and therefore liable
to be repelled and.pvei-eome by other circumstances, and yiot as

MEEHAf o. VALENTI WE.
Opinion of the Court.

of itself overcoming or controlling them ;" and therefore that
"if the participation in the profits can be clearly shown to be
in the character of agent, then the presumption of partnership
is repelled." And again: "The true rule, e. equo et bono,
would seem tb be that the agreement and intention of the
parties themselves should govern all the cases. If they intended
a partnership in the capital stock, or in the profits, or in both,
then that the same rule should apply in favor of third per-'
sons, even if the agreement were unknown to them., And
on the other hand, if no such partnership were "intended between the parties, then that there should be none as to third
persons, unless where the parties had held themselves out as
partners to the public, or their conduct operated as a fraud
Story on Partnership, §§ 1,
or deceit upon third persons."
38, 49.
Baron Parke (afterwards Lord Wensleydale) appears to
have taken much the same view of the subject as :Mr. Justice
Story. Both in th6 Court of Exchequer, and in the ilouse of
Lords, he was wont to treat the liability of one sought to be
charged as, a dormant. partner for the acts of the active
partners as depending on the law of principal and agent.
Beckham v. Dr'ake (1841) 9 M. & W. '79, 98; RIrson v./
Whitehead (1842) 10 A. & W. 503, 504; Ernest v. .jicholls
(1857) 6,H. L. Gas. 401, 417; Cox v. Hickman (1860) 8 H. L.
Cas. 268; 312. And in. Cox v- Hickman he quoted the statements of 'Story and Pothier from Storyon, Partnership, § 1,

above- cited.
In that case, two merchants and copartiers, becoming
embarrassed in their cirqumstaacei, assigned all their property
to trustees, empowering then to carry on the lusiness,:and to
divide the net income ratably amoig their creditors, (all of
whom bepame parties tb the deed,) and- to pay any. residue
to"the debiors, the majority*of the: creditors being authorized
to make rules for conducting the Business or to put an end to it
altogether. The House.of Lords, _differing from the majority
of the judges 9ho delivered opinions at vaxious'stages of the
case, held that the creditors were not liable, as partners fo!
debts, incurred by the trustees in carrying on the business

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of- the Court.

under the assignment. The decision was put upon the ground
that the liability of one partner for the acts of his copartner
is in truth the liability of a principal for the acts of his"
agent; that a right, to participate in the profits, though
cogent, is not conclusive, evidence that the business is carried
on in' part for the person receiving them; and that the test
of his liability as a partner is whether he has authorized the
managers of the business to carry it on in his behalf. Cox v.
Hickman, 8 H. L. Cas. 268, 304, 306, 3122 313; S. C. nor.
Wiea'croft v. Hickman, 9 C. B. (N. S.) 47, 90, 92, 98, 99.
This newform of stating the 'general rule did not at first
prove easierl of application than the old one; for in the first
case which arose afterwards one judge of three dissented;
Rihshaw v. Jukes, 3 B. & S. 84-7; and in the nex case the
unanimous judgment of four judges in the Common Bench
was reversed byi four judges against two in the Exchequer
Chamber. Bullen v. SAarp, 18 C. B. (N. S.) 614, and L.R.
1 C. P.. 86. And, as has been pointed out in later English
cases, the reference to -agency as a test of partnership was
unfortunate and inconclusive, inasmuch as agency results from
partnership rather than partnejrship .from agency. Kelly,
C. B. -and Cleasby, B., in Holme v. Hammond, L. R. 7 Ex. 218,
227, 233; Jessel, IN. R., in Pooley v. ._'iver, 5 Ch. D. 458,
476. Such, a test seems to give a synonym, rather than a
definiti6n; another name for the conclusion, rather than a
statement of the premises from which the conclusion is to be
drawn. To say that a person is liable as a partner, who stands
in the relation of principal to those, by whom the business
i actually carried on, add nothing by way of precision; for
the very idea of partnership includes the relation of prinicipal
and agent.
In the case last a.bove cited, Sir George Jessel said: "You
cannot grasp the netion of agency, properly speaking, unless
you grasp the notioj of the existence of the firm as a separate
entity from the existence of the partners; a notion which was
.well'grasped by the old Roman lawyers, and which was partly
understood in the - courts of equity.." And in a very recent
case the Court 'of Appeals of New York, than which no court

MEEHAN v. VALENTINE..
Opinion of the Court.

has more steadfastly adhered to the old form' of stating the
rule, has held that a partnership, though not strictly a legal
entity a distinct from the persons composing it, yet being
commonly so regarded by men of business, might be so treated
in interpreting a commercial contract. Bank of Buffalo v.
T/ompson, 121 N. Y. 280.
In other respects, however, the rule laid down in Cox v.
Hickman has been unhesitatingly accepted in England, as
explaining and modifying the earlier rule. Be En'lisk &
Zrish Society, 1 Kem. & Mil. 85, 106, 107;' 3ollwo v. Court
of Wards, L. R. 4 P. 0. 419, 435; iRoss v. Parkyns,L. iR. 20
Eq. '331, 335; Ex parte Tennant, 6 Oh.* D. 303; Ex parte
-DelhIasse, 7 Oh. D. 511; Badeley v. Consolidated Bank, 38
Oh. D. -238. See also .Davis v. Patrick, 122 U. S. 138, 151;
Eastmnan v. Clark, 53 N. H. 276; WRd v. Davenport,19 Vroom
(48 IK. J. Law) 129; Seaury v. Bolles, 22 Vroom (51 N. J.
Law) 103, and 23 Vroom (52 K. J. Law) 413; -Morgan v. Farrel, 58 Conn. 413.
In the present state of the law upon this subject, it iiaay
perhaps be doubted whether any more precise general rule
can be laid down than, as indicated at the beginning of this
opinion, that those persons are partners, who contribute either
property or money to carry on a joint business for their common benefit, and who own and share the profits thereof in certain proportions. If they do this, the incidents or consequences
follow, that the acts of one in conducting the partnership business are-the acts of all; that each is agent for the firm and for
the other partners; that each receives part of the profits as
profits, and takes part of the fund to which the creditors of the
partnership have a right to look for .the payment of their
debts; that all are liable aspartners' upon contracts made by
any of them with third persons within the scope of the partnership business; and that even an express stipulation between
them .that one shall not be so liable, though good between
themselves, is ineffectual as against third persons. And participating in profits is presumptive, but not conclusive, evidence
of parmership.
In whatever form the rule is expressed, it is universally held

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that an agent or servant, whose compensation is measur6d by
a certain proportion of the profits of the partnerphip business,
is not thereby made a partner, in any sense. So an agreement
that the lessor of a hotel shall receive a certain portion of the
profits thereof by way of rent does not make him a partner
with, the lessee. Perrine v. Eankinson, 6 ialst. (11 N. J.
ILaw) 181; Holmes v. Old Colony Railroad, 5 Gray,. 58;
Beecher v. Bush, 45 Michigan, 188. And it is now equally
well settled that the receiving of part of the profits of a
commercial partnership, in lieu of or in addition to interest,
by way of compensation for a loan of money, has of itself
no greater effect. Wilson v. Edmonds, 130 U. S. 472, 482;
Richardson v., Hughitt, 76 N. Y.,'55; Curry v. _owler, 87
N. Y. 33; Cassidy v. HMall, 97 N. Y. 159; Smith v. -H.?ight,
71 Illinois, 148; -Williamsv. Soutter, 7 Iowa, 435,446; Boston
& Colorado Smelting Co. v. Smith, 13 R. I. 27; .tfollwo v.
Court qf Wards, and. Badeley v. Consolidated Bank, above
cited.
In some of the cases most relied on by the plaintiff, the person held liable as apartner furnished the whole capital on which
business was carried on by another, or else contributed part of
the capital and took an active part in the management of the
business. Beauregardv. Case, 91 U. S. 134; Hackett v. Stanley, 115 N. Y. 625, 627, 628, 633; Prattv. .angdon, 12 Allen,
544, and 97 Mass. 97; Rowland v. Long, 45 M aryland, 439.
And in -JHollwov. Court of Wards, above cited, after speaking
of a contract of loan and security, in which no partnership
was intended, it was justly obselved: " If cases should occur
where any p&rsons, under the guise of such an arrangement,
are really trading as principals, and putting forward, as ostensible traders, others who are really their agents, they must not
hope by such devices to escape liability; for the law, in cases
of this kind, will look at the body and substance of the
arrangements, and fasten responsibility on the parties according to their true and real character." L. R. 4 P. C. 408.
But in the case at bar no such element is found.
Throughout the original agreement and the renewals thereof,
the sum of $10,000 paid by Perry to the partnership, and for

MEEHAN v. VALENTINE.
Opinion -of the Court.

which -they gave him their promissory notes, is spoken of as a
loan, for which the partnership was to pay him legal interest
at allevents, and also pay him one tenth of the net yearly profits
of the partmership business if those profits should exceed the
sum of $10,000. The manifest intention of the parties, as apparent upon the face of the agreements, was to create the relation of debtor and creditor, and not that of partners. Perry's
demanding and receiving accounts and payments yearly was
in accordance with his right as a creditor. There is nothing
in the agreement itself, or in. the conduct of the parties, to
show that he assumed any other relation. le never exercised any coutrol over the business. The legal effect. of the
instrument could not be controlled by the testimony of one of
the partners to his opinion that "it was capital he had in
the business the same as ours; we owed it to him; of course
we owed it to him if we did not lose it."
Upon the whole evidence, a jury would not b.e justified. in
inferring on the part of Perry, either "actual participation in
the profits as principal," within the rule as laid down by this
court in Bertlwld v. Goldomith; or that he authorized the'
business to be carried on in part for him or on his behalf,
within the rule as stated in Cox v. Hiceman, and the later
English cases. There being no partnership, in any sense, and
Perry never having held himself out aq a partner to the plaintiff or to those under whom he claimed, the Circuit Court
rightly ruled that the action could not be maintained. Pleasants v. Fant,22 Wall. 116; Thompson v. Toledo Ban, Ill.'
U. S. 529.
Judgmevt afflrmed.
Mm. Jusnon BRoww, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part n its decision.
VOL. CXLV-40

