OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

AERKFETZ v. HUMPHREYS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 'THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN DISTRICT OF

FOR THE

ICHIGAN.

No. 355. Submitted April 29, 1892.-Decided fay 16,1892.

The obligation upon an employ6 of a railroad company to take care and
cxercise diligence in avoiding accidents from its trains, while in the performance of his duties about the tracks, is not to be measured by the
obligation imposed upon a passenger when upon or crossing them.
In an action by a track repairer against the receiver of a railroad to recover
damages for injuries received from a locomotive and train while at work
repairing the track in a station yard, it is held that the servants of the
receiver were -guilty of no negligence; and that if they were, the plaintiffs negligence contributed directly to the result complained of.

ON -May 17, 1887, William Aerkfetz, being under twentyone years of age, by Frederick Aerkfetz, his next friend, commenced this action in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Michigan against.the defendants
in error, receivers duly appointed and in possession of the
Wabash Railroad, to recover damages for personal injuries.
caused, as alleged, by their negligence. The defendants
answered, and on a trial before a.jury the verdict and judgment were for the defendants. To reverse such judgment this
writ of error has been sued out.
2

Mr. C. E. TFarner and .M". L. 'T.(Triffln, for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief.
Mr. 1. H. Blodgett, for defendants in error, submitted on
the printed record.
M

. JUSTICE

BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff was in the employ of the defendants in the yard
of the railroad company at Delray, working on one of the
tracks therein, and, while so engaged, was run over and injured by a freight car, moved by a switch engine.

AEItKFETZ v. HUMPHREYS.
Opinion of the Court.

The defences presented were three: First, the receivers
were guilty of no negligence; second, even if they were,
plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence; and, third,
whatever negligence there was, if any, was that of a fellowservant. The trial court directed a verdict for the defendants
on the ground of contributory negligence. Much might be
said in favor of each of the three propositions advanced by
the defendants. We rest our affirmance of the judgment upon
the grounds that under the circumstances there was no negligence on the part of the defendants, and that the accident
occurred through a lack of proper attention on the part of the
plaintiff.
There is little dispute in the testimony, and the facts, as
disclosed are plainly these: The D6lray yard is in the western
part of the city of Detroit. In it were twelve tracks and sidetracks, and the yard was used for the making up of trains.
A switch engine was employed therein, and, as might be
expected, Was constantly moving forwards and backwards,
changing cars and making up trains. Plaintiff was a repairer
of tracks. He had been employed there about eighteen months,
and was familiar with the manner in which the work was done.
The yard was about a quarter of a mile in length. The tracks
were in a direct line east 'and west, with nothing to obstruct
the view in either direction. At the time of the accident
plaintiff was workinig near the west end of the yard, when a
switch engine pushing two cars moved slowly along the track
upon which he was at work, the speed of the engine being
about that of a man walking. Plaintiff stood with his back
to the approaching cars, and so remained at work without
looking backward or watching for the moving engine until he
was struck and run over by the first car.
Upon these facts we observe that the plaintiff was an
employ6, and, therefore, the measure of duty to him was not
such as to a passenger or a stranger. As an &iaploy6 of long
experience in that yard, he was familiar with the moving of
cars forward and backward by the switch engine. The cars
were moved at a slow rate of speed, not greater than that
which was customary, and that which was necessary in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891. Opinion of the Court.

making up of trains. For a quarter of a mile east of him
thete was no obstruction, and by ordinary attention he could
have observed the approaching cars. He knew that the switch
engine was busy moving cars and making up trains, and that
at any minute cars were likely to be moved along the track
upon vhich he was working. With that knowledge he places
himself with his face away from the direction from which cars
were to be expected, and continues his work without ever turning to look. Abundance of time elapsed between'the moment
the cars entered upon the track upon which he was working
and the moment they struck him. There could have been no
'thought or expectation on the part of the engineer, or of any
other employ6, that he, thus at work in a place of danger,
would pay no attention to his own safety. Under such circumstances, what negligence can be attributed to the parties
in control of the train or the management of the yard ? They
could not have moved the cars at any slower rate of speed.
They were not bound to assume that any employ6, familiar
with the manner of doing business, would be wholly indifferent to the going and coming of the cars. There were no
strangers whose presence was to be guarded against. The
ringing of bells and the sounding of. whistles on trains going
and coming, and switch engines moving forwards and back-.
wards, would have simply tended to confusion. The person in
direct charge had a right to act on the belief that the various
employ~s in the yard, familiar with the continuously recurring
movement of the cars, would take reasonable precaution against
their approach. The engine was moving slowly, so slowly
that any ordinary attention on the part of the plaintiff'to that
wvhich he knew was a part of the constant business of the yard
would have made him aware of the approach of the cars, and
enabled him to step one side as they moved along the track.
It cannot be that, under these circumstances, the defendants
were compelled to send some man in front of the cars for the
mere sake of giving notice to employ6s who had all the time
knowledge of what was to be expected. We see in the facts
as disclosed no negligence on the part of the defendants, and
if by any means negligence could be imuted to them, surely

