OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

LEWIS v. BARNTART.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1211. Submitted November 3, 1891. -Decided

April 25,1892.1

In 1838 R. L., a resideit of Ohio, received a patent from the United States
of public lands in Illinois. In 1842 he made his will in Ohio, where he
continued to reside until his death in 1843. After disposing of other
property he devised his Illinois lands and bequeathed th6 remainder of
his personal estate to his wife J. N. L. and to the heirs of her body, to be
equally divided between them, share and shaie alike, and he appointed
her sole executrix of the will. He left no issue surviving him, (although
he had had children,) but he left brothers and the issue of deceased
brothers. His will was duly proved in Ohio, and the widow, who elected
to take under it, qualified as executrix in 1843. In 1846 the Illinois lands
were sold for nonpayment of taxes assessed in 1845. The county records
show no judgment for the tax sale. The lands were purchased at the
tax sale by a brother-in-law of the widow, who assigned the certificate
to the widow, and the deed was made to her directly. She then, through
her attorney in fact, made sales of various tracts of this land, at various
times, until all were disposed of. The purchasers duly entered into possession, and took title, and they and those dlaiming under them continued
in possession and paid all taxes on the lands occupied by them respectively
for Periods ranging from 29 to .33 years. In 1853 a deed of a part of
the tract from the widow to one 'M. was nut on record, in which it was
recited that the land conveyed by that deed had been held by R. L. and
had been devised by him.' The county records also contained a copy of
the Book bf Land Entries, furnished by the auditor to the county clerk
for the purpose of taxation: but, with these exceptions those records
contained nothing pointing to the patent to R. L., or to his will, or to
the interest devised by it to his Widow, J. N. L., until 1866, when what
purported to be a copy of the Will was filed in the office of the recorder
of the county. To this copy Were attached copies of the affidavits of the
subscribing witnesses to the will in proof of its execution, and a'certificate signed by the judge and biy the clerk of the probate court in Ohio
that these were copies of the will and affidavits and order and proceedings
taken from the originals in that court; but there was no copy of the
'1 With this case were submitted at the same time, and on the same briefs,
No. 1212, LEwis v. PHILnrs; No. 1213, Luwis v. JoiHNSON ; No. 1214, LEwiS
v. DmRKs; No. 1215, Luwis v. DYE;
o. 1216, LEiwis v. BoXER; and No.
1217, LEwis v. BONER, all brought up 'by writs of error to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. The opinion of
the court is entitled in all the cases.

LEWIS v. -BARNHART.
Syllabus.
order and of the proceedings admitting the will to probate. The widow
died in 1888, not having married again, and leaving no issue. Up to that
time no one of the several purchasers, nor any one claiming under them
had actual notice that R. L. had been seized of these lands through" a
patent from the United States, or of his will, or of its provisions, nor
any constructive notice thereof other than is to be implied from the public records of the United States and of the county. On the death of the
widow the direct descendants of the brothers of R. L., being his only
heirs at law, brought these actions of ejectment against the several persons occupying and claiming title to said several tracts of land, to recover
possession of the same, maintaining that. the tenancy of the widow andof all claiming under her was a life estate .for the term of her life, and
that the statute of limitations did not begin to run against the remaindermen until the expiration of the life estate. Held,
(1) That the sheriff's deed for the land sold for taxes, being regular on
its face, and purporting to convey the title to the land described
in it, was sufficient color of title to meet the requirements of the
statute of limitations of the State of Illinois, without proof .of a
judgment for the taxes;
2) That the book of land-entries in the county clerk's office furnished
by the auditor to the county clerk for the purposes of taxation
was not constructive notice of the issue of the patent for the public lands to R. L.;
(3) That the will of R. L. was not authenticated and certified by the
officers of the probate court in Ohio in a manner to entitle it to
record under the statutes of Illinois; and that the record of it
there, without proper proof of its probate in Ohio, was iot constructive notice of it and of its contents;
(4) That the recital in the deed from J. Nq.L. to Al. in 1853 Was at most
notice of the facts recited in it to the grantee and those claiming
under him;
(5) That, by the law of Illinois, the actual possession of the keveral defendants, for more than seven successive years prior to the commencement of these actions, of the lands in controversy, under
claim and color of title made in good faith, that is, under deeds
purporting to convey the title to them in fee, and the payment of.
all taxes legally assessed on them, without notice, actual or constructive, during that period, of any title to or interest in the
lands upon the part of others that was inconsistent with 'an absolute fee in their immediate grantors, and in those under whom
such grantors claimed, entitled them to be adjudged the legal
owners of such lands according to thei respective paper titles,
even as against those, if any, who may have been entitled' by the
will of R. L. to take the fee after the death of his widow without
heirs of her body.
(6) That, in .iew of the foregoing, it was unnecessary to pass upon the
- nature of the estate devised .to J. N. L.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

EJEcnmNT.

The court stated the case as follows:

These actions of ejectment were brought in the year 1889.
The lands in controversy are parts of a larger tract of sixteen
hundred acres inWoodford County, Illinois, entered by Romeo
Lewis, in the year 1838 at the Land Office in Springfield, in
that State, and of which he was seized in fee, by a patent
from the United States, at the date of his will, January 8,
1842, as well as when he died, at his residence in Oxford, Butler County, Ohio, on the'24th day of June, 1843.
The parties, in writing, waived a jury, and the cases were
severally tried-by the court, which made a special finding of
facts on which judgment was rendered for the respective defendants. Each action was held to be barred by the statute
of limitations of Illinois protecting the actual possession, continued for seven successive years, of land or tenements, under
claim and color of title made in good faith, and accompanied
by the payment, during that period, of all taxes legally assessed
on them. The principal contention of the plaintiffs in error,
who were the plaintiffs below, upon this point, is, that limitation did not commence to run, against them until shortly before these actions were instituted, and, consequently, the statute has vo application.
In case 1211, Lewis v. Barnhart,the facts upon which the
judgment was based were, substantially, as follows,:
By his will, which was admitted to probate and recorded in
the county of his residence in Ohio, the testator directed his
interest in lands in the Territory of Florida, and in the States
of Arkansas and Mississippi, to be sold, and the proceeds, together with moneys that might be derived from other sources,
applied to the payment of his just debts. After making certain bequests of money to his.mother, nieces, and others, the
will proceeds: "I further give and devise to my dearly beloved
wife, J'ane 1N. Lewis, and to the heirs of her body, my houses
and lots in the town of Oxford, Butler County, Ohio, and all
the residue of my lands in the States of Indiana and Illinois,
and all the rest, residue, and remainder of my personal estate,
goods and chattels of every kind- and' description whatspever

LEWIS v. BARN ART.
Statement of the Case.

to be equally divided between them, to share and share alike.
And lastly, I hereby appoint my said beloved wife, Jane N
Lewis, sole executrix of this my last will and testament, hereby
revoking all my former wills by me made. And I do hereby
ratify and confirm this and no other to be my last will and
testament."
The testator left no issue surviving him. Three children
died prior to the date of the will. The fourth, born April 15,
1843, lived only a few days. He had no sisters. But he had
four brothers, three of whom died before he did, while the
fourth survived him. His wife was only thirty-four years old
at the date of the will. She remained a widow, and died in
July, 1888, aged eighty years, leaving no issue.
The plaintiffs are the direct descendants of the testator's
brothers, and his only heirs at law.
The widow qualified, in the proper court of Ohio, as executrix, and, in open court, September 25, 1843, elected to take
under the will.
The lands in controversy were assessed for taxation in
Woodford County for the years 1844 and 1845 in the name of
Romeo Lewis as patentee and owner. They were then "wild
lands," uncultivated, of little value, and in -a new and sparsely
settled country. On the 13th of Oqtober, 1846, they were sold
for the taxes of 1845, Guernsey Y. Roots, the husband of a
sister of Jane N. Lewis, becoming the purchaser. He knew,
at the time, of the existence and probate of the will of Romeo
Lewis, as well as of the appointment of Jane N. Lewis as
executrix, and of her election to take under the will. But the
relationship of Roots to Mrs. Lewis was not known to the
defendants or to any one under whom they claim.
The records of the Circuit Court and recorder's office in
Woodford County as they existed at the time of the trial, did.
not show any judgment entered against th lands for the taxes
of 1845. Nevertheless, the sheriff, by deed of May 16, 1849,
conveyed them to Jane N. Lewis, as assignee of Roots's certificate of purchase, the deed reciting that, "at the September,
term, 1846, of the Circuit Court of Woodford County, a judgment -was obtained in favor of the State" for the taxes,. inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

est and costs assessed upon the lands for the year 1845, and
that the sheriff, on the 13th of October, 1846, by virtue of a
precipe issued September 20, 1846, exposed them for sale, in
conformity with the requirements of the statute, "for the
satisfaction of the judgment so rendered as aforesaid." This
deed was duly acknowledged and recorded on the day it bears
date.
By power of attorney given May 7,1856, and duly recorded
July 24, 1856, Harry Lewis, of Ohio, the surviving brother of
the testator, was constituted by Mrs. Lewis her ittorney to
sell and convey in fee simple, by deed of general warranty,
these and other lands in Woodford County, Illinois. In virtue
of this. power of .attorney, Lewis executed to Absalum
Doherty a bond, dated June 21, 1856, fQr a conveyance by
deed of general warranty, the consideration recited being
$5600, for which Doherty gave his note. This bond was recorded! July 7,1856. In that year Doherty went into possession and improved the lands, claiming them under the above
contract and bond. Within two years after taking possession
he enclosed them with fences, built two houses upon them,
and put a large part of them in cultivation.
On the 15th day of August, 1866, what purports to be a
copy of the will of Romeo Lewis was recorded in one of the
books containing the record of deeds in the recorder's office
of Woodford County.
M rs. Lewis, in execution of the contract with Doherty, made
to him, August 31, 1866, a warranty deed. He resided upon
the lands continuously, until his death on the 15th of September, 1876. He left a widow and a son. as his sole heir, who
remained in possession until the 4th day of February, 1881,
when they united in a conveyance to Lawrence Gasner. The
latter held possession under that conveyance until November
1, 1881, when he conveyed by warranty deed to the defendant
Gish, who has continued in possession under that deed. The
defendant Barnhart is only a tenant of Gish.
In 1858 Doherty paid the taxes on the lands for the year
1857, and he and those claiming under him paid all the taxes
assessed against them up to the commencement of this action.

LEWIS v. BARNHART.
Statement of the Case.

It was stipulated between the parties, and the court found,
that neither the defendant Gish, nor his grantor, nor any one
under whom he claims, (except Jane N. Lewis,) had, prior to
September 1, 1889, any notice that Romeo Lewis was seized of
these lands, at the time of his death, by patent from the United
States, other than such as may have been conveyed, constructively, at the date of the above bond and deeds, by the Book of
Land Entries in the office of the county clerk of Woodford
County,. Illinois, furnished by the auditor to the county clerk
for purposes of taxation; or by the fact that the lands were
assessed for taxation in 1845 in the name of Romeo Lewis,
and were sold for the nonpayment of taxes in 1846; or by the
record of a deed from Jane N. Lewis to John G. Mohr, dated
February 8, 1853, and recorded in that county, which described
the land thereby conveyed (what particular lands the record
does not show) as " said tract of land having been held by
Romeo Lewis, the deceased husbahd of the grantor, and to
her devised in the last will and testament. of said Romeo
Lewis." Nor did the defendant, or any of the persons through
whom he claims title, (except Jane N. Lewis,) have any knowledge whatever of the existence or probate of the will of
Romeo Lewis prior to the time when what purported to be a
copy of it was recorded, as above stated, inWoodford County,
unless notice was to be imputed to them by the record of
the above deed from Jane N. Lewis to Afohr,-or by the record
and probate of the will in 1843 in Butler County, Ohio.
It was further stipulated and found that "the defendants
have a complete chain of title, properly recorded at the date
of said deeds or bonds for deeds, to the lands described in the
de6iaration in this case, under deeds with full covenants of
warranty, from Jane Lewis to themselves, which deeds were
also properly recorded at the dates of the executioi thereof,
and that said lands have been actually occupied and resided
upon by the defendants and their grantors from the date of
the purchase .thereof, as shown by said 'deeds from Jane N.
'Lewis, and that they .have severally paid .all taxes assessed
on said lands from the date o' said - deeds to the present
time."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The other cases named in the beginning of this opinion
depend upon facts similar to those above set forth. The defendants, in each case, hold under bonds and deeds, or under
deeds only, from Jane N. Lewis, which were duly recorded,
and, prior to the commencement of these actions, they had
been in actual possession, paying all taxes assessed on the lands
occupied by them, respectively, for periods ranging from
twenty-nine to thirty-three years.
.XAr. Sabin D. Pterbaugh, .2 r. 7omas fillikin, .Xr.
Palmer TV Smith and 3f. Leslie D. Puterbaugh,for plaintiffs in error, submitted on their brief. Touching the Illinois
statutes of limitations, the only point considered in the opinion
of this court, they said:
The defendants in error claim under the statute of limitations: _First,-Under section 1, adverse title and possession,
without notice, for over twenty years; Second, - Under section 6, claim and color of title, made in good faith, actual possession and payment of taxes for the period of seven years.
The plaintiffs in error claim that the statute of limitations
cannot run as against them during the lifetime of MVIrs. Lewis,
because during that period they had no right of entry or action.
No disseisin of the tenant of a particular estate and occupati6n under it, however long continued, will affect the right of
the reversioner. And the doctrine may be laid down as universal, that no possession can be held to be adverse as to one
who has no right of entry and possession during its continuance. Deryer v. Schaefer, 55 N. Y. 446. The latter may
enter whenever the particular estate shall determine by its
limitation. -Millerv. Ewing, -6 Gush. 34; Jdckson v. Scioonm9aer," 4 Johns. 390; Salmons v. .Davis, 29 Missouri, 176.
*The statute does not run against a reversioner till the death
of the tenant for life, when the latter has conveyed the estate
in fee, Gernet v. Lynn, 31 Penn. St. 94 ; Afelvin v. 3ferrimack
Locks and Canals, 16 Pick. 137; S. C. 17 Pick. 255; Baymond v. Holden, 2 Cush. 269. And where a husband and
wife were disseized, and the disseisor held adverse possessior

LEWIS v. BARNHART.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

for the period of limitation, which possession would bar the
right of the husband, il living, at his death, she, or her representatives might claim the land. Gregg v. Tevso4, 1 Black,
150.
If the possession was taken under a title not originally hostile to the true owner it will be intended that his possession
was not adverse. Jackson v. Thomas, 16 Johns. 293; Smkitk
v. Burtis, 9 Johns. 174; Jckson v. Joknson, 5 Cowen, 74;
. 0. 15 Am. Dec. 433. And the purchaser of an estate for
life holds in subordination to the reversioner; and an adverse
possession against the reversioner cannot be predicated on it.
Jaeksom v. Graham,3 Gaines, 188 ; Jackson v. Town, 4 Cowen,
599; . C. 15 Am. Dec. 405; Jackson v. Parker,9 Cowen, 73.
And this is the law although he supposed his deed gave him
the fee. Learned v. Tallmadge, 26 Barb. 443; Barrett v.
Stradl, 73 Wisconsin, 385. The statute of limitations does
not run against reversioners. Angel on Limitations, Sec. 370.
The possession of a tenant for life is never deemed to be
adverse to his reversioner. Grout v. Townsend, 2 Hill, 554;
Austi v. Stevens, 24: Maine, 520; 7Farney v. Stevens, 22
Maine, 331. Nor if he be disseized are the rights of the reversioner thereby affected; and he may enter or sue in an action
to recover possession within twenty years after the death of
the tenant for life, without regard to the lapse of time during
which the disseisor may have held the premises. Jakson v.
A1ancius, 2 Wend. 357; Me Corry v. Zing, 3 Humph. (Tenn.)
267; . 0. 39 Am. Dec. 165; Jackson v. Sokoonmaker, 4 Johns.
390; .Fosterv. . arshall, 2 Foster, 491; Guion v. .Andersan,
8 Humph. (Tenn.) 325.1 And if one who enters upon land
under an agreement with a tenant for life continues" to hold
possession after her death he becomes as to the reversioner a
mere trespasser. TYilliams v. Caston, 1 Strobhar, 130.
It has been further held that if the -tenant for life do any
act with the'property which works a forfeiture of the same it
only affects his interest, but not that of the reversioner.
Archer v. Jones, 26 Mississippi, 583, 589. So if the tenant
does an act by which he incurs a forfeiture of the estate the
reversioner is not bound to treat the estate as merged in his

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

own and enter immediately; he may have his action after
the death of the tenant for life. without being affected by
the previous possession. Nor can a tenant for life who creates
an estate by grant or otherwise defeat his grant by surrender
to his landlord or reversioner. .Afoore v. Luce, 29 Penn. St.
263; S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 629.
It is no matter how many estates are carved out of the
owner's entire.estate, a reversion will be left, provided these do
not amount in quantity to his original estate. Thus the owner
of a fee may grant twenty or more successive life estates and
still retain his.fee simple of the land, though his right of possession will be suspended till these life estates shall have been
exhausted.
It was upon this principle that, after the statute de donis,
there was always held to be a reversion in the grantor of an
estate tail, upon the idea that the succession of life estates
which the successive tenants in tail were to enjoy, might at
some time cease, and no one have a right to claim the estate
under the original limitation.
It is settled law in Illinois that the statute of limitations
may run, and the bar become complete against an estate for
life or for a term of years; but that in such cases when the
particular estate is spent, the bar .falls with that estate, and
the 'right of entry then accrues to the remainder-man or
reversioner, and then, and not till then, the statute begins to
run against him, and he must have the same period within
which to assert his title, as was had by the owner of the l'articular estate. Iliggins v. Cro.sby, 40 Illinois, 260; Steele v. Gelletly, 41 Illinois, 39; -Dugan v. Follett, 100 Illinois, 581; IF7d-ing v. ]9icholl, 46 Illinois, 230; S. C. 92 Am. Dec. 248; Riohn
v. Ilarris,130 Illinois, 525; .-Mettler v. ._iller,129 Illinois, 630.
The 'statute would work-, great injustice if it were held to
affect the rights of 'reversioners or remainder-men during the
continuance of the particular estate or the estate for life. To
so hold would in effect deprive the reversioner or remainderman of his rights without ever.having a day in court. And
if the statute' of Illinois relating to limitations should bear
this copstruacton it would be transcending tho poxcr'of the

LEWIS v. BAMNHART.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

legislature, and as to such reversioner or-remainder-man would
be unconstitutional and void.
The plaintiffs in error are guilty of no laches. They do not
claim under the will of Romeo Lewis, but by descent as his
heirs at law. Until Mrs. Lewis's death in 1888 without heirs
of her body, it was not known and could not be known that
the plaintiffs would have an interest in the property. As
they do not claim under the will and had no vested interest
until the death ol Mrs. Lewis without issue, no duty devolved
upon them to record the will in Woodford County or elsewhere, or to give notice to the defendants of their contingent
expectations or to do any act to protect the land.
Until the rghts of the plaintiffs vested, they had no power
to appear in court to defend or protect the title, to make an
entry or assert any rights with respect to the property, or to
in any way stop the running of the statute of limitations.
.lfettler v. .Miller, 129 Illinois, 630, 642.
We submit that up to the time of Mrs. Lewis's death, in 1888,
the estate of the heirs at law of Romeo Lewis, deceased, was
simply a possibility of reversion. See the distinction drawn in
Heath v. Barmore, 50 N{. Y. 302; Nficoll v. Erie Railroad,
2 Kernan, 121. In 4th Kent; 370, it is said that the grantor
of an estate upon condition has only a possibility of reverter,
and no reversion; and in the note to page 11, he says: There
is only the possibility of a reverter left in the grantor, and not
an actual estate. See.Martin v. Strachan, 5 T. R. 107 n. For
examples illustrating the distinctions 'between a naked possibility and a possibility coupled with interest, see Jackson v.
JValldlon,
13 Wend. 178.
Romeo Lewis
devised his entire estate in fee tail to his
wife,
and until her death the heirs of the testator had simply a possibility of reverter but no vested estate. This being conceded,
they had no more right to interpose by injunction or the
appointment of a receiver than a son has with reference to his
father's estate during the life of the father.
We further submit that Mrs. Lewis, at the dates of the bonds
for deeds and conveyances from her under which the defendants respectively claim title, was clothed with no color of
VOL. cxLV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

title in fee by her tax deed of 1849.
Before she could be
held and adjudged to be the legal owner of the lands under
section 6 of the limitation laws it must appear that she was in
the actual possession under claim and color of title, made in
good faith; that she continued in such possession for the
period of seven years, and during said time paid all taxes on
such lands. She had a bare tax deed, without any judgment
to support it. Her pretended color of title was not made in
good faith, but was fraudulently procured to defeat the heirs
of her deceased husband, who in the future might possibly
become reversioners. It is not shown or admitted that she
ever paid any taxes except in 1846, and then only by purchasing at the tax- sale. The lands being wild andauncultivated,
she was never in the actual possession. Every element
required to entitle her to be held and adjudged to be the legal
owner of the lailds is wanting in order to clothe her with
color of title made in good-faith.
The records of Woodford County were notice to the defendants that there was no judgment against the lands for taxes;
and they were bound to know that the tax deed was -void for
want of a judgment to support it. The lands being vacant,
wild and uncultivated, with no person'in the actual possession,
the statute of limitations could not have run during the
period of seven years prior to the purchases from Ms. Lewis,
and she was not clothed with color of title in fee by the tax
deed of 1849.
The color of title under which the defendants claim is the
conveyances from Mrs. Lewis, and these would be sufficient
if the plaintiffs had been in a position where they could have
asserted title; but the defendants could acquire no color of
title'or other rights during Yrs. Lewis's lifetime to the prejudice of the plaintiffs as reversioners in expectancy.
The plaintiffs offered the will in evidence for the sole and
limited puipose of showing that Mrs. Lewis had a life estate,
and, therefore, could take nothing by her tax deed, and that
limitation did not run against them. They also showed that
the persons who under the will were to take the remainder
were not in existence, and that, therefore, for want of such

LEWIS v. BARNHART.
Argument for 'Plaintiffs in Error.

persons the estate at the death of Mrs. Lewis, in 1888, went
to the plaintiffs by way of reversion.
The defendants, by acquiring title from Mrs. Lewis, obtained
no greater interest than she possessed. They stand in her
shoes; and neither they nor Mrs. Lewis could commit any act,
or omit to perform any duty which would defeat the estate of
remainder or reversion.
The defendants introduced the tax deed of Mrs. Lewis simply as a claim or color of title, in order to furnish a basis for
occupancy, payment of taxes and thereby a title under the
statute of limitations. This being the case, they would be required to show that the color of title is an honest one; and in
addition thereto that it was in fact something more than the
life estate of Mrs. Lewis. If she had only a life estate how could
she convey to the defendants a greater estate? And the fact
that she attempted to convey a greater estate by giving a warranty deed purporting to convey the fee does not in any
manner affect the remainder-men or reversioners. This is expressly held in Barrett v. Stradl, 73 Wisconsin, 385, and cited
and approved in Mettler v. Miller, 129 Illinois, 630.
The fact that the defendants and those under whom they
claim may have believed that they were acquiring a good title
is wholly immaterial. The plaintiffs in error, whose hands
were tied, being unable to assert title during the life of Mrs.
-Lewis, are not responsible for or to be prejudiced by the mis-'
takes or neglects of the life tenant or those claiming under her.
During the existence of the life estate Mrs. Lewis and her
grantees had a right to use the lands as they saw fit, and in
doing so they in no manner interfered, with or affected the
rights of the plaintiffs in error, whose contingent interests
could not become vested until the expiration of the life estate
at the decease of Mrs. Lewis without issue of her body.
The possession of Mrs. Lewis, or'of the defendants in error,
her grantees, was never during her life hostile, but was exactly in accordance with the testator's will.
The defendants in error knew that the United States were
the source of the title, and that a patent had issued to some
one. They knew there was an outstanding title in some one,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and it was their duty to ascertain the name of the patentee, or
the holder of the outstanding title. They knew that the
records disclosed these facts. They knew that Jane N. Lewis
did not derive title from the government, and they were put
upon inquiry as to the source of her title. It would be absurd
to claim that they did not know that Romeo Lewis was the
patentee,'and that Mrs. Lewis claimed under him.
Ilbr. Robert . WFilliams, 1fr. IF. G. Randall, .Xr..IF. S.
Gibson and Xr. C. L. Capen for defendants in error submitted on their brief.
Mit. JUSTICE llAmrAf_, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

By the statutes of Illinois in force when the will of Romeo
Lewis was made and took effect, it was provided that "in cases
where, by the common law, any person or persons might
hereafter become seized in fee tail of any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, by virtue of any devise, gift, grant, or other
conveyance, hereafter to be made, or by any other means whatsoever, such person or persons, instead of being or becoming
seized thereof in fee tail, shall be deemed and adjudged to be
and become seized thereof, for his or her natural life only, and
the remainder shall pass in fee simple absolute, to the person
or persons to whom the estate tail would, on the death of the
first grantee, devisee or donee in tail, first pass, according to
the course of the common law, by virtue of such devise, grant
or conveyance." Act of January 31, 1827, Rev: Laws Ill. 1833,
§ 6, pp. 127, 131; Rev. Stats. 1845, c. 24, § 6; Rev. Stats. 1874,
c. 30, § 6. The court below held (43 Fed. Rep. 854) that Mrs.
Lewis, under the will of her httsband, would have taken, at
common law, only an estate in fee tail, that is, an estate "confined in its desceni to the posterity of some individual so as to
cease upon failure of such posterity" -citing Burton on Real
Property, 4. After observing, in the words of the same author,
that upon a devise to a person and his issue or children the
construction varies according to the circumstances, and that,

LEWIS v. BARNHART.
Opinion of the Court.

if the party have issue or children at the time when the devise
is made, they will take estates for their lives jointly with their
parent, but if he ]had no issue at that time he takes an estate
tail, the court said that under the above statute Mrs. Lewis
took only an estate for her natural life, and at her death, in
default of heirs of her body, the heirs at law of the testator
took the estate in fee. But, in view of the admitted facts, it
was held that the defendants were protected by the statute of
Illinois, prescribing the periods within which actions for the
recovery of lands may be brought.
Much of the elaborate argument submitted by counsel is
devgotedto an inquiry as to the nature of the estate that M rs.
Lewis took under the will of her husband; the plaintiffs insisting that the court below correctly interpreted the will of the
testator in connection with the statute. The defendants insist
that the devise to Mrs. LeWis and to the heirs of her body was
intended to be a devise to her and to the~children of herself
and the testator as a class of persons to take at the death of
the testator, and that she as the only survivor at his death,
of that class, took the whole estate absolutely. The defendants further insist that, even if the estate did not wholly vest
at the death of the testator in Mrs. Lewis as the survivor of
the class of persons who were the declared objects of his
bounty, the fee did not remain in abeyance until her death,
but vested at his death in those who were then his heirs at
law, although "uch estate was liable to be divested on the
birth of an heir to the body of the life tenant.
These questions have been discussed by counsel with marked
ability. But it will not be necessary to pass upon them, if, as
is contended, these actions, under any construction of the will,
are barred by the statute of limitations of Illnois To this
question of limitation we will, therefore, direct our attention.
.The statute just referred to, as it appears in the Revision of
k8.45 3 title Conveyances, provides: "§ 8. Every person in the
actual possession of lands or tenements, under claim and color
of title Inade in good faith,. and who shall, for seven successive
years, continue in such possession, and shall, also, during said
time, pay all taxes legally assessed on such lands or tenements,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be held and adjudged to be the legal owner of said lands
or tenements, to the extent and according to the purport of
his or her paper title. All persons holding under such possession, by purchase, devise or descent before said seven years shall
have expired, and who shall continue such possession, and
continue to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the
possession and payment of taxes for the term aforesaid, shall
be entitled to the benefits of this section." "§ 10. The two
preceding sections shall not extend

.

.

.

to lands or tene-

ments when there shall be an adverse title-to such lands or tenements, and the holder of such adverse title is under the age of
twenty-one years, insane, imprisoned, feme covert, out of the
limits of the United States, and in the employment of the
United States or of this State: .P ovidecd, Such person shall
commence an action to recover such lands or tenements so possessed as aforesaid, within three years after the several disabilities herein enumerated sball cease to exist, and shall prosecute
such action to judgment,

.

.

."

These provisions first

appeared in the act of March 2, 1839, entitled "An act to
quiet possessions and confirm titles to land," and are preserved
in the act of April 4, 1872, title Limitations. Purple's Real
Estate Stat. Ill. p. 426; Rev. Stats. 1845, p. 104, c. 24, § 8;
Rev. Sthts. 1872, p. 674, c. 83, § 6; 2 Starr & Curtis, p. 1539Considering the different objects of sections eight and nine,.
the Supreme Court of Illinois in .Dunlap v. Daugherty, 20
Illinois, 397, 403, said: "By the eighth section the person must
be in possession under claim and color, and may pay taxes,
under such claim and color of title for the required period of
time; while by the ninth section he is not required to have
possession, nor permitted to hold or pay taxes under a person
having color, but must himself have the color of title and pay
the taxes. This section does not permit a person claiming
under color to rely upon the statute. But the eighth section, by
its phraseology, does permit the person claiming under the color
of title to hold the possession and to pay the taxes for his
claim and possession, and the color of title when united make
the claim and color of title gnd the possession required by the
statute.

.

.

.

Tustice would require more protection should

LEWIS v. BARINHART.
Opinion of the Court.

be given to the actual occupant, who expends his money and
labor in improving the soil, and pays the taxes for the required
period, than to the person who only pays the taxes, without
occupation, for the same length of time." See also Cofeld v.
PFtrry, 19 Illinois, 183; Darst v. .Marshal, 20 Illinois, 227;
.Newland v. 3J.ards, 19 Illinois, 376.
Under the stipulations of the parties, and the findings of
fact, there can be no doubt as to the nature of the possession
of the respective defendants. It was an actual, continuous
possession under bonds and copveyances, promptly recorded,
accompanied by the payment of all taxes assessed on the lands
during the period of stich possession. If, within the meaning
of the statute, such possession was "under claim and color of
title made in good faith," then the cases before us come within
the very Words of the statute, and the defendants, respectively,
are entitled to be adjudged legal owners of the lands according
to the purport of their respective paper titles, unless, as contended, limitation did not run against the plaintiffs until after
the death of Mrs. Lewis.
That the defendants have been in actual possession for the
required time, under claim and color of title made in good
faith, is clearly established. It is true- that Mrs. Lewis, under
whom the several defendants claim, held under a tax deed,
and that such a deed, when relied on as evidence of paramount title, must be supported by a valid judgment for the
taxes, and a proper.precept authorizing the sale. -olbrook v.
Dickinson,46 Illinois, 285 ; Gage v. .2ightburn, 93 Illinois, 248,
252; Pardridge v. 17"il Utge of .J-yde Park, 131 Illinois, 531,
541 ; Gage v. Bani, 141 U. S. 344, 351. And it is also true
that the records before us do not show any judgment for taxes
against these lands', followed by a precept authorizing their
sale, and only show a sheriff's deed to Mrs. Lewis, reciting a
judgment and pr~ecept. But a sheriff's deed for land sold for
taxes, regular on its face, and made to one who was under no
obligation to pay the taxes, will, as between the grantee and
the taxpayer, constitute, without proof of a judgment for the
taxes, such color of title as will meet the requirements of the
statute of limitations. It has been long settled in Illinois that

OCTOBER TER,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

any deed or instrument in writing, no matter on what founded,
if regular on its face, and purporting to convey the title to land
of which a description is given, is sufficient color under the
limitation act of 1839, although it might be ineffectual to
establish paramount title, apart from possession and payment
of taxes for seven successive years. .f-olloway v. Clark, 27
Illinois, 483, f86; -Dickensonv. Breeden, 30 Illinois, 279, 326;
JktcCagg v. Heacock, 34 Illinois, 4-76, 478; Stubblefteld v. Borders, 92 Illinois, 279, 284; Brooks v. Bruy, 35 Illinois, 392;
-Faganv. Rosier, 68 Illinois, 84, 87; Iardin v. Gouverneur,
69 Illinois, 140, 143; Lake S ore &c. Railway v. Pittsburgh,
-FortWayne, &c. Railway, 71 Illinois, 38;, Coleman v. Billings,
89 Illinois, 183, 190; &tum_7f v. Osterkage, 111 Illinois, 82, 88.;
Baldwin v. Ratliff, 125 Illinois, 376, 384.
In cases 1211, 1212, 1213, 1214 and 1217, respectively, the
purchaser from Mrs. Lewis went into possession under a bond
for a deed. These bonds did not purport to convey the title,
but were executory agreements entitling the purchaser to a
deed. If it be said that possession under a bond for a deed, or
under a contract foi the purchase of land, neither purporting
to convey the title, is not possession "under claim and color.
of title," within the meaning of the statute, Rigor v. Frye, 62
Illinois, 507, 509; -Hardinv. Crate, 78 Illinois, 533, 536, 537;
Robbins v. -Moore, 129 Illinois, 30, 46; a sufficient answer is
that each bond was followed by a deed from Mrs. Lewis, purporting to convey the fee, and that from at least the execution of the latter deed the purchaser was in possession under
such claim and color of title as the statute required. And
even if we assume that the deed did not have relatfon back to
the date and recording of the bond, so as to give the grantee
the benefit of his actual possession under the bond-though
the contrary view is asserted on the authority of Snapp v.
Peirce, 24 Illinois, 156, 159 ; Russell v. Mawndell, 73 Illinois,
136, 138; Schneider v. Bosch, 90 Illinois, 577 580 - and that
possession under the sheriff's deed by Mrs. Lewis was not adverse to those, if any, in remainder, and excluding therefore
the entire'period during which she held the apparent legal title
which that deed conveyed, there was yet more than seven

LEWIS v. BARNIU4RT.
Opinion of the Court.

years' actual possession by the defendants, accompanied by the
payment of taxes under subsequent deeds duly recorded and
purporting in .each instance to convey the fee.
It results that these actions are barred by the statute, unless
it be held not only that plaintiffs were reveisioners, but that
limitation bould not run against them during the life of Mrs.
Lewis. The general rule in Illinois, as elsewhere, undoubtedly
is that limitation does not run against a reversioner or remainder-man, pending the prior estate, because during that
time he has no right of entry. Having nw right of entry, he is
not deemed guilty of laches in failing to assert his rights during the existence of the life estate. Hfiggins v. Crosby, 40 Illinois, 260, 262; Dugan v. Follett, 100 Illinois, 581, 589; Orth'wein v. Thomas, 127 Illinois, 554, 569; -lettler v. -Miller,129
Illinois, 630, 64,0; Ro/vn v. Harris,130 Illinois, 525, 581.
But the case of Dugan v. Follett, just cited, shows that
in its application this general rule is not without exceptions in
Illinois. In that case it appears that by a decree rendered in
a suit in equity brought in one of the courts of Illinois, an
administrator was directed to invest certain moneys then in
his hands in real estate, (no particular lands being specified,)
and to convey the same to the plaintif, Mrs. Jennings, for her
life, with remainder in fee to the named heirs of her late husband. The investment was made, and a deed of that character
was executed, November 0, 1850, to Mrs. Jennings. That
deed was not put upon record, but the fact of its execution was
reported to the c6urt by the administrator, and his report
placed among the files of the suit in which the decree, directing the investment, was made. Mrs. Jennings did not die until
November 18, 1875. During her lifetime the lands passed into
the possession of others under warranty deeds, conveying the
title in fee. The dispute was between those parties and the
persons in remainder. The evidence showed that those who
held under the warranty deeds, and their immediate grantors,
were in actual possession, adversely to all the v4orld, without
any knowledge that the plaintiffs had any claim as remaindermen to the premises, and paid all taxes assessed on the lands,
"thus," the court said, "making out a clear case of possession,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891:
Opinion of the Court.

payment of taxes under claim and color of title made in good
faith for more than the statutory period." The court also
said: "It is clear, therefore, unless there is something in the
facts of this case which takes it out of the operation of the
statute, the right to maintain the present proceedings is barred
by the limitation act of 1839. It is a fundamental principle
in the law of limitations that the statute never commences
running until the right of entry accrues, and since-by the limitations of the deed from Hugh Rhodes to Mrs. Jennings, under
which appellees [the remainder-men] claim, their right of entry
did not accrue until her death, which occurred less than 'even
years before the commencement of the present proceedingg, it
would seem to follow that this proceeding is not barred by the
limitation act of 1839, and such undoubtedly would be the case
if that deed had been properly recorded, or if appellants and
those under whom they claim had purchased with notice of
appellees' rights. But that deed was never recorded, and, as
already stated, there is nothing to show that appellants, or
their immediate grantors, had notice of its existence."

It was contended, in that case, that the administrator's
report, showing the conveyance of the land to Mrs. Jennings
for life, with remainder to the named phildren of her deceased
husband, was constructive notice of the rights of those in remainder. To this the court replied that if the object of the suit
had been "to compel the administrator to convey these particular lands, then we would have no hesitancy in holding the
record of that case constructive notice of the rights of those
claiming under the decree in it, whether the deed was placed
upon record or not. But such was not the object 'of that suit.
INeither the decree nor the pleadings in that case contain any
description of these lands, or even make the slightest reference
to them." It was held that purchasers were not bound to look
beyond the judgment or decree and the legal effect it might
have on the title which was the subject of inquiry, and were
not chargeable with constructive notice of every fact that
might appear on the files of the case in which such decree was
rendered. In reply to the suggestion that the tenant for life,
Mrs. Jennings, was bound to pay all taxes, and as the persons,

LEWIS v. BARK HART.
Opinion 6f the Court.

holding under the warranty .deeds, succeeded to that- estate,
they were bound to pay them, and, therefore, could not avail
themselves of the limitation act of 1839, the court said: "Conceding such would have been the case if the Jennings deed had
been put upon r'ecord, or if appellants and those under whom
anotice of that deed,7yet appelthey claim had purchasedwith
lants claim, as we have already seen, adversely to appellees,
and independently of any rights acquired through the Jennings
deed, and insist that inasmuch as that deed was not placed
upon r'ecord,and they did not otherwise have notice of it, they
are 'ot to be affected by its provisions; and in this we think
they are right. The recording and limitation laws are both a
part of the ,law of the State, and of equal force and validity,
and the court should so construe and apply them as to effect
uate the objects and purposes of the legislature in adoptifig
them. The 30th section of chapter 30 of the Revised Statutes,
entitled ' Conveyances,' provides that all deeds, mortgages,
etc., shall take effect and be in force from and after the time
of filing the same for record and not before, as to all creditors
and subsequent. purchasers without notic', and all such deeds
shall be adjudged void as to 'all such subsequent purchasers
without notice until filed for record. To hold that appellants
under the facts in this case are to be affected in any manner
by the Jennings deed,*would be to simply disregard this plain
provision of the statut, which we are not permitted or inclined
to do. In construing and giving effect to the limitation laws,
courts must do so in such manner . as to also give effect to
this plain provision of the' statute 'making all deeds void
as against subsequent purchasers without notice until filed
for record. Kennedy -v. NVorthup, 15 Illinois, 148; "lolbrookv. Dickenson, 56 Illinois, 497.'. That the title asserted by the
remainder-men in that case was by-.deed, and not under a
will, does not affect the principle upon -which the decision
rested.
So far as we are aware, the rule announced in Dugan v.
Follett has not :been disturbed or modified by any subsequent
case. On the contrar#, it was recognized in Safford i%Stubbs,
117 Illinois, 389, 394. -The subsequent cases of _fMettler v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

-Miller, 129 Illinois, 630, 642;, and ]Rohn v. H arris, 130 Illinois, 525, upon which the plaintiffs confidently rely, are not
at all in conflict with Dugan v. -Follett. In the first of those
cases, -Mettler v. .iller, the court. affiimed the general rule
announced in the previous cases, that "the possession of land
by a tenant for life cannot be adverse to the remainder-man
or reversioner; and if he conveys to a third person, by words
purporting to pass the absolute.property, the possession of the
purchaser is not and cannot be, during the continuance of the
life estate, adverse to the remainder-man or reversiorier, so as
to set the statute of limitations running against such remainder-man oli reversioner; but after a life estate falls in, the
possession will be adverse as to a remainder-man or reversioner." But it is evident from the whole opinion that this
rule was applied strictly against the parties who sought to
take shelter under the statute of limitations,. because' the title
traced to them and under which they entered,and as it appeared
of record, showed that they hvd notice of th rights of the
remainder-men when they took possession. That the court
regarded the state of the title, as 'shown by the public records,
to be important in determining whether the rights of the
remainder-man could be affected by the actual possession,
during the life estate, .of one claiming under a deed conveying the fee, is clear fromits reference to -the case of Safford
v. Stubbs. It said: "Nor can Safford v. Stubbs et al. avail
appellee. Neither Berkey nor Reiner, his immediate grantor,
had notice that the interest of Weiser in the premises was
merely that of a life tenant, and the recors
'-did not show it."
So, in, Rohn v. -Harris,
above cited, where the parties held possession under color of title, and paid all taxes for more than
seven years, the defence, based upon the statute of limitations, was overruled upon the gro.=nd, in part, that the various
deeds and wills under which the parties held "were upon the.
record, so that each purchaser had notice of the title under
which he occupied the property." See, also, Dean v. Zong,
1.22 Illinois, 441, 460.
At the trial below the plaintiffs introduced in evidence "a
certified copy of the will of Romeo Lewis from the recorder's

LEWIS v. BARNHART.
Opinion of the Court.

office of Woodford County, Illinois." To the copy of the will
so recorded were appended the affidavits of the subscribing witnesses, made in the court of common pleas of Butler County,
Ohio, at its June term, 1843, proving the execution of the will,
a certificate by the judge and ex offlcio clerk of the probate
court of that county, under date of August 2, 1866, to the
effect that the foregoing was "a true and correct copy of the
last will and testament of Romeo Lewis, late of said county,
aforesaid, and of the affidavit of the subscribing witness thereto,
and of the order and proceedings of said court admitting the
same to probate, the said copies of said will, affidavit, order
and proceedings having been taken from the originals on file
and record in said court." These copies were, on August 15i
1866, filed for record and recorded in one of the deed records
in the office of the circuit court clerk and ex offiio recorder
f6r Woodford County, Illinois. But the copies, so filed and
recorded, did not, in fact, include copies of the order and proceedings of the probate court in Ohio admitting the original,
will to probate. The defendants objected to the admission
of the above paper as evidence, because it did not show any
order of the Ohio court admitting the will to probate, and
was not properly certified. The paper was admitted in evidence subject to objection.
Was the record thus made in Illinois, August 15, 1866, in
respect to the will of Romeo Lewis, notice from that date
that Jane N. Lewis acquired, under the will of Romeo Lewis,
a life estate only in his lands in that State? By the statutes.
of Illinois in force when that will took effect it was provided
that "every will, testament or codicil, when thus proven to
the -satisfaction Of the court of probate, shall be recorded by
the judge thereof tin a book to be provided by him for that
purpose, and shall be good and available in law for the grant-*
ing, conveying and assuring the lands, tenements and hereditaments, annuities, rents, goods and chattels therein, and thereby
given, granted and-bequeathed." The same statute contained
this. section: "See. 7. All wills, testaments and codicils, or
authenticated copies thereof, proven according to the laws of
any of the. United States, or the territories thereof, or of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

country out of the limits of the United States, and touching or
concerning estates within this State, accompanied with a certificate of the proper officer or officers that said will, testament, codicil or copy thereof was duly executed and proven,
agreeably to the laws and usages of that State or country in
which the same .was executed, shall be recorded as aforesaid,
and shall be good and available in law in like manner as wills
made and executed in this State." Rev. Stat. Ill. 1833, pp.
612, 614, §§ 2 and 7; These provisions were retained in the
acts of March 3, 1845,. and March 20, 1872. Rev. Stat. 1845,
c. 99, §.8, p. 538; Rev. Stat. 1874, c. 148, § 9. By the second
section of th6 act of February 14, 1857, relating to conveyances,
it was provided: "§ 33. All original wills, or copies thereof,
duly certified according to law, or exemplifications from the
record in pursuance :of the law of Congress in relation to
records in foreign states, maT, be recorded in the same office
where deeds and other instruments concerning real estate may.
be required to be recorded; and the sarae shall be notice from
the date of filing the same for record as in other chses." Laws
Il1. 1857, p. 39; Gross's Stat. Ill. 1868, p. 108, § 35. This section was slightly modified by the Conveyance Act" of March
29, 1872, but not so as to affect the question before us. Rev.
Stat. 1874, p. 279, c. 30, § 33; 1 Starr & Curtis's Ill. Ann.
Stat. 597.
It is clear from these statutes that the will of Romeo Lewis,
or an authenticated copy thereof, proven according to the laws
of Ohio, if accompanied with a certificate of the pioper officers
that th6 will was duly executed and proven, agreeably to the
laws and usages of that State, could, at any time after it took
effect, have been recorded in Illinois, and thereby become good
and available in that State in like manner as wills there made
-and executed; and that frohf at least the passage of the aci of
1857 it would have become, after the filing of the same for
record, and in respect to the real estate devised by it, notice
as in the cases of. deeds conveying real estate. But it is
equally clear that the copy of the testator's will filed and
recorded in 1866, in the, office of the recorder of Woodford
County, was not authenticated or certified so as to entitle it to

LEWIS v. BARN'THART.
Opinion of the Court.

record under the above statutes in Illinois. It was not certified to have been executed and proven according to the laws
and usages of the State of Ohio, where it was made. Besides,
while the certificate of the judge and clerk of the probate
court, in Ohio, refers to the order and proceedings of that
court admitting the will to probate, no copies of such order
and proceedings were, in fact, attached to the certified copy
of the will filed for record. If the certified copy of the will
filed for record had been accompanied by a duly certified copy
of the proceedings in the Ohio probate court, relating to the probate of the will, and if that would have been a compliance with
the statute, entitling the copy of the will to be recorded in Ilinois, it is certain that without certified copies of such proceedings, or without a certificate by the proper officer, showing that
the will had been executed and proven agreeably to th6 laws of
Ohio, the copy of the will filed with the recorder of Woodford
County could not be recorded in Illinois, so as to make that
record notice as in cases of deeds or other written instruments
concerning real estate. Baldwin v. Ratcli, 125 Illinois, 376,
384:. It results that the recording in Illinois, in 1866, of what
purported to be the will of IRomeo Lewis was without legal
effect, and was iot, in law, notice that the lands in dispute
were part of those referred to in that will.
The contention of the plaintiffs is that even if the will was
not properly recorded in Illinois, it was, nevertheless, evidence
4s to the title to the lands. Shephardc v. Ca'riel,19 Illinois,
313; .Newman v. l~illetts, 52 Illinois, 98; Saffo d v. Stubbs,
117 Illinois, 389. But this view does not meet the question
before us as to whether the record of the will in Woodford
County, from and after it was made, was itself notice to those
who purchased from Mrs. Lewis. A duly certified copy of the
will may be competent evidence upon the issue as to paramount title, but it could not operate as constructive notice of
its contents from the date of the insufficient record of it made
in 1866 in Woodford County.
It is said that the Book of Land Entries kept in the office of
the county clerk of Woodford County, and furnished by the
auditor to that officer for the purposes of taxation, furnished

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence of the fact that Romeo Lewis was seized of these
lands by patent from the United States, and that they were
thus put upon inquiry as to the nature of the estate which
Mrs. Lewis took. But this fact would only have proved the
ownership of the lands, at one time, by Romeo Lewis, not that
he had made a will, which was recorded in Ohio, and which
gave his wife only a life estate in his Illinois lands. Besides,
in -Betserv. Rankin, '77 Illinois, 289, it was held that knowledge of the facts appearing in the Book of Land Entries must
be brought home to purchasers. "They are facts," the court
said, "whiqh, in order to affect a purchaser, he must have
actual notide of ; there is no constructive notice of such facts.
At. that time reports of the entries of public lands were certified by the auditor to the several county clerks in the State,
and the list of entries so furnished by the auditor was copied
by the clerk into his Book of ' Land Entries;' but all this was
for the purposes of taxation, not of notice of the entries. No
such effect of notice has been given by law to such report or
Book of Land Entries.* Such entries, books and papers, in
the office of the county clerk are not constructive notice bf
See, also,
their subject matter to subsequent purchasers."
Bourland v. Peoria County, 16 Illinois, 538; Anthony v.
IFheeler, 130 Illinois, 128, 136.
Some reliance is placed upon the fact that the recitals in a
deed for certain lands, made by. Mrs. Lewis to one Mohr in
1853, indicated that they were devised to her by the will of
her husband. It is scarcely necessary to say that those
recitals were not notice to those who purchased other lands
from Mrs. Lewis of the existence of such a will or of its provisions, there being no valid record of it in Illinois.'
It is proper, also, to say that no claim is made that this case
is affected, in anywise, by tie proviso in the statute of limitations saving the rights of persons laboring under certain"
lamed disabilities'at the time the cause of action accrued.
'
". The tax sale, " the Sipreme Court of Illinois has said,
"although it may, have been defective, and the title acquired
under it, when relied upon alone -as a title, might not have
been regarded as valid, yet the deed which the defendant

LEWIS v. BARNHART.
Opinion of the Court.

obtained, which, upon'its face, purported N convey the land,
was color of title. A title of this character, Obtained in good
faith, followed by the payment of all taxes legally assessed for
seven successive years, while the land is vacant, and possession
then taken, has been uniformly held by this court to be a valid
title as against all persons, except such as may be under the
'hitey v. Stevens, 77 Illidisability named in the statute."
nois, 585, 587. And in .Jfc.Duffee v. Sinnott, 119 Illinois, 449,
452, it was held that when the bar of the statute becomes
absolute, "the occupant thereby acquires such a title as he
may successfully assert against all the world, including the
paramount owner himself, .except such as are laboring under
disabilities." So clearly is this the case, the learned counsel
for the plaintiffs in error frankly concedes, as he must have
done, that these actions are barred by the statute, if limitation
ran against them during the life of Mrs. Lewis, before or after
she conveyed.
We are of opinion 'thut, by the law of Illinois, the actual
possession of the several defendants, for more than seven successive'years prior to the commencement of these actions, of
the lands in controversy, under claim and color of title made'
in good faith, that is,-under deeds purporting to convey the
title to them in fee, and the payment of all taxes legally assessed on them, without notice, actual or constructive, during
that period, of any title to or interest in the lands upon the
part of others that was inconsistent with an absolute fee in
their immediate grantors, and in those under whom such
grantors claimed, entitled them to be adjudged the legal
owners of such lands according to their respective paper titles,
even as against those, if any, who may have been entitled by
the will of Romeo Lewis to take the fee after the death of
Mrs. Lewis without heirs of her body. If that will only gave
a life estate to Mrs. Lewis, and the plaintiffs, as reversioners
or possible reversioners, had no right of entry pending the life
estate, and, therefore, were not chargeable with lachs; and
if, as is contended, Mrs. Lewis,. as life tenant, was under a
legal obligation to pay the'taxes for which the land was sold,
and could not, by permitting them to be sold for taxes and
VOL. CXLV-6

