ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

393

Syllabus.

session as in ordinary cases, necessarily means unat, M such a
case, (the defendants having elected not to take the land at
its assessed value,) the legal title must prevail, and, therefore,
the plaintiff should recover the land without paying for the
improvements. The statute, so construed, gives a possessor
in good faith, who has made valuable improvements, al that
he is equitably entitled to demand.
There are no other questions in the case involving the substantial. rights of the defendants, or that we deem it necessary to notice in this opinion. We find no error in the
judgment, and it must be

ST. LOUIS, VAN-DALIA AND TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD COMPANY v. TERRE IIAUTE AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIF
No. 42. Argued April 24, 27,28, 1891.-

Decided May 16, 1892.

The statute of Illinois .of February 12, 1855, empowering all railroad corporations incorporated under the laws of the State to make "contracts
and arrangements with each other, nud with railroad corporations of
other States, for leasing or running their ro'ads," authorizes a railroad
corporation of Illinois to make a lease of its road to a railroad corporation of another State; but confers no power on a railroad corporation of
the other State to take such a lease, if not authorized to do so by the
laws of its own State.
A railroad corporation of Indiana is not empowered to take a lease of a
railroad in another -State by the statute of Indiana of February 23, 1853,
c. 85, authorizing any railroad corporation of that State to unite its railroad with a railroad constructed in an adjoining State, and to *consolidate
the stock of the two companies; or to extend its'ad into another State;
or "to make such contracts and agreements with any such road constructed n an adjoining State, for the transportation of freight and passengers, or for the use of its said road, as to the boark of directors may
seem proper."
A lease for nine hundred and ninety-nine years by one railroad corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1891."
Statement of the Cape.
of its railroad and franchise to another railroad corporation, which is
ultra vires of one or of both, will not be set aside by a court of equity, at the
suit of the lessor, when the lessee has been in possession, paying the stipulated rent, for seventeen years, and has taken no steps to repudiate or
rescind the contract.

Tins was a bill in equity, filed July 6, 1887, by the St. Louis,
Yandalia and Terre Haute Railroad Company, a corporation
of Illinois, against the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad
Company, a corporation of Indiana, to set aside and cancel a
conveyance of the plaintiff's railroad and franchises to the
defendant for a term of nine hundred and ninety-nine years.
'The bill contained the following allegations:
That the plaintiff was incorporated by a statute of Illinois
of February 10, 1865, amended by a statute of February 8,
1867, to construct and maintain a railroad from the left bank
of the Mississippi River opposite St. Louig eastward through
the State of Illinois to a point on the Wabash River, convenient for extending its road to Terre Haute in the State of Indiana; and was not authorized by its charter, or by any law of
Illinois, to lease its railroad, or by any other contract or conveyance to part with the entire possession, control and use of
its property'and franchises, or to deprive itself of and vest in
others the power of control in the management of its said road
and other property and in the exercise of its franchises, including the right to impose and collect tolls for the transportation
of passengers-and freight, indefinitely. or for any fixed period
of time.
That the defendant was incorporated by a statute of Indiana
of January 26, 1847, amended by a statute of March 6, 1865,
to c6nstruct and maintain a railroad from some point on the
western line of the State of Indiana eastward through Terre
Haute to Indianapolis; and was not authorized by its charter,
or by any law of Indiana, to make or accept any lease, contract or other conveyance by which it should acquire or obtain,
either indefinitely or for a fixed time, the ownership, management or control of any railroad located beyond the limits of
Indiana.
That the plaintiff proceeded to constfuct, and on or about

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

395

Statement of the Case.

July 1, 1870, completed the construction and equipment of its
road; that in order to obtain money for this purpose, on April
6, 1867, it executed a mortgage or deed of trust of all its railroad, property and franchises, to secure the payment of bonds
amounting td $1,900,000, and agreeing to set apart annually
from its earnings the sum of $20,000, as a sinking fund for
payment of the'bonds; that on March 13, 1868, it executed a
second mortgage to secure the payment of additional bonds to
the amount. of $2,600,000; that all the bonds aforesaid were
sold, and outstanding and unpaid; and that no sinking fund
had been created, as provided for in the first mortgage.
That on February 10, 1868, the plaintiff and the defendant
executed a pretended lease, (set forth in .the bill, and copied in
the margin,') of the plaintiff's railroad, property and franchises
1 Whereas a contract for the cbnstruction and equipment of the St. Louis,
Vandalia and Terre Haute Railroad, belonging to a corporation of the State
of Illinois, has been entered into this day, by which arrangements have been
made to complete and equip said road between East St. Louis and the State
line of Indiana in the manner set forth in said contract:
And whereas the Terre Htiute and Ibdianapolis Railroad Company, a corporation of the State of Indiana, has proposed to construct without delay a
first-class railroad, being an extension of their present road from Terre
Haute to the state line of Indiana, upon such location as will connect properly and directly with the St. Louis, Vandalia and Terre Haute Railroad at
the state line of Illinois:
And whereas it is desirable that the said lines when connected should be
,operated by the Terre Haute and Indianapolis iailroad Company as one
road between Indianapolis and St. Louis, and the said Terre Haute and
Indianapolis Railroad Company having proposed to lease and operate the
said St. Louis, Vaudalia and Terre. Haute Railroad for a period of nine
hundred and ninety-nine years: It is therefore agreed, firstThat upon the completion of the road between East St. Louis and the
state line of Indiana, the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad Company shall take charge of and operate the same with its equipment for a
period of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, for which they shall be
allowed sixty-five per cent of the gross receipts from all traffic moved over
the line, or business done thereon, and from the property of the company,
as a consideration for working and maintenance expenses, the remaining
thirty-five per cent to be appropriated as follows: 1st. To the payment of
interest on the first and second mortgage bonds of the St. Louis, Vandalia
and Terre Haute Railroad Company according to their legal priority.
2d. All the surplus of said thirty-five per cent to be paid over to the

.OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to the defendant for vine hundred and ninety-nine years, the
defendaht retaining sixty-fiv6 per cent of the gross receipts,
and the rest to be applied to the payment of interest on the
mortgage bonds, and any surplus paid to the plaintiff.
.That on January 12, 1869, the plaintiff's board of directors
passed a resolution, undertaking to authorize its president to
change the terms of said lease so that the defendant should be
allowed seventy, instead of. sixty-five per cent of .the gross
receipts, "but if the working and. maintenance expenses o9
said road shall be less than seventy per cent of the gross.
receipts aforesaid, then all of, such excess shall be paid over
to" the plaintiff.
That by a statute of Illinois of February 16, 1865, in forcea
at the time of the execution and delivery of the pxretenderl
lease, it was ,not lawful for any railroad company of Illinois,
St. Louis, Vandalla and Terre Haute Railroad Company semi-annually, t'
be disposed of by it for the benefit of 'its stockholders.
If the thirty-five per cent should from any cause not be sufficient in
amount to protect the interest on, mortgage bonds and sinking funds
therefor as they mAture from time to time, together with the payrifent of
taxes and proper cost of maintaining organization, so that the rights of
stockholders may be preserved, then and in that event the lessee shall
advance for the company whatever amounts may be needed, to be accounted
for under the yearly averages of this lease during this contract.
It is further agreed that, the Terre Haute and Indianapolis- Railroad
Company as lessee shall enjoy all the rights, powers and privileges of the
St. Louis, Vandalia and Terre Haute Railroad Company, so far as the same!
may be needful to maintain and operate said railroad; also to impose and
collect tolls and rates for transportation, and/do all other acts and things,
as fully and as effectually as the said St. Louis, Vandalia and Terre Haute
Railroad Company copuld do if operating iaid line, it always being understood and agreed that the gross proceeds from through or joint traffic or
business shall be divided on the pro rata basis per mile for distance moved
oi) the road of each party.
In witness whereof the parties have respectively hereunto affixed, this
the tentl day of February, 1868, their official signatures and seals under
authority of their boards of directors.
THE ST. LoUIS, FVUioDx
[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]

AND TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD CO-PANY,

By J.F. ALEXANDER, President.
THE TERRE HAUTE "ND INDIANAIDLIS RnaMROAD COMP N ,
By W. .R. McKEmT, President.

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

397

Statement of the Case.

or its directors, to consolidate its railroad with any railroad
,out of the State, or to lease its railroad to any railroad company out of the State, or to lease any railroad out of the
State, without the written consent of all its stockholders
residing within the'State; and that fifty-nine of the plaintiff's
stockholders residing in fllinois never consented to or ratified
the lease.
That, on the completion of the plaintiff's road, the defendant took possession of and had ever sin~e operated it, and had
received, in tolls and otherwise, more than $21,600,000; that
the pretended lease was void, for want of lawful power in
either party to enter into it that the defendant, by taking possession of the plaintiff's railroad and property without right,
became in equity a trustee of the plaintiff, and liable to account
to it for the property and for all tolls and emoluments which
the defendant had, or ought to have, collected and received
therefrom, and to restore the property to the plaintiff; that
the defendant had refused, though requested, to turn over to
the plaintiff the road and property., or the income thereof, and
had thus rendered the plaintiff unable to establish a sinking
fund, as required by the first mortgage; and that great and
irreparable injury would be done to the plaintiff and its stockholders unless it was restored to the possession and control of
the railroad, property and franchises.
That at the time when the lease was executed by the plaintiff its officers gupposed that it had lawful power to do so; but
that it had recently been advised by counsel that it had no
such power, that it was its duty at once to repudiate this pretended lease and to resume the possession, control and use of
its 'property and franchises, and that it had rendered itself
liable to have its charter forfeited by the State; that the
present income was more than sufficient to pay the interest onthe bonds and to establish a sinking fund; and that, by reason
of the failure to establish a sinking fund, proceedings might
at any time be instittted/to-foreclose the. first mortgage.
TIat the taking -of-longand .complicated accounts, covering
a period of nearly seventeen years and involviig a great many
items, was necessary for the protection and enforcement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Citations for Appellant.

the plaintiff's rights; that the pretended lease was a cloud
on the plaintiff's title; that a court of law had no jurisdiction
adequate to take the account or to cancel the lease; and that
the defendant was daily withdrawing large sums of money
from the jurisdiction of the court to the irreparable injury of
the plaintiff.
The bill, as originally framed, prayed for a cancellation and
surrender of the lease, for a return of the railroad and other
property held under it, for an injunction against disturbing
the plaintiff in the possession and control thereof, and for an
account of the sums which the defendant had received, or with
due diligende might- have received, from the use and operation
of the railroad and property; or, if the lease should be held
valid, for an account of the sums due under the lease; and for
further relief.
The defendant demurred to the bill, for want of equity, for
laches, for multifariousness, and because the plaintiff had an
adequate remedy at law. The. Circuit Court sustained the
demurrer on all these grounds, as stated.in its opinion reported
in 33 Fed. Rep. 440. . The plaintiff thereupon, by leave of
court, amended the bill, by striking out the prayer for alternative relief in case the lease should be held valid. The defendant demurred to the amended bill, on the same grounds
as before, except-multifariousness. The court, delivering no
further opinion, sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the
bill; and the plaintiff appealed to this court.
-Mr. Lyman Trumbull and .Mr. 7ohn X Butler (with whom.
were -Mr. Henry S. Robbins and MAr. Perry Trumbull,on the
brief) for appellant.
I. The execution of the 1ease by the appellee was ultra vires
and for this reason void. PennsylvaniaRailroadv. St. Louis
&c. Railroad, 118 IT. S. 290; Oregon Raibway Company v.
Oregonian Raibway, 130 U. S. 1;. Tippecanoe County v. Lafayette &o. Railroad, 50 Indiana, 85; Bank .of Augusta v.
Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Canada Southern Raiway v. Gebkard,
10g U. S. 527 ; Starkweather v. Am. 4Rible Society, 72 Illinois,

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

399

Citations for Appellant.

50; St. Clara Female Academy v. Sullivan, 116 Illinois, 375;
Thompson v. Wters, 25 Michigan, 214; DiamontZ -Watch Co.
v. Powers, 51 Michigan, 145.
H. The appellant could not, by its charter, yield up the control of its road, as attempted by this lease, and it is for this
reason void. Railroad Co. v. Vance, 96 U. S. 453; 3 Starr &
Curtis (Ill.) Stat. 447; Eagle v. _ohn, 84: Ill. 292; Richeson v.
People, 115 Illinois, 450; -Farmers'Loan & Trust Co. v. St.
Joseph & Denver Railroad, 1 McCrary, 24:7; 5. . 2 Fed.
Rep. 117; Archer v. Terre Haute &c. Railroad Co., 102 Illinois, 493; Great Nirorthern Railway v. Eastern Railway, 9
Hare, 306; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Pennsylvania Railroadv. St. Louis, Alton &c. Railroad,118 U. S.
290; Stevens v. Pratt,101 Illinois, 206; Carrollv. Carroll, 16
How. 275; Foxcraft v. .Mallett,4 How. 353; Thomas v. Htatch,
3 Sumner, 170; -Lauriatv. Stratton, 6 Sawyer, 339; Pease v.
Peck, 18 How. 595.
III. The lease being ultra vires, and void, it could iiot be
made valid by any lapse of time, acquiescence or ratification
by the parties. York &c. Rdilroad v. Tinans, 17 How. 39;
Black v. Delaware & Raritan 'anal Co., 22 N. 5. Eq. 130,
399; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Pennsylvania
Railroad v. St. Louis, Alton &c. Railroad,118 U. S. 290;
Oregon Railway v. Oregonian,Railway, 130 U. S. 1; Newcastle Northern Railway v. Simpson, 21 Fed. Rep. 533; Tippecanoe County v. Lafayette &c. Railroad,50 Indiana, 85.
IV. The lease being void, it was the right as well as the
duty of complainant to recover its property, and thus place
itself again in a position to discharge its public duties. Thomas
v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Story's Eq. Jur. § 298; Pomeroy's Eq. Jurisprudence, § 941; Debenham v. Ow, 1 Yes.
Sr. 276; Smith v. Bruning, 2 Vern. 392; Drury v. Hooke,
1 Vern. 412; St. John v. St. John, 11 Yes. 526; O'Conner v.
Ward, 60 Mississippi, 1025; -Morrisv. JiXCullock 1 Amb. 432;
-NewcastleNSorthern Railroad v. Simpson, 21 Fed. IRep. 533;
Atlantic,& Pacic Telegraph Co. v. Union Paciic Railroad,
1 Fed. Rep. 745; Testelrn Union Telegraph Co. v. St. Joseph
& Western Railroad,3 Fed. Rep. 430.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

V. This bill makes a case for chancery jurisdiction, and
appellant is not obliged to resort to a court of law. Constitution of Illinois, 1870, art. 11, see. 10; Iron Mountain &0.
Railroad v. Johnson, 119 U. S. 608; Pomeroy's Eq. Jur.
§ 941; Story's Eq. Jur. § 298; Debenham v. Ox,1 Ves. Sr.
276; Drury v. Hooke, 1 Vern. 412; St. John v.-St. John, 11
Ves. 526; Smith v. Bruning, 2 Vern. 392; Morris v. McCulloch, 1 Amb. 432; New Castle Northern_
Railroad v.
Simpson, 21 Fed. Rep. supra; Telegraph Co. v. Union Paci
R. R. Co., 1 Fed. Rep. 745; Western Union TelegraphCo.v.
St. Joseph I Western Railroad,3 Fed. Rep. 430; Railway
Companies v. Keokuk Bridge Co., 131 U. S.389; Parkersburg
v. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; Green's Brice's Ultra Vires, 717;
Farmer'sLoan & Trust Co. v. St. Joseph & Denver City Railroad, ubi supra; Spring Co. v. Enowlton, 103 U. S. 49;
White v. Franklin Bank, 22 Pick. 181; Day v. Spiral Springs
Buggy Co., 57 Michigan, 146; Foulke v. San Diego Railroad,
51 California, 365; 1Jarrimah'v. First Baptist Church, 63
Georgia, 186; Dtivis v. Old CoZony Railroad,131 Mass. 258;
Hardy v. Metropolitan Land Co., L. R. 7 Ch. 427; Ernest v.
Croysodill, 2 De G. F. & J. 175, 197; Bryson v. Warwick
Canal Co., 4 De G..M. & G. 711, 731; Salomons v. 1laing,
12 Beav. 377.
VI. The right to maintain this suit is not barred by laches.
Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Kent v. Quicksilver
fining Co., 78 N. Y. 159, 183 ; Alton v. Illinois Transpo;'tation Co., 12 Illinois, 38 ;S. C. 52 Am. Dec. 479; Brown v.
Buena Vista County, 95 U. S. 157; Rev. Stats. Illinois, c. 83,.
1 ; Medley v. Elliott, 62 Illinois, 532.
Mr. George Hoadly for alppellee.
imi.

JUsTIcE

GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The objedt of this suit between* two raitroad corporations,
as.stated in the amended bill, is tb have a contract, by which
the plaintiff transferred its railroad and equipment, as well as

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

401

Opinion"of the Court.

its franchise to maintain and operate the road, to the defendant for a term of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, set
,aside and cancelled, as beyond the corporate powers of one or
both of the parties.
The contract, dated February 10, 1868, recites that the
plaintiff is a corporation of Illinois, and the defendant a'corporation of Indiana; that their railroads connect at the line
between the two States; that it is desirable that the two roads
should be operated by the defendant as one. road; and thdt
the defendant has "proposed to lease and operate" the plaintiff's road for a period of nine hundred and ninety-nine years.
"It is therefore agreed" that, upon the completion of the
plaintiff's road to the state line, the defendant "shall take
charge of and operate the same with its equipment" for that
period, and "shall be allowed sixty-five per cent of, the gross
receipts from all traffic moved over the line, or business done
thereon, and from the property of the company, as a consideration for working and maintenance expenses," and shall
appropriate the rest of such receipts to the payment of interest on the plaintiff's mortgage bonds, and pay any surplus to
the plaintiff, for the benefit of its stockholders. Within a
year afterwards, the contract was modified by providing that
the defendant should be allowed seventy (instead of sixty-five)
per cent of the gross'receipts, "but if the working and. maintenance expenses of skid road shall be less than seventy per
cent of the gross receipts aforesaid, then all of such excess
shall be paid over to the" plaintiff. It is further agreed in
the contract that the defendant "shall enjoy all the rights,
powers and privileges of the" plaintiff, "so -far as the same
may be needful to maintain and operate said' railroad," and
may "impose and collect tolls and rates for transportation,
and do all other acts and things, as.fully and as effectually as
the" plaintiff "could do if operatingsaid line."
In short, by this contract one railroad corporation undertook to transfer its whole railroad and equipment, and its
privilege.and franchise to maintain and operate the road, to
-another railroad corporation. for 9,term of nine hundred, and
ninety-nine years, in consideration of the payment from time
'VOL. CXL11-26

402 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to time by the latter to the former of a certain portion of the
gross receipts. This was, in substance and effect, a lease of
the railroad and franchise for a term of almost a' thousand
years, and was a contract which neither corporation had the
lawful power to enter into, unless expressly authorized by the
State which created it, and which, if beyond the scope of
the lawful powers of either corporati6n, was unlawful and
wholly void, could not be ratified or validated by either or
both, and would support no action or suit by either against
the other. Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Pennyl'vania Railroadv. St. Louis, Alton 6 Terre Haute Railroad,
118 U. S. 90, 630 ; Oregon Railway v. Oregonian Railway,
130 U. S. 1 ; Central Transportation.Co. v. Pullmrn='sCar Co.,
139 U. S. 24.
Upon the question whether this contract was ultra ires of
either corporation, this case cannot be distinguished in principle from PennsyZlvai Railroadv. St. Louis,Alton & Terre
Hdaute Railroad,above cited.
By the statute of Illinois of February 12, 1855, all railroad
companies incorporated under the laws of the State were
empowered to make "contracts and arrangements with each
,other, ahd with railroad corporations of other States, for leasing or running their roads, or any part thereof." Illinois
Private Laws of 1855, p.M304; Rev. Stat. of 1874, c. 114, §'84.
By the grammatical and the natural construction, the words
"their roads" include roads of Illinois corporations, as well as
roads of corporations of other States, and the power conferred
on corporations of Illinois to make contracts "for leasing"
such roads includes making, as well as taking, leases thereof.
Such was the opinion expressed in the case just cited, at page
.309, and we see no reason for departing from it.
The plaintiff relies on -the-statute of Illinois of February
16, 1865, (in force at the date of this contract, but since
repealed by the Revised Statutes qf 1874,) by which it was
enacted that " it shall not. be lawful for any railroad company
of Illinois, or for the directors of any railroad company of Illinoi.) to consolidate their road with any railroad out of the
State of Illinois, or to lease their road to any railroad company

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

4Q3

Opinion of the Court.

out of the State of Illinois, or to lease any railroad out of the

State of Illinois, without having first obtained the written consent of all of the stockholders of said roads residing in the State
of Illinois, and any contract for such consolidation or lease
which may be made without having first obtained said written
consent, signed by the resident stockholders in Illinois, shall
be null and void;" and it was provided "that nothing in this
act shall be so construed as to authorize the consolidation of
any of said railroads with railroads out of the State of Illinois." Illinois Public Laws of 1865, p. 102.
Although this statute, in terms, declares that any such lease,
made without the written consent of the Illinois stockholders,
"shall be null and void," it would seem to have been enacted
for the protection of such stockholders alone, and intende4 to
be availed of by them only. It did not limit the scope of the
powers conferred upon the corporation by law, an excess of
which could not be ratified or be made good by estoppel; but
only prescribed regulations as to the manner of exercising corporate powers, compliance with which the stockholders might
waive, or the corporation might be estopped, by lapse of time,
or otherwise, to deny. Zabriesde v. Cleveland &c. Railroad,
23 How. 381, 398; Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman'sCar
Co., 139 U. S. 24, 42, 60; -Davisv. Old Colony Railroad,131
Mass. 258, 260; Beecher v. .Marquette & Paciic Co., 45 Michigan, 103; Thomas v. Citizens' Railway, 104 Illinois, 462.
The decision of 'the Supreme Court of Illinois in Archer v.
Terre Haute & IndianapolisRailroad,102 Illinois, 493, cited
by each party at the argument, does not appear to have any
important bearing upon this case. The point there decided
was that the contract now in question, not being satisfactorily
proved in that case to have been either assented to or ratified
by the stockholders residing in Illinois, had no effect, as a
lease, to convey title to the defendant, and could be sustained.
if at all, only as a contract for the connection of the two railroads, and, in either aspect, did not confer on the defendant
any right to maintain a bill in equity against collectors of taxes
to restrain the collection of taxes assessed to the present plaintiff. Upon questions discussed in the opinion and not neces-

•404:

OCTOBER TERM[, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sary to the judgment, or not considered at all, the case cannot
be regarded as a decision, because, as observed by Mr. Justie,
Ourtis speaking for this court, "to make it so, there must have
been an application of the judicial mind to the precisequestion
necessary to be determined to fix the rights of the parties."
Carrollv. Carroll,16 How. 275, 281.
It is unnecessary, however, to express a definitive opinion
upon the question whether the contract between these parties
was beyond the'corporate powers of the plaintiff, because, as
is established by the decisions of this court, already cited, a
contract beyond the corporate powers of either party is as
invalid as if beyond the corporate powers of both, and the contract now in question was clearly beyond the corporate powers
of the defendant.
The case in this respect is governed by the direct adjudication of this court in the case of Penn&ylvania Railroad v.
St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad,above cited, which
was much considered, both upon argument at the bar, and upon
petition for a rehearing. The only differences between that case
and this are that the contract in that case was for 'ninety-nine
years, whereas in this it is for nine hundred years more; that
the rent is computed in a different way, which does not alter the
nature and effect of the transaction; and that in that case
the two roads'did not connect at the state line, but a few
miles east of it, which wias held to be immaterial. 118 U. S.
""
295-297.
The plaintiff in that case, like the defendant in this, sought
to support the validity of the contract under the statute of
Indiana of February 23, 1853, c. 85, of which section 1 authorized any railroad coriipany of Indiana "I to intersect, join and
unite its railroad with any other railroad" constructed in an
adjoining State, at any point on the state line or elsewhere to
which the charters of the two companies authorized their roads
to go, afid to consolidate the stock of the two companies; seetion 2 authorized any railroad. company of Indiana whose road
went to the state line 'It extend its said railroad into or
through any other State," under such regulations as might be
prescribed by the laws thereof; and section 3 authorized any

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

405

Opinion of the Court.

railroad company of Indiana, whose road met and connected
at the state line with a railroad in an adjoining State, "to
make such contracts and agreements with any such road constructed in an adjoining State, for the transportation of freight
and passengers, or for the use of its said road, as to the board
of directors may seem proper." Indiana Rev. Stats. of 1881,
§§ 3971-3973.
At the argument of that case, indeed, the third section, being
the one affording the most plausible ground, was principally
relied on, and was the only section of this statute discussed in
the original opinion. 118 U. S. 312. But in that opinion
reference was made to Tippecanoe Commissionersv. Lafayette
&c. Railrnoad, in which the Supreme Court of Indiana held
that this statute did not authorize one railroad corporation to
lease its railroad to another with a right of perpetual renewal,
and said: "To connect one road with another does not fairly
,mean to lease or sell it to another." 50 Indiaia, 85, 110; 118
U. S.312. And upon the petition for rehearing all tlhree sections of the statute in question, as well as other statutes of
Indiana, were cited by counsel and exatmined by the court,.
although its conclusions were briefly stated, according to its
usage in an opinion delivered on a petition for rehearing. 118
U. S.633, 634.
It is argued for the defendant that this suit is distinguished
from the former one in -being brought, not, as that was, in
Indiana, but in Illinois, and must therefore be controlled by
the law and policy of Illinois; and it is contended that the
statute of Illinois of 1855,above cited, empowered the defeiidant, though an Indiana corporation, to take a lease of a railroad in Illinois. But such a suit as this is governedl, so far as
regards the validity of the contract, not by the law of the
forum, but by the law of the contract; and the statute of Illinois was manifestly intended to confer power on domestic'corporations only, leaving the porters of corporations incorporated
elsewhere to be determined by the laws by and uder which
they were incorporated, even if a State could confer on a foreign corporation powers which it did not have by the laws of
its own State. Canaa Sout~rn Railway v. Gebard, 109

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 527, 537; Christian Union 'v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352;
Starkweather v. American Bible Society,.72 Illinois, 50; Santa
ClaraAcademy v. Sullivan, 116 Illinois, 375, 385.
It may therefore be assumed, as contended by the plaintiff,
that the contract in question was ultra vires of-the defendant,
;nd therefore did not bind either party, and neither party
,could have maintained a suit upon it, at law or in equity,
against the other.
I It does not, hov, ever, follow that this suit to set aside and
cahcel the contract can be maintained. If it can, it is somewhat remarkable that, in the repeated and full discussions
which the doctrine of ultravires has undergone in the English
courts within the last fifty years, no attempt has been made
to bring a suit like this. The only cases cited in the elaborate
briefs for the plaintiff, or which have come to our notice,
apprQaching this in their circumstances, are in American courts
not of last resort, and present no sufficient reasons- for maintaining this suit. Auburn Academy v. Strong, Hopkins Oh.
278; Atlantic & PaciicTelegraph Co. v. Union Paiic
Railway, 1 McOrary, 541; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. St.
'Joseph & Western Raiway, 1 McCrary, 565; Unian Bridge
Co. v. Troy & Lansingburgh Railroad,7 Lansing, 240; Yew
Castle Railway v. Simpson, 21 Fed. Rep. 533..
The English cases relied on by the plaintiff were either suits
to set aside marriage brokage bonds, as in -Druryv. Hooke, 1
Vernon, 412, and Smith v. Bruning, 2 Vernon, 392; S. C.
nom. Goldsmith v. Bruning, 1 Eq. Gas. Ab. 89; or to recover
back money paid for the purchase, without leave of the Crown,
of a commission in the military or naval service, as in 3forris
v. .e Cullock, Ambler, 433; S. C. 2 Eden, i90. Those cases
have sometimes been justified upon the ground that, the agreement being against the policy of the law, the relief was given
to the public through the party. Debenharn v. Ox, 1 Yes. Sen.
276; St. John-.v. St. John, 11 Yes. 526, 536; Cone v. Russell,
3 Dickinson (,!8 )N. J. Eq.) 208. But Sir 'William Grant
explained them as proceeding upon the ground that the -plaintiff was less guilty than the defendant. - Osborne v. Williams,
18 Yes. 379, 382. And Jforris v. .eCulloc
can hardly be

ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD.

407

Opinion -of the Court.

reconciled with his decision in Thomson v. Thomson, 7 Yes.
470, or with the current of later authorities.
The general rule, in equity, as at law, is 1i pari dlicto
potior est conditio defendenti8; and therefor'e neither party
to an illegal contract will be aided by the court, whether to
enforce it or to set it aside. If the-contract is illegal, affirmative relief against it will not be granted, at law or in equity,
unless the contract remains executory, or unless the parties ar6
considered not in equal fault, as -where the law violated is
intended for the coercion of the one party and the protection
of the other, or where there has been fraud or oppression on
the part of the defendant. Thomas v. Richmond, 12 Wall.
349, 355; Spring Co. v. -Knowlton, 103 U. S. 49; Story Eq.'
Jur. § 298.
While an unlawful contract, the parties to which are inpari
deZicto, remains executory, its invalidity is a defence in a court
of law; and a court of equity will order its cancellation only
as an equitable mode of making that defence effectual, and
when necessary for that purpose. Adams on Eq. 175. Consequently, it is well settled, at the present day, that a court of
equity will nut entertain jurisdiction to order an instrument to
be delivered up and cancelled, upon the ground of illegality
appearing on its face, and when, therefore, there is no dange$
that the lapse of time may deprive the party to be charged
upon it of his means of defence. - Story Eq. Jur. § 700 a, and
cases cited; Simpson v. Howden,'3 Myl. & Or. 97; Ayerst v.
Jenkins, L. R. 16 Eq. 275, 282.
When the parties are in pai delicto, and the contract 'has
been fully executed on the part of the plaintiff, by the conveyance of property, or by the payment of money, and has not
been repudiated by the defendant, it is now. equally well
settled that neither a court of law nor a court of equity will
assist the plaintiff to recover back the property conveyed or
money paid under the contract. Thomas v. Richmond, above
cited; Ayerst v. Jenkins,L. R. 16 Eq. 275, 284. For instance,
property conveyed pursuant to a contract made in consideration of the compounding of a crime, and the stifling of 'a
criminal prosecution, and therefore clearly illegal, cannot be

OCTOBER, TERM, 1891.
-

Opinion of the Court.,

recovered back at law, nor the conveyance set aside in equity,
unless obtained'by such fraud or oppression on the part of thie
grantee, that the conveyance cannot be considered the voluntary act of the grantor. Worcester v. Eaton, 11 Mass. 368,
and 13 Mass. 371; Atwood v. Fisk, 101 Mass. 363; ryant v.
-Peck & Whipple Co., 154 Mass. 460; Williams v. Bayley,
L. IR. 1 .I.L. 200; Jones v. .XerionethsAire Society, 1892, 1
Oh. 173, 182, 185, 187.
In the case at bar, the contract by which the plaintiff conveyed its railroad and franchise. to the defendant for a teim
of ninehundred and ninety-nine years was beyond the defendant's corporate powers, and therefore unlawful and void, of
which the plaintiff was bound to take notice. The plaintiff
stood in the position of alienating the powers which it had
received from the State, and the duties which it owed to the
public, to another corporation, which it knew had no lawful
capacity to exercise those powers or to perform those duties.
If, as the plaintiff contends, the contract was also beyond .its
own corporate powers, .it is certainly in no better position. In
either aspect of the case, the plaintiff was inparidelicto with
the defendant. The invalidity of the contract, in view of the
laws of which both parties were bound to take notice, was
apparent on its face. The contract has been fully executed
on the part of the plaintiff by the actual transfer of its railroad
and franchise to the defendant; and the defendant has held
the property, and paid the stipulated consideration from time
to time, for seventeen years, and has taken no steps to rescind
or repudiate the contract.
Upon this state of facts, for the reasons above stated, the
.plaintiff, considered as a party to the unlawful contract, has
no right to invoke the assistance of a court of equity.to .set it
aside. And so far as the plaintiff corporation can be considered as representing the stockholders, and seeking to protect their interests, it and they are barred by laches. H7arwood
y. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 78; Graham v. Birkenhead c&c.
Railway, 2 Hall & Twells, 450; S. C. 2 Macn. & Gord. 146;
.Ffooks v. Southwestern Railway, 1 _Sm. & Gif. 142, 164;
.Gregory v. Patchett, 11 Law Times (N. S.) 357.

