NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Decree.

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
OR IGIINAL.
1Ho. 4.

Original. Argued January 29, 1892. -Decree

entered May 16,1892.

This case was decided February 29, 1892, 143 U. S. 359, and the decree withheld in order to enable the parties to agree to the desigiiation of the
boundary between the two States. Such agreement having been reached
a decree is now entered accordingly.

Tnis case is reported in volume 143 U. S. pages 359 to
370. No decree was entered, the court observing (page 370):
"We think we have by these observations, indicated as clearly
as is possible the boundary between the two States, and upon
these principles the parties may agree to a designation of such
boundary, and such designation will pass into a final decree..
If no agreement is possible, then the court will appoint a commission to survey and report in accordance with the views
lierein expressed." The parties having come to such an
agreement, the court on the 16th of IMay, 1892, entered the
following decree.
.Mr. J.

IM

Woolworth for the State of Nebraska.

. Stone, Attorney General of the State, .Mr. J. T
. ib.
Stewart and .Mr.Smith .MePher nsfor the State of Iowa.
Decree.
This cause came on to be heard upon the pleadings and
proofs, and was argued by counsel, and thereupon, the parties
having agreed upon a designation of the boundary in accordance with the principles set forth in the opinion of this court,
filed on February 29, 1892, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed
as follows:
That the boundary between the State of Nebraska and the
State of Iowa, between the north line of sections twenty-two
(22) and twenty-three (23), in township seventy-five (75) north
of range forty-four (44) west of the fifth principal meridian,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Decree.

according to the surveys of the public lands in the State of
Iowa, and the middle, east and west lines of section twentyeight (28) in said township and range, is, and is hereby established in the middle of the main channel of the Missouri
River, save and excepting the part of the said boundary
described as follows:
Commencing at a point on the south line of section twenty
(20), in township seventy-five (15) north, range forty-four (44)
west of the fifth principal meridian, produced eight hundred
and sixty-one and one-half (861j) feet west of the southeast
corner of said section, and running thence northwesterly to a
point on the south line of lot four (4) of section ten (10), in
township fifteen (15) north of range thirteen (13) east of the
sixth principal meridian, twenty-two hundred and seventy-five
(2275) feet east of the southwest corner of the northwest
quarter of the southeast quarter of said section ten (10) ; thence
northerly to a point on the north line of lot four (4) aforesaid,
two thousand and sixty-eight (2068) feet east of the centre
line of said'gection ten (10); thence north to a point on the
north line of section ten (10), two thousand and sixty-eight
(2068) feet east of the quarter section corner on the.north line
of said section; thence northerly to a point three hundred and
twelve (312) feel west of the southeast corner of lot one (1),
in section three (3), township fifteen (15) north, range thirteen
'(13) east aforeiaid; thence northerly to a point on the section
line between sections two (2) and three (3), three hundred and
fifty-eight (358) feet south of the quarter- sectioa corner on
said line; thence northeasterly to the centre of the. southeast
quarter of the northwest quarter of section two (2) aforesaid;
thence. east to the centre of the west half of lot five (5), otherwise desbribed as the southwest quarter of the northwest
quartet of section one (1), in township fifteen (15), range thirteen (13) aforesaid; thence southeasterly to a point on the
south line of lot five (5) aforesaid, fifteen hundred and forty
(1540) feet west of the centre of section one (1), last aforesaid;
thence south two thousand and fifty (2050) feet to a point fifteen hundred and forty (1540) feet west of the north and
south open line. through said section one (1); thence south-

NEBRASKA

. lOW.A

Decree.

westerly to the southwest corner of the northeast quarter of
the southwest quarter of section twenty-one (21), in township seventy-five (75) north, range forty-four (44) west of the
fifth principal meridian; thence southeasterly to a point six
hundred and sixty (660) feet south of the northeast corner of
the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section
twenty-eight (28), in township seventy-five (75) north, range
forty-four (44) west, aforesaid; and said line produced to the
centre of the channel of the Missouri River.
Commencing again at the point of beginning first named,
namely, a point on the south line of section twenty (20), in
township seventy-five (75) north, range forty-four (44) west of
the fifth principal meridian, produced eight hundred and sixtyone and one-half (8614) feet west of the southeast corner of
said section, and running thence southeasterly to a point six
hundred and sixty (660) feet east of the southwest corner of
the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section
twenty-eight (28), in township seventy-five (75) north, range
forty-four (44) west of the fifth principal meridian, and said
line produced to the centre of the channel of the Missouri
River.
The territory lying on the west of said line from the point last
aforesaid) to the section line between sections two (2) and three
(3), in township fifteen (15) north, range thirteen (13) east of
the sixth principal meridian, according to the government sur.veys in Nebraska, and also the territory lying north of the
above-described line, io where it intersects the middle, east and
west line of section one (1), in said township and range, and the
territory lying east of the above-described line from the point
last aforesaid to the Missouri, are in the State of Nebraska,
and the lands included between and within the above-described
line are in the State of Iowa.
It is further ordered that the costs of this suit be paid by
the parties equally.
So o

