OCTOBER TERX, 1891.
'Statement of the Case.

LEHIGH1 YALLEY RAILROAD O0MPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ZRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PEINSYLVANIA.
No. 275. Argued April 5, 1892. -Decided

May 2, 1892.

state tax against a railroad corporation, incorporated under its laws, on
account of transportation done by it from one point within the State to
another point within it, but passing during the transportation without
the State and through part of another State, is not a tax upon interstate
commerce, and does not infringe the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States.

TH-E court stated the case as follows:

April 28, 1887, the auditor general of Pennsylvania settled
an account* with the Lehigh Valley iRailroad Company, in:
accordance with the act of une 7, 1879, of that Commonwealth, for its taxes on gross receipts for the six months
ending December 31, 1886, as follows:
"Gross receipts .......................... $4,798,933 54
3,835,926 60
Proportion taxable in Pennsylvahia, j-f-f..
30,642 88
Tax at rate of eight-tenths of one per cent..
$30,641 88"
Due Commonwealth ...................
This settlement was approved by the state treasurer June
3, 1887. The Lehigh Company thereupon prayed an appeal
to the Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, where a declaration and copy of account-were filed and
the case tried under stipulation by the court Vithout a jury.
Upon the trial it appeared from the affidavit of the treasurer
of the Lehigh Company, given November 10, 1887, that he
had made to the auditor general for the six months ending
December 31, 1886, the report of gross receipts upon which
the account for taxes had been settled, and further that "the
main line of railroad operated by the Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company extends from Perth Amboy, in the State of New

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. PENNSYLYANIA.

193

Statement of the Case.

Jersey, to Wilkesbarre, in the State of Pennsylvania, with
numerous branches in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. The
company has also running arrangements with other companies
whereby it runs its own'trains, both passenger and freight, on
a through line from Jersey City, New Jersey, to Buffalo;New
York. A very large portion of its business consists of the
transportation of freight, passengers, etc., from points in Pennsylvania to points in other States or*from points in other
States to points in Pennsylvania, or from points in other
States to points in other States, passing through the State of
Pennsylvania, about one-half of its entire receipts being derived from the transportation of anthracite coal from Pennsylvania into other States."
The affidavit gave a detailed statement showing the several
classes of transportation from which the -receipts returned
were derived, being from transportation of coal; freight other
than coal; passengers, express, and mail; distributed as in a
summary, with which the statement concluded, and which
was as follows:

"1. Total receipts from transportation from
points in Pennsylvania to other points
in Pennsylvania without passing out of
the State ............................ $1,353,4541 50
2. Total receipts from transportati6n by continuous carriage from points in Pennsylvania to other points in Pennsylvania,
but over lines partly in Pennsylvaniathat is to say, passing out of Pennsylvania into other States and back again
into Pennsylvania in course of transportation ..............................
207,660 42
3. Total receipts from transportation by continuous carriage from points in a foreign
State to other points in the same State
passing through the State of Pennsylvania ..............................
50,494 25
4. Total receipts from transportation by con-

VOL. cxTv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

tinuous carriage from points in other
292,422 00
States to points in Pennsylvania ......
5. Total receipts from transportation by continuous carriage from points in Penn2,569,514 58
sylvania .to points in other States .....
6. Total receipts from transportation by continuous carriage from points in a foreign
State, passing through Pennsylvania,
261,868 59
and ending in a third State ...........
7.Total receipts from transportation from
points in foreign States to other points
in-foreign States not touching Pennsyl57,532 19
vania ..............................
Total receipts ................ $4,798,933 53"
In another affidavit, under date January 20, 1888, the same
official stated: "Wherever in the said statement of November
tenth, 1887, I used the term 'continuous transportation' or
' continuous carriage,' the freight or passengers, from the
transportation of which the receipts were derived were carried between the points mentioned for a single sum or charge
and upon a single way-bill or ticket, and were, when taken
upon the cars of this company, destined to be carried and
were actually carried from point to point as in said statement
set forth. The Lehigh Valley Railroad Company has no
railroad of its own reaching the city of Philadelphia, but
transports coal aia other merchandise, and sometimes passengers, from Mauch Chunk and other points in Pennsylvania
over its own line to Phillipsburg, in the State of, New Jersey,
from which point it is carried upon the Belvidere and Delaware Railroad to Trenton, and thence by the Pennsylvania
Railroad lines to the city of Philadelphia. So far as the
.Lehigh Valley Railroad line is concerned the transportation
is from Mauch Chunk, or the other points in Pennsylvania, to
Phillipsburg, in New Jersey; but by arrangements between
this company and the corporations owning the other roads
the transportatibn is continuous from Mauch Chunk and the
other points in Pennsylvania to Philadelphia. -The receipts

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.

195

Statement of the Case.

mentioned in my statement of iNovember tenth in the second
paragraph in each instance under the respective heads of
coal,' ' freight other than coal,' and 'passenger, express and
mail,' and also in the second item in the summary, were
derived in the manner above explained. Some of the trains,
.and in many instances the same cars, which carried the
freight and passengers indicated between the points in Pennsylvania and the city of Philadelphia carried also freight and
passengers destined and carried from. points in Pennsylvania
to points in New Jersey and New York, and vice 'versa. The
various items of receipts shown in my statement of November
tenth and 61assified in the third paragraph of the summary as
receipts from transportation by continiious carriage from
points in a foreign State to other points in the same State,
passing throdigh the State of Pennsylvania,' Were derived
from transportation of freight and passengers billed or tick.eted from the city of New York to other points in the State
of New York, and vice versa. The same trains and the same
cars which carried the said freight and passengers qarried
also freight and passengers destined and carried from points
in Pennsylvania to points in other States and from pQints in
other States to points in Pennsylvania."
It was admitted that the Lehigh Company was originally
incorporated by the State of Pennsylvania, and that it owned
and operated as part of ,its main line -about sixty-six miles of
railroad in New Jersey.
The fraction of the entire gross receipts given in the settlement represented the Lehigh Company's mileage within the
State.
The Court of Common Pleas found the facts, and held, for
the reasons given" in Commonwealth v. -Delaware & Hudson
Canal Co., 21 Weekly Notes of Cases (Penn.) 406, and Commonwealth v. .2Vew York , Laee Irie

c& Westem RailroadCompyany,

AT.410, that the Commonwealth c(uld only recover taxes upon
the two items of $1,353,441.50 and $207,660.42; (classes one
and two,) being the amount received for transportation between
p-ints both of which were in the State; and directed judgment accordingly, which, exceptions thereto having been over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ruled, was thereupon entered. The case was carried by writ
of error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and the judgment affirmed upon. the opinion of the court below. A writ
of error was then sued out from this court.
The company, conceding its liability to taxation in respect
of the receipts contained in class one, questions by its assignment of errors the validity of the tax as to the receipts in
class two.

7r. . E. Olmstead for plaintiff in error.
The seventh section of the Pennsylvania revenue statute
of June 7, 1879, which has since been repealed, was twice
before this court, and, in each instance, condemned as unconstitutional in so far as it imposed a tax upon receipts derived
from inter-state commerce. Philadelphia& Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 q. S. 326; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. S. 39.
The state court concedes the invalidity of the tax in question in this'case, as applied to receipts from interstate commerce; but it holds that the receipts of the Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company for transportation from Mauch Chunk,
Pennsylvania, to Phillipsburg, New Jersey, of freight and passengers, which, at Phillipsburg, were taken upon the system of
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and by it transported more
than fifty miles through the State of New Jersey to Trenton,
and from there back again into Pennsylvania for ultimate delivery at Philadelphia, to which point the transportation from
Mauch Chunk was, by agreement between the companies,
continuous, is not interstate commerce. The company contends that it is, and that is the only question in dispute.
Was this transportation intra-State or was it inter-State?
If, as the company contends, it was interstate transportation, it
was interstate commerce; for this court has often decided that
transportation is not merely an aid to, or an instrument of, commerce, but is itself commerce. The Passenger Cases, 7 How.
283-416; State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 275 ; State Tax on
Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284, 299; Fargov. -Michi-

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD

.

PENNSYLVANIA. 197

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

gan, 121 U. S. 230, 24:i;- W'abask Ralbway CJo v. llinois, 118
U. S. 557.
In short, in a very long line of cases, which are too familiar
to require citation, this court has always 'and invariably proceeded upon the theory that transportation is commerce; and,
wherever the transportation involved has been of an interstate or international character, its regulation ,y the States
'has bean invariably prohibited; and the only transportation
which the States have been permitted to control or regulate
is that which is completely internal, and does not in any way
affect or concern any other State.
In the article on interstite commerce in 11 Am. & Eng.
Encyclopedia of Law, 539, the following is given as the
definition of that term, viz.: "Interstate commerce, or commerce ' among the several States' of the American Union, is
commerce which concerns more States than one;" and numerous decisions of this court are ther'e cited sustaining that
definition. And this declaration is in entire harmony with
the rulings of this court. Gibons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
189, 193, 194; State Tonnage Tax Cases, 1'2 Wall. 204, 214;
Hall v. DeCuir,95 U. S. 485, 491; Fargo v. Xickigan, 121
U. S.230.
It is clear that unddr these decisions, the State of New
Jersey could not interfere with this transportation in any
way because it is interstate commerce as to that State. But
if so as to New Jersey, why is it not so also as to Pennsylvania .
In Coe v. Errol, 116 U.-S. 517, a.quantity of logs had been,
cut in the State of Maine and .put into the Androscoggin
River. for ihe purpose of floating them down to Lewiston,'in
the same State. The Androscoggin River starts in faine,
but, after running a distance through that State, crosses the
line and .runs a distance through the State of New Hampshire, and then back again into the State of Maine. It was
customaxy to leave the logs at the town of Errol, in New
Hampshire,. for ohe year. Other logs were cut in New
Hampshire'and drawn down to Errol to be floated also to
the State of Maine. The taxing authorities taxed all thes e

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

logs.at Errol. But this ,ouirt said that goods on their way
through a State from 1,place outside thereof to another
place outside thereof, are in course of interstate or foreign
transportation, and are subjects of inteistate or foreign commerce, and not taxable by the State through which they are
passing, even though detained within that State by low
water or other tempbrary cause. Such goods, are already
in the course of commercial transportation, 'and are under the
Thus we see' that transprotection of the Constitution.
portation from one State to another point in the same State,
passing through another State in the course of the transportation, has been already held' by this court to be interstate
transportation.
In _ord v. Steamship Company, 102 U. S. 541, the steamship Ventura was employed in navigation between San
Francisco 'and San Diego, both in the' State of California,
touching also at' intermediate pborts on the coast in said
State. She neither took on nor put off goods outside of the
State of California, but in making her voyage passed out
upon the Pacific Ocean, out of the State of California and in
again. As stated by :Nr.'Chief Justice Waite, who delivered
the opinion (p. 543): "The single question presented by the
assignment of errors is whether Congress has power to regu-.
late the liability of the owners of vessels navigating the high
seas, but engaged only in the transportation of goods and
passengers between ports and places in the same State. It is
conceded that while the Ventura carried goods from place' to
place in California, her voyages were always ocean voyage§.".
That question was decided in the affirmative, and it was
held that' the Ventura on -her voyage "entered on a navigation which was necessarily connected with other nations,"
and 'that, although she was not trading with them, "she
was navigating with them, and consequently with them
was engaged in commerce.

.

.

.

In

every just sense,

therefore, she was, while on the ocean, engaged in commerce
with foreign nations, and as such she and the business in
which she was engaged were subject to the reguliting power
of Congress."

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.

199

Opinion of the Court.

Nor does it make any difference that, as suggested by the
learned trial judge, the distance of transportation in another
State may be veiy short. In the cases at bar the distance
was not short. The transportation through New Jersey was
for more thafi .fifty miles; but had it been for a much less
distance, the principle would have been the same. In PFnylvanaio "v. Glouceter Fdrry Cornany, 114 U. S. 196, this.
court unanimously condemned the Pennsylvania taxing statute upon the ground that, as stated in the syllabus: "The
transportation of gassengers and freight for hire by a steam
ferry across the Delaware River from New Jersey to Philadelphia by .a corporation of New Jersey is interstate commerce, which is 4iot subject to exactions by the State of
Pennsylvania." The transportation was simply across the.
comparatively narrow river between Philadelphia and Camden, which cities are w¢tithin sight of each other.
.Mi'. James A. Stranacan,Deputy Attorney General of the
State of Pennsylvania, for defendant in error.

Mn. OHIEF JUSTICE FULL R, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The'Lehigh Valley Railroad Company is a Pennsylvania
corporation, which owns and operates an extensive system of
railroads in that State, but has no line of its o vn to Philadelphia. For the traffic from Mauch Chuhk to Philadelphia, it
makes use of two routes, one by the way of the Philadelphia
and Reading road, being wholly within ihe State, and the
other by its own line connecting with the lines of the Pennsylvania Railroad at Phillipsburg, New Jersey, and thence via
Trenton, in that State, to .Philadelphia. Detailed reports of
its receipts show that the passenger traffic of the Lehigh Company to Philadelphia from Mauch Clhunk is almost wholly
taken over the Philadelphia and Reading, whle its coal and
general freight traffic reaches .Philadelphia by the other road.
Phillipsburg, New Jersey, lies across the Delaware River,
opposite Easton, Pennsylvania. *By the running arrangements

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the -Court.

between the Lehigh and Penngylvania Companies, the transportation of through freight and passengers is continuous from
Mauch Chunkto Philadelphia.
The receipts named in class two are confined to that part of
the transportation from Mauch Chunk to Phillipsburg, and the
taxation to the mileage wholly within the State of Pennsylvania; and the question is whether this taxation in respect of
such receipts from freight and passengers carried by continuous transportation to Philadelphia from MTvauch Chunk by way
of.Trenton, New Jersey, amounts to a regulation of interstate
commerce.
The conflict between the commercial regulations of the several States was destructive to their harmony and fatal to their
commer.ial interests abroad, and this was the mischief intended
to be obviated by the grant to the Congress of the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the States.
"But, as was said by Chief Justice Marshall, the words of the
grant do not embrace that commerce which is completely
internal, which is carried .onbetween man and man in a State,
or between different parts of the'same State, and which does
not extoend to nor affect other States. "Commerce," observed
the Chief Justice, "undoubtedly, is traffic, but it is something
more; it'is intercourse. It describes the commercial intercourse between nations, and parts of nations, in all its branches,
and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189. This is no more
than an expansion of its simplest signification, that of an
exchange of goods, the bringing of them from the seller to
the buyer, however vast the range now comprehended by the
term in the progress of society.
Taxation is undoubtedly one of the forms of regulation, but
the power of each State to tax its own internal commerce, and
the franchises, property or business of 'its own corporations
engaged in such commerce, has always been recognized, and
the particular mode of taxation in this instance is conceded to'
be in itself not open to objection. And while interstate commerce cannot be regulated by' a State by the laying of taxes
thereon, in any form, yet whenever the subjects of taxation

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.

201

Opinion of the Court.

can be separated so that that which arises from interstate
commerce cani be distinguished from that which arises from
commerce wholly within the State, the distinction will be acted
upon by the courts, and the State permitted to collect that
arising upon commerce solely within its own territory. Ratterncza v. Test. Union Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411, 424.
The tax under consideration here was determined in respect
of receipts for the proportion of the transportation within the
State, but the contention is that this could not be done because
the transportation was an entire thing, and in its course passed
through another State than that of the origin and destination
of the particular freight and passengers. There was no breaking of bulk or transfer of passengers in New Jersey. The
point of departure and the point of arrival were alike in Pennsylvania. The intercourse was between those points and not
between any other points. Is such intercourse, consisting of
continuous transportation between two points in the same
State, made interstate because in its accomplishment some
portion of another State may be traversed? Is the transmission of freight or messages between two places in the same
State made interstate business by the deviation of the railroad
or telegraph line on to the soil of another State?
If it has happened that through engineering difficulties, as.
the interposition of a mountain or a river, the line is deflected
so as to cross the boundary and run for the time being in
another State than that of its principal location, does such
.detour in itself irdpress an external character on internal
intercourse? For -example, the Nashville, Chattanooga and
St. Louis Railway Company is a cbrporation created under
the laws of Tennessee, and through freight and passengers
transported from Nashville to Chattanooga pass over a few
miles in Alabama and perhaps two miles in Georgia, but we
had not supposed that that circumstance would render the
taxation of that company, in respect of such business, by the
State of Tennessee invalid.
So as to'the traffic of the Erie lRailway between the cities
of New York and Buffalo, we do not understand that that
company escapes taxation in respect of thAt part of its busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ness because some miles of its road are in Pennsylvania, while
the New York Central is taxed as to its business between
the same places, because its rails are wholly within the State
of New York.
It should be remembered that the question does not arise
as to the power of aiiy other State than the State of the
termini, nor as to taxation upon the property of the company situated elsewhere than in Pennsylvania, nor as to the
regulation by Pennsylvania of the operations of this or any
other company elsewhere, but it is simply whether, in the
carriage of freight and passengers between two points in one
State, the mere passage over the soil of another State renders
that business foreign, which is domestic. We do not think
such a view can be reasonably entertained, and are of opinion
that this taxation is not open to constitutional "objection by
reason of the particular way in which Philadelphia was reached
from Mauch Chunk.
Nor is the contrary conclusion supported by (Joe v. Errol,
I U. S: 517, and Iord -v. Skteamship Con~any, 102 U. S.
541, much relied on by plaintiff in error.
In Coe v. Errol,lbgs cut in Maine and detained at Errol,
-New Hampshire, on their way down the Androscoggin River
to Lewiston, Maine, were held by, the Supreme Court of New
Hampshire not taxable at Errol, while logs out in New Hampshire and hauled down to that town for similar transportation
were held taxable, and this court sustained the judgment of
the state court in reference to the New Hampshire logs, upon
the ground that they were still part of the general mass of
property of the State, and had not commenced "their final
movement for transportation from the State of their origin'to
that of their destination." The Maine logs had never been
part of the property of New Hampshire, and had no situs
there. They were therdfore not taxable, though whether
they were or not was not drawn into decision. These logs
were also in course of transportation from ihe place of cutting
to another place likewige in Maine, and as that transportatioil
required them to arrive and remain for a time in New Hampshire, the predicament in that regard was referred to in ithe

i;EHIGH VALLEY R~AILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.

203

Opinion of the Court.

opinion by way of argument, as being such that New Hamapshire could not impose a burden on that transportation. But
the right of Maine to tax them was not disputed.
The single question in Lord v. Steamship Company was,
as- stated by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, delivering the opinion
of the court, whether Congress had power to regulate the
liability of the owners of vessels navigating the high seas,
but engaged only in the transportation of goods and passengers between ports and places in the same State, it being conceded that the voyages of the steamship in respect of whose
loss the question arose were always ocean voyages. The
argument was that "whi l e on the ocean her national character only was recognized, and she was subject to such laws as
the commercial nations of the world had, by usage or 'otherwise, agreed on for the government of the vehicles of commerce occupying this common property of all mankind. ' She
was navigating among the vessels of other nations and was
treated by them as belonging to the country whose flag she
carried. True, she was not trading with them, but. she was
navigating with them, and consequently with them was engaged in commerce. If in her navigation she inflicted a
wrong on another country, the United States, and not the
State of California., must answer for what was done. In
every just sense, therefore, she was, While on the ocean, engaged in commerce with foreign nations, and as such, she and
the business in which she was engaged was subject to the
regulating power of Congress."
But it was unnecessary to invoke the power to regulate
commerce in order to find authority for the law in question.
As stated by Mr. Justice Bradley in In re Garnett, 141 U. S.
1, 12: "The act of Congress which limits the liability of ship
owners was passed in amendment of the maritime law of the
country, and the power to make such amendmenits is coextensive with that law. It is not confined to the boundaries or
class of subjects which limit and characterize the power to
regulate commerce; -but, in maritime matters, it extends to
all matters and places to which the maritime law extends."
In that case thd limited liability act was applied to a steamer
engaged in commerce on the $avannah River.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In Exo parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 639, it was decided that the
admiralty jurisdiction extended to a steam canal-boat, in case
of collision between her and another canal-boat, whilst the
two boats were navigating the Illinois and Lake Michigan
Canal, although the libellant's boat was bound from one place
in Illinois to another plac6 in the same State.
The principle is well settled, and the cases are largely
referred to in In r'e Garnett.
In Pacifc Coast Stearnship Co. v. Board of Railroad Cornmissioners, 9 Sawyer, 253, th6' Circuit Court for the District
of California held, Mr. Justice Field delivering the opinion,
that the California State Board of Railroad Commissioners
had no pokver to regulate or interfere with the transportation
of persons or merchandise by a steamship company between
ports within the State, if they were in transit to or from other
States, or if the -transportation consisted of voyages upon the
ocean, bringifig the steamships under the exclusive control of
Congress.
But that case involved the direct regulation by a State of
transportation which had passed beyond the jurisdiction of
the State, and did not decide the question of the power of a
State to tax its own corporations in respect of transactions
within it in the course of a continuous carriage from one point
to another in the State, in accomplishing which a part. of,
another State was incidentally traversed.
This Pennsylvania Company was not taxed in respect of its
receipts from transportation from points in foreign States to
other points in foreign States not touching Pennsylvania; nor
from transportation by continuous carriage from points in a
foreign State passing through Pennsylvania and ending into
a third State; nor from transportation by continuous carriagde
from points in Pennsylvania to points in other States; nor
from transportation by continuous carriage from points in
other States to points in Pennsylvania; nor from transportation by continuous carriage from points in another State to
other points in the same State passing through Pennsylvania;
but only in respect of receipts from transportation from points
in Pennsylvania to other points in Pennsylvania without pass-

CULVER v. WILKINSON.
Syllabus.

ing out of the State, and from transportation by continuous
carriage from points in Pennsylvania to other points therein,
but passing out of Pennsylvania into another State and back
again in the course of transportation.
We do not deem it necessary to continue the discussion.
We concur with the state court in sustaining the validity of
the tax herein involved, and the judgment is
Aflrmed.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENNSY IANIA. LELEHIGH
HIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY V. :PENNSYLVANIA.
Error to the
VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. Kos. 276, 428, 429. Argued and
decided with No. 275. 3iR. CHIEF JUSTIcE" FULLER: These cases
involve the same question as that just passed upon in Lehigh ValZey Railroad Co. v. ComrnontOealth, supra, 192, and for the reasons
there given the judgments are severally
.Affrmed.
.r.

X.B. Olmstead for plaintiff in -rror.

'Mr. James A. ,Stranahanfor defendant in error.

CULVER v. WILKINSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 228. Argued April 19, 20, 1892.- Decided May 2,1892.

In a written instrument a corporation declared that it held for the benefli
of C. certain choses in action, stock and bonds, which it described,.and
said: "The proceeds arising from the gale of said securities and recovered from said choses in action are to be applied to pay off said notes
and interest," and the remainder was to be paid to 0. or his legal representatives, "subject to the repayment of moneys expended" by the corporation "in prosecuting claims or selling the securities." The notes

