OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

XcDONALD v. BELDING.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF .ARKANSAS.
No. 379.

Submitted April 26, 1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

In Arkansas, although the rule obtains that a person holding under a quitclaim deed may be ordinarily presumed to.have had knowledge of imperfections in the vendor's title, yet that rule is not universal, and one may
become entitled to protection as a bona fide purchaser for value, although
holding under a deed of that kind; and in this case it is held that the
plaintiff in error, although taking a quitclaim deed, was not chargeable
with notice of any existing claim to the property upon the part of either
of the defendants in error.
In Arkansas, when the payment of the consideration and the acceptance of
a deed by the purchaser occur at different times, the denial of notice of
fraud, in order to support a claim to protection as a bona fide purchaser,
must ielate both to the time when the deed is delivered, and to that when
the consideration was paid3 but, where it appears upon the face of the
answer, that-the purchase for a certain priceand the delivery of the deed
were made at the same time, and were parts of one transaction, the denial
of notice until the defendant had made the purchase is equivalent to a
denial of notice at the delivery of the deed.
Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276, distinguished from this case.

THE court stated the case as follows:

possession of a
The appellees Belding and Wife, being in.
tract of land within the Hot Springs Reservation, now known
as lot nine, block sixty-eight, in the ,0ity of Hot Springs,
Arkansas, leased the same, April 24r 1874, to Frank iFlynn
for the term of five years at an annual rent of two hufidred
dollars; the rent to cease whenever the lessoi's were unable to
prote ct him in the p6ssesson, and enjoyment of, the lot; and
'the lessee to have the right,- at any time within thirty days
after the expiration of the term, to remove all buildings and
improvements 'put upon the land, first paying any rent in
arrear.
The lessee covenanted 'for himself and legal representatives
to waive all.benefft that might accrue to him or them in the

McDONALD v. BELDING.
'Statement of the Case.

way of title to the demised premises by virtue of occupancy
or settlement, and to hold the same only as the -tenant or tenants of the lessors, and fully subject to the covenants contained
in the lease.
Flynn presented his petition to the Hot Springs Commission
organized under the act of Congress of March 8, 1877, 19 Stat.
377, c. 108, claiming to be entitled, by right of occupancy and
improvements made before April 24, 1876, to purchase the
above lot. The petition referred to Belding as claiming the
land prior to his occupancy, and stated that he, Flynn, had
not "recognized Belding as landlord since the- Supreme Court
of the United States decided the title to be in the United
States." The plaintiffs, alsb, presented their petition to- the
commission and claimed the right to purchase this lot from
the government.
The commission adjudged, December 8, 1877, that Flynn
was entitled to purchase the lot; and, subsequently, May 21,
1881, the United States issued a patent to him, based upon
the judgment rendered by the commission.
By deed of July 2l, 18.84, Flynn (his wife uniting with him).
made a quitclaim deed of the premises to the appellant McDonald, -the recited consideration being $8500 cash in hand
paid' to the^ grantors. This deed was duly acknowledged by
Flynn August 2, 1884, and by Mrs. Flynn July 28, 1884, and
was filed for record in the proper office 'August 2, 1884.
,The present suit-was brought by Belding, and wife, December 19, 1884, mord"than sevenf years after the adjudication by
the Hot Springs Commission in favor of Flynn, and more than
three years after Flynn received the patent from the United
States. It proceeds upon the ground tlat the commission
committed an error of law in awarding the right to purchase
this lot to Flynn rather than to them. The bill charged that
Flynn "has recently executed to the defenddnt Michael McDonald, without consideration, and for the purpose of defrauding plaintiffs, a fraudulent- deed of conveyance purporting- toconvey said lot to him for eight thousand five hundred dollars,
when, in fact, nothing was paid by him for it; that defendant
knew at the time of themaking of said deed, and of the said

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

pretended purchase of the tenancy of the said Flynn as aforesaid, and of the rights of the plaintiffs."
The relief asked was an accounting with reference to rents,
and a decree adjudging the deed to McDonald to be fraudulent and void, and declaring the lot to be held in trust for
plaintiffs, or for plaintiff George Belding.
Flynn, in his answer, met all the material allegations of the
bill. Re alleged that the Pilaintiffs never sought to disturb the
award of the commission until the bringing of this suit, "up
to which time plaintiffs, and especially plaintiff George Belding
had asserted and insisted that the said award and all other
awards of the commission were right and ought not to be disturbed, that on the 21st day of July, 1884, this defendant,
believing he had a clear title to said lot, sold it to the defendant
McDonald as aforesaid, and executed to him a quitclaim deed
therefor."
McDonald, in his answer, said: "He knows nothing of the
lease alleged to have been executed between plaintiffs and his
co-defdndant Frank Flynn, nor of the alleged relation of landlord and tenant between them, nor of the alleged proceedings
before said commissioners, but that if said relation ever did
exist it was dissolved in June, 1876, by the United States,
through their receiver taking possession of said land under
paramount title; that defendant Flynn had then valuable
improvements upon said lot, which he could not lawfully
remove, and to avoid losing them filed a petition before said
commissioners setting forth that fact and praying them to'
award the preference right to purchase it from the Unite .
States; that he supported said petition by evidence, and that
said commissioners awarded said right to him, and that he afterwards purchased said lot from the United States, and on the
21st day of May, 1881, obtained a patent for it, a copy of which
is annexed hereto and made part of this answer as Exhibit A;
that on the 21st day of July, 1884, this defendant, finding the
title to said lot to be in said defendant Flynn and knowing
nothing whatever of plaintiff's alleged claim to it, bought it.
from him for the sum of eighty-five hundred dollars ($8500) in
cash, and obtained from him a quitclaim deed thereto; that he

McDONALD v. BELDING.
Argument for Appellees.

never heard of any claim of plaintiffs until he made said purchase and paid said money; that plaintiffs never until since
said purchase sued for said lot or put any claim of record; that
said deed and sale to this defendant were not made without
consideration -nor to defraud plaintiffs, but are made in good
faith." The defendant annexed to and- made part of hisanswer a copy of the deed to him from Flynn.
By an interlocutory decree it was declared that the Commission by error and mistake of law, awarded to Flynn the right
to purchase the lot in question, and that the title, interest, and
estate of the several defendants should be transferred to and
vested in the plaintiffs. The cause was thereupon referred to
a special master for report as to rents, taxes and improvements. By the final decree, the relief asked by the bill was
given.
.r.

John feClure for appellant.

3&. R?. G. Davies, Mr. U. X. Rose and -Mr. G. B. Rose for
appellees.
The answer of McDonald is not sufficient to support the
defence of innocent purchaser. It denies notice of the claim
of the plaintiff until after payment of the purchase-money,
but does not deny notice until after the making of the deed
to defendant. This defect is necessarily fatal. Byers v.
7XkcDonaZd, 12 Arkansas, 218, 286; .Miller v. Fr'aley, 21 Arkansas, 22.
The case of .Miller ,v. Fraley, 23 Arkansas, 738, is not
against us. The deed in that case was not a quitclaim deed.
The court said; "The deed in question is in the usual form of
an absolute conveyance in fee, with a &peciadwarrantyagainst
any claim made or sufered by the vendor."
If such a warranty had been made in this case, of course it
would have been broken. The question as to a quitclaim
deed did not arise in that case and was not passed upon.
The exact point was raised in Gaines v. Summjers, 50 Arkansas, 322, and was then decided as it has been decided by this

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

court. In speaking of a quitclaim deed in that case, the
court said: "It was at least sufficient to have put appellants
on inquiry, which, if they had prosecuted with ordinary diligence, would, doubtless, have led to actual notice of the facts
as shown by the evidence in this case; but they prosecuted no
inquiry, and it follows that they are not bonaXde purchasers
without notice." This covers the whole ground. The rent
of the house on the ground was not the sole criterion of the
value of the rents.
We submit that the evidence fully sustains the finding of
the master and the decree of the court below.
MRn. JUSTICE IIARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
-According to the evidence in the cause, McDonald paid in
cash the full consideration recited in the deed from Flynn,
without actual notice of any claim to the property by the
plaintiffs, or either of them. Did he .have such constructive
notice of the plaintiff's claim as deprived 'him of the right to be
regarded as a bondftde purchaser for value? It is said that in
Arkansas no one can be deemed an innocent purchaser if he
holds under a quitclaim deed. In that State, "a quitclaim
deed is a substantive mode of conveyance, and is as effectual
to convey all the right, title, interest, claim and estate of
the*grantor as a deed with full covenants,, although the grantee has no possession of or prior interest in the land," and it
is not necessary that a vendee hyd "under a deed with general covenants of warranty to entitle him to protection as an
innocent purchaser;" although, where "a person bargains for
and takes a mere quitclaim deed, or deed without warranty, it
is a circumstance, if unexplained, to show that he had notice
of imperfections in the vendor's title, and only purchased such
interest as the vendor might have in the property." Bagley
v. Fletcher, 41 Arkansas, 153, 160; -Miller v. Fraley, 23 Arkansas, 735, 140.
In Gines v. SIrnmers, 50 Arkansas, 322, 327, 328, the
court, after referring to the fact that a deed recited a consid-

XcDONALD v. BELDING.
Opinion of the Court.

eration of only five dollars for real estate which had cost six
thousand dollars, .said: "Add to this fact that the conveyance
executed was a quitclaim deed, and the conclusion that Mrs.
Saunders did not acquire a good and valid title, in the absence
of an explanation, would be irresistible. It was, at least, sufficient to have put appellants on inquiry, which, if they had
prosecuted with ordinary diligence, would, doubtless, have led
to actual notice of the facts as shown by the evidence in this
case. But they prosecuted no inquiry; and it follows that
they are not bona fide purchasers without notice." In the
same case it was said that a person purchasing an interest in
lands "takes with constructive notice of whatever appears in
the conveyances constituting his chain of title;" and that if
anything appeared in such conveyances, sufficient to put a
prudent man upon inquiry, it was his duty to make the inquiry, and he would be charged by the law with- the actual
notice he would have received if he had made it. These ct se
fall far short of sustaining the broad c6ntention- of the plaintiffs in respect to quitclaim deeds. On the contrary, they
show that, in Arkansas, one may become entitled to protection
as a bona j&e purchaser for value, although holding under a
deed of that kind. Applying the principles of those cases to
the present case, we are of opinion that McDonald is entitled
to protection as an innocent purchaser. The deed that he
accepted was not drawn as a quitclaim deed pursuant to any
specific direction given by him. So far as the evidence discloses, the amount paid by him was the full value of the property. If he had, before purchasin&, instituted an inquiry as
to the title, so far as it was shown by the record of deeds, he
would not have, found any title of record in the plaintiffs.
But he would have found that Flynn held under a patent from
the United States based upon a claim established in favor of
the patentee, under the acts of Congress relatiig to the Hot
Springs reservation. It is true that .if he had caused the proceedings of the Hot Springs Commission to be examined he
would have seen that Belding contested, with Flynn, before
that tribunal, the right to purchase the lot here in dispute.
But he would, also, have learned that Flynn's right was recogVOL. cxLv-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

nized by the Commission, and, from the records of the courts,
state and Federal, he would have learned that more than
seven years had then blapsed without legal proceedings, upon
the part of the plaintiffs, questioning the correctness or validity of the judgment by that tribunal in favor of Flynn. He
might well have supposed that Belding had acquiesced in that
judgment. Under all the circumstances, it cannot be held
that McDonald, although taking a quitclaim deed, was chargeable, when he purchased, with notice of any existing claim to
the property upon the part of the plaintiffs, or of either of
them.
It is contended that the answer of McDonald does not support the defence of being an innocent purchaser, in that, while
denying notice of the plaintiff's claim at the time of the payment of the purchase money, it did not deny that he had such
notice at the time of the delivery of the deed to him. This
position is supposed tQ be sustained by Byers v. Ife-Donald, 12
Arkansas, 218, 286, and-ille .V. Fraley,21 Arkansas, 22. In
the first of those cases, the court, observing that the protection
of a lonaade purchase is necessary only when the plaintiff has
a prior equity which cannot be barred or avoided except by
the union of the legal title with an equity arising from the
payment of the money and receiving a conveyance without
notice, and with a clear conscience, said: "Notice must be
denied previous to and down to the time of paying the money
and the delivery of the deed." In the other case, the language
of the court was: "The answer of Greenwood & Co. should
have positively denied notice of the fraud down to the time of
paying the consideration and receiving the deed." The general rule announced in those cases applies where the payment
of the consideration and the acceptance of a deed by the purchaser occur at different times. In such cases, the denial of
notice, in order to support a claim to protection as a bona fide
purchaser, must relate both to the time when the deed is delivered, and to that when the consideration was paid. But,
where it appears upon the face of the answer that the purchase for a certain price and the delivery of the deed were at
the same time, and as parts of one transaction, the denial of

