EARNSRIAW v. CADWALADER.
St4tement of the Case.

EARNSHAW "'. CADWALADER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 348. Argued April 29, 1S92. -Decided

May 16,1892.

Under schedule C of § 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by § 6 of ±h6
act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, (22 Stat. 497,) iron ore was charged with a
duty of 75 cents per toii, and that duty was assessible on the number of
pounds of iron ore reported by the United States weigher, and not on the
ore after the moisture was dried out of it.

Tis is an action at law, Brought in January, 1888, in the
Circuit Couft of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, by John W. S. Earnshaw against John Cadwalader, collector of customs for the district of Philadelphia, to
recover $71.61, as an alleged excess of duties exacted by the
collector on three importations of iron ore, made in February
and April, 1887, by the plaintiff, into the port of Philadelphia,
from Porman, Spain. The case was tried before a jury, in
October, 1888, who rendered a ;verdict for the defendant, and
he had a judgment, to review which the plaintiff has brought
a writ of error.
The iron ore was dutiable under Schedule C of § 2502 of the
Revised Statutes, as enacted by § 6 of the act of 'March 3, 1883,
c. 121, (22 Stat. 497,) under the provision imposing a duty'as
follows: "Iron ore, including manganiferous iron ore, also the
dross or residuum from burnt pyrites, seventy-five cents per
ton." The plaintiff seasonably paid, protested, appealed and
brought suit. The form of his protest as to each of the three
importations was the same. The collector imposed a duty of 75
cents per ton on the number of pounds of iron ore reported by
the United States weigher. The protest stated that the importer claimed that the collector erred in exacting duty on the
full weight reported by the weigher, and that the importer
paid the same under protest, "because the importation is dutiable as merchandise which is described as 'iron ore 'in act of

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

March 3, 1883, chapter 121, sec. 6, Schedule 0, and 'iron, ore'
was and is understood among dealers in and consumers of such
iron ore in this country to refer and did refer to iron ore 'in
the condition of dryness in which it is sold in trade, which condition of dryness is usually ascertained in trad6 by subjecting
the iron ore to a temperature of 212' Fahrenheit; but you
have levied the rate of seventy-five cents per ton on my importation when mixed with, and the weight increased by, a
considerable per cent of water, thereby making me pay, in
violation of law, that rate of duty on water, because the iron
ore of commerce, to. which the said tariff law applies, is iron
ore in a dry state -i.e. free from water not chemically combined - and because, although the method of ascertaining the
amount of such mechanically mixed moisture is well known,
easily applied, and actually used between buyers and sellers of
such ores in this country, you have refused to ascertain the
true taxable weight of the iron ore of this entry in this or any
other way, or make. any allowance for such mechanically and
accidentally combined moisture, in asceraiWping the weight."
The plaintiff introduced evidence tending to show that
samples, representative of the whole mass, were taken by three
different samplers, on the arrival of the different cargoes, which
samples were delivered to two chemists, in the same condition
as taken, in order that the amount of moisture mechanically
present, and the amount of metallic iron, might be ascerThe plaintiff then introduced evidence tending to
tained.
show that the cargoes of iron ore .so imported contained
water mechanically present, and not chemically combined with
the ore, and claimed that such water was not subject to duty
as "iron ore." Evidence was given as to the quantity of such
water; and there was no dispute as to the propriety of the
method of ascertaining it, which was to dry the samples at
the heat of 212'. Fahrenheit, and thus expel the water or moisture mechanically present, without having any effect on the
chemical ingredients of the ore.
-The plaintiff asked the court to rule that "the term 'iron
ore,', in its ordinary meaning, does not include water which
is mechanically present -and not chemically combined with

EARNSHAW v. CADWALADER.
Statement of the Case.

the ore."
The court refused so to rule, and the plaintiff
excepted.
In the course of the trial, the court, against the objection of
the plaintiff, admitted evidence tending to show that the iron
ores of the United States, which resembled, and were like and
had the same characteristics as, the imported iron ore involved
in this suit, were dealt in in this country without an' allowance
for moisture. The court, in ruling in favor of the admission
of such evidence, stated that the purpose of the testimony was
to show whether it was true, as was said by some of the witnesses, that the signification of "iron ore," when applied to
the description of ore in question, meant the dry ore; because,
as the court said, if it were shown that, in dealing in precisely
the same character of ore mined in the United States, there
was no such 'limitation of the meaning, and no such dealing,
that bore, directly on the weight and credibility of the testimony given by the plaintiff for the purpose of making an exception in favor of the particular description, of ore in question;
that it was a legitimate argument that, if the designation or
signification of the term " iron ore," when applied to such description of soft ore mined in the United States, included the water,
it would be unreasonable to believe that the designation of
"iron ore," when applied to precisely the same kind of iron ore,
meant the dry ore, without the water, simply because it came
from across the sea; and that, although it was not direct testimony as to the iron ore in question, it was testimony in respect
to iron ore precisely like it. The plaintiff excepted to the admission of the evidence.
The court, among other things, charged the jury as follows:
"The term 'iron ore,' as defined by lexicographers and used
and understood in commerce generally, includes the water as
well as other foreign substances held in combination with iron,
whether the combination be chemical or physical. It follows,
therefore, that the duty imposed and complained of here was
properly imposed, unless a distinction is to be drawn between
this ore and iron ore generally." The plaintiff excepted to
that part of the charge.
The plaintiff requested the court to charge the jury as fol-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

lows: "If iron ore, as imported into the United States, is generally bought aid sold on the basis that the water which is
only mechanically present and not chemically united with the
constituents of the ore should be removed, and the usual mode
to remove such moisture, to ascertain this basis and determine
the true ore, is by drying at 212 degrees Fahrenheit, that course
should be adopted to determine what is dutiable iron ore under
the tariff." The court refused so to charge, and remarked that
there was no evidence to warrant a finding that -the iron ore in
question "is generally bought and sold on the basis that the
water which is only mechanically present should be removed,"
except where that basis was stipulated for by special contract;
and that such transactions (founded on contract) were unimportant, standing alone, in the consideration of the case. To
such ruling of the court the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff also requested the court to charge the, jury as
follows: "If upon the whole evidence you are in doubt whether
the iron ore of commerce is iron ore free from water, not
chemically combined with it, it is your duty to give the importer, the plaintiff in this case, the benefit of the doubt, and
your verdict should be for the plaintiff." The court refused so
to charge, and stated that the question must be decided accord-,
ing to the weight of the evidence.
In the course of the charge given, the court submitted to the
jury the question as to what the term "iron ore" was understood to mean commercially, and on this subject the court said
to the jury: "In the enactment of thriff statutes, Congress
must be understood, when employing terms to describe articles of commerce, to employ them in the sense in which they
are commercially understood and employed by persons dealing
in such articles and familiar with the subject - in other words,
as they are understood and employed in the commerce to
which they relate. If, therefore, the plaintiff has proved that
the term 'iron ore' when applied to the imported ore here in
question, signifies -to those dealing in it anid familiar with the
subject dry ore only -that is, ore from which the\water has
been extracted - this .signification must be given to the term
as applied to this ore. To warrant this construction, however,

EARNSHAW v.* CADWALADER.
Statement of the Case.'

the evidence mpst satisfy you that the term has this signification generally

-

that is, habitually, commonly - in the com-

merce respecting this ore, so as to be obligatory upon parties
dealing in the ore, without special contract on the subject.
Does the evidence satisfy you that 'it has? Looking at
the question in the light of the plaintiff's testimony alone (in
the first instance), is the existence of this signification, under the
circumstances stated, proved? His witnesses when first examined went-little further than to say that in buying and selling and dealing generally in this ore parties act upon the
understanding that the ore is dry; in other words, that- the
water is excluded from the weight: They further say, however, that special contracts are entered into respecting it generally, if not always, whereby the rights of purchasers to have
the water so excluded is secured. If the case had rested here,
as it did when the plaintiff first closed his testimony and the
defendant moved for a nonsuit, the court would, as it intimated, have held that the evidence was insufficient to justify
a finding in the plaintiff's favor. The evidence seemed to show
no more than a course or custom* of dealing by express contract respecting the ore, which, standing alone, should have no
influence in ascertaining the signification of the term in question as applied to it. Subsequently the plaintiff called these
witnesses back and inquired of them, 'What is the term " iron
ore" understood to mean commercially among importers and
dealers in imported ore?' In other words, What is the iron
ore of commerce - imported .ore?

And the witnesses - an-

swered, substantially, that it is understood to be ore without the
water; dry ore. The witnesses repeat their former testimony
respecting the custom or habit of dealing in the ore, that par-.
ties proceed upon the understanding that the water is to be
excluded, and that their contracts contain a stipulation securing its exclusion. There were three or four witnesses, very intelligent men, called back, who thus testified respecting the
signification of the term as applied to this ore. This testimony,
lleast, seemed to have a broader scope than that
in terms,
previously heard, and to -varrant a submission of the question
to you.. In considering it, however, you must bear in mind

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

what these witnesses said when first examined, as well as subsequently, and inquire whether their testimony thus taken altogether shows more than a course or custom of dealing, in
which parties habitually contract, by special provision, for the
exclusion of water from dry ore. If it shows no more than
this, it is of no value. To sustain the plaintiff's case the testimony must show, as before stated, that the term Iiron ore,' as
applied to the ore in question, signifies, to persons familiar
with the commerce respecting it, dry ore only; that this is
the common, well known, and recognized signification of the
term, when so applied, upon which signification parties buying
and selling, or otherwise dealing in the ore, have a clear right
to depend, without any contract or stipulation respecting it.
Does the plaintiff's testimony, even when considered alone,
show that the term so applied has this signification? In determining this, it is important to remember that parties dealing in the ore, according to the plaintiff's testimony, do not
seem to rely alone upon the existence of this signification
in dealing, but resort to contract for excluding the water.
1either you nor the court can overlook the fact that this
manner of dealing by special contract seems to be inconsistent
with the alleged existence'of a common, well-understood signification of the term ' iron ore,' such as is here set up. I have
thus called your attention to the question in the light of the
plaintiff's testimony alone. It is not to be decided, however,
without considering as well the testimony produced by the defendant. The. government has called several witnesses - a
larger number than were called by the plaintiff, and equally
intelligent, apparently - who say, in substance, that they are
familiar with the ore in question, several of them being dealers
in it, and that the signification of the term 'iron ore' as applied
to it, includes the water, as well as everything else contained
in the mass, just as the term does when applied to any other
description of iron ore; that there is no such commodity known
to commerce as dry iron ore; that, while the soft foreign ore
lis sometimes bought with the water excluded, it is also bought
without respect to the water, and [ as] all other iron ore is
bought, and that when it is so bought, with the water excluded,

EARNI SHAW v. CADWALADER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

this is always specially provided by the term 'ores,' as when applied to hard and all other descriptions of ore. Now you must
deternine, from all the evidence in the case, whether it is proved
that the term ' iron ore,' when applied to the description of imported ore here involved, has the limited signification attributed
to it by the plaintiff -that

is, that it signifies dry ore -ore

with the water excluded. If you find it has this signification
generally, commonly, when so applied, your verdict will be for
the plaintiff for the amounts claimed. Otherwise, your verdict will be for the defendant." There was no other exception
by the. plaintiff to any part of the charge than the exception
above specifically mentioned.
fr.

Williamn IS.Hall for plaintiff in error.

The term "iron ore," in its ordinary meaning, does not include water which is mechanically present and not chemically
combined with the ore.
Evidence was introduced by the plaintiff in regard to the
nature and character of this water, so mechanically present
and not chemically combined, which was not contradicted, and
tended to 'show that the amount of water, mechanically present and not chemically combined, in iron ores like those in suit
is variable and accidental, and varies in ores which come from
the same mine, the chemical ingredients of which remain
practically constant, according as the ore has been subjected
to rain, or exposure to the elements; that the amount of the
water so present varies from a few hundredths of 1 per cent
up to 12, 16 and 25 per cent; that this variation is due to the'
mechanical absorption of water, and Varies with the season -or
weather to which it is subjected;, and that all such moisture
would dry out of the ore if exposed long enough to the sun;
and that the ore, as it comes from the mines in dry weather, is
dry as dust.
The words "iron ore" in the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. c.
121, p. 488, § 6, Schedule C, p. 496, have been interpreted in
.Marvel v. .Merritt,-116 U. S. 11, 12, where the court says:
"Webster, in his dictionary, defines . . . ore as ' the compound of a metal and some other substance, as oxygen, sulphur

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

or arsenic, called its mineralizer, by which its properties are
disguised or lost.'"
It certainly canndt be claimed that water or moisture merely
mechanically present, which would dry out if exposed to the
sun, in any way mineralizes the metal or causes its properties
to be disguised or lost.
Worcester, in his dictionary, defines ore as "a mineral body
which is reduced to the metallic state by fire; a metal colemically combined-with some mineralizing substance which completely disguises its usually recognized and useful properties."
This definition by its express terms excludes water unless
chemically combined with the metal.
The water is worthless, in fact is worse than worthless, and
is an injury to the metallurgical value of the ore. It is an
impurity which is, mixed with, but is not a part of, the ore.
Take away any of th6 ohemical constituents of the ore and
you are taking away part of the ore, and the residuum will
not be ore. Take away this mechanically mixed watet and
you have left the true ore free from an impurity.
The same act imposed a duty of 20 cents per bushel on linseed or flaxseed. An importation of that article contained clay,
sand and gravel to an avetage of 4 per cent. It was held that
the importer should be required to pay duty only after deducting, with proximate accuracy, the quantity of such impurities.
Wfriight & lawther Lead Co. v. Seeberger, 44 Fed. Rep. 258.
-This term iron ore received a legislative interpretation in
the act of October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 574, c. 1244, Schedule 0,
where, after imposing a duty upon "iron ore" it was "provided
further, that in levying and collecting the duty on iron ore
no deduction shall be inade from the weight of the ore on
account of moisture 'which may be chemically or physically
combined therewith."
. "When one finds a pr6viso, the presumption is, that but
for the proviso the enacting part of the section would have
included the subject matter of the proviso." Jfullins v. Treasurer of Surrey County, 5 Q. B. D. 170, 173. ' Phe proviso
is generally intended to restrain the enacting clause and to
except something which would otherwise have been within it,

EARNSHAW v. CADWALADER.
Opinion of the Court.

Wayman
or in some measure to modify the enacting clause."
v. Bouthard, 10 Wheat. 1, 30. "It takes out of _the body of
the enactment that which otherwise would he-lwithin it."
Dollar Saving8 Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 236.
By this proviso Congress recognizes that the term "iron
ore," in the body of the enactment does not include water
mechanically or physically present, and that an allowance in
ascertaining the dutiable weight on the custom house scales
should be made for it, and provides that this- allowance shall
not hereafter be made.
Laws imposing duties are never to be construed beyond the
natural import of the language. 'Such statutes are construed
most strongly against the government. Adams v. Bancroft,
3 Sumner, 384, 387; Usnited States v. Tigglesworth, 2 Story,
369, 374. "If the question were one of-doubt, the doubt would
be resolved in favor of the importer." Mr., Justice Blatchford
in Hartranftv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S.609, 616.
Zt. Assistant Attorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE BLA'TCHFORD, afterstating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The evidence on the part of the plaintiff tended, to show
that the quantity of water mechanically present, and not
chemically combined, in iron ores like those in question, was
variable and accidental, and varied in ores which came from
tle same mine, the chemical ingredients of which remained
practically.constant, accordingly as the ore had been subjected
to rain or to exposure to the elements; that the amount of
water thus mechanically present would vary from a few
hundredths of 1 per 'cent up to 12, 16 and 25 per cent; that
such variation was due to the mechanical absorption of water;
that practically all the moisture mechanically present would
dry out in the sun; and that the ore as it came from the mines
in dry weather was as dry as dust.
The question involved was, whether the duty of 75 cents

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

per ton should be imposed on the government weight of the
article, according to the finding and record of the weighing
officers, or whether such official weight should be reduced by
an allowance sufficient to render the iron ore no greater in
weight than its weight if raised, under conditions favorable to
evaporation, to a heat of 2120 Fahrenheit. The burden of
making out a claim to the recovery of this difference rests
upon the importer.
The history of the question in the Treasury Department is
as follows:
On September 8, 1879, Assistant Secretary French, in a
letter to the collector of customs at New York, refused to
make an allowance for the increase of weight from moisture
in certain imported iron ore, holding that the duty accrued
on the total quantity landed, as shown by the weigher's
return.
*In a letter of May 17, 1886, by Acting Secretary Fairchild
to the collector of customs at Philadelphia, the same ruling
was made, and it was held that under the regulations of the
Department and its decisions, no allowance could be made for
the absorption of moisture or sea water on the voyage of importation, unless upon an application filed with the collector
of chstoms within ten days after the landing of the goods,
and an ascertainment and report by the appraiser of the percentage of damage or increased weight.
In September, 1886, an importer of iron ore contended that
the duty of 75 cents per ton imposed by the act of March 3,
1883, upon iron ore, meant ore dry at the temperature of 212 °
Fahrenheit. The Treasury Department submitted the question to the Attorney General; and Acting Attorney General
Jenks, in a letter to the Secretary, dated September 17, 1886,
(18 Opitions, 466,) held that the duty was to be levied on whatever was the known commercial signification of "iron ore ;"
and that if iron ore dried at a temperature of 212' Fahrenheit
was the standard adopted in commercial tiransactions of iron
ore, and was what was known in commerce as iron ore, it
was the ore contemplated by the statute, and the duty should
be levied on that. basis, citing Two Hundred Chests of Tea,

EARNSRAW v. CADWALADER.
Opinion of the Court.

9 Wheat. 430; Barlow v. United States, '7 Pet. 404; and
.Drew v. Grinnell, 115 U. S. 477.

Assistant Secretary Fairchild, on October 29, 1886, transmitted to the collector of customs at New York a copy of the
ruling of Acting Attorney General Jenks, of September 17,
1886, and stated that the Department had made careful inquiry as to the custom of trade in buying and selling imported
iron ore; that the great weight of evidence was to the effect
that the iron ore of commerce was iron ore free from water
not chemically combined; that it was the custom to expel
water which was only mechanically present, before proceeding"
to ascertain the amount of ore which was bought and sold;
that, to do this, the ore was heated to 212 Fahrenheit; that
the rule "is hereby established" that, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of duty to be paid upon importations of
iron ore, the weight of the ore when heated to a temperature
of 212 Fahrenheit should be first found, and upon that
weight duty should be collected; and that entries of prior
importations might be reliquidated and duties refunded in
accordance with that rule, in cases where the importers bad
fully complied with the provisions of § 2931 of the Revised
Statutes as to protest, appeal, and suit.
On the 5th of November, 1886, Assistant Secretary Fairchild telegraphed to the collector of customs at Baltimore to
suspend until further orders all reliquidations of entries on
account of allowance for moisture on importations of iron ore,
under the Department's decision of October 29, 1886.
On the 12th of January, 1887, the Treasury Department
submitted to the Attorney General 'substantially the whole
question whether.the term "iron ore," as used in the tariff act
of :Narch 3, 1883, meant iron ore dried at a temperature of
212 ° Fahrenheit, or iron'ore as it was delivered at the port of
entry for weighing. In reply, Attorney General Garland, in
a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated January 19,
1887, (18 Opinions, 530,) referred to the letter of Acting Attorney General Jenks, of September 17, 1886, and, in speaking
of the rule that the iron ore of the statute was to be interpreted as the iron ore of commerce, cited the cases of Two
VOL. CXIV-17

OCTOBER. TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

.Hundred Chests of Tea, 9 Wheat. 430; Barlow v. United
States, 7 Pet. 410; and Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, i51;
and said that "commerce," as used in that connection, was to
be understood in its comprehensive sense of buying and selling and exchange in the general sales or traffic of our own
markets; that special contracts in which the term iron ore
was defined by special description or qualifying words would
be no evidence of the general .commercial signification of the
term; that, if the departmental practice and interpretation as
to the collection of customs on iron ore had been of long
standing and uniform prior to 1883, it was to be presumed
that, if such interpretation had been false and vicious, Congress would have guarded, against a like interpretation of the
act of 1883 ; that, as that act had not repudiated any prior
interpretation, the presumption was very strong that Congress
in enacting -the act of March 3, 1883, had understood the iron
ore of commerce to be what the practice of the Department
had established; and that, if the decision before referred to,
of September 8, 1879, that the total quantity landed, as shown
by the weigher's return, without. allowance for increase of
weight, from moisture, of the iron ore imported, was subject
to duty, was in accordance with the practice of the Department prior to September 8, 1879, and was adhered to afterwards as the rule, it would be a pregnant fact to guide to the
same conclusion.
On February 3, 1887, Secretary Manning, in a letter"to the
collector of customs at INew York, stated that, since the letter
of Assistant Secretary Fairchild of October 29,. 1886, and the
suspension announced by Assistant Secretary Fairchild to the'
collector of customs at Baltimore by the telegram of November 5, 1886, the Secretary had duly considered a large amount
of new testimony, both for. and against the proposition laid
down in such letter of October 29, 1886, that the term "irot
ore," as used in the tariff act of March 3, 1883, meant iron .ore
when dried at a temperature of 212 Fahrenheit, and had received the opinion of Attorney General Garland, of January
19, 1887; that, in the light of such new testimony and of the
opinion of, the Attorney General, the Secretary decided that

EARNSHAW v. CADWALADER.
Opinion of the Court.

iron ore, as known to the commerce of the United States, was
the ore in its natural state in respect to moisture; and that
the instructions of October 29, 1886, were therefore revoked,
and the collector was directed to. assess duty on the actual
weights as reported by the United States weigher at the time
of importation; but that, in the case of importations of iron
ore which importers might claim had been increased in weight
on th6 voyage by the addition of sea water, the regulations
of the Department applied, and importers, on making due application thereunder, might obtain such allowance as might be
estimated and reported by the United States appraiser.
No statute of the United States, in force when the importations in question were' made, recognized any deduction from
the weight of iron ore -when imported, because of its containing moisture. The ore was weighed by the -government's
officers at the ship's side, and the weight so taken was entered
in a book and became a public record of the government
weight of the importatiom No statute authorized a deduction
from such government weight in imposing the duty of 75 cents
a t6n on the ore.
It appeared by the evidence that dried ore was an article
unkn6wn to commerce or trade; and the evidence was clear
that the allowance between dealers for the moisture that
would be expelled by heating the ore to 2120 Fahrenheit, had
been based on iontract and stipulation, and that no custom
existed authorizing such allowance, even among dealers, except where the expiess conditions of the contract authorized'
such an allowance. .But this whole question, in connection
with the fact that the evidence showed that no such custom
as an ,allowance for moisture was ever applied to a purchase
or sale of American iron ore, even by a stipulation in a contract, and that some foreign ores w~e always sold by the ton
and without allowance, was submitted to and passed upon by
the jury, under a proper charge.
The evidence shows that water, mechanically mixed, is one
of the natural and constant constituents of the iron ore of coinmerce, both domestic and foreign; and that there is no warrant for the conclusion that the iron ore of the statute is

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

limited to dry ore, or ore with such mechanically mixed water
excluded. A verdict to the contrary would have been entirely

unsupported by the evidence.
The claim of the plaintiff is really for an allowance by the
government upon the government weight of the article imported, in the condition in which the plaintiff imported it, with
a view to making it a different article from what it was when
the importer presented it to the weigher. By § 2890 of the
Revised Statutes, the weigher is to make a return of the articles weighed by him out of a vessel, within three days after
the vessel is discharged, and such return is to be made in a
book prepared by the weigher for that purpose, and kept in
the custom house. Under the statute, the weight so ascertained and recorded becomes the government weight of iron
ore, for the purpose of imposing thereon the duty of 75 cents
a ton, in the absence of a contrary provision in the statute.
Any, allowance between dealers is shown to have been based
upon an agreement previously .made to allow for moisture.
The importer has the right to introduce iron ore only on
complying with the statute, and that authorizes the entry only
upon payment of a duty of 75 cents per ton upon the article
brought in; and the ton is 2240 pounds, by § 2951 of the Revised Statutes. It is a necessity that all ore should have some
moisture mechanically mixed with it; and the statute is silent
as to the moisture mechanically mixed or chemically combined
with the iron ore.
It appears that no alleged custom of dealers controls a carrier as to the payment of freight for the transportation of the
imported iron ore, but the charge for transportation is by the
actual weight, including the water.
The provision of § 2927 of the Revised Statutes, as carried
out by the regulations of the Treasury Department, protects
the importer from losses by reason of water, if he employs the
methods prescribed for such protection. Such methods exclude the non-statutory method sought to be applied in the
present case.
The duty of 75 cents per ton on iron ore containing such
quantity of water as it may contain, applies equally to the

EARNSHAW v. CADWLADER.
Opinion of the Court.

duty per ton imposed by the act of 1883 on imported hay, as
to which no method is provided by statute for an allowance
for the moisture contained in it, except as provided in regard
to imports damaged by water. In each case, the duty is imposed on the weight of the article brought in. The principle
is different from that in regard to dirt clinging to the skin of
a potato, or clay, sand, and gravel mixed with flaxseed. In
those cases, the dirt, clay, sand, and gravel are plainly discoverable and readily eliminated, and do not inhere in the article
as moisture does in iron ore or in hay,.
Reference is made by the counsel for the plaintiff in error
to the provision of Schelude 0 of the act of October 1, 1890,
c. 1244, (26 Stat. 567, 574:,) paragraph 133, which imposes a
duty of 75 cents 'per ton, on ."
iron ore, including manganiferous iron ore, also the dross or residuum from burnt pyrites,"
and which further provides "that in levying and collecting
the duty on iron ore, no deduction shall be made from the
weight of the ore on account of moisture which may be
chemically or physically combined therewith." It is contended
that this provision of the tariff act of 1890 is a legislative
interpretation, which shows that Congress did not consider
the term "iron ore," when used alone, as in the act of 1883,
broad enough to embrace water held in mechanical combination; that this is a recognition by Congress that the term in
the act of 1883 did not include water mechanically or physically present in the iron ore; and that, under that act, an
allowance ought pioperly to be made in ascertaining the dutiable weight at the custom house, from the fact of the provision in the act of 1890 that such allowance should not be
made thereafter.
But it is manifest, from the hi story of the importation of
the article, as shown in the proceedings of the Treasury
Department in regard to it, above set forth, that the provision of the act of 1890 was inserted to save further trouble
as to the question. The rule, claimed by the plaintiff to be
applicable, would exclude from the government weight water
chemically combined, as well as that physically mixed, with
the iron ore, for the proviso, being that -no deduction shall be

OCTOBER TER]M, 1891. ,
Opinion of the Court.

made from the weight on account of moisture "cthemically
.orphysically" combined with the ore, if regarded as evidence
that the act of 1883 allowed for moisture physically or mechanically combined, would also show that the act of 1883 allowed
for water chemically combined. No statutein regard to iron
ore ever permitted an.allowance for.'the water chemically
combined with it; and the act of 1883 must *have the same
construction in regard to all moisture, however mixed or combined with the ore.
The rule is'invoked by the plaintiff in error, which is set forth
in Harlranftv. Miegmann,121 U. S.609, 616, that if the question
in regard to a rate of duty'is one of doubt, the doubt is to be
resolved in favor of the importer, as duties are never imposed
upon the citizen on vague or d6ubtful interpretations. In the
present case, the imposition of the duty is distinct and clear,
and there is no doubtful interpretation; and the rule does not
apply, for the reason that the importer seeks to obtain an
'allowance in reduction of a dty which is distinctly imposed.
It is stated'in the brief for the plaintiff in error that, as the
Circuit Court ruled that the ordinary definitioh of the tqrm
"iron ore" included water mechanically present, the burden
was on the plaintiff to satisfy the jury that tlhe interpretation
given to the term among commercial men did not include
such water; that the plaintiff was to fail or prevail as the jury
interpreted the meaning of the term in commerce to be the
mass inclusive or exclusive of the water; and, that if, on the
whole evidence, the jury were in doubt as to what was the proper
interpretation, that doubt should havd been resolved in favor of
the importer.
.But, the burden of,proof being on the plaintiff to prove the
interpretation he contends for to be the true one, he could
no6 be entitled to a verdict so long as, he failed to satisfy the
jury, by a preponderance of evidence, that his interpretation
was the correct one. The question of doubt referred to in
FEart'aqftV. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609, 616, is a doubt of a
very different .character.; and is as to whdther, as matter of
legal construction, and not as matter of fact, the article is
within the terms of the statute. The intention of Congress

