OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

real property, valued at $8000, had been annulled, and the
answer of the defendant was framed not only to present a
legal defence against the claim for rent, but also to obtain a
decree affirming the continued validity of the contract of sale.
It was'held that the iffect of. the judgment in that particular
case was an adjustment of the legal and equitable claims of
the parties to the subject of the suit, which was the title to
the land under the contract.
Upon the 'whole, it appears to us that we have najurisdiction
of this case, and that the writ of errorshould be dismissed,
and it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR and

.MR.

JUSTICE BREwER

dissented.

FURRER ,. FERRIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 296. Argued April 13, 1892. - Decided May 2, 1892.
rhe findings of a master in chancery, concurred in by the court, are to be
taken as presumptively correct, and will be permitted to stand unless
some obvious error has intervened in the application of the law or some
important mistake has been made in the evidence, neither of which has
taken-place in this case.
Crawford v. iAeal, 144 U. S. 585, affirmed and applied.

THE court stated the case as follows:
In 1887, appellee was in possession of the property of the
Toledo, Columbus and Southern Railway Company, as receiver, having been duly appointed such receiver by the Circuit Court of the United States for the 3Northern District of
Ohio, in a foreclosure suit brought by the American Loan and
Trust Company. On October 15, William Furrer, a young
man of about twenty-one years of age, driving a load of wood

FURBER v. FERRIS.
Argument for Appellant.

along the public highway, crossed the railroad track, and while
making the crossing was thrown from the wagon, struck by
the wheels and instantly killed. On December 15, appellant,
the administrator of William Furrer, filed his intervening
petition in said Circuit Court, seeking to recover ten thousand
dollars damages, on the ground that the death of his intestate
occurred through the negligence of the receiver in failing to
keep the crossing in good repair. The matter was referred to
a master, who took testimony and reported it to the court,
together with his conclusion that there was no negligence in
respect to such crossing, and, therefore, no liability on the part
of the receiver. This report was confirmed by the Circuit
Court, and the intervening petition dismissed. From that
decision petitioner appealed to this court.
.r. Orville S.Brumaok for appellant.
Appellant's case was heard below before a special master,
and is one of those too numerous instances where a party is
substantially denied a jury trial by reason of the personal injuries complained of being inflicted while a railroad is being
operated by a receiver.
The system Of watered stocks and excessive bonded indebtedness employed in railroad manipulation, has -resulted in
the Federal courts being called upon to frequently operate
railroads through receivers, for whose carelessness the remedy
to be had is only tlrough the favorable attitude of a special
master.
That the Federal Constitution as well as those of the several
States intend to giarantee to every citizen a fair and impartial
trial by jury is unquestionable. And the fact that the equity
jurisdiction of the Federal courts has sibstantially abridged
that right in requiring cases like appellant's to be heard -by a
special master rather than a jury is none the less reprehensible because it is founded upon the -implied authority of the
judiciary.
The injustice that has resulted all over the country by reason
of this practice undoubtedly led to the enactment of the late

OCTOBER TERM. 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, authorizing receivers to be sued and a trial before a
jury had without the permission of court; but it does not go
far enough to remedy all the evil, by rejuiring the receivers
court to*submit all questions arising upon cross-complaints
(such. as appellant's) to a jury for determination. Jones v.
East Tenn.Va_. & Ga. Railroad,128 U. S. 443.

.L>. A. 14T Scott for appellee.
MR.JusTicE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

As this intervening~petition was filed nearly ayear after the
passage of the act of March 3, 1887, (24 Stat. 554,) authorizing
suits against receivers without leave of the court appointing
them, it is evident that the petitioner preferred to not exercise
his right to a common law action and a trial by a jury, but
rather to come into a court of equity and have his rights there
determined according to the rules and practice of such courts.
In view of such election, we fail to appreciate his counsel's
complaint of the law in not driving him to a forum which he
so carefully avoided.
The gist of this. controversy was the alleged negligence of
the receiver in failing to maintain a reasonably safe crossing.
This presented mainly a question of fact. Upon the testimony,
both the master and the Circuit Court found thaf there was
no negligence, and, while such determination is not conclusive,
it is very persuasive in this court. In Crawford v. Neal, 144
U. S.585, 596, it was said:
"The cause was referred to a master tc take testimony
therein, 'and to report to this court, his findings of fact and
his conclusions of law thereon.' This he did, and the court,
after a review of the evidence, concurred in his finding and
conclusions.. Clearly, then, they are to be -taken as presumptively correct, and unless some obvious error has intervened in
the-application of the law, or some serious or important mistake has been made in the consideration of the evidence, the
decree should be permitted to stand. Tilgkman v. Proctor,125
U. S: 136; Ximlerly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512; -Evans v. State
Bank, 141 U. S.107."

