OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

relates back to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and the title stands as if no assignment had been made.

Such abandonment is not so much a transfer of an existing
interest in the assignee as an election on his part to treat the
-assignment as having never included that claim. We do not
find it necessary to express- an opinion whether the same rule
would alpply if, as held in .Renyon v. If-risley, the statutory
limitation were a bar to an action by the assignee when the
abandonment was made.
Tn the case under consideration, Poinier was adjudicated a
bankrupt September 12, 1876, the assignee was appointed
October 17, 1876, and the abandonment took place, according
to the testimony of Mr. Shepard, early in June, 1878, less
than two years from the time the cause of, action accrued to
the assignee. As Poinier recovered the right to sue infringers
by abandonment from the assignee before that right had
become barred by the statute i~n his hands, we think he should
be considered as receiving it unaffected by the statute, and that
he and the plaintiff, his assignee, were entitled to bring this
suit as if the assignment had P-t been made.
May 16, 1892, judgment was entered that the decree of the
court below be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directionsforfurther
_proceedings iA conformity with the opinion of this court,
with authority, however, to the Circuit Court, if in its
opinion law and justice shall so require, to modify the
total amount of damages as found by the master.

OREGON RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION COMPANY
v. OREGONIAN RAILWAY COMPANY (Linfited).
ERROR TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 335. Submitted April 20,1892.-Decided April 25,1892.

For reasons stated in the motion, the court grants a motion to submit this
case, when reached in regular call, without printing the record.

OREGON RAILWAY v. OREGONIAN RAILWAY.

53

Statement of the Case.
The judgment below is revessed upon the authorty of 7e Oregon Railway and Navigation Company v. The Oregonian Railway Company, Lirn.
'ited, 130 U. S. 1.

Ox the 14th day of December, at the present term, the
following motion, entitled in this case, and the accompanying
statement were submitted by -Mr. Dolph, of counsel for the
plaintiff in error,* together with the further statement by Mr&.
Edmunds as amicus curim, -Mr. dmunds being also the
attorney of record of the defendant in error.
"Now, at this day, comes the plaintiff in error and moves
the court for an order suspending Rule 10 of the Rules of
this Court as to the above entitled cause, and allowing the
plaintiff in error to submit the same upon printed brief,, when
reached in its order, without printing the record.
"J. N. DoLpF,
"of Counselfor Plaintifin Error.
"cSTATEMENT.

"In.this" cause four separate actions, each being for a half
yearly iiistalment of rent, were consolidated in the court
below and tried as one. The actiPfis so consolidated were
brought by the Oregonian Railway Company, Limited,
alleged to be a corporation formed in Great Britain under
the Companies' .Act of 1862, against the Oregon Railway
and Navigation Company, a corporation formed under the
general laws of Oregon, on the covenants in an indenture of
lease, alleged to have been executed'on August 1; 1881, by
which the former company undertook to demise to the latter
its railway in Oregon for the .term of ninety-six years, upon
a rental, to be paid in.adgance, in semi-annual instalments,
of $68,131, on May 15 and -November 11; being the same
instrument which was held by this court to be void in Oregon
Railway- and NMavigation Company v. Oregonian Railway
"Company,(Limited;) 130 U. S. 1, and in three cases with the
same title, being Xbos. 236, 287 and 238, October Term, 1889,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the. Case.

submitted and decided at said Term, but in which there were
no printed opinions.
1 "The questions involved in this case are precisely the same
questions which were passed upon in those cases, and are:
" -First. T-hether under the constitution and general laws
of Oregon a coporation, organized under the laws of that
State, could, at the date of.the execution of the indenture of
lease in question, take a lease of the railroadof another company and operate -he samefor ninety-nine years?
"Second. Whether the laws of Oregon at said date conferred on aforeign corporation the right to make a lease of a
railroadwithin the Statefor such a term ?
"Third. Whether under the facts of the case the lessee was
estopped from setting up the want of _power of the lessor to
make such a lease, or of itself to take such. a lease ?
"There is no controversy about the facts, and it is believed
they can be sufficiently presented by a brief.
"The estimate of the Clerk of this court for printing the
record is about $600.
"After the decision of the first case, reported in 130 U.S. 1,
it was proposed by some of the attorneys representing the
defendant in error to avoid the expense of printing the
record by disposing of the remaining cases by stipulation ;
but the Oregonian Railway Company, limited, went into
liquidation in Scotland, and the assignee or liquidator declined to enter into any arrangement about the matter for
alleged lack of authority.
,"In the three cases submitted at the October Term, 1889,
the records were printed at a cost of over $1400.
"Said Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, has sold
its railroad in Oregon and it has no property in that State
out of which a judgment for costs against it can be satisfied.
"The attorneys who tried tne case in the court below, fearing they are liable for the costs, under a statute of the State
of Oregon, relating to the bringing actions by non-residents,
are anxious to avoid the apparently unnecessary expense of
printing the record in this case.
"J. NT. DoLPH.

OREGON RAILWAY v. OREGONIAN RAILWAY.

55

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.
"UNIfED

STATES OF AM sICA, I

"District of Columbia.

8s.

"I, Joseph N. Dolph, being first duly sworn, say that I am
attorney for plaintiff in error in the above entitled action, and
that the foregoing statement is true, as I verily believe.

"J. N. Dou'n.
"Subscribed and sworn to before me, this second day of
December 1891.
H: McKENNEY,
"Jms
"6(erk Sprerne Court, U. S.
[SEAL]
"I think it right to state as amicus ouwice that I was counsel for the defendant in the cause in which the rights of the
parties to that and to this cause were inyolved, and that, as I
understand it, precisely the same questions existed and. were
determined in that cause that exist in this cause, and I think
there is no good reason for printing the record.
"GoRGE

F.

EDbmms.

"AmEN, S. C., December 5, 1891."
The court thereupon made the following order, entitled in
the cause, on the 21st day of the same December.
"On consideration of the motion for leave to submit this
cause when the same is reached in regular call of the docket
on a printed argument, without printing the record,
"It is now here ordered by the court that said motion be,
and the same is hereby, granted."
The cause was reached in regular call -6 the 20th of April,
1892.
.Mr. J. N . Do~ph for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.THE CHIEF JuSTICE: The judgment is reversed and the
cause remanded upon the authority of The Oregon Railway
and YNavigation Company v. The Oregonian Railway Com.pany, Limited, 130 U. S. 1.

