GLENN v. MARBURY.
Names of Counsel.

notice until the defendant had made the purchase is equivalent
to a denial of notice at the delivery of the deed. McDonald's
answer denies every circumstance set forth in the bill from
which notice could be inferred. He expressly alleges in his
answer that he never heard of any claim of the plaintiffs until
he had made the purchase and paid in cash the sum of $8500
for the property. And in his deposition he distinctly states
that he first knew of the plaintiffs' claim when he received
notice of this suit. His evidence is not contradicted by anything in the record. This is a substantial compliance with
the rule announced in the cases last cited.
It is proper to say that the present case is unlike Rector v.
Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276. That case did not present any question in respect to the rights of a bona 9ide purchaser for value
from the person to whom the- Hot Springs Commission' accorded the right to purchase.
The decree is reversed, with directions to dismiss the bill.

GLENN v. MARBURY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT
No. 1231.

Submitte

OF THE DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA.

anuary 11, 1892.-Decided May 16, 1892.

The statute of limitations begins to run against an action against a stockholder in an insolvdnt corporation, in the hands of a receiver, to recover
unpaid assessments on his stock, when the court orders the assessment
to be made.
When such a call is made the action, in the District of Columbia where the
common law prevails, must be brought in the name of the company.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Henry Wise Garnett, -Mr. Conway Robinson, Jr., Xr.
Charles .Marshalland .Mr. John Howard for plaintiff in error,
.Mr... fartin F.Aforris for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE HARtLA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action at law was brought, March 22, 1889, by John
Glenn, in his capacity as substituted trustee in a certain deed
of trust made by the National Express and Transportation
Company, a corporation of Virginia; also, as trustee by virtue
of an order passed by the Chancery Court of the City of
Richmond, Virginia, in a suit in equity brought by William
W. Glenn, suing on behalf of himself and others, creditors of
that corporation. Its object was to obtain a judgment against
the defendant, Marbuiy, for the sum alleged to be due from
him under an order, in the above cause, making an assessment
and call on subscribers to the stock of that company.
The facts necessary to be stated in order to show fully the
grounds of the defence are as follows:
In August, 1866, Josiah Reynolds, a citizen of Maryland
and a stockholder of the National Express and Transportation
Company, suing on behalf of himself and all stockholders of
that corporation who should come in and contribute to the
expenses of the suit, brought an action in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, against that corporation -to be hereafter, in this opinion, designated as the Express Company - and against its
president, directors and superintendent. The bill set forth
that the company had been and was then being conducted in
a reckless, extravagant and improvident manner, a-Ad that the
money subscribed by the plaintiff and other stockholders had
been and was being wasted and misapplied in conducting its
business, chiefly in ways and for purposes that were illegal
and in fraud of the rights of stockholders: The relief sought
was an injunction restraining and prohibiting the company
from conducting its business in the illegal and improvident
manner specified in the bill. The bill, also, prayed that a
receiver be appointed by the court to take possession of the
property and effects, books of account and papers of the company ;' that such property and effects might be sold and disposed of, and any money due the company collected by the
receivei; and thato an account be taken under the order of

GLENN v. MARBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

the court of its business, its debts and liabilities paid, and the
balance distributed among the stockholders. - The bill particularly referred to an agreement with one Ficklin which, it was
alleged, ought to be set aside as in fraud of the rights of
stockholders. The defendants were duly served -with process,
and one of them, J. J. Kelly, the superintendent of the
Express Company, filed an answer. The company appeared
and adopted as its own the answei of Kelly.
On the 23d of August, 1866, all order of injunction was
issued restraining the defendants "from collecting or taking
any proceedings to collect or enforce from the complainant the
payment of moneys for or on account of his stock in said company or assignments or calls thereon, either by sales of stock
or otherwise, and from making any assessments upon the complainant in respect to or on"account of his said stock, and also
enjoining and restraining the said conpany, its directors,
agents and servants, from pleading, using, or applying the
property, funds, effects and credits of the said company to or
for any purposes or objects other than the regular and legitimate express and transportation business for which the said
company was organized, and from carrying out or fulfilling
the agreement with Benjamin Ficklin, mentioned in said bill
or any similar agreement with any other person, and from
selling any of the shares of said stock held or owned by the
complainant until the further order of this court."
The Express Company, on the 20th day of September, 1866,
-having previously appeared and filed its answer in the Reynolds suit - executed to John Blair Hloge, J.J.Kelly and C.
Oliver O'Donnell, a deed assigning and conveying to them all
the estate, property, rights and credits of the company, of
every kind and wherever they might be, including moneys payable to the company, "whether on calls or assessments on the
stock of the company," or on notes, bills, accounts or otherwise. The deed was made on certain trusts, among others,
that the trustees should permit the .Express Company to
remain in the possession and use of all the property conveyed
or assigned, except debts, claims and moneys payable, until
lNovember 1, 1866, and thereafter until the trustees should .be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

requested by one or more of the creditors secured by the
deed, and whose debt or debts should then be due, to take possession of the assigned property: the trustees, howeve.r, to taker
possession at any time, if requested by the company's board of
directors. The trustees were required by the deed to proceed
withouti unnecessary delay "to collect all the debts, claims and
moneys payable, which are hereby granted or assigned."
On the 31st of December, 1866, the court appointed a
receiver of the money, property and effects of the Express
Company, "with all the powers, ights and obligations usual
in such cases, subject to, the control of this court, until the
affairs of said company be fully and. finally closed up." He
was ordered to execute and file, before entering upon his
duties, a bond, with sureties to be approved by the court, of
$20,000, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties as
receiver of the funds, property and effects of the Express
Company. It was further provided in the order appointing
the receiver as follows:
"1That upon the execution, approval, and filing of said bond
the said receiver shall be vested with all the estate, real and
personal, as well as all the money, notes, accounts, assessments
due on stock or other securities, or rights in action of the said
National Express and Trausportation Company, as trustee of
such estate and property, for the use and benefit of the creditors of said company and of its stockholders and others who
may be interested in the same, with all the powers, rights and
authority of a trustee appointed by this court or acting within
its jurisdiction and control.
"Such receiver shall have all the powers an. authority which
ordinarily belong to such trustee, and the said defendants, as
well as all other persons who may have the possession or control of any of the money, books, property, effects or things in
action of the said National Express and Transportation Company, and especially John Blair Hoge, John J. Kelly and C.
Oliver O'Donnell, the trustees named in a pretended assignment referred to in the complainant's, petition, are hereby
required to assign, transfer and deliver to the said trustee, on
being notified of this order, all such money, property, notes,

GLENN v. MARBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, estate, real and personal, so in their hands or undei
their control, and they are also required to execute and delivei
all deeds, conveyances, releases, transfers or acquittances thai
may in anywise be necessary to place any or all of said prop
erty or effects so in the hands or under the control of the said
receiver, and they and each of them, on being required, shall
make all discovery and furnish all information which the said
receiver may require in relation to any or all of the property,
business or transactions of the said 'company.
"The said receiver will proceed to collect all the property,
money and effects of the said National Express and Transportation Company and convert the same into money, and
he will also ascertain the amount of the debts and liabilities
of the said National Express and Transportation Company,
and, after payment therefrom of all expenses, including counsel fees and costs, with such compensation' as the court may
allow him, will, from time to time, apply the funds so received and obtained by him in the satisfaction and discharge
of the debts of the said company under the orders of this court.
"And if there shall be any sums due upon the shares of the
capital stock of the said company the said receiver will proceed to collect and recover the same, unless the persons from
whom the said sums may be due shall be wholly insolvent,
and for this purpose may prosecute actions at law or in
equity for the recovery of such sums in his own name as
receiver or otherwise as he may deem best, and shall apply
the money so received under the order of this court to the
satisfaction and payment of the remaining debts of said company, as well as the legal and necessary expenses of the due
execution of this trust, including a reasonable compensation
and commission to himself for services on this behalf and
also including such necessary and reasonable fees and costs
as may be necessary in maintaining, prosecuting, or defending any suit or suits which it may be necessary t8 -prosecute
or defend in order to the full execution of this trust."
The receiver gave the required bond, and it was approved
by the court on the 12th of January, 1867. Reynolds having died, Washington (elley, a stockholder,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was permitted to become a party plaintiff and, with the leave
of the court, filed August 20, 1870, an amended and supplemental bill. The receiver reported to the court, December
11, 1880, that he had not been able to obtain possession of
any of the company's effects, except two freight cars, and
that so far as he could ascertain, in all the States where the
company did business, its property and effects had been
attached by its creditors. This report being made, "on motion of the defendants John Blair Hoge and J. J. Kelly,"
the order appointing the receiver was vacated, annulled and
set aside, the receiver discharged and exonerated, the injunction dissolved, and the suit dismissed.
On the 4th of December, 1871, W. W. Glenn, suing on
behalf of himself and all other creditors of the Express Company, ified his bill in equity, in the Chancery Court of the
City of Richmond against that. corporation, and its officers,
and against the trustees named in its deed of September 20th,
1866. The object of that suit was to collect the assets of the
company, including the amounts due from the subscribers to
its stock. The proceedings in that cause are fully set out in
Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319. It is only necessary now
to state that in the pr6gress of that suit an order was entered December 14, 1880, sustaining the validity of the deed
of assignment of September 20, 1866i removing the surviving
trustees named in it, with their consent, and substituting in
their place John Glenn, who was clothed by that order,
"with all the rights and powers, and charged With all the
duties of executing the trusts of said deed to the same effect
as were the original trustees therein;" Glenn, however, not
to take possession of the property covered 'y the deed, until
he gave bond with security for the faithful discharge of his
duties as substituted trustee. He gave such bond January 3,
1881, and it was approved by the court.
'By the same order a call and assessment of thirty per cent
of the par value of each share of stock was made upon stockholders, who were required to make payment to John Glenn,
substitited trustee. By a decree entered July 21, 1883, it was
adjudged "that John Glenn, trustee, on the payment to him,

GLENN v. MARiURY.
Opinion of the Court.

within six months from the date of this decree, by any of the
subscribers to the stock of the defendant company, or by any
other person claimed to be liable on account of said stock, of
twenty-five per centum of the original amount of said subscription, with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per
annum, from thirty days from the date of this decree, with
any costs incurred heretofore or by said trustee in any suit
brought by him heretofore, or which may hereafter be
brought before tender of said twenty-five per cent under this
decree, to recover of such stockholder or other party, the
amount for which he may be responsible on said stock under
the decree in this cause, shall execute a receipt therefor to'
operate as a full acquittance and discharge of all persons on
account of such subscription, both of the original subscribers
thereto, and of any assignee thereof." .By another order,
made March 26, 1886, in the Circuit Court of Henrico County,
Virginia-to which the cause was removed in 1884-an
additional call and assessment-of fifty per cent of the par
value of each share of stock was made upon stockholders, who
were severally required to pay the said amounts hereby called
for and assessed to John Glenn, he being "authorized and
directed to collect and receive said call and assessment, and to
take such prompt steps to that end, by suit or otherwise, and
in such jurisdictions as he may be advised."
M,arbury, it is admitted, was an original subscriber for 100
shares of the company's stock, for which he received a certificate, paying twenty per cent only on his subscription. The
object of the .present suit is to recover from him the sum of
$5000, by reason of the above call.and assessment of-fifty per
cent, with'interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from
March 26, 1886, the date of the order malking such call and
assessment. He pleaded !hat he never was indebted, and did
not promise as alleged; that the plaintiff's cause of action did
not accrue withiih three years before the commencement of
this suit; that the Chancery Court of the city of Richmond
had no jurisdiction to render the decree of December 14, 1880 ;
and that the plaintiff, as trustee, had no right to sue in the
court below in his owfi name or otherwise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

At the trial below the court refused to instruct the jury, at
the plaintiff's instance, that this action, having been brought
within three years after the decree, in the Circuit Court of
Henrico County, Virginia, of Mvfarch 26, 1886, the plea of dimiration constituted no defence. It also refused to instruct the
jury, at the instance of the plaintiff, that the decree of July
21, 1883, in the Virginia court constituted no defence, and did
not relieve the defendant from liability for the assessment
made by the order in that court of March 26, 1886. And,
upon the motion of the defendant, the jury were directed to
find, and in accordance with that direction returned a verdict,
for the defendant, on which judgment was entered.
Upon appeal to the general term the judgment was affirmed
upon the authority of Glenn v. Busey, 5 Mackey, 233, where
it was held, in a case similar to the present one, that Glenn
could not maintain an action in the court below in his, own
name as trustee.
Since the decision in fawkeins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319 and
Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S. 533, the only questions open for
consideration in the present case relate to limitation and to
the right of the plaintiff to bring this action in his own name
as trustee.
It is not disputed that the time prescribed by the statutes in
force in the District of Columbia for the bringing of suits like
the present one is three years from the accruing of the cause
of action. The defendant contends that liability upon his-subscription of stock could have been enforced by the receiver
appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia in the Reynolds suit, at any time
after the 12th of January, 1867, on which 'day -tlereceiver's
bond was filed and approved by the court; and that, as more
than three years elapsed, after that date, and while the Reynolds case was pending, without suit being brought against
him, he is protected by the statute of limitation. We are of
opinion that this position cannot be sustained.. The order of
December 31, 1866, in the Reynolds suit was not, in any proper
sense, a call or assessment on the company's stock. Nor was
it equivalent to one. - The deed of September 20,1866, assigned

GLENN v. YARBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

and transferred to Blair, Kelly and O'Donnell, trustees, among
other property, all moneys payable "on c~lls or assessments
on the stock of the company," and the order of December 31,
1866, in the Reynolds suit vested in the receiver, as trustee,
"assessments due on stock," and directed him to proceed in
the collection and recovery of " any sums due upon the shares
of the capital stock of the said company." But nothing was
due from subscribers of stock until a formal call or assessment
was made by the company, and no call or assessment could be
made by the trustees named in the deed of September 20,
1866, or by the receiver in the Reynolds suit. Glenn v. Afacon,
32 Fed. Rep. I.
In Hawkins v. Glenn, the court said (p. 333): "By the deed
the subscriptions, so far as uncalled for, passed to the trustees,
and the creditors were limited to the relief which could be
afforded under it, while the stockholders could be subjected
only to equality of assessment, and as the trustees could not
collect except upon call,, and had themselves no power to make
one, rendering resort to the president and directors necessary,
or, failing their action, then to the courts, it is very clear that
the statute of linitations could not commence to run until"
after the call was made." See also Scovill v. Thayer, 105
U. S. 143, 155. If the court, in the Reynolds suit, had intended to make a call for the payment in full of all subscriptions of stock, it would have used language different from that
employed in the order appointing the receiver. It is clear
that no action could have been maintained by the receiver in
the Reynolds suit, in respect ta unpaid subscriptions, except
to compel the payment of sums due on formal calls or assessments, if any, made by the company prior to the institution of
that suit. For these reasons, the d efence based upon limitation cannot be sustained. And in conformity with Hawkins
v. Glenn, and Glenn v. Liggett, we hold that limitation commenced to run, in favor of the present defendant, only from
the order in the Virginia court making the call or assessment
on subscribers of stock. Glenn v. Williamfs, 60 faryland, 93,
122, 123.
The other question - as to the right of the plaintiff, in virtue

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the authority conferred upon him by the Virginia court, to
bring the present 'action in his own name as trustee, is a more
serious one. In Jackson v. Tiernan, 5 Pet., 580, 597, 599, Mr.
Justice Story, speaking for the court, said that "the general
principle of law is, that thoses in action are not at law assignable. But, if assigned, and the debtor promises to pay -the
debt to the assignee, the latter may maintain an action for
the amount against the debtor, as money received to his use.
Independently of such promise, there is no pretence that an
action can be sustained." After referring to some adjudged
cases, which he said were distinguishable from the one then
before the court, he proceeded: "They are either cases where
there was an express promise to hold the money subject to the
-order of the principal, or there was an implied promise to pay
it over as it was received to the use of a particular person.
The express promise to pay to order bound the party, and excluded any claim fora lien, and any defence for want of privity between him and the holder of the order. The receipt of
the money for the use of a particular person necessarily uinported a promise or obligation to hold it in privity for such
person."
In Pritchardv. Yorton, 106 U. S. 124, 130, Mvr. Justice
Matthews, delivering judgment, said: "Whether an assignee
of a chose in action shall sue in his own name or that of his
assignor is a technical question of mere process, and determinable by the law of the forum; but whether the foreign
assignment, on which the plaintiff claims, is valid at all or
whether it is valid against the defendant, goes to the merits
and must be decided by the law in which the case has its
legal seat. Wharton, Conflict of Laws, §§ 735, .736. ' And in
HSew .ork Guaranty Co. v. .fempkis W1ater Co., 107 U. S.
205, 214, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said:
"We have lately decided, after full consideration of the
authorities, that an assignee of a chose in action, in which a
complete and adequate remedy exists at law, cannot, merely
because his interest is an equitable one, bring a suit in equity
for the recovery of the demand. Hfayward v. Andrews, 106
U. S. 672. He must bring an action at law in the name of

GLENN v. MARBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

the assignor to his own use. This is true of all legal demands
standing in the'name of a trustee, and held for the benefit of
cestuis que trust. Besides the authorities cited in that case,
reference may be made to Mitford on Pleading, 123, 125;
Willis's Equity Plead. 435, note g; Adair v. Winchester, 7
Gill & Johns. 114; -Mosely v. Boush, 4 Rand. Va. 392; Doggett v. hart,5 Fla. 215 ; Smiley v. Bell, Mart. & Y. Tenn. 378 ;
and the English and American notes to 1?yall v. Bowles, 1
Ves. Sen. 348, and to 2 White & Tudor's Leading Cases in
Equity, pp. 1567, 1670 (ed. 1877)."
The right which the Express Company acquired by the
defendant's subscription to its capital stock was only a chose
in action. It passed by the deed of September 20, 1866, to
the trustees Blair, Kelly and O'Donnell, but subject to the
condition that a chose in action is not assignable so as to
authorize the assignee to sue at law, in his own name, unless
theright to do so is given by a statute, or by settled law, in
the jurisdiction where suit is brought. This is the well-establishpd rule of the common law, and the common law touching
this subject governs in the District of Columbia. If the trustees named in the deed of 1866 had sued in this District for
sums due upon calls or assessments on stock, they must have
sued in the name of the Express Company for their use, ynless
the stockholders. expressly promised to pay them, or unless
such a promise could be implied as matter of law. There was
no such express promise by Marbury, although he concurred
in the assignment made by the company to-those trustees.
But it is said that stockholders must be presumed to assent
to every lawful disposition made of its property by the corppration. When this point was made in Glenn v. Budey, 5 Mackey,
243, it was fully met by Mr. Justice Cox, speaking for the
court. After observing that a stockholder in a corpoiation
holds a double relation to it; that, in his capacity 's debtor,
he has not promised to pay to the company's order-or to its
assignee, but to the company only; and that as'stockholder
he would not be held to have given more than/the general
authority to the corporation to deal with its property, he said:
"If we go further than this, we must hold that the mere fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of being a stockholder in a corporation makes his indebtedness a negotiable one, even against the terms of his agreement
with the company and the intention of the parties. Thus, if
a stockholder borrowed money from the company on his
sealed bond, the argument would be that as his bond is a part
of the assets of the company, and he has generally and impliedly assented to the assignment or negotiation of its property,
as it may think best, ergo, his bond may be negotiated like a
promissory note, But this ieasoning would not stop at corporations. It would apply equally to partnerships. Each member of a partnership is the agent of all, and all the others are
the agents of each, and all or each would have authority to
settle debts by the assignment of property of the firm. If,
then, one becomes indebted to the firm on an open account,
the firm, on the principles before mentioned, could assign or
negotiate the debt, and so give the assignee a right of action
in his own name. In -such action the plaintiff, after stating
the original indebtedness and its assignment, which would
make a demurrable case, would only have to supplement it by
an averment that the debtor was a member of the firm who
made the assignment, and his case would be complete. It is
hardly necessary to say that this would be a novelty in the
law of contracts and actions and pleadings, for which not a
semblance of authority could be found."
Is the question as to the right of the trustee Glenn to bring
this suit, in his name, any different by reason of*the fact that
the Virginia court made the call or assessment in question,
substituted the plaintiff as trustee in the place of Blair, Kelly
and O'Donnell removed, and both authorized and directed
him to collect and receive such call or assessment, taking
steps to-that end by suit or otherwise, and in such jurisdiction
as-he might be advised ?* We think not. Uildoubtedly the
Express Company, having refused or neglected to make the
necessary call or assessment,. a court of equity could itself
niake it, if the interest of creditors required that to be done.
In other words, as said in Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143,
145, and repeated in Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 335, "the
court will do what it is the duty of the company fo do." See

GLENN v. MARBURY.
Opffiiof6 the C-oiirt:'

also Glenn, v'f illiams, 60 Maryland, 93, 113, 114. But the,
making of the call or assessment by the court, for the company,
does not, in the absence of some statutory provision on the
subjeqt, change the rule that a demand upon the stockholder
to meet a call or assessment, by competent authority, must.be
enforced in the name of the person or corporation holding
the legal title to the stock subscription, and to whom the
promise of the stockholder was made. There is no reason
why the trustee Glenn could not have sued in the name of
the company. For, as said in Hawkins v. Glenn, concurring
with the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia in Hamilton,
v. Glenn, 85 Virginia, 901, 905, "as this corporation, notwithstanding it may have ceased the prosecution of the objects for
which it was organized, could still proceed in the collection of
debts, the enforcement of liabilities, and the application of its
assets to the payment of its creditors, all corporate powers
essential to those ends remained unimpaired."
We concur entirely in. the views expressed by Mr. Justice
Cox, speaking for the court,, in Glenn v. Busey, where will be
found a careful and elaborate discussion of this question. In
harmony with the decision in that case, we hold that the present suit cannot, consistently with the principles of the common law -which is the law, upon this question, for the District of Columbia -be maintained by the plaintiff in his own
name, as trustee. We are aware that a different rule obtains
in some jurisdictions where the common law has been modified by statute or by a settled course of decisions, but we are
unable to hold that the law of this District is otherwise than
has been indicated in this opinion.

Tudlgment afflrm;,d.

