MILLER v. AMMON.
Statement of the Case.

the plaintiff by his negligent inattention contributed directly
to the injury.
The judgment was right, and it is

MILLER v. AMMON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCIaT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 283.

Argued April 11, 12,1892.-Decided May 16, 1892.

The Supreme Court of Illinois having held that the ordinance of the city of
Chicago that "no person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer for sale
any spirituous or vinous liquors in quantities of one gallon or more at a
time, within the city of Chicago, without having first obtained a license
therefor from the city of Chicago, under a penalty of not less than $50
or more than $200 for each offence," is valid, this court follows the ruling
of that court; and further holds that a contract made in violation of it
creates no right of action which a court of justice will enforce.
The general rule of law is, that a contract made in violation of a statute is
void; - and that when a plaintiff cannot establish his cause of action without relying upon an illegal contract, he cannot recover.
'THE

court stated the case as follows:

On March 16, 188(, the plaintiff in error, defendant below,
then a citizen and resident of Wisconsin, purchased of the
plaintiff, in Chicago, 1125 gallons of sherry wine, and 1100
gallons of port wine, at an agreed price of $5287. The purchase was on ninety days' credit, and the wine was delivered
to defendant in that city. Thereafter the defendant having
failed to pay for these goods, plaintiff commenced this action
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Iowa to recover the purchase price. The defendant pleaded as a defence, that by chapter 24: of the Revised
Statutes -of Illinois of 1882 it was provided that: "The city
council in cities .
shall 'have the following powers:
To license, regulate and prohibit the selling or giving

away of any intoxicating, malt, vinous, mixed or fermented
liquor, the license not to extend beyond the municipal year in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

which it shall be granted, and to determine the amount to be
paid for such license;" that this statute was in force at the
time of the alleged purchase; that Chicago was a city of that
State; that the city counicil of that city had passed the following ordinance:
"An ordinance concerning the licensing of wholesale liquor
dealers.
"SEC. 1. No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer
for sale any spirituous or 4inous liquors in quantities of one
gallon or more at a time, within the city of Chicago, without
having first obtained a license therefor from the -city of
Chicago, under a penalty of not less than $50 or more than
$200 for each offence. But no distiller who ha. taken out a
license as such, and who sells only distilled spirits of his own
production at the place of manufacture, shall be required to
pay the license herein prescribed on account of said sale.
"SEC. 2. All such licenses shall be issued in accordance

with the general ordinances of the city governing licenses,
and for every such license there 'shall be charged at the rate
of $250 per annum;"
that plaintiff was then a wholesale liquor dealer in the city of
Chicago; that he was not a distiller, and had not a distiller's
license; that the wine mentioned in the petition was vinous
and intoxicating liquor, within the meaning of said ordinance;
and that the sale of the wine mentioned was in violation of
said law and ordinance. A demurrer to this answer was filed,
and, after argument, was sustained;. and the defendant electing to stand by his answer, judgment was rendered against
him for the amount claimed in the petition. To reverse such
judgment the defendant sued out this writ of error.
.Xr. C. C. Cole for plaintiff in error.
.r. -Edgar C. Blum for defendant in error. Mr. Iouis J.
Blum was on the brief.
M .

JusTic

BRawFadelivered the opinion of the court.

Two questions are presented: first, is the ordinance valid?

MILLER v. AMMON.
Opinion of the Court.

second, if so, can the plaintiff -recover for liquor sold in violation of its terms?
The first question must be aiswered in the affirmative.
The precise question, on the very ordinance, was presented to
the Supreme Court of Illinois, and determi-ied by it in the
case of Dennehy. v. Chicago, 120 Illinois, 627. Counsel for
defendant in error strenuously insist that that decision is not
controlling on this court in this case, because it was not
announced until May, 1887, anaz after this purchase had
taken place. They say that this is a controversy between
citizens of different States, in which the parties have a right
to the independent judgment of the Federal tribunals; that,
prior to such decision, there had been no determination by
the courts of Illinois of the validity 5f the ordinance; and that
the decision in the Dennehy Case was in disregard of the general course of the legislation of the State of Illinois in respect
to the liquor traffic, and of the spirit of at least two decisions
of that court, Strauss v. Pontiac, 40 Illinois, 126, 301, and
W ght v. The People, 101 Illinois, 133. They refer us to the
cases of Pease v. Pecek, 18 How. 595; Chicago v. Robbins, 2
Black, 418 ; Butz v. Muscatine, 8 Wall. 575 ; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 IT. S. 20; Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556;
Gibson v. Lyon,.l15 U. S. 439; and Anderson v. Santa Anna
.Township, 116 U. S. 356, as instances in which this court did
not consider itself concluded by the decision of the state court.
While not disposed to limit or-qualify in any respect what
has been said so frequently as to the right and duty of independent judgment, we think that this is a case in which the
decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois should control. The
question is one of a particularly local character, affecting solely
the internal police of the State, in respect to which we have
no reviewing power, and in which is involved no matter of .a
Federal character, or of general commercial law. The question as to what licenses shall or shall not be required of those
who engage in the liquor traffic, is a matter properly submitted to the States for determination. There is no natural or
Federal right claimed to have been trespassed upon by this
ordinance, and the regulations as established and upheld by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the state legislature and state tribunals should not be disregarded in the Federal courts. The decision in the Dennehy
Ce determines for the people of the State of Illinois that at
the time of the transaction in controversy there was this valid
ordinance in the city of Chicago requiring a license. Why
should not such decision conclude this plaintiff, as all other
citizens of the State, in all their dealings within the State?
Itwill be noticed that this is not a case in which a citizen of
another State calls upon the Federal courts to ign6re the judgment of the state court, because of some supposed infringement by it upon his rights. It is a citizen of Chicago, and
Illinois, who is asking us to disregard the decision of the highest court of his own State. If it be said that there is not
simply a question of municipal or police regulation, but also
one of contract rights, the reply is that no question of contract rights can arise till after that of the validity of the'ordinance is determined; and also that the party who now seeks
to raise the question is one who, as a citizen of the State, ought
to be concluded by the decisions of its highest court upon this
local matter.
There has been no change in the rulings of the Supreme
Court on this question. The prior, cases referred to contain
nothing inconsistent with the .Dennehy Case. In Stravuss v.
Pontiac,the court held that authority in the charter to prohibit "tippling-houses and dram-shops," did not sustain an
ordinance to prohibit generally the sale of spirits or beer. In
other words, the charter power was directed towards the
character of the house, and not to the matter of sales; and
the ruling was, that the former did not include the latter.
In TFright v. The People, it was held that the dram-shop act
applied to sales made by a druggist in good faith and for medical purposes. There is no force in the argument, that because
the court in the course of its opinion said that the city council
had authority under the charter to grant permits to druggists
to sell intoxicating liquors by the retail -it is to beimplied
that the court intended to decide that the council had no
power to grant like permits to sell at wholesale. The statement was simply by way of argument to show that the drug-

MILLER w. AMMON.
Opinion of the Court.

gists were within the scope of the dram-shop act, and was by
no means a decision that the city council had no other authority than to permit sales by druggists at retail. So that without any contradiction in its rulings, the first "and only time
that this question was presented to the Supreme Court it held
that this ordinance was within the powers granted to the city
council; and as this decision was rendered only two months
after this sale, and was in affirmance of the decisions of the
trial and intermediate appellate court, it is but fair to presume that the decisions of those lower courts had been rendered before. this transaction.
It must not be implied from what 'we have said, that we
differ from the Supreme Court of Illinois .as to the validity of
this ordinance. The charter authority is given in broad and
comprehensive terms, "to license
.
.
the selling or giing away of any intoxicating, malt, vinous, mixed or fermented liquor." There is iio limitation or qualification as to
the manner of sale, whether at wholesale or retail, or as. to
the character of the house at which the business is to,be carried on, whether a dram-shop, a grocery or a drug. store. If
it was intended, and doubtless it was, to give to the city council fll authority over the sale of intoxicating liquors, words
more broad or- comprehensive could not easily have been
selected. There is no doubtful language in either the charter
or the ordinance. Plainly as words can express is full pqwer
given by the one to the city council, and as plainly a license
of a wholesale dealhr demanded by the other.
We do not, however, place our decision so much on this latter ground, .ior do we care to follow counsel in their ingenious
effort to read into this section of the charter words of limita-.
tion." It is enough that the language being upon its face
clear, full, and comprehensive, the Supreme Court of the State
has decided that it gave power to the council to pass this
ordinance, and that it is valid. That decision concluded this
plaintiff, a citizen of the State, not only in criminal prosecutions, but also in civil actions, not only in the state, but also
in .the Federal courts.
Passing to the other question, that must be answered in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

negative. The general rule of law is, that a contract made in
violation of a statute is void; and that when a plaintiff cannot
establish his cause of action without relying upon an. illegal
contract, he cannot recover. Pollock's Principles of Contracts, pp. 253 to 260; Pernn v. Bornman, 102 Illinois, 523;
Alexander v. O'Donnell, 12 Kansas, 608; Gunter v. Leckey, 30
Alabama, 591 ,HEennedy v. Cochrane, 65 Maine, 59,; Bank
of the United States v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527, 539; Pangborn v.
Westlake, 36 Iowa, 546, 549; ffarris v. Runnels,. 12 Hlrow. 79,
84, In Bank v. Owens, this court said: "There can be no
-civil right where there can be no legal remedy; and there can
be no legal remedy for that which is itself illegal." There
axe some exceptions to this general rule, and the last two
cases cited furnish instances thereof. These exceptions are
based upon a supposed intent of the legislature. In Pangborn
v. Westlake, it was thus stated how the exception should be
determined: "We are, therefore, brought to the true test,
which is, that while, as a general rule, a penalty implies a
prohibition, yet the courts will always look to the language of
the statute, the subject matter of it, the wrong or evil which
-i.t
seeks to remedy or prevent, and the purpose sought to be
accomplished in its enactment; and if, from all these, it is
manifest that it was not intended to imply a prohibition or to
render the prohibited act void, the courts will so hold, and
construe the statute accordingly." And in Harrisv. Runnels,
this court, after noticing some fluctuations in the course of
decision, and observing "that we have concluded, before the
rule can be applied in any case of a statute prohibiting or
enjoining things to be done, with a prohibition and a penalty,
or-a penalty only for doing a thing which it forbids, that the
statute must be examined as a whole, to find out whether or
-notthe makers of it meant that a contract in contravention of
it should be void, or that it was not to be so," added: "It
is true that a statute, containing a prohibition and a penalty,
makes the act which it punishes unlawful, and the same may
be implied from a penalty without a prohibition; but it does
not follow that the unlawfulness of the act was meant by the
legislature to avoid a contract made in contravention of it.-

MILLER" v. AMMON.'
Opinion -of the Court.

When the statute is silent, and contains nothing from which
the contrary can be properly inferred, a contract in contravention of it is void."
In the light of these authorities the solution of the-present
question is ndt difficult. By the. ordinance, a sale without a
license is prohibited under penalty. There is in its language
nothing which indicates an intent to limit its scope to the
exaction of a penalty, or-to grant that a sale may be lawful
as between the parties, though unlawful as against its prohibitions; nor when we consider the sulject matter of the legislation, .is
there anything to justify a presumed intent on the
part of the.lawmakers to relieve the wrongdoer from the ordinary consequences of a forbidden act. -By common consent
the liquor traffic is freighted with peril to the general welfare,
and the necessity of careful regulation is universally conceded.
Compliance with those regulations by all engaging in the
traffic is imperative; and it cannot be presumed, in the absence of express language, that the lawmakers intended that
contracts forbidden by the regulations should be as valid as
though there were no such regulations, and that disobedience
should be attended with no other consequence than the liability
to the penalty. There is, therefore, nothing in the language
of the ordinance or the subject matter of the regulations, which
excepts this case from the ordinary rule that an act done in
disobedience to the law creates no right of action which a
court of justice will enforce. '
For these reasbns the judgment of the Circuit Court will be
-Reverse, and the case remanded,with instructions to overPue the demurrer tM the answer.

