MATTHEWS v. WARNER.
Syllabus.

MR.CHIEF JusTICE FULLER, with whom concurred MR. JusTICE BREWE,-disseting.
I cannot assent to the conclusion reached by the court. In
my judgment, the interest of appellees under the contract,
after the expiration of ten years from its date, was in the
nature of a lease, the word "lease" being advisedly used in
the agreement. And as while the length of time was not expressed, it was provided that the wire should be leased "for
the sum of 'six hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly,"
the implication is that it was a right to use from year to year.
The accepted riles of construction forbid the view that the
contract was of indefinite duration; and if such had been the
intention, it should -havebeen expressed.
Moreover, this is not a case for specific performance. -The
construction contended for by appellees is at the best doubtful, and as the record sufficiently discloses that the contract
thus construed has a harsh and unconscionable operation, not
reasonably within the contemplation of the parties when they
entered into it, the court was not bound, by way of grace and
not of right, to compel its execution.
My brother Brewer concurs with me in this dissent.

MATTHEWS- v. WARNER.
ArPPEAL FROm

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR-

THE DISTRICT OF VASSACHUSETTS.

No. 250. Argued march 28, 29,1892. -Decided May 16,1892.
N. M. was indebted to U. in the sum of $200,000 secured by railroad bonds
and stock and a mortgage on real estate in Boston. The debtor, desiring
to use the bonds and stock held as collateral, proposed to substitute for
them a mortgage on real estate in New York to secure the bond of E. M.,
N. M.'s brother, who was indebted to N. Al. and who gave the bond and
mortgage to secure that debt. E. M., at the request of N. Mvi.,in order to
enable N. M. to make the proposed substitution, wrote him a letter to be
shown to U., saying, "You are hereby authorized to assign to U. the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
mortgage for $250,000 which I have given you as collateral security for
loans made to me." Held,that while, as between E. and N., the mortgage
was to be regarded as collateral security for loans made to E. by N., the
assignment to U. was absolute as a security for the indebtedness of N.
to U., without regard to the indebtedness of E. to N., and that a suit in
equity to put a different construction upon it was wholly without merit.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
21r. John F. Dillon and .r.
ippellants.

William A. Abbott for

.Mr. JoseplA B. Warner for appellees.
MR. JusTiE RIr
API delivered the opinion of the court.
In May, 1875, Nathan Matthews, of Boston, was indebted
to Thomas Upham, of the same city, in a large amount - about
$200,000-for money loaned from time to time. This debt
was secured by railroad bonds and stocks, and by a mortgage
upon real estate in Boston.
Matthews, desiring to obtain possession of these securities,
proposed to Upham that he surrender them and take, in substitution, a mortgage upon property in the city of New York,
which he had arranged to be executed by his brother Edward
Matthews of that city, and was then expecting to receive.
Under date of May 6, 1875, Nathan Matthews wrote from
Boston to Edward Matthews: "Dear Brother: . . . I want
your lawyer to draw an assignment of the mortgage you give
me to Thomas Upham, Medfield, 'Mass., the assignment for
me to sign; but I want him to draw it before he records the
mortgage, or rather while he can do it, as I want to give him
the assignment; and I want you to write me a letter authorizing me to assign it to Thomas Upham, I, of course, giving
you my agreement that I hold it as collateral."
The mortgage here referred to, dated May 8, 1875, was
given to Nathan Nfatthews by Edward Matthews, his wife
uniting with him, upon certain real estate in the city of New
York, to secure the payment of the mortgagor's bond or obligation to the mortgagee for the sum of $250,000, maturing

MATTHEWS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

May 8, 1876. This mortgage contained a proviso to the effect
that if the mortgagor, his heirs or personal representatives,
should pay to the mortgagee, his personal representatives or
assigns, the amount of that bond, and the interest thereon, the
mortgage should be void. It was duly acknowledged by the
grantors, and was recorded in the proper office on the llth of
M[ay, 1875.
Under date of May 10, 1875, Edward Matthews addressed a
letter from New York to Nathan Matthews in these words:
"Dear Bro.: You are hereby authorized to assign to Thomas
Upham, Esquire, the mortgage for $250,000 which I have given
,you as collateral security for loans made to me." Subsequently,
May 30, 1875, Nathan Matthews, by a written instrument,
assigned and transferred to Upham the above mortgage of
May 8, 1875, together with the bond or obligation therein described, and the money due and to become due thereon, with
interest, subject only to the proviso mentioned in the mortgage.
The consideration recited in the assignment was the sum of
$250,000 paid to Nathan Matthews by Upham. This instrument was duly acknowledged before i notary public according
to the laws of Massachusetts.
In expectation of receiving the above mortgage, Upham
delivered to Nathan Matthews part of the securities in his
hands, and upon receiving it surrendered the remainder. And,
subsequently, upon the faith of the mortgage, he made other
advances to. Nathan Matthews, and renewed some of the
latter's notes.
Nathan Matthews and Upham both failed in business in
1876. : The latter made an arrangement with his creditorA by
which the time of payment of his debts should be extenaed
and new notes given, and by which all his property should be
transferred to Caleb H. Warner and Charles F. Smith to be
held by them in trust to secure the payment of such new
notes. In pursuance of that arrangement Upham assigied to
those trustees the notes and other evidences of debt due from
Nathan, Matthews, and by writing, dated February 3, 1876,
also assigned to them the above mortgage of May 8,1875, and
the bond therein described.

"OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

An agreement in writing was executed, March 6, 1877,
between Edward M atthews, Nathan Matthews, and the trustees Warner and Smith, which recited that Warner and Smith
held "a certain mortgage upon property in New York as
security for certain negotiable paper bearing the names of
the said Edward and the said Nathan;" and that Edward
Matthews was "desirous of substituting therefor 150 first
mortgage bonds of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad
Company of the par value of $1000 each, and 50 first mortgage bonds of the Carolina Central Railroad Company of the
par value of $1000 each, and also a note of $5000, signed by
Henry J. Furber, and payable in eleven months from date,
which the said Nathan Matthews and the said Warner and
Smith are willing should be received and held by the said
Warner and Smith upon the, terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth." It was, therefore, agreed. between the parties as
follows: "(1) That the said bonds shall be delivered upon
receiving an assignment of the said mortgage to Henry J.
Furber, and that the said note shall be delivered within ten
days of the receipt of the said assignment, and that the said
bonds shall be immediately held, together with the said note
when it shall be delivered, as a substitute for the said mortgage in the hands of the said Warner and Smith, and may be
dealt with by- them in every way as the mortgage might have
been, and shall be collateral security for the claims now held
by the said Warner & Smith against Nathan Matthews.
(2) It is provided that if Mr. Nathan Matthews shall carry
out his plan of paying his debts to the said Warner & Smith,
then the said bonds and note shall not be delivered to Nathan
Matthews, but shall be delivered by the said Warner & Smith
to Benjamin E. Bates, W. H. Williams, Isaac Pratt, or some
trust company in the city of Hartford, at Mr. Nathan Matthews' option, to be held by such depository as security for
Mr. Edward Matthews' performance of the 'Hartford agreement,' so called, as hereinafter extended, in the same manner
as the bonds now held by W. H. Williams in the hands of
Messrs. Morton, Bliss and Company, in this city, are held
under the terms of the said agreement. (3) If the said

MATTHEWS v. WAR NER.
Opinion of the Court.

Nathan Matthews shall not within thirty days give to the
said Warner & Smith forty-nine bonds of the Boston Water
Power Company and do all things necessary by him to be
done in order to make payment to the said Warner & Smith
of his liabilities to them, then the said Edward M atthews
shall be at liberty at any time within ten days thereafter to
fulfil the terms of the agreement between the said Nathan
and the said Warner & Smith, and upon so performing the
same the said Warner & Smith may deliver to him said bonds
and note. (4) Upon the delivery of the assignment aforesaid
Mr. Edward Matthews shall procure from Morton, Bliss and
Company a full discharge of their claim against Nathan
Matthews, and the case now pending between them shall be
discontinued'upon Mr. Nathan Matthews paying the taxable
costs of said suit.. (5) The time of performance of the said
' Hartford agreement' is hereby extended until the third day
of A ril next.. (6) Any failure to deliver the said note of
Henry J. Furber shall be considered for all purposes a breach
of the said ' Hartford agreement."
To the above agreement was appended the following, which
was also signed by the same parties: "It is further agreed
that- when the said Edward Matthews shall have delivered
the cash and notes as required by the Hartford agreement,
amounting to one hundred and forty-eight thousand dollas,
(subject to revision of interest as agreed,) and when the said
Warner & Smith shall have received satisfaction of the
indebtedness for which the said mortgage has hitherto heen
held, that thereupon the said bonds and note shall be delivered to Virginia B. Matthews or her attorney, J. Brander
Matthews, and that said bonds and note shall be sold only
after twenty days' notice, sent by mail, to the said Edward
Matthews. It is further agreed that if Nathan Matthews
shall select Mr. W. H. Williams as a depository under the
foregoing provisions of this agreement, that in such case Mr.
Williams may also hold in his own safe or vault the two
hundred and fifty bonds heretofore deposited with. Morton,
Bliss & Co., as security for the performance of the Hartford
agreement."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion o4 the Court.

The railroad bonds and the Furber note were substituted
for the mortgage, and were received by Warner and Smith.
That note was collected by them, while the railroad bonds
were sold and the proceeds deposited in the New England
-Trust Company.
Shortly after the above exchange or substitution was made,
namely, on the 7th of April, 1877, Mrs. Virginia B. Matthews,
wife of Edward Matthews, notified Warner and Smith, in
writing, that the fifty first mortgage bonds of the Carolina.
Central :Railroad Company and the one hundred and fifty
first mortgage bonds of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, in their possession, were her individual and
separate property, had beeir put into their possession without
her consent or authority, and that unless they returned them
she would hold them responsible as for an unlawful conversion.
A few months later Edward Matthews was adjudged a
bankrupt; and on the. 10th of December, 1877, Mrs. Matthews
commenced a suit in equity to obtain possession of the railroad
bonds that Warner and Smith had taken in place of the
mortgage of 1875. That case was determined adversely to
Mrs. Matthews, and her bill was dismissed. .Afatfhew8 v.
Warner, 6 Fed. Rep. 461. Upon appeal to the court that
decree was affirmed on the 22d day of December, 1884.
.Mattahw8 v. TWarner, 112 U. S. 600, 601, 603. Mr. Justice
Miller, speaking for this 'court, said: "It seems to be clear
that this assignment [of the bond and mortgage for $250,000]
was made by the consent of Edward or by -his directions.
This was in May, 1875. Some time prior to March, 1877,
Edward Matthews, who had become embarrassed, desired to
take up this -mortgage, and entered into negotiations for that
purpose with defendants, who agreed to an exchange of the
bond and mortgage for the railroad bonds which are the
subject of this suit. They accordingly sent Joseph B. Warner,
their legal adviser, from Boston, where they resided, with the
bond and mortgage, and the exchange was made by him as
their agent, receiving the bonds in question at Mr. Matthews'
office in the city of New York. This exchange took place on
the 6th day of March, 1877. It appears that the 150 Memphis

MATTHEWS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

and Little Rock Company bonds were on that day, and had
been for some time previous in possession of Morton, Bliss &
Co., bankers, as collateral security for the debt of Edward
Matthews, who had placed them there."
Observing that it was significant that the bill filed by Mrs.
Matthews was sworn to by one of her solicitors on his belief,
and was signed iii her name by them, the court further said:
"The only act whi6h she is ever said to have done or performed in person, asserting a claim to these bonds, is a notice,
to which her name is appended, to the defendants, about a
month after the exchange of the bond and mortgage for the
railroad bonds, in which she says they are her bonds, and
forbids them to sell them. A witness, the clerk of M atthews,
says the signature, he thinks, was written by IT.Matthews.
And it is admitted that the letter was dictated by him and
written in his office. The plaintiff, who, if she had any just
claim to these bonds, could best have explained how that
claim originated, who could have told what money or property she loaned her husband, or how he became, her debtor, is
not sworn as a witness in the case. It looks very.much as if
the box at the safe deposit vault, with a key in the possession
of the son, who occupied the same office with.the father, and
in the light of other evidence in the case, was a contrivance
by which the husband could use the bonds as his own when
he desired, and assert them to be the property of the wife
when that was more desirable. We are of opinion that plaintiff never had any real ownership, or actual control, or any
lawful right, to the bonds in suit."
The present suit was commenced by Edward Matthews .on
December 8, 1884, the day preceding that on which the arguMatthews' case was commenced in this court.
ment of M 'rs
Its object was to compel the payment to Edward M atthews of
the proceeds of the securities delivered to Warner and Smith,
trustees, in substitution for the mortgage and. bond of .May 8,
1875, given to Nathan Matthews and by him assigned to
Thomas 'Upham. Edward having died, this suit was revived
in the names of his executors, the present appellants.
The grounds set forth in the bill for the relief asked are,,
VOL. cxLV-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

substantially, these: That the bond and mortgage of May 8,
1875, were given to secure, not only numerous negotiable
notes, not then due, which Edward Matthews -had given to
Nathan Matthews for loans by the latter, amounting to
$150,000, but other notes to be given by Edward to Nathan
for additional loans of $60,000; that Edward was induced to
give the bond and mortgage upon Nathan's representations
that Upham held the notes given by Edward for the $150,000,
and would furiiish money for the additional loans of $50,000,
that Nathan, also, represented that he wishedto satisfy Upham,
or any one who took the notes, that they were secured, and
that if he had the mortgage he could more easily negotiate
the notes; that relying upon these representations, and in the
belief that the bond and mortgage would be collateral for the
notes to be secured by them, by whomsoever held, he executed
them, and,by the letter of May 10, 1875, consented to their
being assigned to Upham; that the substitution of the securities, the proceeds of which are here in controversy, for the
bond and mortgage of i875, was because of the representation by Warner and Smith that they, as trustees, held the
notes which said bond a -1 mortgage were given to secure,
whereas they never held them, as the notes, endorsed by
Nathan Matthews, had been discounted at his request by
various banks and individuals; that Nathan Matthews was
adjudged a bankrupt, and the notes so given to him were
paid, in part, by Edward, while the remainder were bought
by and assigned to his wife, and by her were turned over to
him before the commencement of this suit; and that Upham
received the assignment of the bond and mortgage of 1875,
and Edward's written consent to their being assigned to him,
with knowledge that such bond and mortgage were given
only to secure loans of Nathan to Edward, evidenced by the
latter's notes, and with knowledge, alsoi of such circumstances
as made it his duty to inquire of Edward whether he intended
that Nathan should separate the bond and mortgage from the
notes secured by them, and assign the mortgage and bond to
secure Nathan's individual indebtedness, for which Edward
was not liabie.

MATTHEWS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

The defence was that the mortgage was so made and assigned that Upham had, as against Edward Matthews, the
right to take it as security for Nathan .Matthews' debts to him,
and that Edward is estopped to deny this; that 'Upham had
neither notice nor knowledge of any dealings between the
brothers that would affect his title; that Edward made the
mortgage and consented to its being assigned with knowledge
that it was to be used if Nathan so desired, to secure the
latter's debts to Upham; that the plaintiffs are precluded by
the position Edward took toward Nathan, the holders of the
notes, and the defendants, from maintaining .this suit; that
Edward was under neither error nor mistake in reference to
the notes held by the defendants when the railroad bonds
were given in exchange for the mnortgage; and that the plaintiffs have no equity against the defendants.
Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed. The opinion of
Judge Colt will be found in 33 Fed. Rep. 369..
Whether the plaintiffs, as executors of Edward Matthews,
are concluded by the decree in the suit brought by Mrs.
Matthews, or whether the cause of action, here asserted, is
barred by the statute of limitations of Massachusetts, are
questions which, in view of the conclusions reached in respect
to other issues in the case,'need not be determined.
There can be no doubt that the bond and mortgage of 1875
were assigned by Nathan Matthews to Upham for the purpose,
primarily, of securing the debts of the former to the latter.
Was the assignment for such a purpose authorized by Edward
Matthews? Did he, subsequently and with knowledge of
the facts, adopt or ratify what his brother did? Is Edward
Matthews, as between him and Upham or Uphan's rustees,
estopped from disputing the right of Upham to have received
and held such bond and mortgage as' security for Nathan's
debts? If either of these questions is answered in the affimative, the decree should be affirmed. '
'Nathan Matthews Was largely indebted to Upham, and the
latter held securities that were ample for his 'protection. .Nathan, also, expected to apply to Upha~m for additional loans.
Their relations were well known to Edward Matthews. 'There

484:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

is no room for doubt upon this point. Besides, Edward was
hard. pressed for money, being then-as he admitted in a
letter of May 4, 1875- indebted to Nathan alone in the sum
of $200,000, and expected Nathan to raise for him the further
sum of $50,000 if required. In his letter to Nathan of May
11, 1815 - on which day the mortgage was filed in New York
for record - Edward said: "I enclose the bond for $250,000
mortgage, and I thought it might be more satisfactory to Mfr.
Upham to have Brander and Watson guarantee it; which they
have done." Now, it may be -and we think such was the
fact- that, as between Edward Matthews and Nathan Matthews, the mortgage of $250,000 was to stand as collateral
security for Edward's debts or liabilities to Nathan. While
this idea was expressed in the letters of May 6 and 10, and
while Upham, who saw the letter of the 10th, when he took
the assignment of the mortgage and bond, must be presumed
to have known of the arrangement thus made by the brothers,
as between themselves, he had no notice from anything contained in that letter, or from any communication made to him
by ejther of the brothers, that restrictions of any character
were placed upon Nathan's use of the mortgage. The fair
meaning of the letter wag this: That while, as between Edward
and Nathan, the mortgage was to be regarded as collateral
security for loans made to the former, the latter was authorized to assign it to Upham without restriction or limitation in
respect to the purposes for which such assignment might be
made by Nathan. Edward knew that Upham was to pat
with something of value in consideration of the assignment.
But what would have been the inducement to Upham to accept
the assignment of the mortgage, if, as is now claimed, the
letter of the 10th was notice to him that the mortgage could
not be used by Nathan, except as collateral security for
Edward's debts to him? Upham had no interest in providing
for the loans made by Nathan to Edward, unless he held the
notes given by Edward to Nathan for such loans. But he did
not hold those notes. He held securities for the debts due for
money loaned by him to Nathan, and the latter, in order to
get possession of those securities, offered to his creditor the

MATTHEWS v. WA.RNER.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage given by Edward to him. If Upham had taken an
assignment of the bond and mortgage, with kno~wledge or
notice that his assignor could use them only as collateral security for loans made to the mortgagor by the mortgagee, such
assignment would have been of no value to him, after such
loans were extinguished by payment.
But when the mortgagor said, as he did by the letter of
May 10, (written exTressly to be shown to Upham,) that the
mortgagee might assign the .mortgage to him -the letter inposing no conditions as .to the purposes for which the 'assignment could be made-he meant, and intended Upham to
understand, that the mortgagee could use the mortgage according to his own discretion, and for any purposes he chose,
subject only to the .condition that, as between them,'it was to
be deemed collateral security for the debts then due from the
mortgagor to the mortgagee for money loaned. When Nathan
wrote under date of 'May 6 to Edward, "I want to give him
[Upham] the assignment, and I want you to write me a letter
authorizing me to assign it to Thomas Upham, I, of course,
giving you my agreement that I hold it as collateral," .he
meant, and Edward must have understood him to mean, that
while, as between tkem, the mortgage was not executed because
of any: new and. additional liability upon the part of Edward
to Nathan, the assignment to Upham must be unconditional
and absolute, so as to give the latter the full benefit of the
mortgage. Nathau well knew that he could not get the securities put into Upha 's hand as security for his own debts to
Upham, nor obtain further loans from Upham, unless he presented to the latter such an assignment of Edward's mortgage
and bond as would give him a security of equal value with
those then held by him for Nathan's debts. There is not the
slightest doubt, from the evidence, that Edward fully understood, at the time, all the details of Nathan's plan for obtaining not only the securities he had placed in Upham's hands,
but further loans of noney from him.
The interpretation we have given to the writing of May 10,
1815, authorizing Nathan Matthews to assign to Upham the
mortgage executed by Edward Matthews, is supported by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

subsequent conduct of the parties. We allude here particularly
to the written agreement of March 6, 1877. Edward admits
in the original bill that Nathan desired to substitute for the
bond and mortgage of 1875, the 150 first mortgage bonds of
the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, and the 50
first mortgage bonds of the Carolina Central Railroad Company- the proceeds of the sales of which are here in question
=together with the Furber note for $5000; and that the
agreement'of 1877 was-made in order to effect- that result.
Now, bhis agreement provides that the bonds and note just
referred to should be received and held, in place of Edward's
mortgage on the New York property, and be dealt with in
every way as that mortgage might have been, and "shall be
collateral security for the claims now held by the said Warner
& Smith [trustees of Upham] against NTathan 2latthews;"
such bonds and note to be delivered to, and held by, certain
named parties, as security for Edward Matthews' performance
of what was called the Hartford agreement, provided _5athan,
JYatthews carried out Itis lanfor paying his debts to Warner
and Smith. By these and other 'provisions in the agreement
of 1877 it was distinctly admitted that the railroad bonds and
the Furber note were to take the place f the mortgage of
1875 and stand as security for the debts of Nathan latthews,
held by Upham's trustees. Having consented to this substitution, Edward Matthews brought this suit, without even
offering to reinstate the mortgage. He knew when the agreement of 1877 was signed that Nathan was largely indebted to
Upham at the time the latter made an assignment to Warner
and Smith for the benefit of his creditors. He knew that
Warner and Smith, in behalf of Upham and his creditors,
claiAed to hold the mortgage and, bond of 1875 as security
for the debts of Nathan, and that such debts were none the
less Nathan's, because his own name was upon the notes, or
some of them, representing those debts. He induced the
trustees to surrender the mortgage and take in place of it certain railroad bonds and a promissory note, which, he agreed,
should be collateral security for the claims then held by Warner and Smith against Nathan Matthews. The suggestion

