528

HOOPER v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

lands would be discharged. It cannot, therefore, be maintained
that the tax was in conflict with the Constitution.
We have thus considered all the questions presented by the
record, and we discover no error.

cJudgment affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

HOOPER v. ROBnqSON.
1. A policy upon a cargo in the name of A., "on account of whom it may concern," or with other equivalent terms, will inure to the interest of the party
for whom it was intended by A., provided he at the time of effecting the
insurance had the requisite authority from such party, or the latter subsequently adopted it.
2. No proof is necessary that the assured had an insurable interest at that time.
It is sufficient if such interest subsisted during the risk and when the logo
occurred.
3. A policy " lost or not lost " is a valid stipulation for indemnity against past
as well as future losses. A contingent interest may be the subject of suclt
a policy.
4. In an action against A. to recover the amount paid to him by the underwriters, who allege that neither he nor his principal had an insurable
interest in such cargo, the burden of proof is on the plaintiffs to show that
fact.
5. A. having received the money as agent, and promptly paid it over to his
principal, without notice of any adverse claim, or reason to suspect it, the
plaintiffs, having been guilty of laches, must look to that principal.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The British steamer "Carolina" came to Baltimore, consigned to James Hooper & Co. They were also her agents
ERROR to

while she remained in that port. The plaintiff in error was a
member of the firm. Having taken on board her return cargo,
the steamer proceeded on her homeward voyage. While in
the Chesapeake Bay she was injured by a collision with
another vessel, abd put back to Baltimore for repairs. She was
repaired, and Hooper & Co. paid all the bills and made other
disbursements for her. McGarr, the captain, drew on Good

Oct. 1878.]

HOOPER V. ROBINSON.

Brothers & Co., of Hull, England, for the amount in favor of
Hooper & Co., and at the same time directed them to protect
the drawees by insurance, which was intended to be done by
the policy here in question. The draft bore date Oct. 20,1872;
was for X1,611 18s. Td.; was payable in London thirty days
after sight; and directed that the amount should be charged
"to account for advances for repairs and disbursements of
steamship ' Carolina' and her freight, to enable the ship to
.proceed on her voyage."
The policy of insurance was dated on the 26th of October,
1872, and was to "James Hooper & Co., on account of whom
it may concern, in case of loss to be paid to their order." The
insurance was "lost or not lost," . . . "on merchandise, to
cover such risks as are approved and indorsed on the policy."
The indorsement set forth the date of the insurance, the name
of the vessel, the course of the voyage, the rate of the premium,
the amount insured ($8,000), and the remark, "paid advance to
cover disbursements and repairs." The names of the agents
of the underwriters were affixed. The instrument was a cargo
policy. No inquiry was made of Hooper as to whom he was
insuring for, and no representation was made by him except as
is disclosed in the memorandum indorsed upon the policy.
The draft of McGarr was bought by Brown & Sons, bankers,

of Baltimore.

They transmitted it to their correspondents in

London. On the 11th of November, 1872, it was accepted by
Good Brothers & Co., and on the 14th of December following
they paid it. On the 14th of November, 1872, the steamer foundered at sea. On the 28th of that month notice of the loss was
given to the underwriters. On the 6th of December, in answer
to a call for proof of loss and interest, Hooper & Co. furnished
the Baltimore agent of the underwriters with the protest and a
full account of the items of "outfit and disbursements of the
British steamer' Carolina.'" In the statement was the charge,
"to cash paid insurance on advances $117.33." On the 15th
of January, 1873, the agent in Baltimore drew on the defendants in error, his principals in New York, for $8,012, at five
days' sight. The draft was paid on the 24th of that month,
and on the 31st Hooper & Co. remitted the amount to Good
Brothers & Co. in England. When Hooper & Co. received
34
VOL. Vil.

HOOPER v. ROBINSON.

[SLIP. Ct.

the draft of the 15th of January, they gave a receipt setting
forth that when the draft was paid it would be "in full for
claim for total loss of advancements for disbursements and
repairs per steamer ' Carolina,'" . . . "insured 26th of October,
1872, under policy No. 22,706." The receipt concluded with
a promise, upon the payment of the draft, "to assign all our
right, title, and interest in the above advances for disbursements and repairs to the underwriters." Hooper said at the
time to the agent "that he had nothing to assign." On the
10th of February, 1873, Hooper & Co. executed to Robinson
& Cox, the attorneys of the underwriters, the promised assignment, which was a printed form filled up by the agent,
" such as is taken in all cases of abandonment for total loss."
Hooper then again told the agent "that he had no interest in
the matter, but as it was customary, he would sign the paper."
During all these transactions Hooper & Co. were not asked
whether they had insured for themselves or for others; whether
they had been or expected to be repaid their disbursements;
whether any one else was interested in the policy, or for whom
they were collecting the insurance. More than a month after
the loss had been paid and the money remitted to England, a
marine adjuster came from New York to Baltimore " to ascertain who owed Mr. Hooper for advances." A full disclosure
was thereupon made by Hooper. The adjuster suggested to
him " to write his friends on the other side to return the
money." Hooper asked if the underwriters did not get the
premium for insurance, and if the vessel was not lost. Being
answered in the affirmative, he said he " would not have the
face to write to the parties to return the money." No offer
has been made to return to Hooper & Co., or to Good
Brothers & Co., the premium for insurance. This suit was
brought by the underwriters on the 30th of October, 1873,
more than nine months after the loss had been paid and the
money remitted to Good Brothers & Co., and more than seven
months after Hooper's disclosure to the adjuster.
When the testimony was closed on both sides in the court
below, the defendant, Hooper, asked the court to charge the
jury, in effect, that if they believed the advances and the insurance were made; that the draft on Good Brothers & Co. was

Oct. 1878.]

HOOPER v. ROBINSON.

drawn, accepted, and paid; that the steamer was lost; proof
of loss and payment demanded; that Hooper then furnished
the plaintiffs with the account of his disbursements ; that the
plaintiffs thereupon paid him and took the assignment without
having made any inquiry as to whether he was collecting for
himself or for others, and that within a few days thereafter he
remitted the money to Good Brothers & Co., - all as stated in
the evidence, the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover. This
instruction the court refused to give, and instructed, in substance, that if the jury believed that when Hooper made his
claim for indemnity under the policy he produced the account
and subsequently gave the receipt and executed the assignment,
and that when he received payment and delivered the assignment he had received notice of the payment of the draft upon
Good Brothers & Co., given to him to recover his advances,
which fact he did not communicate to the underwriters, then
the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the amount of the insurance money which he had received. Hooper excepted to the
refusal to instruct and to the instruction given. The jury
found for the plaintiffs, and judgment was entered accordingly.
The defendant then brought the case here for review.
M.Zr. Thomas W. .all for the plaintiff in error.
That advances to cover disbursements and repairs constitute
an insurable interest is settled. Insurance Company v. Barings, 20 Wall. 168, and cases cited.
The present is a stronger one than that case, for neither
Hooper, who effected the insurance and to whose order the
loss was made payable, nor Good Brothers & Co., for whom
it was effected, axe suing to recover upon the policy.
If they had an insurable interest in the advances, even "an
inchoate and contingent" one, there can be no doubt that it
was covered by the policy "on account of whom it may
concern."
It is essential to the case of the plaintiffs that they show
affirmatively that Good Brothers & Co., to whom Hooper paid
over the money as soon as collected, were not entitled to receive
it. There is, however, no evidence in the record to support any
such view. It is merely an assumption, which the plaintiffs did
not attempt to maintain by proof at the trial,

HooPER v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

For whom a policy "on account of whom it may concern"
is underwritten, is a question of intention on the part of the
person procuring it. It is sufficient that it was intended to
indemnify any party having an insurable interest, and it will
be applied to that of any person subsequently ascertained to
have such an interest who adopts the insurance.
It is immaterial whether the person intended to be protected,
therefore, authorizes the insurance beforehand or subsequently
adopts it. 1 Phillips, Ins. (5th ed.), sects. 383-385; Buck
& Hedrick v. Chesapeake Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 151; Insurance
Company v. Chase, 5 Wall. 509; Newsoms' Adm'r v. Douglas,
7 Har. & J. (Md.) 451 ; Maryland Insurance Co. v. Bathurst,
5 Gill & J. (Md.) 229; Franklin Fire Insurance Co. v. Coates,
.c., 14 id. 285; Routh v. Tkompson, 13 East, 285; Bridge v.
Niagara Insurance Co., 1 Hall (N. Y.), 347; Blanchard v.
Waite, 28 Me. 59; 3 Kent, Com. 260. So the interest covered
may itself be inchoate and contingent. Lucena v. Craufurd
et al., 3 Bos. & Pul. 75 ; Hancock v. FishingInsurance Company,
3 Sumn. 132.
That Good Brothers & Co. were the parties whose interest
was intended to be insured and protected is clear. They ratified in the fullest manner all that had been done by Hooper
and the master of the vessel for their protection. It is a case
for the application of the maxim, Omnis ratihabitio retrotrahitur et mandato priori cequiparatur. Lueena v. Craufurd et
al., supra; Hancock v. Fishing Insurance Company, supra; Lee
v. Massachusetts Fire & Marine Insurance Co., 6 Mass. 208;
3 Kent, Com. 262.
The court erred in assuming as a conclusion of law that
Hooper's omission to communicate to the underwriters, " when
he received payment of said insurance, and made and executed
said assignment, that he had already received notice of the
payment of the draft" (if the jury should find these facts),
entitled the plaintiffs below to recover in this action. He was
under no obligation, legal or moral, to disclose the fact that he
was insuring for Good Brothers & Co., when he took out the
policy, or that he was receiving for them the money, which by
the terms of the policy was payable to him.
Silence is not concealment, unless disclosure be a duty.

Oct. 1878.]

HOOPER V. ROBINSON.

Aliud est celare; aliud tacere. Carter v. Boehm, 3 Burr. 1905:

1 Smith, Lead. Cas. (7th Am. ed.), 834, and notes to leading
case; 2 Parsons, Contracts, 863, and cases cited; Russell v.
Union Insurance Co., I Wash. 409; Finncy v. Warren Insurance Co., 1 Mete. (Mass.) 106; Higginson, v. Dall 13 Mass.
96; Wells v. PhiladelphiaInsurance Co., 9 Serg. & R. (Pa.)

103.
In any aspect of the case the court erred in its instruction
in withholding from the jury the question of the materiality of
Hooper's alleged omission to inform the defendants in error
that the master's draft had been paid. Materiality in such
cases is always a question for the jury, even when the fact the
improper concealment of which is alleged is one which might
and reasonably would have influenced the action of the underwriters in entering into the contract, in accepting or rejecting
the risk, or in fixing the amount of the premium. Livingston
v. Maryland Insurance Co., 6 Cranch, 274; Maryland Insurance Co. v. -uden's Adm'r, id. 338; McLanahan v. Universal
Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 170; Columbian Insurance Co. v. Lawrence, 10 id. 516; ew York Firemen's Insurance Co. v. Walden, 12 Johns. (N. Y.) 518; FranklinInsurance Co. v. Coates,
14 Md. 299; Carter v. Boehm, supra; 1 Smith, Lead. Cas.

(7th Am. ed.), pp. 848, 850, notes to Carter v. Boehm.;
8 Kent, Com. 284, 285.
Viewed, as this action must be, as an ordinary one to recover
back money paid under an alleged mistake of facts, the right
of the plaintiffs to recover must be determined by the equities

of the case and the rules ordinarily applicable to such actions.
They will not be permitted to recover if it would be manifestly
inequitable to allow them to do so. Moses v. lacfarlane,
2 Burr. 109; Insurance Company v. Chase, 5 Wall. 509;

2 Smith, Lead. Cas. (7th Am. ed.) 402, notes to Marriott v.
Hampton.
The plaintiffs are suing to recover back from Hooper money

which they paid him without inquiry, and which he, in perfect
good faith, paid over to the persons for whom he had collected
it, and who, he supposed, were entitled to receive it, long before
suit brought, or any notice of any claim or demand on the part
of the plaintiffs to have the money refunded.

HOOPER V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

]'here is no equity in the claim thus set up. They chose
voluutarily, with the fullest opportunity for inquiry, to pay the
money without inquiry to a person who received it innocently,
and with no fraudulent intention at once paid it over to the
parties to whom he believed it to belong. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137; Buller v. Harrison,2 Cowp. 565; Carter v.
Boehm, 3 Burr. 1905; Milnes v. Duncan, 6 Barn. & C. 671;
Cox v. Masterson, 9 id. 902; Townsend v. Crowdy, 8 C. B.
N. s. 477; Clarke v. Dickson, El., B. & E. 148.
Mr. Stewart Brown and Hr. Arthur George Brown, contra.
The instruction granted by the court below was correct.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Insurance Co., 16 Pet.
495; Insurance Company v. Barings, 20 Wall. 159; Insurance
Company v. Newton, 22 id. 32; Home Insurance Co. v. Baltimore Warehouse Co., 93 U. S. 527; Hidden v. Slater Insurance
Co., 2 Cliff. 269; Allegre v. Maryland Insurance Co., 6 Har.
& J. (Md.) 408; Angell, Insurance, sect. 59; 2 Parsons, Mar.
Ins., p. 474.
The underwriters were entitled to the best evidence that
Hooper possessed, "so that they might be able to form some
estimate of their rights and duties before they were obliged
to pay." Columbia Insurance Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Pet. 507;
Lawrence v. Ocean Insurance Co., 11 Johns. (N. Y.) 259;
1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 468, 469; Smith v. Columbia Insurance
-Co., 17 Pa. St. 253.
Having been, by Hooper's concealment and deceit, induced
to pay him $8,000, the underwriters were entitled, after discovery of the real facts, to recover that sum in this action.
2 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 489, 490, and the authorities cited and
fully referred to in the notes.
By the abandonment accepted by the underwriters they were
put completely in the place of the assured, and were entitled to,
and had the right to understand and assume that they thereby
acquired and were subrogated to, all the rights which Hooper
possessed at the time of the loss, including his right to demand
repayment of the "advances" which had been made by him.
Chesapeake Insurance Co. v. Stark, 6 Cranch, 268; Hart v.
Western Railroad,13 Mete. (Mass.) 99; 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins.
229; 2 id. 492, 494; 2 Phillips, Ins., sects. 1511, 2123, 2162;

Oct. 1878.]

.ooPER

v.

ROBINSON.

2 Am. Lead. Gas. 835 ; Hall & Long v. Railroad Companies,
13 Wall. 367; The Falcon, 19 id. 75; Atlantic Insurance Co.
v. Storrow, 5 Paige (N. Y.), Oh. 285, 294; .Mtna Insurance
Co. v. Tfler, 16 Wend. (N. Y.) 885.

The phrase, "on account of whom it may concern," protects
only persons who had an insurable interest at the date of the
policy, and at the time of loss. 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 46, and
the authorities cited in note 1, p. 46; 1 Phillips, Ins*, sect. 387;
Rider v. Ocean Insurance Co., 20 Pick. (Mass.) 259; aarrell
v. Hanna, 5 Har. & J.(Md.) 412; 2 Am. Lead. Gas. (5th ed.)
806. Therefore Good Brothers & Co., the drawees of the bill
of exchange, had no insurable interest, and no "concern" with
the policy.
When the policy was taken out, there is not the slightest
evidence that Good Brothers & Co. had authorized the master
to draw on them, or knew that he intended to do so, or were
under any obligation to accept or pay the bill; and when the
loss occurred, they had not paid the bill of exchange which
had been drawn. They had therefore no insurable interest
either at the date of the policy or of the loss; and the court
properly ignored Hooper's testimony as to the master's orders to
protect them, and rejected the defendant's prayer, which chiefly
relied upon that testimony.
Defendant's prayer was also fatally defective, by reason of
the fact that it assumed that Hooper, by direction of Good.
Brothers & Co., presented proofs of the loss, because there is
no evidence of any such direction.
There is no evidence that either the master or Hooper was
agent of Good Brothers & Co., or authorized to insure for them.
The former was their friend, who, for some reason best known
to himself, drew on them a bill of exchange in Blooper's favor.
Seamans v. Loring, 1 Mas. 186. That bill Hooper took, holing on to his lien.
As regards Hooper, however, and his lien and "advances,"
that bill was conditional payment at the moment it was given,
and when paid, Dec. 14, 1872, it became absolute payment,
and destroyed the lien, and the advances which had been the
subject-matter of insurance. The -milyi Souder, 17 Wall.
666.

HOOPER V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Or.

Indeed, his advances were, in fact, repaid to him in cash
on the day he sold the bill of exchange to Brown & Sons,
and thereafter his only risk was a possible liability as indorser. The indorsement and sale of that bill by Hooper to
Brown & Sons was equivalent to an assignment to them of
his claim to be repaid his advances, and as such it was a
material fact which good faith required him to disclose when
he applied to the underwriters to indemnify him for his pretended loss, and offered his proofs, and gave the receipt and
assignment. Authorities supra, and 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 243
and note 4.
The contract of the underwriters was to pay on proof of
interest and of loss. Hooper was therefore bound to show
for whom and in what right he was collecting the money.
This, having exclusive possession of the facts, he undertook and
pretended to do, by proving, as if for himself, a loss which he
had not suffered, under an interest which had long since ceased
to exist.
The underwriters have no concern with the disposition that
Hooper chose to make of the money which he induced them to
pay under this mistake of fact on their part, which was caused
by his own concealments and false representations; and they
contend that the instruction of the court below was correct,
and should on this ground alone be sustained.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As the facts of which the instruction given was predicated were all indisputable and undisputed, that instruction
was equivalent to a direction to find for the plaintiffs. The
same remarks apply mutatis mutandis to the instruction asked
by the defendant. The case, then, resolves itself into this:
Were the plaintiffs entitled to recover upon the case as presented in the record?
A policy like the one here in question, in the name of a
specified party, "on account of whom it may concern," or with
other equivalent terms, will be applied to the interest of the
persons for whom it was intended by the person who ordered
it, provided the latter had the requisite authority from the

Oct. 1878.]

HOOPER V. ROBINSON.

former, or they subsequently adopted it. 1 Phillips, Ins., sect.
388.
This is the result, though those so intended are not known to
the broker who procures the policy, or to the underwriters who
are bound by it. Id., sect. 384.
One may become a party to an insurance effected in terms
applicable to his interest, without previous authority from him,
by adopting it either before or after the loss has taken place,
though the loss may have happened before the insurance was
made. Id., sect. 888.
The adoption of the policy need not be in any particular
form. Any thing which clearly evinces such purpose is sufficient.
"It is now clearly established that an insurable interest, subsisting during the risk and at the time of loss, is sufficient, and
that the assured need not also allege or prove that he was
interested at the time of effecting the policy; indeed, it is
every day's practice to effect insurance in which the allegation
could not be made with any degree of truth; as, for instance,
where goods are insured on a return voyage long before they
are bought." 1 Perkin's Arnould, 288.
This is consistent with reason and justice, and is supported
by analogies of the law in other cases. We will name a few
of them.
A deed voidable under certain circumstances may be made
valid for all purposes by a sufficient after-consideration. A
devise to a charitable use may be made to a grantee not in
e8se, and vest and take effect when the grantee shall exist.
The doctrine of springing and shifting uses is familiar to every
real-property lawyer. They always depend for their efficacy
upon events occurring subsequently to the conveyance under
which they arise.
Where the insurance is "lost or not lost," the thing insured
may be irrecoverably lost when the contract is entered into,
and yet the contract be valid. It is a stipulation for indemnity
against past as well as future losses, and the law upholds it.
Where a vessel insured for a stated time was sold and transferred, and was repurchased and transferred back within that
time, it has been held that the insurance was suspended while

588

HooPEm v. RoBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

the title was out of the assured, "and was revived again on
the reconveyance of the assured during the term specified
in the policy." Worthington v. Bearse and Others, 12 Allen
(Mass.), 382.
A right of property in a thing is not always indispensable to
an insurable interest. Injury from its loss or benefit from its
preservation to accrue to the assured may be sufficient, and a
contingent interest thus arising may be made the subject of
a policy. Lucena v. Craufurd et al., 3 Bos. & Pul. 75; S. C.
5 id. 269 ; Buck &. Hedrick v. Chesapeake Insurance Co., 1 Pet.
151; Hancock v. Fishing Insurance Company, 3 Sumn. 132.
In the law of marine insurance, insurable interests are multiform and very numerous.
The agent, factor, bailee, carrier, trustee, consignee, mortgagee, and every other lien-holder, may insure to the extent of
his own interest in that to which such interest relates ; and by
the clause, " on account of whom it may concern," for all others
to the extent of their respective interests, wLere there is previous authority or subsequent ratification.
Numerous as are the parties of the classes named, they are
but a small portion of those who have the right to insure.
Where money is advanced, as in this case, for repairs and
supplies to enable a vessel to proceed on her voyage, the lender
has a lien, not on the cargo, but upon the vessel, and the
amount of the debt may be protected by insurance upon the
latter. Insurance Company v. Barings, 20 Wall. 163, and
the authorities there cited. If the owner of a vessel, being also
the owner of the cargo, or the owner of the cargo, not being the
owner of the vessel, procures a third person to make such advances upon an agreement that he shall be repaid from the
cargo, and a bill of lading is furnished to him, he has a lien on
the cargo for the amount of his advances, and may insure
accordingly. Clark v. Mauran and Others, 3 Paige (N. Y.),
373; Dows v. Greene, 24 N. Y. 638; Holbrook v. Wight, 24
Wend. (N. Y.) 169. The assignment of a bill of lading passes
the legal title to the goods. Chandler v. Belden, 18 Johns.
(N. Y.) 157. The assignment of a debt, ipso facto, carries with
it a lien and all other securities held by the assignor for the
discharge of such debt. The Hull of a New Ship, 2 Ware,

Ot. 1878.]

OtO8PER V. ROBINSON.

203; Pattison v. Hull, 9 Cow. (N. Y.) 747; Langdon v. Buel,
9 Wend. (N. Y.) 80.
Where a lien subsists either on the vessel or cargo, a third
party may pay the debt, and, with the consent of the debtor
and creditor, be substituted to all the rights of the latter.
Dixon on Subrogation, 163; Garrison et al. v. Mifemphis insurance Co., 19 How. 312; The Cabot, 1 Abb. (U. S.) 150.
Where there is neither an agreement nor an assignment, there
can be no subrogation, unless there has been a compulsory payment by the party claiming to be substituted. Sanford v.
McLean, 8 Paige (N. Y.), 117.
Recurring to the facts, there are two points upon which we
deem it proper particularly to remark :
First, We find no ground for any imputation of bad faith
upon Hooper. We think there was no indirection and no purpose of concealment on his part. Before the insurance was
effected, the underwriters had a clear right, if they so desired,
to know for whom they were asked to insure. Buck & Redrick
v. Chesapea7e Insurance Co., supra. They made no inquiry.
This excused Hooper from making any communication upon
the subject. When the insurance money was paid, although
the face of the policy and other facts, patent and notorious,
which must have been known to the underwriters, showed
clearlythat the advances were made, and that the insurance
was effected by Hooper, not for himself, but for others, the underwriters were again silent. The draft on Good Brothers & Co.
had then been sold, and Hooper had received the money. Thereafter he had nothing at stake but the solvency of the drawees.
When the adjuster, more than a month later, made the inquiry, which should have been made before, Hooper had paid
over the money. He then made a frank and full disclosure.
We see no reason to doubt that if the inquiry "had been made
earlier it would have been answered in the same way. In this
respect the underwriters have themselves to blame rather than
Hooper. The record discloses no ground upon which, ex equo et
bono, he can be called upon to pay back the fund in controversy.
Second, It does not appear in the record to whom the vessel
and cargo belonged. There is not a ray of light upon the subject. In that respect the case is left wholly in the dark.

HOOPER V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. ot.

The proof as to who were intended to be insured is that
they were Good Brothers & Co., and no one else, though, according to the terms of the policy, payment in the event of loss
was to be made to Hooper & Co. The former fact is established by the testimony of Hooper, and there is none other
upon the subject. He is unimpeached, and his testimony is
conclusive. The inquiry then arises, whether Good Brothers
& Co. had any insurable interest in the cargo. It does not
appear whether they had or had not. We have suggested several ways in which such an interest may have arisen, and have
shown that under the policy in question it would have been suffcient if it had subsisted at any time before the loss was known
to them. It may possibly have arisen in other modes. This
brings us to the question of the burden of proof. Did it rest
upon the plaintiffs or upon the defendant ? In order to maintain the plaintiffs' case it was necessary to be made to appear
that Good Brothers & Co., the assured, had no insurable interest
in the cargo, the cargo being the thing insured. Upon both
reason and authority, we think the onus probandi was upon the
plaintiffs.
It was for them to make out their case. The premium had
been paid, the loss had occurred, and the indemnity money
had been received by the agents of the assured and paid over
to their principals. The plaintiffs claim the right to go behind
all this, and to reclaim from Hooper the fund thus received and
parted with. It was incumbent upon them to establish every
thing necessary to entitle them to recover, and they have no
right to throw upon the defendant any part of the burden that
belonged to themselves. For authorities upon this subject see
1 Greenl. Evid., sects. 34, 35, 80, 81, and the notes. Such is
the legal result, notwithstanding the negative form of the averment, to be established.
But suppose the case were made out as against Good Brothers
& Co., and that a recovery could be had if the action were
against them, still it by no means follows that the plaintiff in
error was liable.
There was laches on the part of the underwriters, or their
agents, which is the same thing. Nothing in the record is
clearer than that Hooper received the money as the agent of

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. V. COMMISSIONERS.

the assured. It was his duty immediately to advise his principals and promptly to pay them. 1 Waite, Actions and Defences, 252, 255. This latter duty it appears he performed. He
had then received no notice of the adverse claim subsequently
made, and had no reason to expect it. His parting with the
money is proof of his sincerity and honesty.
Under all the circumstances, we think he is entitled to the
benefit of the principle which in such cases gives immunity to
the agent and refers the party complaining for satisfaction to
the principals who have received and hold the money.
There was error in the instruction given by the court to the
jury.
The counsel on neither side referred to the state of the
pleadings. We have, therefore, not adverted to that subject,
but have considered the case as it was argued, - entirely upon
the merits.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity to
this opinion; and it isS
S'o ordered.

RAItROAD COMPANY V. COMMISSIONERS.
1. In Nebraska, no demand for taxes is required, but it is the duty of every person subject to taxation to attend at the office of the county treasurer and
make payment.
2. Certain lands in that State, the patents for which had been withheld from the
Union Pacific Railroad Company by the United States, having been assessed
for taxation and the taxes remaining unpaid, the tax-lists, with warrants
thereto attached, were issued, authorizing the county treasurer, upon default in the payment of the taxes, to enforce the collection of them by the
seizure and sale of the personal property of the company. The company
paid them, while protesting in writing that they were illegally and wrong
fully assessed and levied, and were wholly unauthorized by law. At that
time, they had not been demanded, and no special effort had been made by
the treasurer for their collection, nor had he attempted to seize the personal
property of the company. Patents for the lands were subsequently issued
to the company. After the decision in Railway Company v. McShane (22
Wall. 444), that the lands were exempt from taxation, the company brought
this action to recover the amount so paid. Held, that there being no statute giving the right to recover in such cases, the action could not be
maintained.

