Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES

v.

BENECKE.

cient time to enable her to make the necessary movement to
keep out of their way. The collision was due alone to the fact
that the steamer undertook to pass between the schooners when
she should have gone outside of them.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BEN-ECKE.
1. An indictment against A., found Sept. 11, 1875, charged that in March, 1868,
he, as agent and attorney of B. and C., did withhold, and continued thereafter to withhold from them, certain money which he, as their agent and
attorney, had received from the United States by the collection of their
respective claims for "pay and bounty" and "arrears of pay and bounty."
Hdd, 1. That the acts charged are not an offence under sect. 13 of the
act of July 4, 1864 (13 Stat. 389). 2. That sect. 31 of the act of March 3,
1873 (17 id. 575, Rev. Stat., sect. 485), was not intended to apply to a
case where the money had been withheld before its passage.
2. The word "claimant" in said sect. 13 means a person who, under the act of
July 4, 1864, has a claim before the pension office.

CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

MAr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Mr. Louis Benecke, in propriapersona, contra.
AIR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant, Louis Benecke, was indicted in the District
Court for the Western District of Missouri, and the sixth and
tenth counts of the indictment charged him with unlawfully
withholding arrearages of pay and bounty from persons for
whom, as agent and attorney, he had collected the same from
the United States.
In the one case, the date was alleged to be the sixteenth day
of March, 1868, and in the other the 17th of the same month,
and in both continuing thereafter.
On these counts the defendant was found guilty in the
Circuit Court; and on motion for a new trial and arrest of

448

UNITED STATES v. BENECKE.

[Sup. Ct.

judgment the judges of that court certified six questions of
law to this court on which they differed, as applicable to the
case.
The first of these is thus stated :
Is wrongfully withholding back pay or bounty by an agent
or attorney from a claimant an offence under sect. 13 of the
act of July 4, 1864 (13 Stat. 389), or under sect. 31 of the act
of March 3, 1873 (17 id. 575), sect. 5485, Rev. Stat.?
The act of 1864 is entitled "An Act supplementary to an act
entitled ' An Act granting pensions, approved July 14, 1862."'
It consists of fifteen sections, the twelfth of which is devoted to
prescribing specifically the compensation of agents and attorneys for procuring the allowance of pensions and bounty, or
other claims, under the act; and the thirteenth section, to prescribing a punishment for violation of the twelfth. It is as
follows: "SECT. 13. And be it further enacted, that any agent or attorney who shall, directly or indirectly, demand or receive any greater
compensation for his services under this act than is prescribed in
the preceding section of this act, or who shall contract or agree to
prosecute any claim for a pension, bounty, or other allowance under
this act, on the condition that he shall receive a per centum upon
[, or] any portion of the amount of such claim, or who shall wrongfully withhold from a pensioner or other claimant the whole or any
part of the pension or claim allowed and due to such pensioner or
claimant, shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall, for every such offence, be fined not exceeding $300, or imprisoned at hard labor not exceeding two years,
or both, according to the circumstances and aggravations of the
offence."
There is here no provision in regard to services for procuring
pay, nor any provision in the act regarding it. The pensions
to soldiers, their widows and orphans, is not pay, and the provisions for paying them are not under that act. Arrearages
of pay were not collected under any pension law, or through
the pension office. What is meant by bounty here is said in
the briefs to be also passed upon and paid in another bureau.
The indictment is perhaps on this point a little obscure. In
the sixth count the defendant is charged as guilty of with-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. BENECOKE.

holding arrearages of pay and bounty, and in the tenth with
withholding pay and bounty.
Since the act in which this offence is described makes no
provision for pay or for bounty, and the fees regulated and
the acts forbidden are those done in regard to that act, it seems
a reasonable construction of the penal part of the .statute that
withholding pay and bounty, which are not mentioned there,
are not intended to be punished by the act.
It is not in reference to pay that Congress was legislating.
The persons described who may be guilty are those prosecuting claims for pensions or bounty before the pension office.
The offence described is "withholding from a pensioner or
other claimant the whole or any part of the claim allowed and
due said pensioner or claimant," and it is but a just limitation
of the word "claimant" that he should be a claimant under that
act, a claimant before the pension bureau. This part of the
section is to be taken in connection with the taking of illegal
fees, which manifestly refers to cases before the pension office,
and which are described and punished in the same sentence and
by the same penalty. The word "bounty" is not used in this
sentence, nor the word "pay," but the argument is that the
word "claim" includes them. We think this would be an unjustifiable extension of a penal statute beyond its terms and
against its purpose.
The first question is, therefore, to be answered in the negajive, and we need not inquire if the statute was repealed, since
the offence described in the indictment is not within it.
The offences in this indictment are said to have been committed in 1868. The law then in existence did not make the
act charged a crime. It is argued by counsel that withholding
the money due is a continuous offence, and if the same money
was withheld after the act of 1873 did make such withholding
punishable, the indictment is good under that act. But without deciding here how far the withholding the money under a
law which made that an offence when the wrongful withholding
began, can be held to be a continuous offence, we are of opinion
that it would be a forced construction of the act to hold that it
was intended to apply to a case where the money .ad already
been withheld five years when the statute was passed. The
voL. vill.

29

UNITED STATES V. IRVINE.

[Sup. Ct.

party might very well be criminally wrong in failing to pay
-when he received it; but Congress could hardly be supposed to
intend to punish as a crime his failure to pay afterwards what
was in law but a debt created five years before.
This answers the fifth question, namely, "Can the defendant
be punished under sect. 31 of the act of March 3, 1873?" These
answers also render unnecessary a reply to the others.
It is, therefore, ordered to be certified to the Circuit Court
that the first and fifth questions are answered in the negative,
and that answers to the others are thereby rendered unnecessary.
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. IRVINE.
An indictment against A., found Sept. 15, 1876, charged that on Dec. 24, 1870,
B. demanded of him the sum of $625, which he as her agent and attorney
had collected and received from the United States on account of a pension
awarded to her, and that he then, and continuously thereafter, wrongfully
withheld it from her. Held, 1. That the indictment was barred by sect
1044 of the Revised Statutes. 2. That the crime charged was not a continuous one to the time of finding the indictment.
CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
No counsel appeared for Irvine.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant, Clark Irvine, is charged in the indictment
in this case, that on the twenty-fourth day of December, 1870,
as the agent and attorney of Mrs. Berkely, he wrongfully
withheld from her the amount of her pension, to wit, $525,
allowed her under the pension laws, and continuously withheld it until the time of finding the indictment in September,
1875.

