PEERS v. BOWmAN.

[SUP. Ct.

Cedarville land, did you hear Mrs. Kesner claiming it as her
land?" -Ans. "I don't recollect hearing her claim it as her
land."
There is no other testimony in the record bearing in any
wise upon the subject. It is perhaps not a violent presumptioll
that the appellant knew in 1852 that Dutton and wife conveyed
the land to her husband alone, and that she knew he treated it
ts exclusively his in 1862, by conveying it, without her concurrence, to Bekem in trust to secure the debt to Greenway. It
does not appear that she set up any special claim, or alleged
the contract set up in her bill, until Kesner went into bankruptcy in 1873. But irrespective of those deeds, it is too clear
to admit of doubt that the contract set forth in the bill is
wholly unsustained by the proofs in the record. See Harris's
.Ex'rs v. Barnett et als., 3 Gratt. (Va.) 339.
Decree affirmed.

PETERS v.

Bowxx.

1. In a suit to enforce a lien for the purchase-money, where there has been
no fraud and no eviction, actual or constructive, the vendee, or the party
in possession of the lands under him, cannot controvert the title of the
vendor.
2. A party claiming the lands by an adverse title cannot be permitted to bring
it forward, and have it settled in that suit.
3. The vendee and those claiming under him must rely on the covenants of title
in the deed of the vendor: if there be none, there is, in the absence of
fraud, no redress.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James B. Chalmers and Mr. Mike L. Woods for the
appellant.
Mr. H. T. -llett, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to enforce a lien upon real estate situate in
Tunica County, in the State of Mississippi. Bowman owned
the premises in fee-simple, and sold the undivided half to

Oct;. 1878.1

PEERS

v. BOWMAN.

Bostick, and gave him a written contract, valid in equity, but
not sufficient to pass the legal title.

Bostick died in 1868, possessed of property in Mississippi
and Tennessee, and leaving a last will and testament.
By one of the clauses he appointed Gwinn his executor
in Mississippi, and the appellee, Elliott, his executor in
Tennessee.
By another clause he authorized the Mississippi executor to
lease or cultivate the premises in question with Bowman, and
finally, under the circumstances named, "to join the said Bowman in making sale and title to the purchasers."
By another clause, after the payment of all legacies, debts,
and expenses of administration, he gave to three persons,
whom he named, and their successors, as trustees, the entire
residue of his estate, "to be invested by them in a suitable
site and buildings for a female academy" in Tennessee, and to
be otherwise devoted to that institution.
Gwinn died in the lifetime of the testator.
On the 11th of January, 1869, the Probate Court of Tunica
County granted "letters testamentary of the said last will and
testament" to Elliott.
On the 25th of January, 1869, Elliott, describing himself as
"executor of the last will and testament of J. Bostick, acting
under the powers conferred by said will," and Bowman, united
in a conveyance with full covenants to the four brothers,
Jaquess, for the consideration of $4,000, paid in cash, and the
further sum of $24,000, for which four notes were given by the
vendees, each for the sum of $6,000, and payable respectively
on the first day of January in the years 1870, 1871, 1872, and
1873, with interest at the rate of six per cerzt per annum.
In reference to these notes the deed contains the following
provision: "And to secure the payment of each and all of which
said notes and interest an express lien is hereby retained by
the parties of the first part upon the real estate and premises"
in question.
The note maturing on the 1st of January, 1870, was paid by
the Jaquess Brothers.
On the 26th of January, 1870, they sold and conveyed the
premises to the appellant, Peters, for the consideration ex-

PETERS V. BOWMAN.

[Sup. Or.

pressed in the deed of the sum of $11,920 cash in band, -and
the assumption by the said Peters of the payment of three
promissory notes for $6,000, made by the first parties (Jaquess
Brothers), and payable to Elliott and Bowman, for the same
land herein conveyed."
This deed contains a covenant of the right to convey, of
seisin, and of general warranty.
The covenant of good right to convey is synonymous with
the covenant of seisin. The actual seisin of the grantor will
support both, irrespective of his having an indefeasible title.
These covenants, if broken at all, are broken when they are
made. They are personal, and do not run with the land.
Marston v. Hobbs, 2 Mass. 432; Greenby & Kellogg v. Wilcocks, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) 2; Hamilton v. Wilson, 4 id. 72.
Peters put his co-defendants, General Chalmers and wife, in
possession of the premises, under an arrangement whereby,
when they should pay the balance of the purchase-money, he
would convey to Mrs. Chalmers. Their possession has since
continued, and has been undisturbed.
On the 8th" of November, 1869, the same Probate Court
granted letters of administration " upon the estate of J. Bostick, deceased, with the will of said Bostick annexed," to
Elliott, upon his giving a sufficient bond and taking the oath
prescribed by law, both of which were then done.
The original bill was filed on the 28th of February, 1873, to
enforce the lien reserved in the deed of Elliott and Bowman
to Jaquess Brothers, to secure the notes given for the purchasemoney, the three last of which are wholly unpaid.
On the 31st of July, 1874, Elliott, to obviate objections made
to the prior deed, executed a second deed to the Jaquess Brothers for the same premises. In this deed he describes himself as
"administrator with the will annexed of said Bostick," &c.
The deposition of Elliott shows that Bostick never had any
title to the premises but what he derived from his contract with
Bowman; that Bowman, after Bostick's death, insisted upon
selling, and hence the sale to the Jaquess Brothers.
The court below decreed in favor of the complainants. Peters
brought the case here for review.
There is no controversy about the leading facts of this case.

Ot.1878.]

PETES v. BowMAN.

The questions presented are all questions of law. Bowman
had the legal title to the entire premises, and that title he conveyed to Jaquess Brothers, and they conveyed it to Peters.
The deed of Elliott and Bowman contained all the usual covenants of title. The covenant of warranty ran with the land,
and passed by assignment to Peters. The deed of the Jaquess
Brothers produced that result. In the event of a failure of
title, Peters can sue upon this covenant in either deed. King
v. Kerr's Adm'r, 5 Ohio, 154. When broken, it becomes'a
chose in action, but a subsequent grantee may sue the warrantor
in the name of the holder. There can be but one satisfaction.
Id. A sheriff's or a quitclaim deed will carry the covenant
before its breach to the grantee. Ir/kite v. W7Fitney, 8 Mete.
(Mass.) 81; Hunt v. Amidon, 4 Hill (N. Y.), 845.
Where at the time of the conveyance with warranty there is
adverse possession under a paramount title, such possession is
regarded as eviction, and involves a breach of this covenant.
Where the paramount title is in the warrantor, and the adverse
possession is tortious, there is no eviction, actual or constructive, and no action will lie. Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499;
-Duval v. Craig, 2 Wheat. 45. Here there is no adverse possession, and no eviction, actual or constructive; nor does it
appear that suit has been threatened, or that an adverse claim
has been set up by any one. The possession and enjoyment of
the property by General Chalmers and his wife have been the
same as if their title were indisputable. It is insisted that the
first deed of Elliott was fatally defective, because the letters
from the Probate Court, under which he acted in making it,
were issued to him as executor, and that both deeds were void,
because under the will and the circumstances there was no
authority to sell; and, lastly, because the residuum of the estate
of the testator, including proceeds of the premises in question,
was disposed of in a way forbidden by a law of the State of
Mississippi.
We prefer to rest our judgment upon a ground independent
of all these points, and which renders it unnecessary to examine
them.
It is the settled law of this court that upon a bill of foreclosure, or, as in this case, a bill to enforce a lien for the pur-

PETERs V. BOWMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

chase-money, and where there has been no fraud and no eviction,
actual or constructive, the vendee, or a party in possession under
him, cannot controvert the title of the vendor; and that no one
claiming an adverse title can be permitted to bring it forward,
and have it settled in that suit. Such a bill would be multifarious, and there would be a misjoinder of parties. Yoonan v.
Lee, supra; .Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U.S. 340. In such cases, the
vendee and those claiming under him must rely upon the covenants of title in the deed of the vendor. They measure the
rights and the remedy of the vendee; and if there are no such
covenants, in the absence of fraud, he can have no redress.
This doctrine was distinctly laid down in Patton v. Taylor,
7 How. 159, and was re-examined and affirmed in Noonan v.
Lee. See also Abbott v. Allen, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 519; Corning v. Smith, 6 N. Y. 82; Beebe v. Swartwout, 8 Ill. 162. That
the vendor is insolvent or absent from the State, or that an
adverse suit is pending which involves the title, does not withdraw the case from the operation of this principle. Hill and
Wife v. Butler, 6 Ohio St. 207; Platt v. Gilchrist, 3 Sandf.
(N. Y.) 118; Latham v. Morgan Fitz, 1 Smed. & M. (Miss.)
Ch.611.
The rule is founded in reason and justice. A different result
would subvert the contract of the parties, and substitute for it
one which they did not make. In such cases the vendor, by his
covenants, if there are such, agrees upon them, and not otherwise, to be responsible for defects of title. If there are no
covenants, he assumes no responsibility, and the other party
takes the risk. The vendee agrees to pay according to his
contract, and secures payment by giving a lien upon the property. Here it is neither expressed nor implied that he may
refuse to pay and remain in possession of the premises, nor
that the vendor shall be liable otherwise than according to his
contract.
Where an adverse title is claimed, it cannot be litigated with
binding effect, unless the claimant is before the court. We
have shown that he cannot be made a party. One suit cannot
thus be injected into another. Without his presence, the judgment or decree as to him would be a nullity. The law never
does or permits a vain thing.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. THROCKMIORTON.

A title which cannot be made good otherwise may be made
so by the ]apse of time or the Statute of Limitations. Is the
vendor to wait until this shall occur? and, in the mean time,
can the vendee, or those claiming under him, remain in possession and enjoy all the fruits of the contract, and pay neither
principal nor interest to the vendor?
Chancellor Kent well says, "It would lead to the greatest
inconvenience, and perhaps abuse, if a purchaser in the actual
possession of land, and when no third person asserts or takes
any measures to assert a hostile claim, can be permitted, on a
suggestion of a defect or failure of title, and on the principle of
quia timet, to stop the payment of the purchase-money, and of
all proceedings at law to recover it." Abbott v. Allen, supra.

Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. THROCXMORT01.
1. It is essential to a bill in chancery on behalf of the United States to set aside
a patent for lands, or the final confirmation of a Mexican grant, that it
shall appear in some way, without regard to the special form, that the
Attorney-General has brought it himself, or given such authority for bringing it as will make him officially responsible therefor through all stages
of its presentation.
2. The frauds for which a bill to set aside a judgment or a decree between the
same parties, rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, will be sustained,
are those which are extrinsic or collateral to the matter tried, and not a
fraud which was in issue in the former suit.
3. The cases where such relief has been granted are those in which, by fraud
or deception practised on the unsuccessful party, he has been prevented
from exhibiting fully his case, by reason of which there has never been a
real contest before the court of the subject-matter of the suit.
4. The Circuit Court of the United States has now no original jurisdiction to
reform surveys made by the land department of confirmed Mexican grants
in California.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Walter 'Van .Dyke for the appellant.
Hr. Delos Lake, contra.
APPEAL from

