BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

already in existence." There is a broad difference between the
eases where the subscription is actually made and the bonds are
issued in fact after the corporation is complete, and where
these things are done while the corporation remains incomplete.
Upon the whole matter, we are of the opinion that the case
was well decided. The first question certified is answered in
the affirmative, and as that disposes of the entire controversy,
no attention need be given to the second question.
Judgment affirmed.

BRADLEY V.

UNITED STATES.

A. and the Postmaster-General executed an indenture, whereby the former
leased to the United States, for the use of the Post-office Department, at
an annual rent of $4,200, payable quarterly, a building in Washington, for
three years from and after June 5, 1873, with the privilege of renewing the
term for the further period of two years. It was thereby "understood and
agreed" by the parties that the indenture was made subject to an appropriation by Congress for the payment of the stipulated rent, and that no payment
should be made to A. on account thereof until such appropriation should be
available, when the arrears then due. would be paid in full, and thereafter
the payments be made at the time and in the manner stipulated. Congress
made the requisite appropriations to pay the specified rent to the end of
the second year of the term. By the act of March 3, 1875 (18 Stat. 367),
making appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1876, Congress
appropriated for the rent $1,800, with a proviso "that the above sum shall
not be deemed to be paid on account of any lease for years of said building: Provided, however, that at the end of the present fiscal year the Postmaster-General be directed, upon the demand of the lessor, to deliver up
the possession of said premises." No such demand by the lessor was made.
A. having received no rent for the third year, sued the United States therefor, and claimed $4,200.
Held, 1. That the parties to the indenture, by
their expressed understanding and agreement, intended to incorporate into
the instrument the substance of the act of Congress which prohibits any
department from "involving the government in any contract for the future
payment of money in excess of the appropriations." 2. That the appropriations for two years of the term were not such a recognition by Congress of the
validity of the contract as bound the United States to pay the stipulated
rent for the third year. 3. That by the said proviso A. had seasonable notice
that no more than $1,800 would be paid to him as rent for the third year, and
that he, not having demanded the possession of the premises, must be held to
have assented to the terms offered by said act.

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY

V. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was an action by Andrew C. Bradley for the use of
George Taylor, Samuel Cross, and Peter F. Bacon, trustees,
to recover the sum of $4,200 rent claimed to be due from
the United States for the premises No. 915 E Street, in
the city of Washington, for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1876.
The court below found the following facts 1. On the 6th of June, 1873, the Postmaster-General and
the claimant, Bradley, made and executed an indenture, of
which the following is a copy: "This indenture, made this sixth day of June, in the year one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, by and between Andrew C. Bradley, of Washington, D. C., of the first part, and John
A. J. Creswell, Postmaster-General, for and in behalf of the United
States of America, of the second part, witnesseth: That the said
party of the first part, for and in consideration of the rents, covenants, and agreements to be paid, kept, and performed by the
party of the second part, doth hereby demise and lease unto the
said party of the second part, those certain premises, with the fourstory brick house and brick stable thereon, situated on the north
side of E Street, between 9th and 10th Streets, in the city of
Washington, in the District of Columbia, and known as house
numbered 915 on said E Street northwest, to have and to hold to
the party of the second part, for the term of three years from and
after the fifth day of June, Anno Domini one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, with the privilege to the said party of the
second part of a renewal of the said term for the further period of
two years.
"The said party of the second part yielding and paying therefor the annual rent, during the said term and a subsequent renewal
thereof, as aforesaid, of four thousand two hundred dollars ($4,200),
payable quarterly, on the thirtieth day of September, the tbirty-first
day of December, the thirty-first day of March, and the thirtieth
day of June.
"And it is hereby mutually understood and agreed, by and
between the parties hereto, that this lease is made subject to an
appropriation by Congress for the payment of the rental herein
stipulated for, and that no payment shall be made to said party
of the first part on account of such rental until such appropri-

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

ation shall be available, and that as soon as practicable ater
such appropriation shall become available the arrears of the
rent then due shall be paid in full, and thereafter payment
shall be made at the times and in the manner hereinbefore stipulated.
"And itis hereby agreed by said party of the first part that he
will, at his own expense, remove such partitions and construct such
partitions, with necessary doorways and doors, in said building,
and construct such water-closets, with the necessary water connections, as may be required by the supervising architect of the
Treasury Department, and that he will leave in good order all
gas-fixtures now in said building for the use of the said party of
the second part; and the party of the second part will keep the
said premises in good repair during the continuance of this lease
and any renewed term thereof, and the expenses of any alterations of or additions to the interior, not herein otherwise provided
for, so as to adapt it to the use of the United States, and not calculated to damage the premises, are to be borne by the party of
the second part, and all taxes and assessments legally levied or
charged upon the property are to be paid by the party of the first
part.
"And it is hereby further provided that in case the premises, or
any part thereof, during said term, or the renewal thereof, be destroyed or injured by fire or other unavoidable casualty, so that
the same shall be thereby rendered unfit for use, then the rent
hereinbefore reserved, or a just and proportionable part thereof,
according to the extent and nature of the injury sustained, shall
be suspended or abated until the said premises shall have been put
in proper condition for use by and at the expense of the said party
of the first part; and the said party of the second part covenants
to deliver up the said premises to the party of the first part at
the determination of this lease, or at the end of any renewal of
the term thereof, in good order and condition, reasonable wear
and use thereof and injury by unavoidable fire or other casualty
excepted.
"And it is further stipulated that the party of the second part
may, at or before the delivery of the premises aforesaid, remove
such additions to or improvements of the same, placed on the
premises by the said party of the second part, the removal of
which, as aforesaid, will not injure the premises, as he, the said
party of the second part, may elect so to do.

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

"In witness whereof, the parties hereto have hereunto set their
hands and seals the day and year first above written.
"A. C. BRADLEY.
[SEAL.]
"Jwo. A. J. CRESWELL, [sEAL.]
" Postmaster-General.
"Signed, sealed, and delivered ).T. A. SPENcE.
inpresence of5
A. G. MiLLS."
2. The premises described in said indenture were sold and
conveyed, and the lease was assigned, by said Bradley to
Alexander R. Shepherd, and by him conveyed and assigned
to George Taylor, Samuel Cross, and Peter F. Bacon, as alleged
in the petition and in the amendment thereof.
8. Said premises were used and occupied for the uses and
purposes of the Post-Office Department, and for the benefit
of the United States, under the direction of the PostmasterGeneral, from the time of executing saia indenture until and
including June 80, 1876, as well as subsequently thereto.
4. The claimants have been paid the rent of said premises,
through special appropriations of Congress, up to and including June 80, 1875, but have been paid nothing for the year
ending June 80, 1876.
5. It does not appear that demand has ever been made upon
the Postmaster-General on the part of the claimants for delive y up of the possession of the premises.
On the foregoing facts, and the statutes in relation thereto,
the court concluded as matter of law that the claimants were
entitled to recover the sum of $1,800. Judgment having been
rendered for that amount, the claimants appealed to this court.
When the indenture was executed, two statutes were in
force.
"No contract or purchase shall hereafter he made, unless the
same be authorized by law, or be under an appropriation adequate
to its fulfllment, except in the War and Navy Departments, for
clothing, subsistence, forage, fuel, quarters, or transportation, which,
however, shall not exceed the necessities of the current year." Act
of March 2, 1861, sect. 10, 12 Stat. 220; Rev. Stat., sect. 3732.
"It shall not be lawful for any department of the government
to expend in any one fiscal year any sum in excess of appropriations
made by Congress for that fiscal year, or to involve the government

BRADLEY V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

in any contract for the future payment of money in excess of such
appropriations." Act of July 12, 1870, sect. 7, 16 Stat. 251 ; Rev.
Stat., sect. 3679.
The deficiency bill for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1873
and 1874, contained the follow-ing provision: "For rent of house numbered nine hundred and fifteen E Street
northwest, for further accommodation of the clerical force of the
department, from June sixth, eighteen hundred and seventy-three.
to June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, four thousand
four hundred and eighty-eight dollars and eighty-six cents, and
hereafter no contract shall be made for the rent of any building,
or part of any building in Washington, not now in use by the
government, to be used for the purposes of the government, until
an appropriation therefor shall have been made in terms by Congress." 18 Stat. 144.
The act making appropriations for the legislative, executive,
and judicial expenses of the government for the year ending
June 30, 1875, appropriated $4,200 "for rent of house numbered nine hundred and fifteen E Street northwest." Id. 107.
The act of March 3, 1875 (id. 367), making appropriations for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1876, contains the following:
"For rent of house numbered nine hundred and fifteen E Street
northwest, eighteen hundred dollars: Provided, that the above
sum shall not be deemed to be paid on account of any lease for
years of said building: Provided,however, that at the end of the
present fiscal year the Postmaster-General be directed, upon the demand of the lessor, to deliver up the possession of said premises."
Mr. . Hubley Ashton and Mr. Nathaniel Wilson for the
appellants.
The construction given by the Court of Claims to that clause
of the lease which provides for the payment of the rent violates
the settled rules of interpretation applicable to contracts and to
the relations of landlord and tenant, and is wholly inconsistent
with the intention of the parties as expressed in the other provisions of the indenture. It attributes to the lessor the manifestly irrational purpose and intent of giving the possession of his
property for five years, while he in the mean time was to keep
it in good repair and make extensive improvements, and was to
accept whatever rent the tenant might think proper to pay.

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY V. UNITED

STATES.

It is equally incredible that the parties should have intended
to agree, and to put in writing an agreement, to submit to Congress "the right to make or refuse appropriations."
Such a construction destroys the lease, with all its covenants,
save those which are for the advantage of the lessee, and is
inconsistent not only with its general conditions, but with the
obvious meaning of other provisions in the same clause which
is relied upon to exempt the tenant from liability. The provision for regular quarterly payments after "an appropriation"
is wholly irreconcilable with the theory that the lessor intended to leave the time as well as the amount of payment
to the arbitrary determination of the tenant.
The clause under consideration was inserted for the purpose
of designating the method and source of payment, and not of
making the legal rights and relations of the parties dependent
upon any futur contingent event.
If, however, this court shall be of opinion that the agreement contemplated that such rights and relations, as well as
the mode of payment, were to be determined by Congress,
then the recognition of the binding obligation of the contract
was to be manifested by an appropriation, which, when once
made, was an acceptance of the lease, thereby validating it
for the entire term, and entitling the lessor to the stipulated
rent.
Apart from and independently of the expressed intention of
the parties, it is apparent that Congress considered that the
lease was .presented as a conditional contract for a term of
years, to be approved or disapproved. That body obviously
intended that its action should be construed to be, and it by
implication was, an acceptance and ratification of the lease
for the whole term. If Congress had not so intended, it would
not have provided in such specific terms for the payment
of rent, nor declared that thereafter, except as to buildings
then in use in Washington, no contract should be entered into
until an appropriation had been made; but, as a subsequent
Congress did, would have appropriated the requisite money
without reference to the term, with a proviso that the same
should not be deemed to be paid on account of any lease for
years.

BRADLEY

V. UNITED STATFS.

[Su p. C .

While it may be admitted that, where the United States
is a principal, acts and omissions which would create a presumption of ratification in the case of an individual will
create no presumption against it, the action of Congress, when
fully cognizant of all the facts, in accepting the benefits of
a contract, has the same legal significance and consequences as
the similar action of an individual. .Fremont v. United States,
2 Nott & H. 461; Story, Agency (8th ed.), sect. 239; HeCauley v. Brooks, 16 Cal. 1; Roberts et al. v. United States,
92 U. S. 41.
A ratification once deliberately made, upon a full knowledge
of all the material circumstances, becomes eo instanti obligatory, and cannot afterwards be revoked or recalled. Wharton,
Commentaries on Agency, sects. 72, 78.
If it should be held that the action of Congress did not ratify
the contract and validate the lease for the entire term, it must
be admitted that it did validate it for the first and second
years; and as the government entered the premises and maintained possession under the lease, it is liable for the stipulated
rent for the third year.
A tenant holding over after the expiration of his lease,
-with the consent of the landlord, becomes a tenant from year
to year, subject to the terms and conditions of the original
lease. Taylor, Landlord and Tenant, sect. 22; Kingler v.
United States, 4 Nott & H. 407; Baker v. Root, 4 McLean,
572.
A lease for years, though void as to the term, is good for
one year if the lessee enters, and the tenancy thereafter becomes a tenancy from year to year.
A lease void under the Statute of Frauds, for want of authority of the agent who executed it, will regulate the rights
of the parties during the actual existence of the tenancy.
Taylor, Landlord and Tenant, sect. 26; Porter v. Bleiler,
17 Barb. (N. Y.) 140.
The rights and liabilities of the parties are to be measured
and determined by the lease under which possession was obtained, and neither party can change the terms of the tenancy
without the assent of the other.
Furthermore, if the lease was void, and not subsequently

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY V. UNITED

STATES.

validated, the government, having entered upon and occupied
the premises, is to be deemed as having entered under an implied lease, and is bound to make a fair and reasonable compensation for the rent or the use and occupation of the
premises.
It has been held by this court that, in the absence of an
express contract, or when the express contract is void, the
government is liable for the value of the property which it has
received and used. Salomon v. United States, 19 Wall. 17;
United States v. Gill, 20 id. 517.
The Solicitor-General,contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Leases, like deeds or other written instruments, must receive
a reasonable construction, as derived from the language employed, without the aid of extrinsic evidence beyond what may
be necessary to identify the premises and to disclose the circumstances surrounding the transaction when the instrument was
executed. Quackenboss v. Lansing, 6 Johns. (N. Y.) 49; Taylor, Landlord and Tenant, sect. 160, note.
Sufficient appears from the findings of the court below to
show that, on the 6th of June, 1878, an indenture of lease was
executed by the appellant to the United States, whereby the
former, in consideration of the rents, covenants, and agreements
in the instrument specified, demised and leased to the United
States the premises described in the petition for the term of
three years from and after June 5, 1873, with the privileges to
the lessees of a renewal of the term for the further period of
two years, at and for the annual rent, during the said term and
subsequent renewal thereof, of $4,200, payable quarterly on
the days specified in the indenture of lease exhibited in the
record.
Both sides concede what the lease and record show, that the
premises were leased by the United States for the convenience
of the Post-Office Department, and that the Postmaster-General
took immediate possession of the same, and that the premises
have ever since been used for the purposes of his department.
Four other findings of the court below should be noticed in
this connection: 1. That the lessor sold and conveyed the
M R. JUSTICE CIFFORD

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Suip. Ct.

premises to Alexander R. Shepherd and assigned the lease to
him, and that be, the assignee, conveyed and assigned the same
to the other persons named in the petition. 2. That the
premises were used by the United States for the purposes mentioned for the whole period alleged. 3. That the holders of
the lease have been paid the whole rent, except for the last
year, for which they have been paid nothing. 4. Adequate appropriations were made by Congress authorizing the payments
which have been made, but Congress refused to appropriate
more than $1,800 for the last year.
Pursuant to those findings, the court below held that the
plaintiffs could only recover the sum appropriated, and rendered judgment in their favor for that amount, from which
judgment the plaintiffs appealed to this court. Since the appeal was entered here, the appellants assign for error that the
court below erred in the construction given to the indenture of
lease, and to the two acts of Congress referred to in the findings
of fact.
Due appropriation of the sum of $1,800 was made by Congress to pay the rental for the last year; and the court below
rendered judgment in favor of the appellants for that sum,
which exhausts the appropriation made by Congress for that
purpose, the only question for decision being whether the appellants can recover in this case the balance of their claim
which has never been appropriated by Congress.
Moneys not appropriated cannot be drawn from the treasury;
and it is equally clear that the parties, by the terms of the lease,
understood and agreed with each other that the lease was made
subject to an appropriation by Congress for the payment of the
stipulated rental, and "that no payment shall be made" to the
lessor " on account of such rental until such an appropriation
shall become available;" that as soon as practicable after such
an appropriation shall become available, the arrears of rent
then due shall be paid in full, and that payment thereafter
shall be made at the times and in the manner stipulated in the
indenture of lease.
Prior to that time, Congress had enacted that it shall not be
lawful for any department of the government to expend in any
one fiscal year any -sum in excess of the appropriation made by

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

Congress lor that fiscal year, or to involve the government in
any contract for the future payment of money in excess of such
appropriation; and both parties concur in the proposition that
that provision was in full force and operation at the time the
indenture of lease under consideration was executed. 16 Stat.
281; Rev. Stat., sect. 3679.
Such contracts or purchases for the future were forbidden by
the act of the 2d of March, 1861, unless the same were authorized by law or were made under an appropriation adequate to
their fulfilment, except for clothing, subsistence, forage, fuel,
quarters, or transportation, in the War or Navy Department;
nor could those departments make any such contracts, even for
those purposes, beyond the necessities of the current year.
12 Stat. 220; Rev. Stat., sect. 3732.
Forty years earlier, Congress enacted that neither the Secretary of State, or of the Treasury, or of War or Navy Department, should thereafter make any contract other than such as
were necessary for the subsistence and clothing of the army
and navy, and contracts for the quartermaster's department,
except under a law authorizing the same, or under an appropriation adequate to its fulfilment. 8 Stat. 768.
Congress passed an act directing the Secretary of the Navy.
to cause floating dry-docks to be constructed at three of the
national navy-yards, and specified appropriations were made
towards constructing the several docks. Proper measures were
adopted by the Secretary to ascertain what each structure
would cost, from which it appeared that the appropriation for
each was greatly insufficient. In view of these facts, the Secretary doubted whether he could lawfully contract to have
the work done, and submitted the question to the AttorneyGeneral, who decided that the facts as stated brought the
case directly within the prohibition of the act last named,
and that the contracts could not lawfully be made. 4 Op.
Att'y-Gen. 600.
Cases arise, as there stated, where the authority to contract
for the work is expressly given in the appropriation act, and
in such cases it is clear, as there admitted, that the power to
contract exists even though the price to be paid exceeds the
amount appropriated. Examples of the kind are given in that
VOL. VIMi.

8

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

opinion, to which many more might be added; but when no
such authority is given, and nothing is contained in the act
appropriating the money from which such an authority may be
implied, it is clear that the head of the department cannot
involve the government in an obligation to pay any thing in
excess of the appropriation.
Argument to show that money cannot be drawn from the
treasury before it is appropriated is unnecessary, as the Constitution provides that "no money shall be drawn from the
treasury but in consequence of an appropriation made by law ;"
nor is it necessary to enter into much discussion to show that
the act of Congress making it unlawful for the head of a department to involve the government in any contract for the
future payment of money in excess of an appropriation is a
valid act, and of binding obligation, as such regulations and
prohibitions in one form or another have been in operation
without question throughout nearly the whole period since the
adoption of the Constitution.
Acts of Congress of the kind, it must be admitted, are both
valid and salutary in their operation; and it is equally clear
that the party who drafted the indenture of lease intended to
incorporate into the instrument the substance of the provision
-which prohibits the head of a department from involving the
government in any contract for the future payment of money
in excess of the appropriation made for its fulfilment. Wellfounded doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained, and
the court is of the opinion that the words of the indenture are
amply sufficient to effect the object which the person who
drafted the instrument intended to accomplish.
Both parties agreed that the indenture was subject to an
appropriation to be made by Congress for the payment of the
rental, and that no payment should be made to the lessor on
account of such rental until such an appropriation should become available. Concede that these stipulations are valid, of
which there can be no doubt, and it is clear to a demonstration
that the claim of the appellants in excess of the amount
allowed by the court below is utterly groundless.
Even suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the appellants
that Congress, by subsequent legislation, has committed the

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

United States to the annual payment of the stipulated rental
for the whole term of three years specified in the indenture of
lease, and that they are entitled to judgment for the entire
rental of the third year which remained unpaid when the suit
was commenced, irrespective of the fact that the judgment
rendered in their favor by the court below exhausts the whole
amount of the money appropriated by Congress for that purpose.
Two annual appropriations were made by Congress, which in
the aggregate were sufficient to pay the stipulated rental of the
premises for the first two years; and the findings of the court
below show that the payments for those two years were duly
made, and that nothing more is claimed by the appellants in
that regard. Of these, the first was simply an appropriation of
the amount required to pay the stipulated annual rental, without any explanation whatever beyond what was necessary to
describe the premises leased, from which it is plain that nothing can be inferred from that act to support the theory of the
appellants. 18 Stat. 107.
Annexed to the second appropriation; which is for the sum
of $4,488.86, is the following proviso, to wit: that hereafter no
contract shall be made for the rent of any building, or part of
any building in Washington, not now in use by the government, to be used for the purposes of the government, until an
appropriation therefor shall have been made in terms by Congress. Id. 144.
Specific appropriations by these two acts were made available
to pay the rental of the premises leased for the first two years;
but it is clear as any thing in legal decision can be, that they
furnish no ground whatever to support the theory that Congress
entered into any legal obligation to make such an appropriation
for the third year. Instead of that, the inference, if any, to be
drawn from the last act tends to negative the appellants' theory,
and to show that Congress intended to adhere to the stipulations of the lease, - that it was made subject to an appropriation by Congress for the payment of the rental stipulated, and
that no payment should be made to the lessor on account of
such rental until such an appropriation should become available.

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Unsupported as that theory is by those two appropriation acts,
or by any thing else exhibited in the record, it may well be dismissed as destitute of merit, without further consideration.
If the indenture of lease had been for three years without
any covenant that it was made subject to an appropriation by
Congress, and that no payment on account of rental should be
made until such an appropriation became available, it may be
that the theory of the appellants, that the contract was for three
years as an entire term, might be maintained; or if not, that it
might perhaps be held that Congress had ratified the instrument
by appropriating money to pay the rental for the first two
years. Be that as it may, it is still true that no ratification of
the present indenture by any such act would benefit the appellants in that regard, so long as it contains the covenant that no
payment of the rental shall be made until an appropriation for
the purpose becomes available.
Viewed in that light, as the case should be, a few observations will be sufficient to show that nothing is found in the
remaining appropriation act to warrant a judgment in favor of
the appellants for any sum beyond what was allowed by the
court below.
Eighteen hundred dollars were appropriated by Congress for
the third year, several months before the second year expired.
Appended to that appropriation is the proviso that the above
sum shall not be deemed to be paid on account of any lease for
years of said building, which shows conclusively that Congress
intended to negative the theory of the appellants that the indenture gave them the right to recover any thing of the United
States beyond the sum appropriated by Congress.
Confirmation of that proposition is also derived from a second
proviso annexed to the same Ippropriation, by which it is
enacted that at the end of the present fiscal year the Postmaster-General be directed, upon demand of the lessor, to
deliver up the possession of the said premises. Id. 867.
Construed as those provisions should be, in view of the subject-matter and the surrounding circumstances, it is clear that
Congress intended to give seasonable notice to the lessor of the
premises that no more than the sum appropriated would be
paid as rental of the same for the third year, and that he might

Oct. 1878.]

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

take possession of the same if he did not see fit to accept the
sum appropriated for their use and occupation.
Corresponding views were expressed by the court below, and
they held, and well held, that inasmuch as the appellants never
demanded the redelivery of the premises, it must be determined
that they acquiesced in and assented to the terms of rent
offered by Congress for the third year.
Public officers, in such a case, having no funds in the treasury and being without authority to bind the United States, can
only agree to pay the stipulated rental, provided the money is
appropriated by Congress, and if the lessor, voluntarily and
without any misrepresentation or deception, enters into a lease
on those terms, he must rely upon the justice of Congress; nor
do the circumstances in this case disclose any hardship, as
the appellants were seasonably notified that they would not be
paid for the third year any greater rent than the sum appropriated for the purpose. Churchward v. The Queen, Law Rep.
1 Q. B. 199.
For these reasons the court is of the opinion that there is no
error in the record.
Judgment afflrmed.
AIR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
FIELD, MR. JUSTICE STROING, and MIR. JUSTICE IARL , dissenting.
I am of opinion that the two annual appropriations expressly
for the sum due for each year's rent, according to the terms of
the lease, were recognitions of the validity of that contract
which bind the United States, and that the claimant was
entitled to recover the same amount for the third year.

