Oct. 1878.]

MINING

Co. v. TARBET.

MINING COMPANY

v.

TARBET.

1. 'Under an act entitled "An Act granting the right of way to ditch and canal
companies over the public lands, and for other purposes." approved July 2,
1866 (14 Stat. 251), as well as under that entitled "An Act to promote the
development of the mining resources of the United States," approved May
10, 1872 (17 id. 91), the location of a mining claim upon a lode or vein of
ore, should be made along the same lengthwise of the course of its apex at
or near the surface. If otherwise laid, it will only secure so much of the
lode or vein as it actually covers.
2. Each locator is entitled to follow the dip of the lode or vein to an indefinite
depth, though it carries him beyond the side lines of the location; but this
right is based on the hypothesis that they substantially correspond with the
course of the lode or vein at the surface; and it is bounded at each end by
the end lines of the location, crossing the lode or vein, and extended perpendicularly downwards, and indefinitely in their own direction.
8. A location laid crosswise of a lode or vein, so that its greatest length crosses the
same instead of following the course thereof, will secure only so much of
the vein as it actually crosses at the surface, and its side lines will become
its end lines, for the purpose of defining the rights of the owners.
4. A locater working subterraneously into the dip of the vein belonging to another,
who is in possession of his location, is a trespasser, and liable to an action
for taking ore therefrom.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mfr. J. M. Woolworth
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Charles iF. Bennett for
the defendant in error.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE BRADL-EY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action in the nature of trespass quare clausum
fregit, brought in the District Court of the Territory of Utah
for the third district, by Alexander Tarbet, and continued by
his assignee, Helen Tarbet, against the Flagstaff Silver Mining
Company of Utah (limited), and other persons. The action
having been dismissed as to the other persons, judgment was
rendered for $45,000 damages upon the verdict of a jury against
the company. The latter carried the case to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, where the judgment was affirmed on the third
day of June, 1878. Tjhe company thereupon sued out this writ
of error.
The controversy relates to the working of a mine in Little

464

MINING Co. v. TARBET.

[Sup. Ct.

Cottonwood Mining District in the county of Salt Lake. The
defendant in error claims to own, and to have been in possession of, a mining location on a lode called the Titus lode, the
location including three claims, and extending six hundred feet
westwardly from the discovery, with a width of two hundred
feet, and including ten feet on the east side of the discovery
belonging to the South Star mine. The plaintiff in error
owned and had a patent for another mining location, called the
Flagstaff mine, one hundred feet in width and two thousand six
hundred feet in length, running in a northerly and southerly
direction, and crossing the Titus claims near the west end thereof,
and nearly at right angles therewith. In working from the
Flagstaff mine the plaintiffs in error worked around subterraneously, to a point some three hundred feet to the east of
their location, and on the north side of the Titus mine, and
within about one hundred feet of the Titus location. It is for
this working that the suit was brought ; and the principal
question is, whether the plaintiff in error had a right thus to
work outside of its location on the east, and whether, in doing
so, it interfered with the rights of the defendant in error.
It is conceded that both parties are working on the same
lode or vein of ore. The Flagstaff discovery, to which the location of the plaintiff in error relates as its starting-point, is situated nearly due west from that of the South Star and
Titus, and about five hundred and fifty feet therefrom. The
lode crops out at the two points of discovery, but is not visible at intermediate points. These croppings, however, show
that the direction or course of the apex of the vein, at or near
the surface, is nearly east and west. The location of the Titus,
claimed by the defendant in error, nearly corresponds with this
surface course of the vein. The location of the Flagstaff, belonging to the plaintiff in error, crosses it nearly at right angles.
The principal difficulty in the case arises from the fact that
the surface is not level, but rises up a mountain in going from
the Titus discovery to the Flagstaff. The dip of the vein being
northeasterly, it happens that, by following a level beneath the
surface, the strike of the vein runs in a northwesterly direction,
or about north 500 west. In other words, if by a process of
abrasion the mountain could be ground down to a plain, the

c8INING Co. v.

Oct. 1878.]

TARBET.

strike of the vein would be northwest insfead of west, as it now
is on the surface; or, at least, as the evidence tended to show
that it is. In that case, the location of the defendant in error
would leave the vein to its right, and the location of the plaintiff in error would not reach it until several hundred feet to the
north of the Flagstaff discovery.
Evidence having been given pro and con in reference to the
condition and situation of the vein, both at and below the surface, and to the workings thereon by both parties, the judge
charged the jury as follows : "If you find that Alexander Tarbet, during the time mentioned in the complaint, to wit, from Jan. 1, 1873, to Dec. 14,
1875 (being a period of 2 years, 11 months, and 14 days), was
in possession of the whole or an undivided interest of Nos. 1, 2,
and 3 of the Titus mining claim, and ten feet off No. 1 of the
South Star mining claim, holding the same in accordance with
the mining laws and the customs of the miners of the mining
district, and that the apex and course of the vein in dispute is
within such surface, - then, as against one subsequently entering, he is deemed to be possessed of the land within his boundaries to any depth, and also of the vein in the surface to any depth
on its dip, though the vein in its dip downward passes the side
line of the surface boundary and extends beneath other and
adjoining lands, and a trespass upon such part of the vein on
its dip, though beyond the side surface line, is unlawful to the
same extent as a trespass on the vein inside of the surface boundary. This possession of the vein outside of the surface line,
on its dip, is limited in two ways, - by the length of the course
of the vein within the surface; and by an extensiofi of the end
lines of the surface claim vertically, and in their own direction,
so as to intersect the vein on its dip: and the right of a possessor to recover for trespass on the vein is subject to only these
restrictions."
Again: "The defendant (plaintiff in error) has not shown
any title or color of title to any part of the vein, except so
much of its length on the course as lies within the Flagstaff
surface, and the dip of the vein for that length; and it has
shown no title, or color of title, to any of the surface of the
South Star and Titus mining claim, except to so much of No. 3
voL.

Ivin.

s0

MINING

Co. v.

TARBET.

[Sup. Ot.

as lies within the patented surface of the Flagstaff mining
claim."
The court refused to give the following instructions propounded by the plaintiff in error, to wit: "By the act of Congress of July 26, 1866, under which all these locations are
claimed to have been made, it was the vein or lode of mineral
that was located and claimed; the lode was the principal thing,
and the surface area was a mere incident for the convenient
working of the lode; the patent granted the lode, as such,
irrespective of the surface area, which an applicant was not
bound to claim; it was his convenience for working the lode
that controlled his location of the surface area; and the patentee under that act takes a fee-simple title to the lode, to the
full extent located and claimed under said act."
Secondly, "In the very nature of the thing, a lode or vein in
its unworked and undeveloped stage cannot be known and surveyed so as to plat it and make a diagram of it; the law does
not require impossibilities, and must receive a reasonable construction. The diagram required to be filed by the applicant
for a patent under the act of 1866 was a diagram of the surface area claimed; and this diagram might be extended laterally
and otherwise, as convenience in working this claim might suggest to the applicant."
These instructions and refusals to instruct indicate the general position taken by the court below ; namely, that a mining
claim secures only so much of a lode or vein as it covers along
the course of the apex of the vein on or near the surface, no
matter how far the location may extend in another direction.
The plaintiff in error has made the following assignment of
error, which indicates the position which it contends for: "The plaintiff in error assigns for error the charge of the
eourt and the refusal to give its requests, that is, that the judge
instructed the jury that the defendant below had shown no
title or color of title to any part of the vein except so much of
its length on its course as lies within the surface ground patented; and that he refused to direct the jury that by the act of
Congress it was the vein or lode of mineral that was located
and claimed, and that the patent granted the lode irrespective
of the shrface area, which was merely for the convenience of

Oct. 1878.]

MINING

Co. v.

TARBET.

working the lode; that the diagram required to be filed by an
applicant for a patent was of the surface claimed, and might
be extended laterally or otherwise, as convenience in working
the claim might suggest; that the surface ground patented does
not measure the grantee's right to the vein or lode in its course,
or control the direction which he shall take; and, lastly, that
the Flagstaff company have the right to the lode for the length
thereof claimed in the location notice, though it runs in a different direction from that in which it was supposed to run at
the time of the location."
Both parties agree in the general rule that the owner of a
mining right in a lode or vein cannot follow the course of the
vein beyond the end lines of his location extended perpendicularly downwards, but that he may follow the dip to an indefinite distance outside of his side lines. This is undoubtedly the
general rule of miners' law, and the true construction of the
act of Congress. The language of the act of 1866 (14 Stat.
251) in relation to "a vein or lode" is, "that no location hereafter made shall exceed two hundred feet in length along the
vein for each locator, with an additional claim for discovery to
the discoverer of the lode, with the right to follow such vein
to any depth, with all its dips, variations,and angles, together
with a reasonable quantity of surface for the convenient working of the same as fixed by the local rules," &c. The act of
1872 (17 id. 91) is more explicit in its terms; but the intent is
undoubtedly the same, as it respects end lines and side lines,
and the right to follow the dip outside of the latter. We think
that the intent of both statutes is, that mining locations on
lodes or veins shall be made thereon lengthwise, in the general
direction of such veins or lodes on the surface of the earth
where they are discoverable; and that the end lines are to
cross the lode and extend perpendicularly downwards, and to
be continued in their own diiection either way horizontally;
and that the right to follow the dip outside of the side lines is
based on the hypothesis that the direction of these lines corresponds substantially with the course of the lode or vein at its
apex on or near the surface. It was not the intent of the law
to allow a person to make his location crosswise of a vein so
that the side lines shall cross it, and thereby give him the right

468

MINING

Co. v. TARBET.

[Sup. Ct.

to follow the strike of the vein outside of his side lines. That
would subvert the whole system sought to be established by
the law. If he does locate his claim in that way, his rights
must be subordinated to the rights of those who have properly
located on the lode. Their right to follow the dip outside of
their side lines cannot be interfered with by him. His right
to the lode only extends to so much of the lode as his claim
covers. If he has located crosswise of the lode, and-his claim
is only one hundred feet wide, that one hundred feet is all he
has a right to. This we consider to be the law as to locations
on lodes or veins.
The location of the plaintiff in error is thus laid across the
Titus lode, that is to say, across the course of its apex at or
near the surface; and the side lines of the location are really
the end lines of the claim, considering the direction or course
of the lode at the surface.
As the law stands, we think that the right to follow the dip
of the vein is bounded by the end lines of the claim, properly
so called; which lines are those which are crosswise of the
general course of the vein on the surface. The Spanish mining
law confined the owner of a mine to perpendicular lines on
every side, but gave him greater or less width according to the
dip of the vein. See Rockwell, pp. 56-58, and pp. 274, 275.
But our laws have attempted to establish a rule by which each
claim shall be so many feet of the vein, lengthwise of its course,
to any depth below the surface, although laterally its inclination shall carry it ever so far from a perpendicular. This rule
the court below strove to carry out, and all its rulings seem to
have been in accordance with it.
The plaintiff in error contended, and requested the court to
charge, in effect, that having received a patent for two thousand six hundred feet in length and one hundred feet in breadth,
commencing at the Flagstaff discovery, on the lode at the surface, it was entitled to two thousand six hundred feet of that
lode along its length, although it diverged from the location
of the claim, and went off in another direction. We cannot
think that this is the intent of the law. It would lead to
inextricable confusion. Other localities correctly laid upon
the lode, and coming up to that of the plaintiff in error on

Oct. 1878.]

O INING Co. v. TARBE.

either side, would, by such a rule, be subverted and swept away.
Slight deviations of the outcropping lode from the location of
the claim would probably not affect the right of the locator
to appropriate the continuous vein; but if it should make a
material departure from his location, and run off in a different
direction, and not return to it, it certainly could not be said
that the location was on that lode or vein farther than it continued substantially to correspond with it. Of what use would
a location be, for any purpose of defining the rights of parties, if
it could be thus made to cover a lode or vein which runs entirely
away from it. Though it should happen that the locator, by
sinking shafts to a considerable depth, might strike the same
vein on its subterranean descent, he ought not to interfere
-with those who, having properly located along the vein, - are
pursuing their right to follow the dip in a regular way. So
far as he can work upon it, and not interfere with their right,
he might probably do so; but no farther. And this consequence would follow irrespective of the priority of the locations.
It would depend on the question as to what part of the vein
the respective locations properly cover and appropriate.
We do not mean to say that a vein must necessarily crop out
upon the surface, in order that locations may be properly laid
upon it. If it lies entirely beneath the surface, and the course
of its apex can be ascertained by sinking shafts at different
points, such shafts may be adopted as indicating the position
and course of the vein; and locations may be properly made on
the surface above it, so as to secure a right to the vein beneath.
But where the vein does crop out along the surface, or is so
slightly covered by foreign matter that the course of its apex
can be ascertained by ordinary surface exploration, we think
that the act of Congress requires that this course should be
substantially followed in laying claims and locations upon it.
Perhaps the law is not so perfect in this regard as it might
be; perhaps the true course of a vein should correspond with
its strike, or the line of a level run through it; but this can
rarely be ascertained until considerable work has been done,
and after claims and locations have become fixed. The most
practicable rule is to regard the course of the vein as that
which is indicated by surface outcrop, or surface explorations

Amy v. DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Or.

and workings. It is on this line that claims will naturally be
laid, whatever be the character of the surface, whether level or
inclined.
If these views are correct, the Titus claims, belonging to
the defendant in error, were located along the vein or lode in
question in a proper manner; and the Flagstaff claims, belonging to the plaintiff in error, were located across it, and can only
give the latter a right to so much of the vein or lode as is included between their side lines. The court below took substantially this view of the subject, and ruled accordingly.
As this is really the whole controversy in the case, it is unnecessary to examine more minutely the different points of the
charge, or the instructions asked for by the plaintiff in error.
The question was presented in different forms, but all to the
same general purport.
Judgment affirmed.

Amy v. DUBUQUE.
The Statute of Limitations of Iowa begins to run against coupon interest warrants from the time they respectively mature, although they remain attached
to the bond which represents the principal debt.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. James Grant for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. 0. P. Shiras for the defendant
in error.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN- delivered the opinion of the court.
The question of limitation presented for our consideration
upon this writ of error depends for its solution upon the statutes of Iowa. "It is not to be questioned,'.' said this court in
Hawkins et al. v. Barney's Lessee (5 Pet. 457), "that laws limiting the time of bringing suit constitute a part of the lex fori
of every country: they are laws for administering justice, one4

