Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. v. VARNELL.

The right of the defendant to insist upon the objection to
the illegality of the service was not waived by the special
appearance of counsel for him to move the dismissal of the
action on that ground, or what we consider as intended, that
the service be set aside; nor, when that motion was overruled,
by their answering for him to the merits of the action. Illegality in a proceeding by which jurisdiction is to be obtained
is in no case waived by the appearance of the defendant for the
purpose of calling the attention of the court to such irregularity;
nor is the objection waived when being urged it is overruled,
and the defendant is thereby compelled to answer. He is not
considered as abandoning his objection because he does not
submit to further proceedings without contestation. It is only
where he pleads to the merits in the first instance, without insisting upon the illegality, that the objection is deemed to be
waived.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory, therefore, must be reversed, and the case remanded with directions
to reverse the judgment of the District Court for Oneida
County, and to direct that court to set aside the service made
upon the defendant; and it is
So

ordered.

RAILROAD CoArPA_,Y v. VARNELL.
Exceptions to the charge of the court which are in general terms, and do not
clearly and specifically point out the objectionable part of it, cannot be sustained as a ground for reversing the judgment

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ffr. .Enoch Totten for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Tomas T. Crittenden and Mr. Glen W. Cooper, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Owners of vessels engaged in carrying passengers assume
obligations somewhat different from those whose vehicles or
vessels are employed as common carriers of merchandise. ObliMR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

RAILROAD CO. V. VARNELL.

['Sup. Ct.

gations of the kind in the former case are in some respect less
extensive and more qualified than in the latter, as the owners
of the vehicle or vessel carrying passengers are not insurers of
the lives of their passengers, nor even of their safety; but in
most other respects the obligations assumed are equally comprehensive, and perhaps even more stringent.
Common carriers of merchandise, in the absence of any legislative regulation prescribing a different rule, are insurers of
the goods and are liable at all events and for every loss or
damage, unless it happened by the act of God or the public
enemy, or the fault of the shipper, or by some other cause or
accident expressly excepted in the bill of lading, and without
fault or negligence on the part of the carrier. Propeller
Niagara v. Cordes et al., 21 How. 23.
Carriers of passengers even in street-cars are bound to a
higher degree of care, skill, and vigilance in the preparation
and management of their vehicles of conveyance than were
required of the owners of the stage-coaches, as well on account
of the greater number transported at the same time as the constant ingress and egress of the persons entering or leaving the
car. Travellers must take the risk necessarily incident to the
mode of travel which they select; but those risks in the legal
sense are only such as the utmost care, skill, and caution of
the carrier in the preparation and management of the vehicle
of conveyance is unable to avert. Pendleton v. Kinsley,
8 Cliff. 420.
Prepayment of the usual fare having been made by the
plaintiff, he entered the car of the defendants, as he alleges,
for a passage from Washington to Georgetown, and on arriving
at the depot of the latter place, and when being in the act of
getting off from the car, was thrown from the same upon the
ground by the carelessness and negligence of the defendants,
and was thereby greatly injured, so that he could not perform
the usual duties of his employment ; that in consequence of the
injuries so received he was compelled to employ a physician at
great expense, and was confined to the house for a long time,
during which he suffered great pain and anguish. Suitable
indemnity being refused, the plaintiff instituted the present
suit to recover compensation for the alleged injuries and the

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD

CO. v. VARNELL.

consequent expenses. Service was made, and the defendants
appeared and pleaded the general issue, which was subsequently joined by the plaintiff. The preliminary proceedings
being closed, the parties went to trial, and the verdict and
judgment were for the plaintiff in the sum of $4,000, with costs
of suit. Exceptions were filed by the defendants, and tlhy
sued out the present writ of error, and removed the cause into
this court for re-examination.
Since the case was entered here, the defendants have assigned
for error the following causes, for which they claim that the
judgment should be reversed: 1. That the instructions of the
court set forth in the first three exceptions are erroneous as to
the supposed contributory negligence of the plaintiff. 2. That
the court erred in the instruction given to the jury as to the
measure of damages. 8. That the court erred in refusing the
two prayers for instruction presented by the defendants, and in
the instructions given in lieu of those prayers. 4. That the
instructions given by the court to the jury were incoherent,
contradictory, and incomprehensible, and must necessarily have
confused and misled the jury to the disadvantage of the defendants.
Evidence was introduced by the plaintiff tending to show
that he, on the day and at the place alleged in the declaration,
entered one of the cars of the defendants, and that he, having
first paid his fare to the conductor, rode in the car to the terminus of the route in Georgetown, at the intersection of High
and Bridge Streets; that the car was then stopped at the usual
place for passengers to leave and pass out; that several passengers had got off from the car, and that plaintiff started for that
purpose, and having passed out of the rear end had stepped on
the lower step of the car and was about stepping to the ground
when the car was suddenly started with a jerk, which threw
him to the ground, his left hip striking the paved street, and
that the thigh bone of his hip at the socket was dislocated and
fractured by the fall; that the plaintiff was carried to his home,
where he was confined to his bed for several weeks, and that
he has ever since been compelled to walk with a cane, and has
been unable to perform any labor, and that the injured leg is
cons'iderably shorter than the other; that he was sixty-four
voL. Viii.

31

482

RAILROAD

CO. V. VARNELL.

[Sup. Ct.

years of age at the time of the accident, and that up to that
time he had always been healthy.
Witnesses were examined by the defendants, and they gave
evidence tending to show that the plaintiff, just before the accident, was standing upon the rear platform of the car, and
that he jumped from the car before it stopped, and that in
jumping from the car he fell and was injured; that at the time
of the accident the car had almost reached its usual stoppingplace, and that the plaintiff, if he had waited a short time,
could have alighted from the car in safety.
Rebutting evidence contradicting that given by the defendants was also introduced by the plaintiff, and the bill of exceptions shows that in cross-examining one of the defendants'
witnesses he laid the foundation to admit proof that the witness
had made contradictory statements out of court. Proof to that
effect was subsequently offered by the plaintiff; and in examining the witness called for that purpose the questions put were
leading in form, to which the defendants objected on that account, but the court overruled the objections, and having
admitted the answers the defendants excepted. Three or four
exceptions of the kind were taken; but inasmuch as the rulings
of the court are not assigned for error, it will be sufficient to
say upon the subject, that if they had been assigned as error, it
could not have benefited the defendants.
More difficulty arises in disposing of the exceptions to the
charge of the court, for two principal reasons: 1. Because the
instructions are so framed as to render it somewhat uncertain
what the principle of law is that the presiding justice gave, or
intended to give, to the jury. 2. Because the exceptions are so
general and indefinite, that it is impossible to determine with
certainty to what part of any one of the instructions any one of
the exceptions refers.
Three exceptions are embraced in the first assignment of
error, and the complaint is that the court erred in failing to
give the defendants the full benefit of their evidence as to the
contributory negligence of the plaintiff.
Turning to the record, it appears that the first exception to
the charge of the court is addressed to nearly a page of the
remarks of the presiding justice, with nothing to aid the in-

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. V. VARNELL.

quirer in determining what the complaint is, beyond what may
be derived from the exception, which is in the following words:
"To which instruction the counsel for the defendants then and
there excepted."
Much less difficulty would arise if the assignment of error
contained any designation of the precise matter of complaint;
but nothing of the kind can be obtained from that source.
Certain portions of those remarks appear to be unobjectionable; as, for example, the judge told the jury that they must
first determine whether the plaintiff was a passenger on the
railroad of the defendants, and he called their attention to
the testimony of the conductor, that the plaintiff was not in
the car in which it seems he claimed that he had been riding
just before he received the injury.
Comments were made upon the testimony bearing upon that
point, and the judge next stated to the jury to the effect that
they must then determine from the evidence whether he fell off
or got off, and was hurt in getting off, remarking, that probably
there was no dispute that he got hurt in falling from the car,
but that the question was whether he, the plaintiff, was in fault,
or whether the driver or conductor of the car caused the injury;
adding, that if it was the fault of the conductor, the company
was responsible. If you come to the conclusion, said the judge,
that the plaintiff acted in a neglectful manner in getting off
from the car, or that he was in fault, he cannot recover; but if
you come to the conclusion that it was the fault of the driver
in starting too soon, or in not properly observing that the
plaintiff was about to get off, and that the accident occurred in
consequence of the too sudden starting of the car, the company
is liable, if it was the fault of the driver or conductor.
Inaccurate language and, in some instances, incomplete sentences were employed by the judge; but the court is not a'ole
to see that any error of law was committed, or that the errors of
language committed were of such a character as to warrant the
conclusion that the jury were misled in respect to the legal
rights of the parties; nor is the court here able to see that any
remarks of the judge were of a character to withdraw any of
the evidence from the proper consideration of the jury. Instead of that, he submitted it all to their determination, and

RAILROAD CO. V. VARNELL.

[Sup. Ct.

then remarked, that if they found that the injury received by
the plaintiff was by the neglect of the railroad, then it would
be their duty to ascertain the extent of the injury from the
evidence, to which no objection can properly be made.
Reference was then made to the evidence, and comments of
a general character followed; and at the close of the judge's
remarks upon thit subject is another exception, in the words
following: "To- which instruction the counsel for the defendants then and there excepted." Discussion of that exception
may well be omitted, as the remarks made in respect to the
preceding exception are believed to be sufficient to show that
it i-, not sufficiently explicit, and that it must be overruled.
Expert witnesses were called and examined in the case, and
the third exception has respect to the remarks of the judge
upon that subject. Neither the exception nor the assignment
of error designates any particular remark of the judge as erroneous, and in view of the fact that the exception is addressed
to the entire remarks as an instruction, the court is of the
opinion that it requires no further examination.
Extended remarks were made by the judge upon the subject
of damages, in case the jury came to the conclusion that the
plaintiff was entitled to recover, to which two exceptions are
appended, to the effect that the defendants then and there
excepted to the remarks which preceded the note of exception.

Exceptions put in that general form are certainly not entitled
to favor; but it is proper to remark that those under consideration stand in a worse condition than those previously examined,
for the reason that the attention of the judge after the charge
was concluded was directed to many passages in his remarks
as objectionable, every one of which the judge either corrected
as requested, or, where the suggestion of error was in respect to
the testimony, he referred the question to the recollection of
the jury. Such corrections must, of course, be considered in
connection with the antecedent remarks of the. judge; and
when that part of the charge is viewed in that light, the court
is of the opinion that the exceptions must be overruled.
Two prayers for instruction were presented by the defendants: 1. That the court should instruct the jury that the
plaintiff is not entitled to recover any thing for the services of

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. v. VARNELL.

the physicians or other expenses, as there was no testimony to
show the amount of money, if any, be paid on that account.
2. That the court should instruct the jury that in estimating
the damages of the plaintiff they must take into consideration
his advanced age as lessening his capacity for earning money.
Responsive to the first request, the judge remarked to the
jury that there being no evidence on the subject of the specific
amount of the physician's bill, "you will not take that into
consideration, unless there is doubt," evidently leaving the
sentence incomplete; but his attention was not called to the
omission, and the court here is of the opinion that the defendants have no cause to complain of that part of the charge as
an error of law.
Both requests were refused, and in response to the* second
the judge remarked to the effect that the jury acting reasonably must ascertain the proper amount of the damages; that
if they found damages, they must be reasonable, as they could
not tell whether a man would live one, two, or five years.
Probably no one will think that these remarks of the judge
were very instructive to the jury; but it is not possible to hold
that they show any legal error for which the judgment should
be reversed.
Where the charge of the judge to the jury is of a character
to mislead the jury, the error is one of law, and may be corrected in an appellate court; but in every such case the part of
the charge to which the exception is addressed ought to be distinctly pointed out. Unless that be done, the exception cannot
be sustained as a ground for reversing the judgment, as that
can only be done for error of law.
For these reasons, the court is of the opinion that there is no
error in the record.

Jhidgment affirmed.

