Oct. 1878.]

REED V. MoINTYRE.

REM~a) 'V.MCINE.
A., in due course of legal proceedings, recovered, March 14, judgment against B.,
a merchant who, the preceding day, had made an assignment of all his property for the benefit of his creditors. An execution was forthwith sued out
upon the judgment, and levied upon certain goods, part of the property so
assigned. On the petition of a creditor, filed March 31, alleging that B. had
committed acts of bankruptcy by fraudulently suspending and not thereafter
resuming payment of his commercial paper due January 1, and by making said
assignment, B. was by the proper court adjudged to be a bankrupt, and his
estate conveyed in the usual form by the register to the assignee in bankruptcy, who filed his bill against A. to determine the title to the proceeds of
the sale of the goods, which by consent had been made without prejudice to
the rights, if any, of A. by the levy of the execution. Upon the hearing
it appeared by the proofs that the assignment by B. was made in good faith
to secure the distribution of his property among all his creditors. Beld, that
A. acquired no priority by the levy, and that the assignee in bankruptcy is
entitled to the proceeds.

APPEA, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
William H. Shuey, a merchant at St. Paul, Minn., executed,
March 13, 1874, a deed of assignment conveying his entire
property, including his stack in trade, to William S. Combs in
trust, for the equal b*enefit of all his creditors. Upon the same
day, immediately after the acknowledgment of the deed, Combs
entered upon the discharge of his duties as assignee, and took
possession of Shuey's stock. During the succeeding day, Mrs.
Reed obtained a judgment in one of the State courts of Minnesota against Barnard and Shuey, for the sum of $5,120.45.
An execution was immediately issued, and the sheriff forthwith
levied it upon the same goods of which Combs had taken possession. Upon the occasion of the levy, the officer was notified
of the assignment and Combs's possession. On the 81st of
March, 1874, Mrs. Sanderson, a creditor of Shuey, by petition
filed in the proper court, prayed that he might be declared a
bankrupt, upon two grounds: 1st, that being a merchant and
trader, he had, Jan. 1, 1874, fraudulently stopped and suspended payment of his commercial paper, to wit, the promissory note held by her, and had not resumed payment thereof ;
2d, that, March 18, 1874, being then insolvent, h6 made the

REED V. MCINTYRE.

[Sup. t

said assignment to Combs with intent to hinder, delay, and
defraud his creditors, which she alleged was an act of bankruptcy. Before the return of the rule which issued upon this
petition, Sbuey, by written stipulation, filed in court, without
admitting or denying the alleged grounds of bankruptcy, consented that an adjudication might be entered against him.
This was at once done, the order reciting that, in consideration
of Shuey's written consent, and of the proofs, in the cause, the
facts set forth in the petition were found to be true; and it was
therefore adjudged that he was a bankrupt, within the meaning
of the act of Congress. McIntyre was duly selected as assignee,
and to him the usual conveyance by the register was made.
Afterwards, to prevent a sacrifice of the goods at a forced sale,
and to save expense, a written agreement was made between
Mrs. Reed and McIntyre, whereby the latter took possession
of and sold all the property levied upon, but without prejudice
to such rights as she had acquired under and by virtue of her
execution, or to her right to raise any question in a suit in
equity, to be promptly instituted, which she might have raised
if that property had remained in the custody of the sheriff.
The present suit was commenced by a bill in equity filed
by McIntyre for the purpose of obtaining a judicial determination of Mrs. Reed's rights in the property levied on, or rather
in its proceeds. She claimed that to the extent of the judgment against Shuey her rights acquired by the levy are superior to those of the assignee in bankruptcy. That view was
controverted by him, and a decree having been rendered in his
favor, Mrs. Reed appealed.
Mr. E. C. Palmer for the appellant.
Reed obtained the judgment against Barnard and Shuey in
the due course of proceedings at law to recover a bona fide
subsisting debt, and the execution thereon was duly issued.
The levy on the goods in question by thq sheriff having been
regular, his possession and right of possession thereunder were
prima fade lawful.
Wilson v. City Bank, 17 Wall. 473;
National Bank v. Warren, 96 U. S. 539.
The adjudication in bankruptcy did not affect the levy or
impair the lien acquired thereby. The assignee in bankruptcy
took the title to the goods subject to all existing valid liens

Oct. 1878.1

REED V. MCINTYRE.

and incumbLrances on them. Kelly v. Scott, 49 N. Y. 595;
Cook v. Tullis, 18 Wall. 332; Hayes v. Dickinson, 16 N. Y.
Sup. Ct. 277; In re Hambright, 2 Nat. Bank. Reg. 498; McDonald, Assignee, v. Moore, 15 id. 26; Dolson v. Ierr,Sheriff,
16 id. 405; Mitchell v. Winslow, 2 Story, 630; McLean v.
Moline, 3 McLean, 201; Donaldson, Assignee, v. .Farwell et al.,
93 U. S. 631; Jerome v. McCarter, 94 id. 734; Goddard v.
Weaver, 1 Wood, 260.
Combs is not a party to this suit, and makes no claim to the
goods or to their proceeds. The assignment to him of March
14 was declared void, as having been made with the intent to
hinder, delay, and defraud creditors, and as an act of bankruptcy. It presents, therefore, no obstacle to the effectual
maintenance of Reed's rights under the levy.
Mr. B. G. Rogers and Mr George L. Otis, contra, cited
Mayer et. al. v. Hellman, 91 U. S. 496; Johnson, Assignee, v.
Rogers et al., 15 Nat. Bank. Reg. 1; In re Steele et al., 16 id.
105; In re H. J.. Nelson, id. 312; In re James Croughwell,
17 id. 338; In re Arthur A. Hull, 18 id. 5; In re John C.
Walker, id. 56; Dodge v. Sheldon, 6 Hill (N. Y.), 9; Seaman
v. Stouqhton, 3 Barb. (N. Y.) Ch. 848; -Everett v. Stone,
8 Story, 446; Penniman v. C6le et al., 8 Mete. (Mass.) 496.
MR. TUSTiCE HARLAw, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is stated in the printed argument of counsel for the ap.
pellee, and the statement is not controverted by opposing
counsel, that at the date of the assignment to Combs there
was no statute of Minnesota relating to assignments by debtors for the benefit of creditors.
In determining, therefore, the validity and effect of the
assignment in question, we must look to the doctrines of the
common law and to the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
The assignment to Combs was, according to the evidence in
this cause, made in good faith for the purpose of securing an
equitable distribution of the debtor's property for the benefit
of all of his creditors, including the appellant, and not with
any intent to hinder, delay, or defraud them. The right of a
debtor at common law to devote his whole estate to the satis-

REED V. MCINTYRE.

[Sup. Ct.

faction of the claims of creditors results, as Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall declares, " from that absolute ownership which every
man claims over that which is his own." Braahear v. West
and Others, 7 Pet. 608; Mayer et al. v. Hellman, 91 U. S. 496.
Assignments of property for such purposes, not made with the
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, were upheld at
common law, even where certain creditors were preferred in
the distribution of the debtor's effects. Nor, according to the
doctrines of the common law, could the validity of the assignment to Combs be assailed, simply because its effect was to prevent the appellant from obtaining by judgment and executL n
a priority and preference over other creditors. An assignment which had the effect to delay a creditor in the enforcement of his demand by the ordinary process of law was not,
for that reason alone, fraudulent and void. If not made with
the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, it was sustained at common law. Such an intent was often conclusively
presumed, if the assignment contained provisions inconsistent
with good faith, or so unreasonable and unusual in their character as to justify the conclusion that it was, in the language of
Lord Mansfield in Cadoganv. Kennett (Cowp. 432, 434), a mere
" trick or contrivance to defeat creditors." But where its provisions were consistent with an honest purpose to deal fairly
and justly with them, - the deed reserving for the benefit
of the debtor or his family no control over or interest in the
property, and imposing no improper restrictions upon its speedy
sale and distribution in satisfaction of the debts, - the consequent temporary interference with the prosecution by particular creditors of their claims by the ordinary legal remedies,
was regarded at common law as a necessary and unavoidable
incident in the discharge by a debtor of his duty to creditors.
Mayer et al. v. Hellman, supra. Such interference was not
regarded as hindrance and delay, within the meaning of the
statutes against fraudulent conveyances. This precise question arose in Pic7cstock v. Lyster, 3 Mau. & Sel. 371. In that
case, a debtor, being sued, made an assignment by deed of all
of his effects for the equal benefit of creditors. The jury having been instructed that they must find the deed void if made
with the intent to defeat the plaintiff in his execution, returned

Oct. 18T8.]

REED V. MCINTYRE.

a verdict in his favor. But the verdict was set aside upon the
ground that the jury were misdirected. Lord Ellenborough
held that the assignment was "to be referred to an act of duty
rather than of fraud, when no purpose of fraud is proved.
The act arises out of a discharge of the moral duties attached
to his character of debtor to make the fund available for the
whole body of creditors. . . . It is not the debtor who breaks
in upon the rights of the parties by this assignment, but the
creditor who breaks in upon them by proceedings in his suit.
I see no fraud: the deed was for the fair purpose of equal distribution." In the same case, Bayley, J., said: "It seems to
me that this conveyance, so far from being fraudulent, was the
most honest act the party could do. He felt that he had not
sufficient to satisfy all of his debts, and he proposed to distribute his property in liquidation of them; this was not acceded to, for the plaintiff endeavored by legal'process to obtain
his whole debt, the obtaining of which would have swept away
the property from the rest of the creditors." To the like effect
are the authorities generally, as will be seen from an examination of the adjudged cases cited in Burrill's Treatise on Voluntary Assignments (3d ed.), sect. 319 et 8eq., and in 1 American
Leading Cases (5th ed.), 71 et seq. Our conclusion, therefore,
is that the assignment to Combs could not, upon common-law
principles, be impeached simply because it had the effect to
prevent the appellant, by means of the execution levy, from
securing priority over all other creditors.
But it is contended that her right of preference over other
creditors in the distribution of the proceeds of the property
levied upon can be sustained under the provisions of the bankrupt law, and the adjudication of bankruptcy against Shuey.
The argument is, that that adjudication having been made upon
the ground, in part, that the assignment to Combs was made
with the intent, on the part of Shuey, to hinder, delay, and
defraud his creditors, such assignment is to be regarded as
fraudulent and void from the moment of its execution, and,
therefore, as interposing no obstacle whatever in the way of
the levy subsequently made in her behalf. This argument,
although plausible and ingenious, is not, in our judgment,
sound, or at all consistent with the objects intended to be

REED V. MCINTYRE.

[Sup. Ct.

accomplished by the bankrupt law. If that law had not been in
force, the appellant would not have acquired priority over other
creditors by the sheriff's levy, for the obvious reason that the
right of property, in the goods seized under the execution, had
previously passed, by a valid and unimpeachable deed, to
Combs, and they were not, thereafter, subject to execution as
the property of the debtor. We have often declared that the
pro rata distribution of the property of the bankrupt was the
main purpose of the bankrupt statute. Buchanan v. Smith,
16 Wall. 277. A serious defect in that statute would be developed if its provisions received such a construction as would
enable the appellant to defeat that purpose by obtaining an
advantage over other creditors. We are of opinion that no
such construction is demanded, either by its letter or its spirit.
Since by the sheriff's levy the appellant acquired no priority of
right in or lien upon the goods, how could the subsequent proceedings in bankruptcy have the retroactive effect to give her
a preference over the other creditors of Shuey? The argument
in support of the opposite view ignores .the fact that neither
Combs nor the creditors who, under the assignment to him,
acquired an equitable interest in the property were parties to
those proceedings. Their rights, therefore, under his assignment, were not, and necessarily could not be, conclusively
determined by those proceedings. Notwithstanding the adjudication, Combs, the assignee of Shuey, was at liberty to contest
with the assignee in bankruptcy the question whether the assignment to Combs was a fraud on the Bankrupt Act, or was
made with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, or
to prevent the property from coming to the assignee in bankruptcy, or from being distributed under that act. That no
such issue was made between the assignee in bankruptcy and
Combs, representing the creditors of Shuey, is due, doubtless,
to the fact that the administration of the debtor's effects in the
bankruptcy court would accomplish the same end designed by
the assignment to Combs; namely, the distribution of the property for the equal benefit of all the creditors. But the absence of such an issue, and the failure of Combs to assert his
rights against the appellee, cannot have the effect to increase
the appellant's rights to any extent whatever. She cannot

Oct. 1878.]

REED V. MCINTYRE.

complain that the creditors submit without contest to the distribution of the property through the assignee in bankruptcy,
rather than through Combs, under the assignment to him. If
she did not acquire any right by force of the levy, it is of' no
consequence to her, under the issues in this suit, that the assignee in bankruptcy rather than Combs has possession of the
property in question. She cannot use the adjudication in
bankruptcy to give vitality to an execution levy, which, when
made, was ineffectual for any purpose of priority, and then
employ the levy, thus vitalized, to defeat the primary object of
the adjudication, which was to distribute the bankrupt's effects
for the equal benefit of all the creditors. Whatever may be
the respective claims of the assignee in bankruptcy and Combs,
it is sufficient for the disposition of this case to say that the
appellant acquired no priority of right by the execution levy.
The adjudication in the bankruptcy court was for the purpose
of bringing the bankrupt's effects into that court for distribution, and the appellant cannot, by force of that adjudication,
secure a priority, which, without such adjudication, she would
not have had. To hold otherwise would be to make the bankruptcy proceedings the instrument of defeating the wise and
beneficent policy which the Bankrupt Act was intended to subserve. Even if it were conceded that the assignment to Combs
was an act of bankruptcy, upon the ground that it was made
with the intent to prevent the property from coming to the
assignee in bankruptcy, and from being distributed under the
Bankrupt Act, it was not invalid, except with reference to proceedings under the bankrupt statute, to be instituted by the
bankrupt, or by some creditor, for the purpose of bringing
the bankrupt's effects into the bankruptcy court. Everett v.
Stone, 3 Story, 446; Dodge v. Sheldon, 6 Hill (N. Y.), 9;
Seaman v. Soughton, 8 Barb. (N. Y.) Ch. 848; 15 Nat. Bank.
Reg. 228.

Decree affirmed.

YR. JUSTICE
voL. ViII.

BRADLEY

dissented.

