Oct. 1878.]

GARRATT V. SEIBERT.

aver that the comptroller-general has neglected or refused to
perform every duty imposed upon him by the statute under
which the revenue-bond scrip was issued, nor even that he
threatens such neglect or refusal. It does not aver that the
county treasurer has refused, or even threatened to refuse, receiving the complainant's scrip, or any scrip, in payment of
taxes or dues to the State, other than taxes levied to pay the
interest on the State debt. It does not aver any demand from
the State treasury, or any tender to the county treasurer. Its
object is plainly to obtain from this court a declaration that
the legislative acts of Oct. 22 and Dee. 22, 1873, are unconstitutional, because impairing the obligation of the contract
made by the act of 1872, and the certificates thereby authorized
and thereunder issued, and this without any averment that the
complainant will be injured by them. The question presented
to the court is, therefore, merely an abstract one; such a one
as no court can be called upon to decide, and the bill shows no
equity in the complainant. Hence itf was properly dismissed
in the court below, and it must be dismissed. here, but without
prejudice to the complainant's right to bring and prosecute another suit, when he shall be in a condition to exhibit any equity
in himself.
So ordered.

GARRATT v. SEIBERT.
Reissued letters-patent No. 5328, granted to William T. Garritt March 18, 1873,
for a new and useful improvement in lubricators, infringe letters-patent No.
111,881, granted to Nicholas Seibert Feb. 14, 1871, for a new and useful im.
provement in lubricators. They are, therefore, void.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPAL

Mr. M. A. Wheaton for the appellant.
Mr. A. . Evans, contra.
Mu. JUSTiCE STROxG delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill is founded upon the act Qf Congress of July 8,1870

GARRATT V. SEIBERT.

[Sup. Ct.

(16 Stat. 207, c. 230, sect. 58), re-enacted in the Revised Statutes, sect. 4918. That section enacted, " That whenever there
shall be interfering patents, any person interested in any one
of such interfering patents, or in the working of the invention
claimed under either of such patents, may have relief against
the interfering patentee, and all parties interested under him,
by suit in equity against the owners of the interfering patent;
and the court having cognizance thereof (as in the act provided), on notice to adverse parties, and other due proceedings had according to the course of equity, may adjudge and
declare either of the patents void in whole or in part, or inoperative, or invalid in any particular part of the United States,
according to the interest of the parties in the patent or the
invention patented." The complainant charges that, on the
fourteenth day of February, 1871, he obtained letters-patent
No. 111,881, for a new and useful improvement in lubricators,
fully described in said letters, for the term of seventeen years
from and after the date thereof, and that he is the sole and exclusive owner thereof. He charges further, that letters-patent
were issued to William T. Garratt, the defendant, on the nineteenth day of November, 1872, for the period of seventeen years,
purporting to secure to him the exclusive right to make, use,
and vend a new and useful improvement in lubricators, alleged
to have been invented by him. It is further charged that, in
March, 1873, the defendant surrendered his said letters, and on
the 18th of that month they were reissued (No. 5328), upon an
amended specification, for the term of seventeen years, from
Nov. 19, 1872. The bill further charges that the alleged invention, patented to the defendant by the said reissued letters,
is substantially the same invention made by the complainant in
the month of May, 1870, and patented to him on the 14th of
February, 1871, as before mentioned, and that the reissued letters granted to the defendant are a direct interference with the
prior letters granted, as aforesaid, to the complainant.
The answer of the defendant does not deny the grant of the
several letters-patent, as charged in the bill, at the several dates
mentioned, nor does it directly deny that his reissued letters
are an interference with those granted to the complainant on
the 14th of February, 1871. But it avers that in the Patent

Oct. 1878.]

GARRATT V. SEIBERT.

Office, in the year 1872, an interference was declared between
the complainant and the respondent, in order to try the question of priority of invention, that testimony was taken, and
that the Commissioner of Patents decided that the defendant
was the first and original inventor of the invention described in
his letters, and granted him letters therefor, which were afterwards reissued. This averment is unsupported by proof.
In view of such pleadings, it is hardly necessary to inquire
whether there is an interference. The answer does not deny it.
It rather impliedly admits it. And if it did not, a comparison
of the complainant's and the defendant's specifications, including the models and drawings, precludes all doubt that both
patents are for the same invention, and that the arrangement
of devices in each produces the same result in substantially the

same way.
All that remains, therefore, is to determine whether Seibert
was the first and original inventor of the invention, or whether
the invention was first made by Garratt, the defendant.
Seibert's patent, as we have stated, was granted on the fourteenth day of February, 1871, for a new and useful improvement in lubricators. He had previously (in 1869, Sept. 14)
obtained a patent for a lubricator, in which hydrostatic pressure in forcing the lubricant from its cup, or reservoir, was
found to act beneficially, though the patent did not claim that
specifically, and the inventor seems not to have been aware at
that time of its value. The model for this patent Seibert procured to be made by Garratt. Subsequently, having discovered
its value in May, 1870, he caused to be made a new arrangement, by which the lubricant reservoir was made to stand vertically, instead of horizontally, as in his first invention, a'ad
hydrostatic pressure was applied near its base at the bottom of
the lubricant. For this arrangement, he took out his patent
of February, 1871. The principle was manifestly the same as
that revealed in the earlier patent, though the arrangement for
its operation was different. In the one, the lubricant and the
condensed water were separated by a piston; in the other, by
the difference of their specific gravities. It is not, however,
very material to determine that Seibert's invention was made
before May, 1870; for we are of opinion that even if it was not

GARRATT V. SEIBERT.

[Sup. Ct.

made before February, 1871, there is not sufficient evidence in
the case to show it was anticipated by Garratt, or by any one.
Garratt was a brass founder. In 1869, he had the agency for
making the Roscoe oilers, or lubricators, then covered by a
patent. It is plain those lubricators were designed for the
use of tallow, and tallow alone. They were arranged to admit
steam into the reservoir containing the lubricant, whereby it
came in contact with the surface of the tallow, melted it, and
caused it to mix with the steam, and pass out in a volatile condition into the steam-chest. They did not work well. The
steam, acting only on the surface of hard tallow, would not
melt and take up enough to lubricate the engine; and Garratt,
late in the fall of 1869, after Seibert's first patent was granted,
as he and some other witnesses testify, undertook to remedy
the defect. He put on a Roscoe lubricator, what he calls a condensing pipe, with a regulating cock. It connected the bottom
of the reservoir with the steam-pipe of the engine, at a point
above the top of the reservoir. Notwithstanding what he testifies, it is plain that this pipe was intended only to heat and
melt the tallow. In view of the difficulty it was designed
to remedy, and of the utter uselessness of a condensing pipe
applied to the base of hard tallow, this cannot be doubted.
The tallow needed heat, not pressure, not a column of water;
and the evidence is very satisfactory that the pipe put on was a
melting pipe, and used as such alone. It was soon shortened
from six feet to two. Why was that done, if it was a condensing pipe? If it was a melting pipe, it is easy to see why its
length was reduced; and the proof is, that it never was used
for hydrostatic pressure. The cocks were kept wide open in its
use, except when the reservoir was to be cleaned out or filled.
Such is the testimony of the engineers who had it in charge.
We think, also, the weight of the evidence is that the application of the melting pipe was not Garratt's device, even if it
involved invention. It seems rather to have been suggested by
Watson.
Without going minutely over the evidence, we may notice
that after Garratt caused the pipe to be put on the Roscoe
lubricator, and after he bad made Seibert's first model, he
obtained drawings of the Seibert device, and had a model

Oct. 1878.)

IVINSON

V. HUTTON.

made of it for himself. Not until after this was done did he
apply for a patent. It is difficult to believe, in view of this
evidence, that he did not obtain the idea of his alleged invention from the prior invention and patent of Seibert. There is
nothing, then, to rebut the presumption arising from his patent
that Seibert was the first and original inventor. It follows
that the decree of the Circuit Court was right.
Decree affirmed.

IvInsoN v. HUTTOx.
A. and B., having arranged the terms on which the partnership between them
should be dissolved, stipulated that their clerk should examine their books,
ascertain the amount which each had put into the firm and each had
drawn out, and report the same as the basis of their agreed settlement,
and that if any error was made, it should be corrected when discovered.
The clerk made the examination, andi reported that the sum of I47,039.64
was due from B. to A. Thereupon, supposing the report to be correct, each,
made, executed, and delivered to the other all the papers necessary to perfect and complete the terms and conditions of the dissolution- of the partnership. On the same day, the clerk discovered that le had made an error
of $4,030.12 against A. B. having refused to correct it, A. filed his bill praying for an account, the correction, amendment, and cancellation of the papers
so executed by them, and for a decree for the payment of the $4,036.12 due
him. The bill was dismissed, on the ground that A.'s remedy was at law.
Held, that the decree was erroneous.

APPEAL from the Supreme

Court of the Territory of

Wyoming.
The facts are stated in the "opinion of the court.
Mr. Jeremiah M. Wilson for the appellant.
Mr. W. W. Corlett, contra.
MR.

JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court,
Except in an action of account, which is almost obsolete, it

is a general rule that between partners, whether they are so in
general or for a particular transaction only, no account can be

taken at law. Worrall v. Grayson, 1 Mee. & W. 168; 1 Collyer, Partnership (6th ed.), 839.
Owing to the ability of courts of equity not only to investi-

