Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

569

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. The act of March 3, 1873 (17 Stat 509), is a valid and constitutional exercise
of legislative power. Congress, by requiring the Attorney-General to bring a
suit in equity in the name of the United States in any Circuit Court against
the Union Pacific Railroad Company and others, intended, not to change the
substantial rights of the parties to the suit, but to provide a specific mode
of procedure, which, by removing certain restrictions on the jurisdiction,
process, and pleading which are in other cases imposed, would give a larger
scope to the action of the court, and a more ecouomical and efficient remnedy
than before existed.
2. The provisions authorizing process to be served without the limits of the district where the suit might be brought, and parties and subjects of controversy to be united which, in an ordinary chancery suit, would render a bill
multifarious, are regulations of practice and procedure which are subject
to legislative control.
8. Statutes have been frequently passed directing suits for specific objects to be
brought by an attorney-general, and regulating the proceedings in them,
such as a quo warranto, or a bill in equity against a corporation to test its
right to the exercise of its franchises, or to declare them forfeited, or, if insolvent, to wind up its business and distribute its assets ; and the validity of
such statutes has uniformly been recognized.
4. This bill having, on demurrer, been dismissed below, its sufficiency must be determined here by the provisions of said act; for it cannot be supposed that
Congress, in laying down in specific terms the subject-matter of the suit,
and granting enlarged and peculiar powers to the court, intended that any
other matters should be tried in the case.
6. This is confirmed by the fact that the same act provided other remedies for
other subjects of controversy with the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
and an effectual means of investigating all its affairs.
6. That act authorized a decree in favor of that company for money due for
capital stock, for money or property received from it on fraudulent
contracts, or which ought in equity to belong to it; and also a decree in
favor of it or of the United States for money, bonds, or lands wrongfully
received from the latter, which ought in tquity to be paid or accounted
for.
7. Except in favor of the company or of the United States, there can, under this
act, therefore, be no recovery, and none but such as was sanctioned by the
principles of equity before it was passed.
8. The company might, by a cross-bill, have availed itself of the act; but it
refuses to do so, and demurs to the bill, thereby foregoing any relief in
its favor in this suit. As it is conformable neither to the principles of
equity nor to those of the common law to render a decree or a judgment
in favor of a competent party who asserts no claim and declines to proceed in the case, there can be no recovery in this suit in favor of the
company.
9. Though the bill sets up many fraudulent transactions on the part of the direc-

570

10.

11.

12.
13.

14.

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

tors of the company and some of its stockholders, for which the other
stockholders would be entitled to relief, the latter are not parties, and
neither the frame of the bill nor the provisions of the act authorize any
relief or recovery in their favor.
The United States sustains two distinct relations to the company; namely,
that of the government creating it and exercising legislative and visitatorial powers; and that growing out of the contract contained in the charter
and its amendment.
This bill exhibits no right on the part of the United States to relief founded
on that contract. The company has completed its road, keeps it in running ordei-, and carries all that is required by the government. To the
latter nothing is due, and it has the security which by law it provided.
Nor does the bill show any thing which authorizes the United States as the
depositary of a trust, public or private, to sustain this suit.
This interference by the Attorney-General with corporations on the ground
of such a trust in the government is limited to two classes, to neither of
which the present case belongs: 1. Where religious, charitable, municipal, or
other corporations whose functions are solely public, and whose managers
have destroyed or misappropriated the fund, or otherwise abused their
functions; 2. Where other corporations exercise powers beyond those to
which they are limited by the law of their organization.
While the court does not say that there is no trust in regard to the duties of
the company which the United States can enforce in equity, it is of opinion
that none such is shown in this bill, and that no case is made for any
relief authorized by the act under which it was brought.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The act of Congress making appropriations for the legislative, executive, and judicial expenses of the government,
approved March 3,1873 (17 Stat. 509), has the following language in its fourth and last section: -

"The Attorney-General shall cause a suit in equity to be instituted, in the name of the United States, against the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, and against all persons who may, in their own
names or through any agents, have subscribed for or received capital stock in said road, which stock has not been paid for in full in
money, or who may have received, as dividends or otherwise, portions of the capital stock of said road, or the proceeds or avails
thereof, or other property of said road, unlawfully and contrary to
equity, or who may have received as profits or proceeds of contracts
for construction or equipment of said road, or other contracts therewith, moneys or other property which ought, in equity, to belong
to said railroad corporation, or who may, under pretence of having

complied with the acts to which this is an addition, have wrong-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

571

fully and unlawfully received fiom the United States bonds, moneys,
or lands which ought, in equity, to be accounted for and paid to
said railroad company or to the United States, and to compel payment for said stock, and the collection and payment of such moneys,
and the restoration of such property, or its value, either to said railroad corporation or to the United States, whichever shall in equity
be held entitled thereto. Said suit may be brought in the Circuit
Court in any circuit, and all said parties may be made defendants
in one suit. Decrees may be entered and enforced against any one
or more parties defendant without awaiting the final determination
of the cause against other parties. The court where said cause is
pending may make such orders and decrees, and issue such process
as it shall deem necessary to bring in new parties, or the representatives of parties deceased, or to carry into effect the purposes of
this act. On filing the bill, writs of subpcena may be issued by said
court against any parties defendant, which writ shall run into any
district, and shall be served, as other like process, by the marshal
of such district.
Following this, and constituting a part of the same section,
are certain provisions for the future government of the railroad
company and its officers, to wit: that its books and correspondence shall at all times be open to inspection by the Secretary
of the Treasury; that no dividend shall be made but from actual
net earnings, and no new stock issued or mortgages created
without consent of Congress; and punishing directors who
shall violate these -provisions. Also enacting that the corporation shall not be subject to the bankrupt law, and shall be subject to a mandamus to compel it to operate its road, as required
by law.
A previous section directs the Secretary of the Treasury to
withhold from every railroad company which has failed to pay
the interest on bonds advanced to it by the government, all
payments on account of freights or transportation over such
roads, to the amount of such interest paid by the United States,
and also the five per cent of the net earning of the roads due
and unapplied as provided by law; and it authorized the companies who might wish to contest the right to withhold these
payments .to bring suit against the United States in the Court
of Claims for the, money so withheld.
The Attorney-General, pursuant to said fourth section, filed

572

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Connecticut against the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, the Wyoming Coal Company, the Credit Mobilier
Company, and some one hundred and fifty individual defendants.
The bill, after reciting certain provisions of the acts of July 1,
1862 (12 Stat. 480), and July 2, 1864 (13 id. 356), and other
acts amendatory thereof, in relation to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and alleging that the company was organized
in October, 1863, and its road opened in 1869; that a board
appointed under the joint resolution of April 10, 1869, reported deficiencies of construction, requiring an expenditure
of $1,586,100; that the United States issued to the company
bonds to the amount of $27,236,512, which, with the interest,
after deducting one-half the compensation for services, made
its aggregate liability, Jan. 1, 1873, $33,435,221.77; and that
under the mortgage it executed Nov. 1, 1865, to secure the
payment of its first-mortgage bonds, it has issued and disposed
of them to the amount of $27,237,000; charges that, April
16, 1867, it executed a mortgage to secure the payment of its
so-called land-grant bonds, providing for the application of the
proceeds of all sales of its land from time to time in the redemption of such bonds; that it has issued $10,400,000 of them,
at seven per cent interest, $8,811,000 of which remain outstanding and unpaid; that it intends to sell land and apply the proceeds to redeem them, to that extent impairing the security of
the United States for the repayment of its bonds issued to the
company; that the company, on Sept. 1,1869, issued $10,000,000
of so-called income-bonds, at ten per cent interest, secured by an
indenture pledging the net income for the interest, after paying
that on the first-mortgage bonds and land-grant bonds; that it
has also issued $2,500,000 of eight per cent bonds, secured by
mortgage on its bridge across the Missouri River; that for the
redemption of the income-bonds it intends to issue and put in
the market eight per cent sinking-fund bonds for $16,000,000,
secured by mortgage on the property of the company; that it
has a floating debt of $2,000,000, and has issued certificates of
stock amounting to $36,762,800; that, July 16, 1868, it entered
into an agreement with Godfrey & Wardell, which was assigned,

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

573

April 1, 1869, to the Wyoming Coal and Mining Company.
purporting, among other things, to lease the coal lands of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company for fifteen years; that the
stock in said coal company, with the exception of one-tenth
thereof, is owned by stockholders and managers of the railroad company; that said contract is a fraudulent method of
obtaining for them a monopoly of coal supplies and of the
coal trade on the line of the road, and was made in contravention of sect. 8 of the act of 1862; that on Sept. 1, 1869, the
railroad company made a contract with the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Company to transfer to the latter the entire line of telegraph and appurtenances constructed for the
railroad company under the acts of Congress; that the managers of the two companies are in part or in whole the same;
and that the arrangement is a fraudulent device to make
for said managers illegal profits, and to deprive the United
States of its lawful security and advantage from the telegraph
line.
The bill sets forth an agreement with the Omaha Bridge
Transfer Company, and charges that it is a fraudulent arrangement on the part of the managers and stockholders to transfer
to themselves personally profits which equitably belong to the
railroad company.
The bill then charges, among other things, that the cost of
the road was less than one-half of the sum represented by the
stock and other pretended outstanding liabilities; that the
larger part of the stock and bonds was issued by certain defendants in the name of the company, to enrich themselves;
that the greater portion of the stock was never paid for in cash,
or in any other thing of equivalent value; that the company is
insolvent; that the government bonds and a portion of the
first-mortiage bonds would have been sufficient to construct
the road, without any expenditure from stock subscribed, or
from land-grant bonds, or from income bonds; and that the
stock, if paid in cash or its equivalent, would have been sufficient with less than one-half of the government bonds to complete the road, without the issue of bonds by the company;
that at its organization in 1863 $2,177,000 stock was subscribed, on which ten per cent was paid; but no considerable

574

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

sum was afterward paid thereon, and no considerable amount
of other subscriptions was ever made, except as part of the
fraudulent transactions set forth ; that at the organization of
the company the practical management of its business was committed to the executive committee, whereof one of the defendants, Durant, then vice-president, was elected a member; that
in August and September, 1864, he and his associates used the
name of one H. M. Hoxie to disguise a contract made by them
in the name of the company on one side, with themselves in the
name of Hoxie on the other, to construct about two hundred and
forty-six miles of the road between Omaha and the one hundredth meridian, at the price of $50,000 per mile, which was
known to be in excess of a fair price therefor; that on Oct. 7,
1864, certain defendants, directors, and another, a stockholder,
agreed with him to take large interests in this contract, with
the design of becoming possessed of all the franchises and
property of the company, and to use, manage, and dispose of
the same for their private benefit; that in execution of said
design they obtained, in November, 1864, control of the charter of the Credit Mobilier of Americi, a corporation of Pennsylvania, and on March 15, 1865, entered into a contract in
writing to conduct its operations in connection with the railroad company, outside of its charter, at an agency in New York;
that their intention was to substitute the Credit Mobilier as a
contractor in the "Hoxie contract," and that on the same day
they assigned to it the entire beneficial interest from the beginning in this contract, when the Credit Mobilier -was organized
to co-operate with the railroad company, defendant Durant being chosen its president; that they, in 1865 and 1866, purchased
in the name of the Credit Mobilier, and had conveyed to it,
large numbers of shares of stock of the railroad company, originally subscribed for in good faith at its organizatiop ; that they
caused to be allotted among themselves, as stockholders in the
Credit Mobilier, the shares of railroad stock purchased from
the original subscribers, and also large numbers of other shares
subscribed by, or in the name of, the Credit Mobilier, on which
it was pretended that thirty per cent had been paid, and also to
be distributed among themselves a large amount of scrip procured by the Credit Mobilier from the railroad company in

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R.Co.

575

pretended payment for construction under the "Hoxie contract," which scrip, instead of cash, they used in making pretended payments for the stock, certificates of which they
procured to be issued to them severally by the officers of the
railroad company.
It then states the division among certain defendants, in February, 1867, of one thousand two hundred and fifty first-mortgage bonds ($1,250,000), which they had caused the railroad
company, to issue and deliver to the Credit Mobilier, on pretence of payment for road-building under the "Hoxie contract;" that in 1867 they procured transfers to the Credit
Mobilier, with few exceptions, of all the outstanding original
shares of stock of the railroad company; and that thenceforth
they, the holders of all the stock of the Credit Mobilier, became also holders of substantially all the stock of the railroad
company, and managed the same without regard to the rights
or interests of the United States; that in December, 1867, they
fraudulently distributed among themselves, as stockholders of
the Credit Mobilier, in the way of dividends, sixteen thousand
shares of Union Pacific railroad stock, issued to the Credit
Mlobilier, as assignee of the "1Hoxie contract," on account of
fifty-eight miles of railroad west of the one hundredth meridian,
already constructed and paid for by the railroad company, and
charges that they were from the beginning, and throughout,
interested in the whole of the profits of the "Hoxie contract,"
and that all the work thereunder was done, and all measurements thereof and settlements therefor were made, by them
in the double capacity of representatives of the two companies.
It then recites the facts and objects of the so-called "Oakes
Ames contract," and charges that after the completion of the
road, under the "Hoxie contract," to the one hundredth meridian, in October, 1866, they, as managers of the railroad company, went on, constructed, and paid for, at the price of about
$27,500 per mile, a section of about one hundred and thirtyeight miles of rdad west of the one hundredth meridian, which
was completed October, 1867; that they then entered into
a series of writings intended in effect to constitute a contract
with themselves as steckholders of the Credit Mobilier, for
constructing at excessive prices six hundred and sixty-seven

576

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIc

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

miles of road, beginning at the one hundredth meridian, and
including the one hundred and thirty-eight miles already built
and paid for at much lower rates ; that the objects and effects
of this transaction were to despoil the company of $3,000,000
of its stock and bonds, distributed among the defendants, under
pretext of a contract to build a portion of its road already built
and paid for, and to give them, under the disguise of a contract
between parties in different interests, excessive prices for constructing other portions of the road, and to place the control
of the company in seven trustees, and withhold its management and direction from the stockholders and directors; that
the first three dividends under the "Oakes Ames contract"
were received by the defendants named; that on June 3 and
7, 1868, all the trusts in the triplicate agreement (one of the
writings connected with the " Oakes Ames contract"), in
favor of the stockholders of the Credit Mobilier, were directly
declared in favor of defendants individually, who received the
dividends personally, and not as stockholders of the Credit
Mobilier; that thereafter defendants proceeded, as general
copartners in form as well as in fact, with the seven trustees
as their general managers, and that the last three dividends
or allotments under the " Oakes Ames contract" were: July
8, 1868, $2,812,500, in first-mortgage bonds; July 8, 1868,
$1,125,000, in cash; Dec. 29, 1868, seventy-five thousand shares
of stock at par value.
It then states the facts in regard to the pretended " Davis
contract" in November, 1868, for the construction of about
125.23 miles of the road not embraced in the " Oakes Ames
contract," which was assigned to the same persons for the same
trusts as in the case of the "Oakes Ames contract; " and that
the road to its western terminus was constructed by certain
stockholders of the company, acting through the assignees,
under cover of the "Davis contract."
After setting forth at large the dates and amounts of the
several subscriptions which the defendants caused to be made
to the stock of the railroad company by the Credit Mobilier,
or to be assumed by it, as required by the " Hoxie contract,"
and the distribution of the stock among the defendants ; also
the dates and amounts of the subscription to the stock of the

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

577

company made by the trustees under the "Oakes Ames contract" and under the "Davis contract," and its distribution in
like manner; that neither the Credit Mobilier nor the trustees
ever paid for any portion of their stock, but the excessive
contract prices for construction were set off against the subscriptions; that the accounts of the railroad company under
the three contracts are unsettled, with large balances claimed
against the company; that defendants caused large amounts of
money belonging to the company to be expended for unlawful
purposes.
Certain alleged fraudulent transactions on the part of one of
the defendants, a director, in relation to the sale of bonds, are
set forth, in respect of which it is charged he is accountable to
the company, which wrongfully refuses to compel him to account.
The bill then charges that the defendants made further divisions and distributions among themselves of the assets of
the company, and engaged in other unlawful transactions and
dealings with respect to its property, which the complainant
is unable to set forth in detail, but which amount to about
$17,000,000 in excess of the amounts particularly set forth,
and that large amounts of the stock and bonds divided among
defendants are still held by them or some of them.
The present condition of the company, with regard to its
stock, finances, value of its road, and management, is then set
forth, and it is averred to be doubtful whether the road would
sell under the first mortgage for more than enough to pay those
bonds, and that if the land-grant mortgage is allowed to be administered according to its terms, it will exhaust the security
of the United States in the lands; that the company had no
right to issue first-mortgage bonds or land-grant bonds or income bonds for distribution among stockholders as profits or
for sale to them below their value, and such bonds to the extent so issued and distributed or sold are invalid, unless in the
hands of bona fide purchasers without notice; that it has no
right to exhaust the security of the United States by paying
either principal or interest of land-grant bonds or income bonds;
that the so-called trustees and assignees, under the "Oakes
Ames contract" and "Davis contract," are jointly and severvoT. vxir.

37

578

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

ally responsible for all the stock and bonds issued to them;
that the grants to the company in the acts of Congress were
grants in aid of a public work of the United States, and are
held in trust, to be applied to a public use; and that the property mentioned is also a trust for the payment to the United
States of the subsidy bonds; that the present management of
the company is in adverse interest to the United States; that
the latter is entitled, as further security for its debt, and for the
public objects provided for by Congress, to have declared that
the management of the company should be subject only to the
votes of the stockholders holding full-paid stock; to have the
franchises, powers, and means so administered that unreasonable
and unnecessary liabilities should not be created, and to have
an account of reasonable and necessary expenditures and liabilities as a basis for regulating rates of fare under the eighteenth
section of the act of 1862, and for determining the basis for estimating the five per cent of net profits; to have the franchises,
powers, and property so administered as to secure the United
States for the repayment of its bonds and promote the public
objects of the corporation; to have maintained by the corporation, as a security for those objects, the character and credit
which would ensue from a lawful administration of the franchises, powers, and means granted; and to have the lien of the
United States remain a first lien, except as to the priority
given to the first-mortgage bonds within the limits and for the
purposes expressed by Congress; that the company neglects
and refuses to state or render an account of cost on a lawful or
just basis; that the stock of the Credit Mobilier, and the stock,
bonds, and cash of the railroad company, held by and allotted,
distributed, and divided among several of the defendants, were
received in trust for others, whom complainant asks leave to
make parties defendant when discovered.
The relief prayed for is, that the grants by the United States
be declared to be held by the company for a public use, &c.,
and the property granted by the United States, &c., to be a
trust fund to secure the bonds lent by them, &c.; that the construction contracts, and the land-grant and income mortgages
be declared void; that an account be taken of the actual cost,
&c., of the Union Pacific Railroad and Telegraph; the United

Oct. 1878 ]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

57-

States bonds issued, &c. ; the stock subscribed, sold, issued, &c.;
and of the lands, &c., obtained from the United States; that
persons unlawfully holding stock or other property of the
company restore it, &c.
A large number of the defendants resided out of the district
and State of Connecticut. Subpcenas directed to them were
issued to the marshals of the several districts in which they respectively resided, and service thereof was there duly made upon
them. There were three classes: 1. Those sued in their own
right; 2. Those sued as executors of the estates of deceased
persons domiciled at the time of their death out of said State;
and, 8. Corporations organized under laws of some other
State.
The railroad company demurred, alleging "that the complainant hath not, by its said bill, made such a case as entitles
it in a court of equity to any discovery or relief from or against
this defendant touching the matters contained in the said bill,
or any of such matters."
The defendants who were served with process in the district
of Connecticut likewise appeared, and filed demurrers to the
bill for want of equity and for multifariousness.
A large number of those defendants who were served with
process out of the district of Connecticut appeared de bene sse,
and filed motions to dismiss the bill as to them, respectively,
stating as the grounds of their motion that by the averments
of the bill they were respectively non-residents of Connecticut,
and that the process showed that it was served upon them out
of the district.
Some of the defendants, residing out of Connecticut, demurred to the bill for want of equity and for multifariousness;
others, who were non-residents of Connecticut, filed answers
with clauses of demurrer.
The case was argued upon the bill and the pleadings, and the
motions to dismiss. The demurrers were sustained, and an
order entered overruling the motions.
The several non-resident defendants whose motions to dismiss
were thus overruled, thereupon, under a protestando, demurred
for want of equity and for multifariousness.
Several defendants, who had answered, withdrew their an-

580

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

swers after the decision of the court on the demurrers, and
demurred.
At the April Term, 1874, the court below entered a general and final decree upon the bill, demurrers, and answers so
filed, dismissing the bill as to all the defendants duly served
with process. Whereupon the United States appealed to this
court, and here assigns the following errors:The court below erred, 1. In sustaining the demurrers.
2. In dismissing the bill as to certain defendants who had
answered.
8. In dismissing it as to parties who had neither pleaded,
answered, nor demurred.
The case was argued at the October Term, 1876, The Solicitor-General, Mr. Aaron P. Perry, and Mr. J. ifubley Ashton
appearing for the United States, and Mr. Sidney Bartlett and
Mr. William M. Bvarts for the appellees.
A reargument having been ordered, it was again heard at
the present term.
The Attorney- General and The Solicitor-General for the
United States.
The objections taken by motion to the jurisdiction of the
court below have not been duly brought before this court, inasmuch as the defendants did not object to the jurisdiction over
their persons by plea (either instead of their motions or after
these had been denied), but demurred for want of equity, and
thereby waived their supposed personal privilege of being served
within the district. The protest attached to the demurrers
cannot impart to the proceeding by motion an effect which it
did not otherwise possess, although it may save any objection
duly made and entered.
However, in case it shall be considered that the question is
duly presented here, we submit that process was lawfully
served.
This proposition depends, of course, upon the validity of the
act of March 3, 1873, the constitutionality of which is questioned not only by the motions but by the demurrers. It
therefore seems convenient to consider all of these questions
together.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

581

I. It is suggested that in compelling the defendants alone, in
contradistinction to the great mass of citizens, to obey process
served outside of the State and district of the court which
issued it, especially where such persons are executors or administrators authorized by some other State, the act is unconstitutional, because it deprives them of their property without
due process of law, and sets up a special court different from
those ordained and established by the general legislation of
Congress.
It may be admitted that Congress cannot, by retrospective
legislation, constitutionally make a substantial difference between citizens taken individually as regards the process to
which these are either entitled or amenable; and also that
the word "substantial," so used, includes other rights than such
as are elsewhere conferred by the Constitution. Courts understand, as matter of law, that certain rights of suitors are important, and that others are not so, and discriminate accordingly.
It is competent for Congress, and for the legislature of every
State the constitution of which contains that guaranty, to make
any provision as to process for a particular suit which does not
materially affect the parties thereto. Upon the general topic
of due process, see Murray's Lessee et al. v. Hoboken Land and
improvement Co., 18 How. 272.
In the present instance, the variation against the defendants,
as regards service of process, is unimportant; for it is indifferent to a suitor in equity whether he be sued in one district or
in another, because 1. The Constitution regards political or geographical limits
as important for criminal, and perhaps other, trials at common
law, but is significantly silent in this respect as to suits in

equity.
In this connection, it is submitted that those who framed

that instrument, and those who in a temper severely critical
proposed the earliest amendments to it, turned their attention
to the matter of the place where trials should be held, and that
their repeated consideration and action resulted in an express
provision in that respect for the trial of persons charged with
crimes, - a qualified one for trials at common law, and an entire
omission to regulate the trial of equity causes.

582

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

There also may be a qualified regulation of suits at common
law, because it seems that trial by jury does, in the nature of
things, savor of locality, so that it might well be suggested that
a retrospective law subjecting a person to trial by a jury drawn
from a place other than that of juries who by law try such
matters for citizens in general, would violate one of his important rights.
It is otherwise where a trial by the court is competent.
There, both principle and authority show that under our system
venue is immaterial.
In Burnam v. The Commonwealth (1 Duv. (Ky.) 210), the
court considered certain special provisions for the service of
process created by the Kentucky act of 1862, c. 564, which
authorized an action against the officials of the provisional
government of that State. Those provisions operated retrospectively upon a definite number of individuals, yet the court
said: "We cannot adjudge any provision of the act to be unconstitutional. As in other cases, when actual notice cannot
be given to absent defendants, there must either be no remedy,
or constructive notice must be substituted as sufficient; and
what constructive notice shall be given is a question of legislative discretion rather than of power. We see no abuse of
sound discretion in the mode of service prescribed in this
statute."
That decision seems entirely in point here. The only difference in regard to service of process is that Kentucky, having
no political jurisdiction over the territory in which the defendants were supposed to be, was confined to a summons by publication; whereas here the United States has such jurisdiction,
and therefore could authorize actual service.
2. The method of taking testimony in courts of equity renders subordinate geographical limits in that connection unimportant.
3. So also does their method of deciding upon issues of
fact.
4. Courts of the United States, no matter where sitting, take
notice of, and, whenever applicable, administer in behalf of
suitors the laws of every other State. Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet.
607.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

583

Therefore executors and administrators are at no special
disadvantage in being sued outside of the State from which they
derive their appointment. A New York executor or administrator has in the courts of the United States in Connecticut
every advantage and protection which he possesses in those of
his own State.

Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al., 23

How. 90.
. II. The act of 1873 is said to be unconstitutional in empowering the United States to bring the suit. The United States can
only recover the moneys and property to which in equity it is
entitled; and the general principles of equity jurisprudence
as heretofore upheld and applied must ascertain and determine
its title to relief. A remedy only is furnished to enforce an
existing right.
Among the parties against whom suit is authorized are those
who, under pretence of having complied with the act to which
this is an addition, wrongfully and unlawfully received from
the United States bonds, moneys, or lands, which ought in
equity to be accounted for and paid to it or to the company.
The bill states that certain persons, defendants, conspired to
obtain, for their own corrupt purposes, and did obtain, control
of the company, in its transactions with the United States, and
in this way received bonds and lands. If this be established,
there may be something to be restored to the United States.
It is true that the special purpose of the act is the relief of the
company and its restoration to the statu quo contemplated by
the charter. But if, upon taking the accounts, something is to
be restored to the United States, it seems that the above particular state of facts, together with the general prayer, will authorize such relief.

-English et al. v. .oxhall, 2 Pet. 595.

The probability of such a state of things seems anticipated by
the act.
As to other matters, the act leaves the right of recovery
where it originally was,- in the company. It is true that the
company is formally a defendant, but it is not uncommon for
such parties to assume by appropriate pleading the relation of
complainants in equity suits, and thereupon to partake in the
relief decreed against their original co-defendants.
The United States is made the complainant in a suit the main

584

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PACIFIc R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

object of which is to give relief directly to the company and
indirectly to the complainant, but which, in a certain event,
contemplates direct relief also to the latter. The act relates to the remedy alone, and at most authorizes virtually one
sort of multifariousness or misjoinder. That is a matter of
form, which Congress can, at its pleasure, regulate and control.
Excluding from consideration the special sort of multifariousness above mentioned, - that is, taking for granted that
the United States claims nothing here for itself, -the
peculiarity of the act lies in authorizing the United States to
bring a suit in which it is to recover nothing, the litigating
parties on both sides being made defendants, and it being actor
only so far as to ask intervention by the court among the defendants, according to the principles of equity; i. e., by a sort
of statutory interpleader which the United States is interested
in bringing about and superintending until it becomes effective.
The question, who shall be the complainant of record, is not,
therefore, one of substance. It has been not unusual in the
different States to provide by special statutes that debts may
be sued upon and recovered, for the benefit of those really interested, in the name of some one designated by the act and
not privy to the contract. Cuyahoga Falls Co. v. Me Gaughey,
2 Ohio St. 152; Carey v. Giles, 9 Ga. 253; Crawford v.
Branch Bank of Mobile, 7 How. 279; Burdman v. Piper, 50
Mo. 292. See also a like principle asserted in such cases as
Livingston's Lessee v. Moore, 7 Pet. 469; Watkins v. Holman's
Lessee, 16 id. 25 ; Edwards v. Pope, 3 Scam. (Ill.) 465; H epburn v. Curtis, 7 Watts (Pa.), 300; .Kilby v. Chitwood, 4 B.
Mon. (Ky.) 91.
The circumstance that the United States is not a stranger to
the company, but has always been represented within it by
directors appointed by the President, has been from the first a
standing suggestion of a sort of guardianship by it, and therefore of its right to apply to equity to enforce any course of
honest or lawful dealing which it, being in a minority in the
direction, may have been prevented from otherwise securing. The act of 1873 is no surprise, but is according to due
process.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIC R.R. Co.

585

Again, considering the act to be an amendment to the charter, as it plainly is, it appears to be according to reasonable
expectations founded upon the pecuniary and other extraordinary interests of the United States which are involved, that,
if unlawful and fraudulent occurrdnces like those specified
in the act should take place, the government would intervene,
as complainant, to have the general condition of the company
restored as far as practicable to that originally contemplated.
Notice to this effect must be regarded as having by this state
of things been served upon everybody.
The act evidently has in view a case in which the company
if ever it were so, may not be suijuris,nor be able or willing

to bring suit against its masters, or at least cannot be relied upon to maintain such a suit to its legitimate end. If
this be true, the bill in question is a mere repetition in
technical form of certain circumstances contemplated by the
act, which, being the organic law of the suit, deals in generalities only.
Therefore, while the act of 1878 affords our only rule of
allowance, that rule is expressed organically; and, moreover,
a suit brought under it need not take all the risks against
which it insures.
It is said that the act deprives the defendants of due process, in allowing decrees against one or more parties, before
the final determination of the case. The direction is that
such partial decree may be given. Considering the context,
the meaning is that this may be done, where otherwise it
will be according to the substantial equities among the parties. Under such circumstances, it seems that no other party
than that whose connection with the case is so ended could
object; if otherwise, however, the matter is one merely of
form, in relation to which Congress is competent to give
directions.
III. A chief end of the creation and endowment of the
Union Pacific company was the accomplishment of governmental purposes.
This is manifested in the title of the act of 1862; the special
provisions for vesting the franchises in it; the appointment and
the duties of the directors on the part of the United States;

586

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

the requirement of a continuous road for the use of the government for postal, military, and other purposes; the absolute and
preferential character of the right of the United States to use
the road; the reserved right to control the profits of the company's business. In addition to its rights as sovereign, the
United States reserved certain rights as creditor, viz. : That
the subsidy bonds should be paid by the company at their maturity, and in the meanwhile should be secured by mortgage;
that five per cent of the net earnings should annually be
applied to the principal and interest of such bonds ; that onehalf of the compensation payable to the company for public
services should also be so applied. The company was not empowered by its charter to include its franchises in its first
mortgage, or to make mortgages of its land grants or of its
income.
IV. The endowment of the company is held as a public
trust, and not as a mere donation. Olcott v. The Supervisors,
16 Wall. 691; Worcester v. The Western Railroad Co., 4 Metc.
(Mass.) 560; Railroad Commissioners v. Railroad Company,
63 Ale. 269.
The company, however, by its charter has specific and extraordinary relations and duties of that sort. Denison v. Union
Pacific Railroad Co., 9 Wall. 579; Union Pacific Railroad Co.
v. Penniston, 18 id. 5; Tucker v. Perguson, 22 id. 572; Rice
v. Railroad Company, 1 Black, 358.
V. Property held for public purposes becomes a trust-fund
subject to the ordinary jurisdiction of equity. Attorney- General
v. Brown, 1 Swans. 265 ; Attorney- General of Ireland v. Mayor
of Dublin, 1 Bli. x. s. 312; s. c. 2 Cl. & Fin. 289 ; AttorneyGeneral v. Aspinall, 2 My. & Cr. 613; Parr v. AttorneyGeneral, 8 Cl. & Fin. 409; Skinners' Company v. The :Irish
Society, 12 id. 482.
Such jurisdiction is not visitatorial. Dartmouth College Case,
4 Wheat. 676.
VI. The obligations assumed by the company under the
charter raise a trust in favor of the United States.
The charter is a contract affecting specific property, and this
fastens a trust upon such property. Legard v. Hodges, 1 Yes.
477; 1 Perry, Trusts, sect. 82; Seymour v. .Freer,8 Wall. 214;

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATs v. UNION PAcFic R.R. Co.

587

Barings v. .Dabney, 19 id. 9; Evans v. Coventry, 5 DeG., M. &
G. 920.
The word "condition" (see act of 1862, sect. 6) creates a
trust. Stanley.v. Colt, 5 Wall. 165; Sohier v. Trinity Church,
109 Mass. 1; Wright v. Wilkins, 2 Best & Sm. 248.
So the assets of corporations are said to be a trust fund for
creditors. Curran v. Arkansas, 15 How. 807; Railroad v.
Howard, 7 Wall. 409.
The objects to which the company was required by its
charter to devote its entire property were the construction,
operation, and maintenance of the road as an agency in governmental matters, and the security and ultimate payment of the
bonds lent by the United States. A diversion of its property
from these ends was a breach of trust. Burke v. Smith, 16
Wall. 395.
In this connection see the provisions in the following sections
of the charter; viz., act of 1862, sects. 1, 3, 5, 6, 17, and 18;
and act of 1864, sects. 2, 5, and 10.
VII. The property of the company and its proceeds were a
trust fund for the payment of the bonds loaned by the United
States to the company.
These bonds were secured not only by a condition to that
effect (act of 1862, sect. 6), but also by a mortgage; and by
stipulations that five per cent of the net profits, and one-half
of the compensation for services to the United States, should be
applied to pay them, and that the subscriptions for stock should
be paid in cash.
VIII. The court has jurisdiction on the ground that the
transactions were ultra vires. Hare v. Railroad Company,
2 Johns. & H. 111; East Anglian Railroad Co. v. Eastern
Counties Co., 11 0. B. 812; Solomons v. Laing, 1 R. I. 351, and
3 id. 14; Zabriskie v. Railroad Company, 23 How. 881; Bissel
v. Railroad Company, 22 N. Y. 288; Holmes v. Abattoir Company, Law Rep. 1 Ch.682.
As to the parties entitled to sue in order to correct action
ultra vires, see Bagshaw v. Bailroad Company, 2 Mac. & G.
389; Spackman v. Lattimore, 8 Gif. 15; -earns v. Leaf, 1 Hem.
& M. 681; Hare v. Railroad Company, supra.
For observations pertinent to the right of the United States,

588

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

considering its special relations to this company, to obtain relief
in equity against its transactions ultra vires, see Walworth v.
Holt, 4 My. & Cr. 635.
IX. Jurisdiction of equity to protect public interests against
violations of charters. Attorney- General v. Detroit, 26 Mich.
266; Attorney- General v. Tudor Ice Co., 104 Mass. 239; The
State v. Saline County Court, 51 Mo. 366 ; Attorney- General v.
Mid. Kent Railway Co., Law Rep. 3 Ch. 100, &c.; Commissioners v. Smith, 10 Allen (Mass.), 435; Attorney- General v.
Railroad Companies, 35 Wis. 511 ; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How.

331.
X. Jurisdiction to decree specific performance of the obligations of the charter as to the use of the property.

XI. Jurisdiction on the grounds of waste and fraud.
Clagett v. Salmon, 5 Gill & J. (Md.) 334; Maryland v. Railroad Company, 18 Md. 193; Kearney v. Leaf, 1 Hem. &
M. 708; Jackson v. L'udeling, 21 Wall. 616; Jones v. Bolle8,
9 id. 364.
It is therefore submitted, in conclusion 1. That the United States has beneficial or property interests
involved in the transactions complained of, which might be enforced at the suit of an individual, and concerning which it
stands toward the railroad company as a third party. It may
enforce its rights in the same way and has the same rights as
such party.
2. That the act of 1873 authorizes a suit in equity without
express restrictions, specifying several purposes, but not excluding others, and not requiring the cause of action to be
split. It joins only such parties and such causes of action as
would be joined in an ordinary equity suit to accomplish the
purpose, and looks only to the ordinary incidents of a chancery
suit. The provision for process is necessary, and the only provision in the act which is necessary to the relief asked. But if
there should be greater departure from ordinary procedure than
is supposed, there is none involving constitutional objections.
3. That the United States having the two kinds of interest
described, the relief which would be granted in an equity suit,
without a statute, is coextensive with the relief specified in different terms by the statute. It is inadmissible under such

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATE$ V. UNION PACIFIc

R.R. Co.

589

circumstances to construe the statute as an arbitrary one, conflicting with rights of 'property; and without such construction
there is no constitutional objection to it.
4. That, construed however rigorously, the constitutional objections supposed to exist against the relief prayed, as to past
transactions, do not apply to the preventive remedies sought,
which are themselves important to the ends of justice.
5. That the demurrers are untenable, in any view of the
case, and should be overruled.
Mr. Sidney Bartlett and .3fr. . G. Russell, contra.
I. As to the constitutionality of the act of March 3, 1873.
1. The act under which this suit was brought violates the fun.damental right of citizens under a free government to "equality
before the law," and may, therefore, be held void, without reference to any express constitutional limitation or prohibition.
The doctrine that there are implied reservations of individual
rights, even in the broadest grant of legislative power, has
been judicially recognized and asserted; and among them that
of equality before the law has been, and must be, included.
Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386 ;
Taylor v. Porter, 4 Hill (N. Y.), 140; Holden v. James, 11
Mass. 396; Durkee v. Janesville, 28 Wis. 464; Bagg's Appeal,
43 Pa. 512; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Cooley,
Const. Lim., pp. 487-490.
The express grants of constitutional power by which the validity of the act in question is to be determined are to be found in
art. 1, sects. 1 and 8, of the Constitution. Admitting that under
them the power to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme
Court includes that of ordaining the extent and mode in which
the judicial power shall be exercised, subject to the provisions
defining its limits, we yet submit that the grants are subject
to the limitation that they are not to be so construed as to
imply a surrender by the people of "those reserved individual
rights which grow out of the nature of a free government," a
grant of which cannot be assumed to "lurk under any general
grant of legislative power;" and that under such interpretation
any act which undertakes to destroy or impair the great reserved right of equality before the law cannot be deemed an
exercise of legislative power.

590

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

It is not claimed that the act is void and unconstitutional
merely because it is retrospective in its action, or is special
legislation affecting only a single case, or confers upon the
plaintiff in judicial proceedings new and material privileges and
exemptions from existing rules of law, or that it imposes upon
the defendants in conducting their defence new and onerous
conditions at variance with pre-existing rules of law; but because it combines all these objectionable elements, and thus
passes the limits of constitutional legislation, and exercises a
power everywhere recognized as arbitrary and tyrannical.
2. The act is unconstitutional and void, as repugnant to the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
"Nor shall any person . . . be deprived of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law."
In construing this clause, its history and the circumstances
under which it was adopted and the purpose for which it was
designed may be considered.
It is matter of common knowledge that equality before the
law was then recognized as a fundamental principle; that much
solicitude was expressed that it had not been sufficiently guarded
in the Constitution then proposed; and that the amendment
in question was, with others, adopted at the earliest possible
date, for the purpose of protecting the citizen in this right
against legislative encroachments. Federalist, No. 84; Journal
of Congress (1787, 1788), vol. xiii., Appendix, pp. 64-94.
If it be capable, the language is to be so construed, so that
the words "due process of law" shall be extended to the whole
course of judicial "proceedings, shaping, regulating, and enforcing remedies which affect the rights and safety of the citizen, or his means or facilities of defence, and to preclude all
possible special legislation which should attempt in relation
thereto to discriminate between one citizen and another."
The adjudicated cases in which the terms of the Fifth Amendment and equivalent or analogous terms of constitutional limitation have been considered and applied, support our construction.
lVayman v. Southard,10 Wheat. 1; Murray'sLessee v. Hoboken,
fc., Company, 18 How. 272; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U. S. 97; Merrill v. Sherburne, 1 N. H. 199; Bates v. Kimball,
2 Chip. (Vt.) 77; Lewis v. Webb, 8 Me. (Greenl.) 326 ; Dur-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

591

ham v. Lewiston, 4 id. 140; Hfolden v. James, 11 Mass. 396;
Picquet, Appellant, 5 Pick. (Mass.) 65; Davison v. Johonnot,
7 Metc. (Mass.) 388, 393; Simonds v. Simonds, 103 Mass. 572 ;
Taylor v. Porter,4 Hill (N. Y.), 140; Westervelt v. Gregg, 12
N. Y. 202; Wynehamer v. The People, 13 N. Y. 378; O Conner
v. Warner, 4 Watts & S. (Pa.) 223; Greenough v. Greenouglh,
11 Pa. 489; De OCastellux v. Fairchild,15 id. 18; .Ervine's
Appeal, 16 id. 256; Bagg's Appeal, 43 id. 512; Hfuber v. Riley,
53 id. 112; Wally's Heirs v. Kennedy, 2 Yerg. (Tenn.) 554;
Bank of State v. Cooper, 2 id. 599; Budd v. State, 3 Humph.
(Tenn.) 483; Teft v. Teft, 3 Mich. 67; Bull v. Conroe, 13
Wis. 233; Durkee v. .anesville, 28 id. 464; Journal of Congress (1787-88), vol. xiii., Appendix, pp. 64-94; 2 Kent,
Com. 13; Story, Const., sect. 1945; Cooley, Const. Lim., pp.
438, 441, 490.
By the general law of the land applicable to all cases at the
date of the act, and still applicable to all other like cases,
certain established rules and principles of equity jurisprudence
were and are of binding force, governing, as to the joinder of
parties and the joinder of causes of action; and among them
the rule that "uniting in one bill several matters, perfectly
distinct and unconnected, against one defendant, or the demand
of several matters of a distinct and independent nature against
several defendants in the same bill," is inconsistent with the
right of defence, and cannot be upheld in a court of equity.
Equally established is the rule that there shall be but one
final decree in which the rights and interests of the parties are
to be settled.
These rules are by the terms of this act suspended and
annulled.
The act is at variance with the right to due process of law,
in another respect still more important.
By the law as it then existed, and still exists as to all other
cases, the jurisdiction of each circuit court over the persons
against whom its process issues was confined to the district in
which the court sits.
That the jurisdiction and process of these courts were confined by their organization itself within the limits of their respective districts, without regard to the limitation imposed by

592

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, was laid down by
Mr. Justice Washington, as follows "The division and appointment of particular courts for each
district necessarily confines the jurisdiction of the local tribunals
within the bounds of the respective districts within which they
are directed to be holden." L'xparte Graham, 3 Wash. 456.
See also Piequet v. Swan, 5 Mas. 35; Toland v. Sprague, 12
Pet. 300; Day v. Newark Co., 1 Blatch. 628; Pomeroy v. New
York &' Hudson River Railroad Co., 4 id. 120.
But from abundant caution, Congress, by the eleventh section
of the Judiciary Act, provides expressly that "no civil suit shall
be brought before either of said courts (the Circuit or District
Court) against an inhabitant of the United States, by any
original process, in any other district than that whereof he was
an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of
serving the writ."
In this condition of the statute law Congress intervenes, and
provides for this one case against certain defendants, not only
a mode of procedure unknown to the general rules of law, but
a special and isolated jurisdiction, vested in some one circuit
court to be designated by the Attorney-General, to which, by
the law then and still in force, as to all other citizens, they
could not be subjected, and to which by possibility no one of
them was, but for this act, subjected.
Under authority of the act providing that, "on filing the
bill, writs of subpoena may be issued by said court against any
parties defendant, which writ shall run into any district, and
shall be served as other like process by the marshal of such
district." Writs of compulsory process in a suit commenced
in the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut have been
issued from said court into different States, and served upon
persons not inhabitants of said district nor found within its
limits.
In judging of the character of the act as affecting its constitutional validity, we are entitled to look to the act itself, and not
merely to the course which has been pursued under it.
It is obvious that, under its provisions, suit might well have
been brought in a district where, by general law, no one of the
defendants was subject to the jurisdiction, and that to the act

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

598

itself this objection lies with equal force on behalf of all the
defendants alike.
Equally obvious is it that the act, with reference to its constitutional validity, is to be tried by.the same tests which should
be applied to any similar act conferring in favor of a particular individual a like peculiar jurisdiction against particular
designated defendants, against whom a cause of action might
exist.
Under it, at the discretion of the Attorney-General, each of
these defendants might be summoned, and, in order to defend
his right, be compelled to appear, before a circuit court of the
United States in a district remote from his home and his means
of defence, into which but for this act he could not be summoned, and into which no other citizen can be compelled,
which is in the nature of things a pecuniary burden and something more.
This is imposing upon him an onerous condition as to his
defence. Ex parte Graham, supra.
This'objection applies with added force in favor of the corporations made defendants; for they being, for purposes of
jurisdiction, citizens and inhabitants of the several States in
which they are established and under whose laws alone they
exist, not only cannot have a domicile elsewhere, but are incapable of being away from home, and hence are in no event subject to process except in the State or district where they are
created or have their domicile. Bank of Augusta v. Earle,
18 Pet. 519; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Harris,12 Wall.
65; Railway Company v. Whitton, 13 id. 270; Day v. Newark
India-rubber Manufacturing Co., 1 Blatch. 628; .Pomeroy v.
New York &'Hudson River Railroad Co., 4 id. 120; Sayles v.
Northwestern Insurance Co., 2 Curt. 212.
8. The act is unconstitutional and void in its provisions
affecting the jurisdiction and mode of procedure in the present
suit, because it is in violation of sect. 1 of art. 3 of the Constitution of the United States, and is an exercise of judicial
power by the Legislative Department.
By that article, in connection with arts. 1 .and 2, declaring
how the legislative and executive powers shall be vested, it
cannot be questioned that the partition and separation of these
VOL. VIII.

88

594

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

powers is distinct and complete. .Da8s v. Van Rleeck, 7 Johns.
(N. Y.) 477; Merrill v. Sherburn, 1 N. H. 199.
Congress deals directly with a cause between adverse parties,
and prescribes certain rules of procedure, or, in other words,
issues its mandate to the court as to the manner in which a
cause shall be conducted and determined.
It declares that facts which, under the ordinary administration of the rules of equity jurisprudence, would justify the
defence of multifariousness shall be held by the court not to
sustain that defence, and thus in a particular case itself exercises the judicial function.
In O'Connor v. Warner, 4 Watts & S. (Pa.) 223, Gibson,
C. J., says: "A legislative direction to perform a judicial
function in a particular way would be a direct violation of the
Constitution, which assigns to each organ of the government
its exclusive function and a limited sphere of action. No one
will assert that a court would be bound by a mandate to decide a principle or a cause a particular way. Such a mandate
would be a usurpation of judicial power." p. 227.
A legislative mandate, that in a particular case the court
shall decide as to one defence in a particular way, is obviously
open to the same objection as an order so to decide the case
itself. .Picquet, Appellant, 5 Pick. (Mass.) 65; Bates v. Kimball, 2 Chip. (Vt.) 77 ; Lewis v. Webb, 3 Me. 326 ; Merrill v.
8herburn, 1 N. H. 199; Greenough v. Greenough, 11 Pa. 489;
De Chastellux v. Fairchild, 15 Pa. 18; Waters v. Stickney,
12 Allen (Mass.), 1.
4. The act is unconstitutional, and inoperative to maintain
jurisdiction in this suit, because it fails to confer that jurisdiction on the Circuit Court of the District of Connecticut, or on
any other court.
The power to ordain and establish courts inferior to the
Supreme Court is vested in Congress. Setting aside the objection to special legislation for a particular case, we may admit
the power of Congress to confer additional jurisdiction on any
one or on all the inferior courts it has established, in such manner as to include the present suit. To do so, however, involves
directly the increase of territorial jurisdiction of all or of some
one of such courts ; for neither all nor any of them bad, with-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

595

out the aid of the act, power to issue the process for which it
provides.
Congress then might have conferred the required additional
territorial jurisdiction on all or on any one of said courts. It
has in fact done neither.
The action of the Attorney-General was required not to determine in which of the circuit courts he should bring his bill,
but which should have jurisdiction of it when brought.
This constitutes a case of delegated legislative power which
Congress was not competent to grant, or the Attorney-General
to exercise.
It is by his will that this act becomes operative, if it operates
at all, to confer jurisdiction on the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut. Congress described and defined the jurisdiction, and declared that some one circuit court of the United
States should possess it, but omitted to designate that one
court. The power to ordain, establish, or determine the jurisdiction of the inferior courts is one which it is not left to an
executive officer to exercise in whole or in part.
5. The act is void and inoperative as to those defendants
who are made parties to the bill as executors or administrators.
It is not competent for Congress to subject them to the jurisdiction of the court in this suit, because an enactment to that
effect is at variance with their established common-law right
to be exempt from suit or liability except in that State from
which their powers are derived. Their authority to appear
and defend, and their liability to be .compelled so to do, are
limited to such State. The limit of their liability is the
subject of State legislation only, which Congress can neither
increase nor diminish. Taughan v. Nortlup, 15 Pet. 1; -Dixon's Executors v. Ramsay, 3 Cranch, 819; Armstrong v. Lear,
12 Wheat. 169; Low v. Bartlett, 8 Allen (Mass.), 259.
II. As to the case made by the bill.
The entire object to be accomplished by the act is to procure
restoration or pecuniary compensation for past wrongs or frauds
suffered by the company during its early history, which, it is
alleged, were committed by a portion of its directors and by
others, members of as well as strangers to it.
There is thus raised the question, Does the government

596

UNITED STATES

V. UNION

PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

stand in the attitude or fill such relations to the company as
would enable it, upon legal principles, without the act, to
maintain such a suit?
A scrutiny of the decided cases and an examination of the
principles on which they rest warrant the assertion of the
following propositions 1. Such wrongs are to be redressed by the action of the corporation itself, or, on its neglect or refusal, by any one or more
of its shareholders.
2. The only exceptions to this rule are either when such corporation holds its property to charitable uses, or when, by legislation, its property is impressed with a public trust.
In the case of charitable uses, the government, as parens
patrice, has the prerogative right and duty to redress such
wrongs, because, from the contingent character of the possible
beneficiary, there is no cestui que trust capable in law of redressing the same; and by statute the other class of corporations hold their property on a declared, expressed public trust,
for the violation of which it is the prerogative right of the State
to recover. Attorney- General of Irelandv. City of Dublin, 1 Bli.
H. s. 306, 347.
The only other remaining class of corporations whose past
wrongs or injuries can by the law of England be now the subject of suit by the State consists of municipal or other public
corporations. It is settled that the right of the State thus to
interpose had no existence until the same was created by the
statute of William IV. (1835).
The prior condition of the law in England is displayed by
counsel, and conceded by the court, in Attorney- General v.
The doctrine
Co2poration of -Liverpool, 1 Myl. & Cr. 201.
is thus stated by Lord Campbell in Parrv. Attorney-General,
8 Cl. & Fin. 431: "Before the Municipal Corporations Act
passed, corporate property was not subject to any trust: the
corporations might do with it what they pleased, and, generally
speaking, no relief could be obtained at law or in equity for
any misapplication of it." See also Attorney- General v. Aspinall, 2 Myl. & Cr. 613; Attorney- General v. Poole, 4 id. 17;
Attorney- General v. Wilson, Cr. & Ph. 1.
The question of the right of a State, by suit in its name, to

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

597

redress and restore pecuniary losses of political corporations
arising from the frauds of their officers was thoroughly discussed, and, it is believed, all the authorities now cited by the
government collected by eminent counsel in People v. Ingersoll, 58 N. Y. 1. And it was determined that the State could
not maintain the action, but that redress must be sought by
the corporation.
If it be held that the doctrine of the English courts, that,
prior to the statute of William IV., property of political or
municipal corporations is not so held in trust as to warrant the
interference of the State for its recovery, has no application
under our institutions; that not only are such corporations. to
be deemed public corporations, but that all frauds or wrongs
by which their property is diminished or lost are to be redressed and restoration obtained, not by the corporation but
by the State (for it would seem the right cannot exist in
both), the inquiry then arises, Can this railroad company be
held to belong to the same class as municipal or political corporations ?
If its character had not been discussed and determined by
this court to be one where the property is "neither in whole
nor in part the property of the government. The ownership
is in complainant, a private corporation, though existing for
the performance of public duties" (Railroad Company v.
Peniston, 18 Wall. 5), this point might call for a more extended discussion.
That the company exists for a public purpose, and could
only be created on that ground, by no means constitutes it a
public corporation. To use the language of Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall, "Corporations are only public when the whole interest and trust franchises are the exclusive property and domain
of the government itself." See National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 853.
Assuming that the company does not belong to the class
of public or charitable corporations, holding all its property
in trust, it is submitted that the perusal of the cases relied
on by the government to maintain its bill will show with distinctness, First, That although the power of the government has in

598

UNITED STATES V. UNION PAcIFic

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

England been recently extended to the restraint by information in equity of e xcesses or abuses of corporate franchises (see
Attorney-General v. Great Northern Railway Co., 1 Drew
& Sm. 154),- a doctrine which is in controversy in this country (see cases cited at the end of sect. 927, 2 Story, Eq.), yet no case has been or can be cited where, in any proceeding
in equity by the State alone against a corporation, except in
the cases of public charity or public trust, any attempt has
ever been made to recover to its own use or that of the corporation compensation or restoration for losses suffered by maladministration.
Second, That not only is there an absence of any such case
or cases, but the authorities show that the only method known
to the law by which such restoration or compensation can be
attained is for the government to permit the corporation or
party injured and seeking redress or compensation to join with
the information of the Attorney-General, filed in behalf of the
government, seeking to enjoin and restrain an existing abuse, a
bill in behalf of the injured corporation or party seeking compensation for such loss. Attorney- General v. Wilson (Cr. &
Ph. 1) is an illustration of this rule, and contains an exposition of the doctrine. See also Attorney- General v. Johnson,
2 Wils. Oh. 87; Attorney-General v. Forbes,2 Myl. & Cr. 123;
Soltan v. De Ields, 2 Sim. N. s. 151; Attorney- General v.
Sheffield, 3 De G., M. & G. 304.
If this assumed right of action depends upon the inaction
of the corporation or the complicity of its present managers,
seemingly such right exists only in favor of stockholders or
of some partywho fills substantially that relation.
If it is asserted to result from trust, or from the relation
of the government as mortgagee or as creditor, then it in no
manner rests on the inaction or refusal of the corporation
or its officers to pursue its remedies; but the direct right
exists independently of such inaction or refusal, so that all
the allegations of the bill, in that regard, may be stricken out
as valueless.
If it is placed on the ground of trust, then, since it seeks to
follow trust property into the hands of third parties, by reason
that their holding and possession are derived from fraud, to

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

599

which the managers of the corporation were parties, the asserted
trust must be shown to be one in which the title to the whole
property of the corporation is held by it in trust for the government, of which trust, aside from any alleged actual notice,
the parties have by the public charter notice.
There can be no such trust derived from this charter.
Perhaps it may be conceded that, as the result of the agreement contained in the charter, the road of the company, upon
its completion, and all its appurtenances, are, as between the
parties, held in what may perhaps be called a quasi trust to
carry out and give effect to all its declared duties to the government in relation to the construction and use of the road,
and that the government might on neglect or refusal, by proceeding in equity, compel the execution of that trust, and that
its redress for the violation of the trust is not limited to the
forfeiture set forth in the charter. Xnox v. Guy, Law Rep.
5 H. L. 667.
But neither the act nor the bill is framed to enforce the
performance of such trusts. The road has been completed
to the acceptance of the government, and the company has
heretofore, at all times, fulfilled each and all of its duties.
To sustain this act and bill, there must be shown, as resulting from the charter, a further agreement, under which not
only is the property of the company held in trust to secure the
completion and use of the road by the government, but that
although the company has completed the work and is discharging all its duties to the government, yet, lest in some future
contingency the performance of those duties may be imperilled,
all its assets are to be for ever held in trust, so that at all times
whensoever by the misapplication or the fraudulent abstractions
of its property by its managers (or strangers with notice of the
trust), the same shall be diminished, the State may interfere,
not merely to restrain, but by suit to enforce restoration from
the wrong-doers, be they managers or third parties.
The seemingly conclusive argument against the existence of
any such trust is to be found in the fact that the endowments
are, by the same act creating the company, bestowed upon the
same terms and like conditions, in all respects, upon several
State corporations who can hardly, by the acceptance of the

600

UNITED STATES V. UNION PAcIFIc

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

endowments, be deemed to have subjected their entire property
to a trust of this character.
It has been suggested by the counsel for the government
that although it shall be held that the causes of action are
limited by the act on which the bill rests, yet, within that act,
the United States may maintain this bill: 1, as mortgagee;
2, as creditor; 3, as being authorized, under sect. 18 of the act
of 1862, whensoever the income of the road shall exceed ten
per cent, to reduce its tolls; 4, as being entitled, under the
sixth section of the same act, to five per cent of net income.
The results aimed at by the act are the restoration of
money or property of which the company has in times past
been despoiled, and to this it is in terms confined.
It nowhere contemplates a suit for an account of the actual
cost of the road, or what would have been such actual cost if
its assets had not been abstracted or diminished by the alleged
wrongs set forth in the act, so that it may be determined whether
its power of reducing tolls may or not now, under the eighteenth
section, be exercised. Nor does the act authorize a suit to determine whether the net earnings have not been effected or
reduced, and the five per cent diminished, by the frauds or abstractions for which it directs suit to be brought. It discloses
no controversy between the company and the government as to
the cost or as to the five per cent. The wrongs set forth in the
act, for which suit is authorized, have no connection with either
of these subjects.
As to the rights of the government as mortgagee or as creditor, it is to be noted that the assets or property alleged to
have been wasted or abstracted are not embraced by the mortgage. That mortgage does not comprehend the shares of the
company, its bonds, or its choses in action, which are to be reclaimed or restored under the act.
But if it were true that the act was framed to vindicate and
protect the rights of the government as a mortgagee whose
debt has not matured, it will be impossible, we think, to find
authority to recover back from the mortgagor or a third party,
by a bill or information in equity, the pecuniary value of past
waste. It would be alike impossible to recover as against third
parties who profited by the waste.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED -STATES

V. UNION

PACIFIC R.R. Co.

601

The rights of the government as a creditor (and a creditor
no part of whose debt has matured) even to restrain waste by
its debtor of his general assets would hardly seem to require
discussion.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The Union Pacific Railroad Company brought the suit provided for in the second section of the act of March 8, 1878,
17 Stat. 508. The case was argued before us on appeal from
the judgment of the Court of Claims. All the questions which
concern the obligations of the company to pay money to the
government, either by way of freight or government transportation, or for the five per cent on the net income of the road,
-were raised in that suit.
The Attorney-General, in pursuance of the directions of the
fourth section of the act, filed this bill in equity. Many of the
defendants demurred to the bill generally, and at the head of
this class is the railroad company.
The Circuit Court sustained this demurrer and dismissed the
bill, and the case is before us on appeal from that decree.
No suggestion is made either here or in the court below of
any defect in the bill which can be remedied by amendment.
The bill is very elaborate, very ably drawn, and no doubt presents in a very intelligible manner every thing which the facts
known or suspected justified the pleader in placing in any bill
which can be framed under the special statute authorizing the
suit.
The question for decision is, therefore, squarely presented to
us, as it was to the Circuit Court, whether, by the aid of that
statute, and within the limits of the power it intended to confer, this bill can be sustained, under the general principles of
equity jurisprudence.
We say by the aid of that statute, because it is conceded on
all sides that without it the bill cannot stand. The service of
compulsory process on a party residing without the limits of
the district of Connecticut who is not found within them, is
expressly forbidden by the general statute defining the jurisdiction of the circuit courts. Parties and subjects of complaint having no proper connection with each other are grouped

602

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIc

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

together in this bill, and they, by the accepted canons of equity
pleading, render it multifarious. This, and other matters of
like character, which are proper causes of demurrer, are fatal
to it, unless the difficulty be cured by the statute.
When we recur to its provisions, which are said to authorize
these and other departures from the general rules of equity procedure, counsel for the appellees insist that.it is unconstitutional,
not only in the particulars just alluded to, but that it is absolutely void as affecting the substantial rights of defendants in
regard to matters beyond the power of Congress.
If this be true, we need inquire no further into the frame of
the bill, and we therefore proceed, on the threshold, to consider the objections to the validity of the statute.
The Constitution declares (art. 3, sect. 2) that the judicial
power shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising under
the Constitution, the laws of the United States, and the treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority; and
to controversies to which the United States shall be a party.
The matters in regard to which the statute authorizes a suit
to be brought are very largely those arising under the act
which chartered the Union Pacific Railroad Company, conferred
on it certain rights and benefits, and imposed on it certain obligations. It is in reference to these rights and obligations that
the suit is to be brought. It is also to be brought by the
United States, which is, therefore, necessarily the party complainant. Whether, therefore, this suit is authorized by the
statute or not, it is very clear that the general subject on which
Congress legislated is within the judicial power as defined by
the Constitution.
The same article declares, in sect. 1, that this "power shall
be vested in one supreme court and in such inferior courts as the
Congress may, from time to time, ordain."
The discretion, therefore, of Congress as to the number, the
character, the territorial limits of the courts among which it
shall distribute this judicial power, is unrestricted except as to
the Supreme Court. On that court the same article of the Constitution confers a very limited original jurisdiction, - namely,
"in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and
consuls, and cases in which a State shall be a party," - and an

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PAciiC IR.

Co.

603

appellate jurisdiction in all the other cases to which this judicial power extends, with such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress shall make.
There is in this same section a limitation as to the place of
trial of all crimes, which it declares shall (except in cases of
impeachment) be held in the State where they shall have been
committed, if committed within any State.
Article 6 of the amendments also provides that in all criminal prosecutions "the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy
and public trial by an impartial jury of the State and district
wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district
shall have been previbusly ascertained by law." These provi"sions,-which relate solely to the place of the trial for criminal
offences, do not affect the general proposition. We say, therefore, that, -with the exception of the Supreme Court, the authority of Congress, in creating courts and conferring on them
all or much or little of the judicial power of the United
States, is unlimited by the Constitution.
Congress has, under this authority, created the district courts,
the circuit courts, and the Court of Claims, and vested each of
them with a defined portion of the judicial power found in the
Constitution. It has also regulated the appellate jurisdiction
of the Supreme Court.
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and the Court of
Claims is not confined by geographical boundaries. Each of
them, having by the law of its organization jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of a suit, and of the parties thereto, can, sitting
at Washington, exercise its power by appropriate process, served
anywhere within the limits of the territory over which the Federal government exercises dominion.
It would have been competent for Congress to organize a
judicial system analogous to that of England and of some of the
States of the Union, and confer all original jurisdiction on a
court or courts which should possess the judicial power with
which that body thought proper, within the Constitution, to invest them, with authority to exercise that jurisdiction throughout the limits of the Federal government. This has been done in
reference to the Court of Claims. It has now jurisdiction only
of cases in which the United States is defendant. It is just as

604

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

clearly within the power of Congress to give it exclusive jurisdiction of all actions in which the United States is plaintiff.
Such an extension of its jurisdiction would include all that the
statute under consideration has granted to the Circuit Court.
It is true that Congress has declared that no person shall be
sued in a circuit court of the United States who does not reside
within the district for which the court was established, or who
is not found there. But a citizen residing in Oregon may be
sued in Maine, if found there, so that process can be served on
him. There is, therefore, nothing in the Constitution which
forbids Congress to enact that, as to a class of cases or a case of
special character, a circuit court-any circuit court- in which
the suit may be brought, shall, by process served anywhere in
the United States, have the power to bring before it all the
parties necessary to its decision.
Whether parties shall be compelled to answer in a court of
the United States wherever they may be served, or shall only
be bound to appear when found within the district where the
suit has been brought, is merely a matter of legislative discretion, which ought to be governed by considerations of convenience, expense, &c., but which, when exercised by Congress, is
controlling on the courts.
So, also, the doctrine of multifariousness; whether relating
to improperly combining persons or grievances in the bill, it is
simply a rule of pleading adopted by courts of equity. It has
been found convenient in the administration of justice, and promotive of that end, that parties who have no proper connection
with each other shall not be compelled to litigate together in
the same suit, and that matters wholly distinct from and having no relation to each other, and requiring defences equally
unconnected, shall not be alleged and determined in one suit.
The rule itself, however, is a very accommodating one, and by
no means inflexible. Such as it is, however, it may be modified, limited, and controlled by the -same power which creates
the court and confers its jurisdiction. The Constitution imposes no restraint in this respect upon the power of Congress.
Sect. 921 of the Revised Statutes, which has been the law
for fifty years, declares that when causes of like nature or relating to the same question are pending, the court may consoli-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PACIFIC R.R. Co.

605

date them, or make such other orders as are necessary to avoid
costs and delay. It is every-day practice, under this rule, to do
what the statute authorizes to be done in the case before us.
But it is argued that the statute confers a special jurisdiction
to try a single case, and is intended to grant the complainant
new and substantial rights, at the expense and by a con
sponding invasion of those of the defendants.
It does not create a new or special tribunal. Any circul
court of the United States where the bill might be filed was
by the act, invested with the jurisdiction to try the case. Not
was new power conferred on the court beyond those which we
have regarded as affecting the mode of procedure. It seems to
Us" that any circuit court, sitting as a court of equity, which
could by its process have lawfully obtained jurisdiction of the
parties, and considered in one suit all the matters mentioned in
the statute, could have done this before the act as well
afterwards.
But if this be otherwise, we are aware of no constitutio
objection to the power of the legislative body to confer on
existing court a special jurisdiction to try a specific matt
which in its nature is of judicial cognizance.
The principal defendant in this suit, the one around which a
the contest is ranged, is a corporation created by an act whic
reserved the right of Congress to repeal or modify the charter
To this corporation Congress made a loan of $27,000,000, and a
donation of lands of a value probably equal to the loan.
The statute-books of the States are full of acts directing the
law officers to proceed against corporations, such as banks, insurance companies, and others, in order to have a decree
declaring their charters forfeited. Special statutes are also
common, ordering suits against such corporations when they
have, become insolvent, to wind up their business affairs, and
to distribute their assets, and prescribing with minuteness the
course of procedure which shall be followed and the court in
which the suit shall be brought.
This court said, in the case of Ihe Bank of Columbia v. Okely
(4 Wheat. 235), in speaking of a summary proceeding given
by the charter of that bank for the collection of its debts: "It
is the remedy, and not the right, and as such we have no doubt

606

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PAcIFIc R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

of its being subject to the will of Congress. The forms of administering justice, and the duties and powers of courts as
incident to the exercise of a branch of sovereign power, must
ever be subject to legislative will, and the power over them is
unalienable, so as to bind subsequent legislatures." And in
oung v. The Bank of Alexandria (4 Cranch, 397), Mr. Chief
,ustice Marshall says: "There is a difference between those
ights on which the validity of the transactions of the corporation depends, which must adhere to those transactions everywhere, and those peculiar remedies which may be bestowed
on it. The first are of general obligation; the last, from their
nature, can only be exercised in those courts which the power
making the grant can regulate." See also The Commonwealth
v. The Delaware & Hudson Canal Co. et al., 43 Pa. St. 227;
,State of Maryland v. Northern Central Railroad Co., 18 Md.
'93; Colby v. Dennis, 36 Me. 1; Gowan v. Penobscot Railroad
')., 44 id. 140.
Statutes of this character, if not so common as to be called
inary legislation, are yet frequent enough to justify us in
ying that they are well-recognized acts of legislative power
niformly sustained by the courts.
It may be said, and probably with truth, that such statutes,
;ben they have been held to be valid by the courts, do not
nfringe the substantial rights of property or of contract of the
parties affected, but are intended to supply defects of power
in the courts, or to give them improved methods of procedure
in dealing with existing rights.
This leads to an inquiry indispensable to a sound decision
of the case before us; namely, does this statute, by its true construction, do any thing more than this?
We might rest this branch of the case upon the concession
of counsel for appellants, made both in their .brief and in the
oral argument, but we proceed to examine the proposition for
ourselves.
The first suggestion of the legal mind on this inquiry is, that
it will not be presumed, unless the language of the statute imperatively requires it, that Congress, by a retrospective law,
intended to create new rights in one party to the suit at the
expense, or by an invasion of the rights, of other parties; or,

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

607

where no right of action founded on past transactions existed,
that Congress intended to create it.
The United States was to be sole complainant in a suit in
equity, and though there may be other defendants, the Union
Pacific Railroad Company is the only one fiamed in the act.
The relief to be granted is the collection and payment of
moneys and the restoration of property, or its value, "either to
said railroad corporation or to the United States, whichever
shall in equity be entitled thereto." The decree, therefore,
can only he made on the ground of some relief to which the
United States or the company is entitled by the general principles of equity jurisprudence. It is no objection to granting
such relief that the company is a defendant, for by the flexibility of chancery practice a person whose interests in the subject of litigation are on the same side with the complainant
may be made a defendant. The corporation could also in such
a suit file a cross-bill against the complainant, and, by virtue
of this statute, against any co-defendant of whom it could rightfully claim the relief which the statute authorizes.
But whatever be the relief asked, it could only, by the express terms of the act, be granted to that party who was in
equity thereunto entitled. It is very plain that there was here
no new right established. No new cause of equitable relief.
No new rule for determining what were the rights of the parties. That was to be decided by the principles of equity; not
new principles of equity, but the existing principles of equitable jurisprudence.
But the statute very specifically defines the matters which
may be embraced in this suit as foundations for relief, and classifies them under a very few heads, by declaring -who besides
the corporation may be sued. They are persons who have
received, -

1. Capital stock of the company without paying for it in
money;
2. Other property of the company unlawfully and contrary
to equity;
8. As profits or proceeds of contracts for construction, money
or other property which ought in equity to belong to the corporation; or,

608

UNITED STATES

V. UNION

PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

4. Persons who have wrongfully received from the United
States bonds, moneys, or lands which ought in equity to be
accounted for, or paid to it or to the company.
There is in this description of the class of persons who may
be sued an implied condition that they are already subject to
be sued for causes which render them equitably liable. The
relief to be granted is also such as to equity belongs.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the act in question was
intended not to change the substantial rights of the parties to
the suit which it authorized, but to provide a specific method
of procedure, which, by removing restrictions on the jurisdiction, process, and pleading in ordinary cases, would give a
larger scope for the action of the court, and a more economical
and efficient remedy than before existed; and that it is a valid
and constitutional exercise of legislative power.
If in passing on its constitutional validity we have given the
subject much consideration, it will be seen that we have at the
same time been compelled to give a construction to its language
which will go far to enable us to decide whether it authorized
the bill that was filed; for we are of opinion that nothing other
than what is found in the act, by express language or by fair
implication, can be introduced into this suit as a foundation for
the action of the court.
The Attorney-General is peremptorily ordered to bring the
proceeding. The filing of the bill and its subject-matter are
both removed from the domain of discretion. For the purposes
of this suit, the court wherein it is brought is vested with powers and aided by modes of procedure which it can apply to no
other. Parties are subjected to a jurisdiction by process to
which the same court cannot subject them in any other suit,
and they are required to litigate their rights in a suit common
to them and others with whom they could not be joined under
the rules governing such matter in any other case.
We are bound, therefore, to presume that Congress did not
intend that this special remedy should include any thing beyond
the matters which we have seen were so carefully and so specifically mentioned as grounds of relief.
Other provisions of the act show that Congress had, or
believed that it had, other grievances against this company for

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

609

which other remedies are furnished. Any director or officer
who violates certain provisions is to be punished criminally.
By mandamus in the proper court, but not in this suit, the
company is to be compelled to operate its road as required by
law. The second section directs the Secretary of the Treasury
to withhold payment for transportation for the United States
until what is due for interest paid shall be satisfied, and the
matter, if disputed, is to be settled by suit brought by the-company in the Court of Claims.
This consideration makes it clear that any bill brought by
the Attorney-General under the fourth section of the act of
1878 must be limited by the provisions of that act, both as
to the grievances on which it counts and the relief which it
seeks.
With these views of the statute under. which this bill is
brought, and by which its sufficiency on demurrer must be
tested, we approach the examination of the bill itself.
It consists of forty-seven pages of printed matter, divided into
forty-eight separate paragraphs, each of which undertakes to
set forth a distinct ground of relief, or points out the relief
which is sought.
It will, therefore, be impossible to give in this opinion the
results of the separate examination of each of these paragraphs;
nor is this at all necessary. A consideration of the principal
grounds of relief, grouped as they can easily be under a few
heads, will indicate the views which we believe to be sufficient
to decide the whole.
We will consider together the allegations of the bill against
the Wyoming Coal Company, the Credit Mobilier Company,
the Pullman Palace Car Company, and the three construction
contracts of H. M. Hoxie, Oakes Ames, and James W. Davis.
These are by far the most important as regards the sum involved
as well as the principles which must decide the case.
The substance of the charge is, that the board of directors
of the railroad company made contracts for building the road,
and for running the Pullman cars on it, and for mining its coal
lands and purchasing the coal so mined, which were a fraud
upon the company; that these contracts allowed exorbitant
prices for work done and material furnished; that otherwise.
VOI. VIII.

89

610

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

they were very advantageous to the other contracting parties
and injurious to the company; that in all of them the directors,
or a controlling majority of them, were interested adversely to
the company; that in fact they were, in the name of the company, making contracts with themselves as the other party. In
short, it may be taken for granted that if these allegations are
true, as they must be held to be on demurrer, frauds more
unmitigated than those set forth in this bill were never perpetrated on a helpless corporation by its managing directors.
That these frauds are such as a court of equity would relieve
against in a proper case, may be seen in the opinion of the
Circuit Court for the Nebraska district, in a suit growing out
of the Wyoming Coal Company's contract. Wardell v. The
Union Pacific Railroad Co., 4 Dill. 830.
The first inquiry arising on these facts is, What relief can be
given, and who is entitled to it?
The obvious reply to the first branch of the question is, that
the parties who made this contract and received the pecuniary
benefit of it can at law be made responsible in damages, or
held in equity to compensation for the loss suffered. There
would be no difficulty in adjudging in a proper suit that such
contracts were void, and then ordering an accounting, on the
basis of a fair compensation for what had been done in the way
of construction, building, opening mines, furnishing coal, &c.,
and what had been received for such work and materials. The
difficulty is, to whom shall this money be paid when recovered,
and can it be recovered in this suit? If the railroad company,
falling into purer hands, had brought such a suit, the bill might
be sustained.
But the company is not the complainant here. It seeks no
relief for these wrongs. It may have been the design of the
law to give the corporation an opportunity by a cross-bill to
obtain relief against the other defendants, who are charged with
these frauds. Such a bill, if not strictly within the rule of
equity procedure, which only allows a defendant to file a crossbill against a complainant, might be sustained under the provisions of this statute. But the company files no such bill. It
desires no such relief. On the contrary, it resists by demurrer
any further proceeding in the matter. Can it be compelled in

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PAic

R.R. Co.

611

this mode to prosecute such a suit? So long as it exists in the
possession and unrestrained exercise of all its corporate powers,
its board of directors, unless under judicial prohibition or compulsion, is vested with the sole authority to decide whether it
will assert its right of action for a supposed injury, or will condone it.
The circumstances of the alleged fraud, the probability of
success in the suit, the extent of the injury, the amount which
may be recovered, the expense of the proceeding, and the danger
of injury to the company itself, are all matters which address
themselves to them as grounds for the exercise of the discretion
of the directors. They have decided to have nothing to do
with it. How, then, can a decree be rendered in their favor,
or relief be given them which is not asked? With what hope
of advantage can the court enter upon the inquiry touching the
frauds alleged, and the amount of the injury sustained, when
the party aggrieved refuses to proceed?
On the other hand, if the court does proceed, shall the decrees, if rendered against the defendants, be in favor of the
company? If so, what good results would follow? Since
the company resists any decree in its favor now, it would probably enter satisfaction or releases of the decrees as fast as they
are rendered. If it did not do this, how would the moneys, if
collected and paid into its treasury, be applied ? It is alleged
to be insolvent and in debt, but except the claim of the government, which will be presently considered, there is no allegation showing to what use the court can decree the application
of these moneys. They must, therefore, go into the treasury of
the company, to become subject to the control of its directors,
who are now resisting this action. Not only this, but it is
obvious that the amount recovered would come mainly out of
the same men who now as directors or as stockholders would
control the fund, and would probably order its redistribution
to the parties who paid it, or give receipts or releases in
advance.
The truth is, that the persons who were actually defrauded
by these transactions, if any such there be, were the few bona
fide stockholders who took no part in them, and had no interest in the fraudulent contracts. But it is not alleged that

612

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

there are such. If there be, they are not made parties to this
bill, nor does it provide any relief for them. Yet a moment's
consideration will show that they alone (to say nothing of the
complainant for the present) suffered any legal injury, or are
entitled to any relief. As to the directors and stockholders
who took part in these fraudulent contracts, they are partipes
crirninis, and can have no relief. This class probably included
nine-tenths in value of the shareholders. It is against all the
principles of jurisprudence, whether at law or in equity, to permit them to litigate this fraud among themselves. If the
innocent stockholders are not parties here, we have alreadj
seen that, with the power of the directors over the money re
covered, they would get no relief by the suit.
The statute, however, did not permit them to be made
parties. Their interest is not the same as that of the company.
The statute provides only for the collection and payments of
money, or the restoration of property, or its value, to the railroad company, or to the United States, as either of them may
be in equity held entitled thereto. This does not embrace
what a defrauded stockholder may be entitled to in his individual right.
We are of opinion, therefore, that no decree can be rendered
in favor of the railroad company on account of these transactions, or for the value of the stock not paid for by those who
received it. Although issuing it without payment may have
been in violation of law, and an implied contract may exist on
which the company could compel payment, the United States
cannot in this suit recover it, and the company refuses to assert
its right thereto.
The same principle applies to the arrangements made by the
railroad company with the Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph
Company, and with the Omaha Bridge Company, which are
here assailed. These are existing contracts under which the
business of the principal corporation with the others is conducted, and with which it is satisfied. It asks no rescission,
and is content to comply with them. It is not within the
power of the court to annul them, or to make new ones for the
parties.

No decree can therefore be rendered on this bill in favor of

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

018

the Union Pacific Railroad Company, because it is not the
complainant, but a defendant, and, asking no afirmative relief
or any other, it resists being brought into this suit, and refuses
to plead in it any further than compelled by the court.
If there is any relief to which the United States is entitled
against the company, the latter, being a defendant, must remain
and answer to the claim. But it is conformable to the principles neither of the common law nor of equity to compel it to
prosecute a suit as complainant which it disapproves, or to
establish a claim which it denies, or take a decree where it
asserts nothing to be due.
We must now inquire whether the bill makes a case in which
the United States, the complainant, is entitled under the terms
of the statute to relief.
The United States is not, and never has been, a stockholder
in this company. It is a creditor.
The government sustains two distinct relations to the railroad company, and, in considering her rights under this statute,
it is important to keep them separate. The company is organized under, and owes its corporate existence to, an act of Congress. The government has all the rights which belong to any
other government as a sovereign and legislative power over this
creation of that power. That this power should not be too
much crippled by the doctrine that a charter is a contract, the
eighteenth section declares that Congress may at any time,
having due regard for the rights of the companies named therein,
add to, alter, amend, or repeal the act. The power of Congress,
therefore, in its sovereign and legislative capacity over this
corporation is very great.
The government, however, holds another very important
relation, namely, that of contract. It has loaned to the company 827,000,000, and granted to it on certain terms many
million acres of land. The government is paying all the time
the semi-annual interest on its own bonds, loaned to the company. The company is bound by contract to pay them, principal and interest, at their maturity. The government by the
contract has a lien on the road and its appurtenances to secure
this payment. The company is also bound by the contract to
perform for the government all the transportation and tele-

614

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIc

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

graphing that may be required of it, and to keep its road and
line always in order and readiness to render these services. It
may have other contract obligations to the government not
here mentioned, but these are all that are important to our
inquiry. The government has delivered its bonds to the company. The company has built the road, owns it, and operates
it. Does the bill allege any thing which, growing out of this
contract, entitles the United States to relief?
One of its allegations is that there is due to the United
States and unpaid, on account of interest on the bonds, the
sum of $6,198,700, and that the balance of interest for which
the company is liable is rapidly accumulating. It was filed in
May, 1873, and this court, at its October Term, 1875, decided,
in United States v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (91 U. S. 72),
that the company was not bound to pay this interest until the
bonds mature, except so far as the act made in that regard two
special provisions. One was that half the compensation for
transportation performed for the United States should, as provided by the subsequent amended charter of 1864, be withheld
by the government for that purpose; the other was that after
the completion of the road five per cent of its net earnings
were to be applied annually to extinguish the debt to the
United States.
The second section of the act of 1873, as we have seen, provides for the first of these cases, and as to the other, the government has brought suits, which are now ripe for decision in
this court.
There is, therefore, no ground for relief on account of money
due by the company to the United States.
It is said that the latter, as a creditor whose lien is endangered
by the extravagance of the company, and the misappropriation
of its means, has the right to come into equity for preventive
relief to secure the collection of the sums of which the company
has been defrauded.
The government made its contract and bargained for its
security. It had a first lien on the road by the original act of
incorporation, which would have made its loan safe in any
event. But in its anxiety to secure the rapid prosecution of
the work, -an end more important to it than to any one else,

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co

and still more important to the people whom it represented,
postponed this lien to another mortgage, that the means mig
be raised to complete the road. It has the second lien, hovi
ever, and the right to appropriate one-half of the price it annually pays for the use of the road, - a very large sum, - and five
per cent of the net earnings of the road, which may become
much larger, to the extinction of this debt. It is not wholly
unreasonable to suggest that the amount which the compa.'ny may be compelled to pay annually, under these two provisicns,
will be sufficient as a sinking fund to pay the entire debt, prin.
cipal and interest, before it falls due.
It is difficult to see any right which as a creditor the govel'nment has to interfere between the corporation and those with
whom it deals. It has been careful to protect its interests in
making the contract, and it has the right which that contract
gives. What more can it ask? It is true that there is a
allegation of insolvency. But in what that insolvency consists
is not clearly shown. It has a floating debt. What railroad
company has not? It is said it does not pay the interest on its
debt to the United States. We have shown that it owes the
United States no money that is due. There is no allegation
that it does not pay the interest on all its own funded debt.
The allegation as it is would be wholly insufficient to place the
corporation in bankruptcy, even if that was not forbidden by
the act under which this bill is drawn. The facts stated are
utterly insufficient to support a creditor's bill by the United
States. That requires a judgment at law, an execution issued,
and a return of nulla bona. Here there is no judgment, no
money due, and no sufficient allegation of insolvency.
We are unable, therefore, to see any relief to which under
this bill the United States, on account of its contract relations
with the company, would be entitled in a court of equity.
If we look at the statute this is still clearer. The moneys
due for unpaid stock, or for property of the company unlawfully
received, or as profits in fraudulent contracts for construction,
are all described in the act as belonging to the corporation, and to
be restored to it. Those who may have wrongfully and unlawfully received from the United States bonds, moneys, or lands
which ought in equity to be accounted for and paid to it or to

UNITED STATES V. UNION

PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

ompany, may be compelled to pay the moneys or restore the
operty to the party, which shall in equity be entitled thereto.
But, in this connection, no one but the company has received
property, lands, or moneys from the United States. There is
no allegation that the moneys were not used to build the road.
If there was, there is nothing now due, and the company is
performing all its obligations to the government under the
coutract.
T'he bill establishes no right in the government, under this
orany other clause of the act, to recover in its own right any
property or money from the company.
In its sovereign or legislative relation to the company, the
United States has powers the extent of which it is unnecessary
to define in this case. The two sections of the act, under one
of whicb this suit was instituted, are instances of the exercise
" these powers, and they affect the interest of the company in
. prtant particulars. Congress might also have directed the
Attorney-General, either as part of this proceeding or as an
independent one, to ask the court to declare the franchises of
the company forfeited. It might have ordered a bill to inquire
if the company was insolvent, and if so, to -wind up its affairs
and distribute its assets. In short, there are many modes in
which the legislature could have called into operation all the
judicial powers known to the law. But it has not done so,
and that is the constantly recurring answer to this bill. It
provided in the statute for a mode of securing a full inquiry
into the affairs of the company, by enacting that the Secretary
of the Treasury should have free access to all its books and
correspondence,- a mode of obtaining information far more
effective than a bill of discovery. The statute, therefore, did
not authorize a bill of discovery. Not wanting the company
declared bankrupt and closed out by a decree of the court,
Congress enacted that it should not be subject to the bankrupt
law, as other corporations were, but should continue to exercise
its franchises and perform its duties, and that it might be compelled to do this by a writ of mandamus from the proper court.
It limited the relief to be granted under this act, therefore,
both by the terms in which it was granted and by other provisions, to the recovery of a moneyed decree, or a restoration

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

617

of specific property to which the United States or the company
was by law entitled.
It is useless, therefore, to inquire what might have been done
by some other legislation, or what, independently of legislation,
are the rights of the government; for we can only act on such
as are recognized by the act under which the Circuit Court proceeded.
This brings us to the consideration of the last ground of
relief which we propose to notice, and which, with the alleged
right to a decree in favor of the company against the individuals and corporations who have defrauded it, is most earnestly
insisted on here.
The proposition is that the United States, as the grantor of
the franchises of the company, the author of its charter, and
the donor of lands, rights, and privileges of immense value, and
as parens patria, is a trustee, invested with power to enforce
the proper use of the property and franchises granted for the
benefit of the public.
The legislativepower of Congress over this subject has already
been considered, and need not be further alluded to. The trust
here relied on is one which is supposed to grow out of the relations of the corporation to the government, which, without any
aid from legislation, are cognizable in the ordinary courts of
equity.
It must be confessed that, with every desire to find some clear
and well-defined statement of the foundation for relief under
this head of jurisdiction, and after a very careful examination
of the authorities cited, the nature of this claim of right remains exceedingly vague. Nearly all the cases - we may
almost venture to say all of them - fall under two heads: 1. Where municipal, charitable, religious, or eleemosynary
corporations, public in their character, had abused their franchises, perverted the purpose of their organization, or misappropriated their funds, and as they, from the nature of their
corporate functions, were more or less under government supervision, the Attorney-General proceeded against them to obtain
correction of the abuse; or,
2. Where private corporations, chartered for definite and limited purposes, had exceeded their powers, and were restrained

618

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

or enjoined in the same manner from the further violation of
the limitation to which their powers were subject.
The doctrine in this respect is well condensed in the opinion
in The People v. Igersoll, recently decided by the Court of
Appeals of New York. 58 N. Y. 1. " If," says the court, "the
property of a corporation be illegally interfered with by corporation officers and agents or others, the remedy is by action
at the suit of the corporation, and not of the Attorney-General.
Decisions are cited from the reports of this country and of
this State, entitled to consideration and respect, affirming to
some extent the doctrine of the English courts, and applying it
to like cases as they have arisen here. But in none has the
doctrine been extended beyond the principles of the English
cases; and, aside from the jurisdiction of courts of equity over
trusts of property for public uses and over the trustees, either
corporate or official, the courts have only interfered at the instance of the Attorney- General to prevent and prohibit some
official wrong by municipal corporations or public officers, and
the exercise of usurped or the abuse of actual powers." p. 16.
To bring the present case within the rule governing the
exercise of the equity powers of the court, it is strongly urged
that the company belongs to the class first described.
The duties imposed upon it by the law of its creation, the
loan of money and the donation of lands made to it by the
United States, its obligation to carry for the government, and
the great purpose of Congress in opening a highway for public
use and the postal service between the widely separated States
of the Union, are relied on as establishing this proposition.
But in answer to this it must be said that, after all, it is but
a railroad company, with the ordinary powers of such corporations. Under its contract with the government, the latter has
taken good care of itself; and its rights may be judicially enforced without the aid of this trust relation. They may be
aided by the general legislative powers of Congress, and by
those reserved in the charter, which we have specifically quoted.
The statute which conferred the benefits on this company,
the loan of money, the grant of lands, and the right of way,
did the same for other corporations already in existence under
State or territorial charters. Has the United States the right

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co.

619

to assert a trust in the Federal government which would authorize a suit like this by the Attorney-Genelal against the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company, the Central Pacific Railroad Coinpany, and other companies in a similar position?
If the United States is a trustee, there must be cestuis que
trust. There cannot be the one without the other, and the trustee cannot be a trustee for himself alone. A trust does not exist
when the legal right and the use are in the same party, and
there are no ulterior trusts.
Who are the cestuis que trust for whose benefit this suit is
brought? If they be the defrauded stockholders, we have
already shown that they are capable of asserting their own
rights; that no provision is made for securing them in this
suit should it be successful, and that the statute indicates no
such purpose.
If the trust concerned relates to the rights of the public in
the use of the road, no wrong is alleged capable of redress in
this suit, or which requires such a suit for redress.
Railroad Company v. Peniston (18 Wall. 5) shows that the

company is not a mere creature of the United States, but that
while it owes duties to the government, the performance of
which may, in a proper case, be enforced, it is still a private
corporation, the same as other railroad companies, and, like
them, subject to the laws of taxation and the other laws of the
States in which the road lies, so far as they do not destroy its
usefulness as an instrument for government purposes.
We are not prepared to say that there are no trusts which
the United States may not enforce in a court of equity against
this company. When such a trust is shown, it will be time
enough to recognize it. But we are of opinion that there is
none set forth in this bill which, under the statute authorizing
the present suit, can be enforced in the Circuit Court.
There are many matters alleged in the bill in this case, and
many points ably presented in argument, which have received
our careful attention, but of which we can take no special
notice in this opinion. We have devoted so much space to the
more important matters, that we can only say that, under the
view which we take of the scope of the enabling statute, they
furnish no ground for relief in this suit.

620

UNITED STATES V. UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The liberal manner in which the government has aided this
company in money and lands is much urged upon us as a reason
why the rights of the United States should be liberally construed. This matter is fully considered in the opinion of the
court already cited, in United States v. Union Pacific Railroad
Co. (supra), in which it is shown that it was a wise liberality
for which the government has received all the advantages for
which it bargained, and more than it expected. In the feeble
infancy of this child of its creation, when its life and usefulness
were very uncertain, the government, fully alive to its importance, did all that it could to strengthen, support, and sustain
it. Since it has grown to a vigorous manhood, it may not have
displayed the gratitude which so much care called for. If this
be so, it is but another instance of the absence of human affections which is said to characterize all corporations. It must,
however, be admitted that it has fulfilled the purpose of its
creation and realized the hopes which were then cherished,
and that the government has found it a useful agent, enabling
it to save vast sums of money in the transportation of troops,
mails, and supplies, and in the use of the telegraph.
A court of justice is called on to inquire not into the balance
of benefits and favors on each side of this controversy, but intq
the rights of the parties as established by law, as found ii.
their contracts, as recognized by the settled principles of equity,
and to decide accordingly. Governed by this rule, and by the
intention of the legislature in passing the act under which thi&
suit is brought, we concur with the Circuit Court in holding
that no case for relief is made by the bill.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

dissenting.
I concur in the opinion, so far as it relates to the constitu
tional validity of the act of Congress which lies at the foundation of the case. In the residue I cannot concur.

HARLAx,

