Ex PARTE SCHWAB.

[Sup. Ct.

Ex PARTE SCHWAB.
1. A mazdamus cannot be used to perform the office of an appeal or a writ of
error.
2. Where a suit was brought in the Circuit Court by assignees in bankruptcy,
praying that a transfer of personal property by the bankrupt to A. be decreed to be fraudulent, that their title thereto be declared to be perfect, and
that A. be enjoined from prosecuting an action therefor then pending in a
State court, and the Circuit Court, after due notice, awarded a preliminary
injunction, and an order is asked here for a mandamus commanding the
judge who granted the injunction to set it aside, - Hdd, that the Circuit
Court having jurisdiction of the suit, an error, if one was committed, can
only be reviewed here after a final decree shall have been passed in that
court.
MOTION for an order to show cause why a mandamus shall
not be issued.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Matt. H. Carpenter and Mr. Don M. Dickinson in support of the motion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Certain creditors of Scott & Feibish, of Detroit, instituted
proceedings in bankruptcy, March 14, 1878, against the debtors
in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, and at the same time obtained a provisional
order for the seizure of certain goods which, it was alleged,
had been disposed of in fraud of the bankrupt law. This order
was placed in the hands of Salmon S. Matthews, marshal of
the district, and he, on the 29th of March, took into his possession, as the property of the bankrupts, the goods claimed by
Schwab, the petitioner herein. On the 13th of April, Scott &
Feibish were in due form adjudicated bankrupts.
April 27, Schwab sued Matthews, the marshal, and Mabley,
Michaels, Rothschild, and Hayes, four of the creditors of Scott
& Feibish, in the Superior Court of the city of Detroit, for the
value of the goods seized. May 6, Joseph L. Hudson was duly
elected and appointed assignee in bankruptcy of Scott & Feibish,
and the goods in question were thereupon turned over to him
by the marshal. Since then the goods have been sold by the

Oct. 1878.]

EX PARTE SCHWAB.

order of the bankrupt court, and the proceeds of sale remain
in the hands of the assignee to be applied as part of the estate
of the bankrupts, if it shall appear that the title to the goods
was in the assignee at the time of the sale.
October 5, Hudson, the assignee, Matthews, the marshal, and
the four creditors, defendants in the suit in the State court,
filed a bill in equity against Schwab in the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan, wherein they pray that the
sale and transfer of the goods to Schwab "may be set aside
and held for naught, and decreed to be in violation of the
Bankrupt Act, and that said goods and chattels may be decreed
to be a part of the estate of Scott & Feibish, and that the title
of said Joseph L. Hudson, said assignee, to said goods, or to the
funds arising therefrom, may be quieted and decreed to be perfect." It is also further prayed that Schwab and his attorneys
be enjoined "from further prosecution of said suit so pending
in the Superior Court of Detroit, or from the prosecution. of
any other or further suit in regard to the seizure of said goods,
save in this [the circuit] court or in the bankruptcy court."
A preliminary injunction, after notice, was granted by the
judge of the District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
November 12, and Schwab now asks for an orde on the judge
to show cause here why a mandamus should not issue commanding and enjoining him to vacate and set aside such injunction.
Mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of an appeal
or a writ of error. Ez parte Loring, 94 U: S.418; .x parte
Flippin, id. 850. The Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the
action and of the parties, for the purpose of trying the title of
the assignee to the goods. The injunction was granted in the
course of the administration of the cause. Injunctions may be
granted by the courts of the United States to stay proceedings
in the courts of a State, "in cases where such injunction may
be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." Rev. Stat., sect. 720. When the application was
made for the allowance of the injunction, it became the duty
of the court to determine whether the case was one in which
that power could be exercised. The question arose in the
regular progress of the cause, and, if decided wrong,. an. erron
VOL. V11.

16

SLAUGHTER V. GLENN.

[Slip. Ct.

was committed, which, like other errors, may be corrected on
appeal after final decree below.
The case is entirely different from what it would have been
if the only object of the suit had been to enjoin Schwab from
proceeding in the State court. There the question would have
been as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the cause.
But here is clearly jurisdiction of the cause. The assignee in
bankruptcy had the undoubted right to sue Schwab in the
Circuit Court to settle the title to the goods or the fund arising
from their sale. The injunction was a mere incident to the
principal relief he asked. Even if not granted, the suit could
go on.
Being satisfied, by the petitioner's own showing, that the
error, if any, in the court below cannot be corrected by mandamus, we deny the motion for an order to show cause.
MNotion denied.

SLAUGHTER

v.

GLENIN.

1. Lands in Texas belonging to a married woman are termed in that State her
"separate property," and she has in equity all the power to dispose of them
which could be given to her by the amplest deed of settlement.
2. During the absence of her husband, when she had the exclusive management
of her interests, a married woman owning in her own right such lands conveyed them to A. by deed, which she acknowledged before the proper
officer, as if she were a .fere sole. She invested the purchase-money in
another tract, and A. sold the lands to B. Some years afterwards, she and
her husband brought an action to recover them. B. filed his bill, praying
that the action be enjoined and his title quieted. Held, that, in view of the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas as to the effect of such a conveyance, he was entitled to the relief prayed for.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. W. S. Herndon for the appellants.
.ir. Isaac C. Collins, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

There is a considerable mass of testimony in the record, but

