UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.

UNITED STATES v. THO

[Sup. Ct.

SON.

The United States, whether named in a State statute of limitations or not, is not
bound thereby; and when it sues in one of its own courts, such a statute is
not within the provisions of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which declare that
the laws of the States, in trials at common law, shall be regarded as rules
of decision in the courts of the United States in cases where they apply.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
The United States sued, Dec. 6, 1875, Clark W. Thompson, and his sureties on his official bond, as superintendent of
Indian affairs in Minnesota. The breach alleged was that he, as
such officer, had, prior to March 30, 1865, received $10,562.27
of the moneys of the United States, which he had neglected
and refused to account for, and had converted to his own use.
The defendants pleaded that the cause of action did not accrue within ten years next preceding the commencement of the
suit. The United States demurred. The demurrer was overruled, and judgment rendered for the defendants. The United
States has brought the judgment here for review.
The statutes of Minnesota (c. 66, tit. 11, sect. 6) provide
that an action upon a contract, express or implied (unless it
be founded upon some judgment or decree of a court), shall be
barred if not commenced within six years after the cause of
action accrues. 2 Minn. Stat. at Large, 782.
The twelfth section of that title further provides that "the
limitations prescribed in this chapter for the commencement of
actions shall apply to the same actions when brought in the
name of the State, or in the name of any officer, or otherwise,
for the benefit of the State, in the same manner as to actions
brought by citizens." Id. 783.
While a Territory, the following statute was in force in Minnesota: "The limitations prescribed in this chapter apply to
actions brought in the name of the United States, in the same
manner as to actions by private parties." Rev. Sts. of 1851,
c. 70, sect. 13, p. 831; Revision of 1858, p. 538, sect. 13.
This statute was first passed by the territorial legislature of
Wisconsin, and was continued in force over that portion of it

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.

which, in 1848, became the Territory of Minnesota. It was
modified, several years after Minnesota became a State, to read
as it now does. When Wisconsin became a State, its legislation underwent the same change.
Mr. H. S. Wikinson in support of the judgment below.
The real question here is, not whether the Statutes of Limitations bar the State, where she is not designated, but whether,
when they extend and apply to actions brought by her, they
are "rules of decision" in the Federal courts, where the
United States is a party. It is subhitted,.irdt, That the terms of the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 92, Rev. Stat., sect. 721) give the
same efficiency to the State statutes of limitations in the Federal courts that they have proprio vigore in the State courts.
Second, That the Statute of Limitations of the State of Minnesota bars in her courts all plaintiffs, including the sovereign;
and it therefore, in the Federal courts sitting within that State,
operates to bar all plaintiffs, including the sovereign.
There has never been a time since it became possible to institute a suit in Minnesota, when, by the express words of the
Stitute of Limitations, it did not apply to actions brought by
the government to the same extent that it applied to private
parties.
The statutes of the Territory had within its limits the force
of acts of Congress, because its legislative power was delegated
to it by Congress. All its laws were required to be submitted
to Congress, and, if not disapproved, were to be in force and
effect. Organic Act of Wisconsin, sect. 6, 5 Stat. at Large,
p. 12; Organic Act of Minnesota, sect. 6, 9 Stat. at Large,
p. 405.
The Statutes of Limitations of the Territory were not disapproved by Congress; and afterwards Minnesota was admitted
into the Union, with a constitution which continued those statutes with others in force until repealed. Const. of Minnesota,
sect. 2 of schedule.
It is an elementary principle that the Statutes of Limitations
constitute a part of the lezfori, and this court, in construing
them, conforms to the exposition given by the courts of the
State.

488

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Third, If the United States is not amply protected by the
present exceptions in the Judiciary Act, Congress can at any
time remedy the evil by an amendment.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
AI.

JUSTICE SWAYNE, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case turns upon a statute of the State of Minnesota
which bars actions, ex contractu, like this, within a specified
time, and the same limitation is applied by the statute to the
State. The United States are not named in it. The court
below held that the statute applied to the United States, and
rendered judgment against them.
There is no opinion in the record, and we are at a loss to imagine the reasoning by which the result announced was reached.
The Federal courts have been in existence nearly a century.
The reports of their decisions are numerous. They involve a
great variety of questions, and the fruit of much learned research. We have been able to find but two cases in the lower
Federal courts in which it appears the question was raised.
They are United States v. Hoar, 2 Mas. 311, and United States
v. Williams, 5 McLean, 133. In both it was held, without the
intimation of a doubt, that a State statute cannot bar the
United States. The same doctrine has been several times laid
down by this court; but it seems always to have been taken for
granted, and in no instance to have been discussed either by
counsel or the court. United States v. Buford, 3 Pet. 12;
Lindsey v. Miller's Lessee, 6 id. 666; Gibson v. Chouteau,
13 Wall. 92.
This state of things indicates a general conviction throughout the country that there is no foundation for a different proposition. There are also adjudications in the State reports upon
the subject, but they concur with those to which we have
referred. Among the earliest of them is Stoughton et al. v.
Bacer et al., 4 Mass. 521. In that case, Chief Justice Parsons
said: " o laches can be imputed to the government, and
against it no time runs so as to bar its rights." The examination of the subject by Judge Story, in United States v. Hoar
(supra), is a fuller one than we have found anywhere else.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES

v. THOmPSON.

He and Parsons are in accord. So far as we are advised, the
case before us stands alone in American jurisprudence. It
certainly has no precedent in the reported adjudications of the
Federal courts.
The United States possess other attributes of sovereignty
resting also upon the basis of universal consent and recognition.
They cannot be sued without their consent. United States v.
Clark, 8 Pet. 436. If they sue, and a balance is found in favor
of the defendant, no judgment can be rendered against them,
either for such balance or in any case for costs. United States
v. Boyd, 5 How. 29; Beeside v. Walker, 11 id. 272. A judgment in their favor cannot be enjoined. Bill v. United States,
9 id. 386. Laches, however gross, cannot be imputed to them.
United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720. There is no presumption of payment against them arising from lapse of time.
United States v. Williams (suTra). They can maintain a suit
in their own name upon a non-negotiable claim assigned to
them. United States v. White, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 59.
The rule of nullum tempus occurit regi has existed as an element of the English law from a very early period. It is discussed in Bracton, and has come down to the present time. It
is not necessary to advert to the qualifications which successive
parliaments have applied to it.
The common law fixed no time as to the bringing of actions.
Limitations derive their authority from statutes. The king
was held never to be included, unless expressly named. No
laches was imputable to him. These exemptions were founded
upon considerations of public policy. It was deemed important
that, while the sovereign was engrossed by the cares and duties
of his office, the public should not suffer by the negligence of
his servants. "In a representative government, where the
people -do not and cannot act in a body, where their power is
delegated to others, and must of necessity be exercised by them,
if exercised at all, the reason for applying these principles is
equally cogent."
When the colonies achieved their independence, each one
took these prerogatives, which had belonged to the crown; and
when the national Constitution was adopted, they were imparted
to the new government as incidents of the sovereignty thus

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.

[Sup. ot,

created. It is an exception equally applicable to all governments. United States v. Hoar, supra; The People v. Gilbert,
18 Johns. (N. Y.) 227; Bac. Abr., tit. Limitation of Actions;
id., tit. Prerog. E. 5, 6, 7; 5 Com. Dig. Parliament, R. 8;
Chitty, Law of Prerogatives, 379.
Congress, like the British Parliament, has made a number
of specific limitations both in civil and criminal cases. They
will be found in the Revised Statutes, and need not be here
repeated.
The only argument suggested by the learned counsel for the
defendants in error is that the Judiciary Act of 1789, re-enacted
in the late revision of the statutes, declares "that the laws of
the several States, except where the Constitution and treaties
of the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the
courts of the United States, in cases where they apply."
It is insisted that the case in hand is within this statute. To
this there are several answers.
The United States not being named in the statute of Minnesota, are not within its provisions. It does not and cannot
"apply " to them. If it did, it would be beyond the power of
the State to pass it, a gross usurpation, and void. It is not to
be presumed that such was the intention of the State legislature in passing the act, as it certainly was not of Congress in
enacting the law of 1789. United States v. Hoar, supra;
ield v. United States, 9 Pet. 182.
The Federal courts are instruments competently created by
the nation for national purposes. The States can exercise no
power over them or their proceedings, except so far as Congress
shall allow. This subject was considered in The armers' &
Mechanics' National Bank v. -Dearing (91 U. S. 29), and we
need not pursue it further upon this occasion.
The exemption of the United States from suits, except as
they themselves may provide, rests upon the same foundation
as the rule of nullum tempus with respect to them. If the
States can pass statutes of limitation binding upon the Federal government, they can by like means make it suable within
their respective jurisdictions. The evils of such a state of
things are too obvious to require remark.

Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

But viewing the subject in the light of considerations ab inconvenienti, we need not look beyond the consequences of the
ruling, if sustained, of the court below. The doctrine is alike
applicable to civil and criminal actions. There are thirty-eight
States in the Union. The limitations in like cases may be
different in each State, and they may be changed at pleasure,
from time to time. The government of the Union would in
this respect be at the mercy of the States. How that mercy
would in many cases be exercised it is not difficult to foresee.
The constitutional relations of the head and the members would
be reversed, and confusion and other serious evils would not
fail to ensue.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to proceed in conformity with
this opinion; and it is
o~orderedl.

AIRHA.T -v. MASS1EU.
1. A Mexican was not, by the revolution which resulted in the independence of
Texas, or by her Constitution of March 17, 1836, or her laws subsequently
enacted, divested of his title to lands in that State, but he retained the right
to alienate and transmit them to his heirs, and the latter are entitled to sue
for and recover them.
2. The division of a country and the maintenance of independent governments
over its different parts do not of themselves divest the rights which the
citizens of either have to property situate within the terriiory of the other.
S. That Constitution, although declaring generally that aliens shall not hold
lAnd in Texas except by title emanating directly from the government, did
not divest their title; for it adds, that "they shall have a reasonable
time to take possession of and dispose of the same in a manner hereafter
to be pointed out bylaw." Before the title can be divested, proceedings for
enforcing its forfeiture must be provided by law, and carried into effect;
and hitherto they have not been provided.
4. In Texas, the protocol of a Mexican title is an archive which may be deposited
in the General Land-Office at any time, subject to all just implications
arising from delay and the circumstances of its history; and when so
deposited, a certified copy thereof from the land-office is competent prima
fade evidence of the title.
5. Until a title is deposited in the land-office, or duly recorded in the proper county,
bona fide purchasers not having notice- thereof, though claiming under a
junior Mexican grant, will be protected.

