Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTHEWS.

NATIONAL BANK v. MATTHEWS.
A. executed a promissory note to B., and, to secure the payment thereof, a deed
of trust of lands, which was in effect a mortgage with a power of sale thereto
annexed. A national bank, on the security of the note and deed, loaned
money to B., who thereupon assigned them to the bank. The note not having
been paid at its maturity, the trustee was, pursuant to the power, proceeding
to sell the lands, when A. filed his bill to enjoin the sale, upon the ground that,
by sects. 5136 and 5137 of the Revised Statutes, the deed did not inure as a
security for a loan made by the bank at the time of the assignment of the
note and deed. Hdd, that the bank is entitled to enforce the collection of
the note by a sale of the lands.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
On the 1st of March, 1871, Hugh B. Logan and Elizabeth
A. Matthews executed and delivered to Sterling Price & Co.
their joint and several promissory note for the sum of $15,000,
payable to the order of that firm two years from date, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. The payment
of the note was secured by a deed of trust, executed by her, of
erin real estate therein described, situate in the State of
ssouri.
On the 13th of the same month, the note and deed of trust
were assigned to the Union National Bank of St. Louis.
'rice & Co. failed to pay the loan at maturity. The bank
ffirected the trustee named in the deed of trust to sell. Said
Plizabeth thereupon filed this bill in the proper State court to
jenjin the sale. The bank in its answer avers that it "ae'cepted the said note and deed of trust as security for the sum
,of $15,000, then and there advanced and loaned to said Sterling
,Price & Co. . . . on the security of said note and deed of
:trust." A perpetual injunction was decreed, upon the ground
-that the loan by the bank to Price & Co. was made upon real;estate security; that it was forbidden by law; and that the
deed of trust was, therefore, void. The decree was made upon
the pleadings. No testimony was introduced upon either side
The bank removed'the case to the Supreme Court of the State,
where the decree was affirmed. The bank then sued out this
writ of error.

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTHEWS.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Philip Phillips for the plaintiff in error.
This case does not fall within the limitations imposed by
Rev. Stat., sect. 5137. No mortgage or conveyance of real
estate was made to the bank. Price & Co. had only a lien
which could be enforced in default of payment. This was all
that they passed to the bank: Potter v. McDowell (43 Mo.
93) ; Watson v. Hawkins (60 id. 550) ; and it was a mere incident to the note, securing its payment to the holder thereof
in good faith, although he was ignorant, at the time of taking
it, of the existence of the lien. Had the mortgage not been
delivered nor any thing said about it, the bank, on failure of
the maker to pay the note, would have been entitled to the
lien : Green v. Hart (1 Johns. (N. Y.) 590); Chappell v. Allen
(88 Mo. 213); and its right to assert it could not have been
successfully resisted on the ground that to permit it to do so
would authorize a violation of its charter.
The act, by authorizing loans to be made "on personal
security," cannot be held as limiting the transaction to the personal undertaking of the parties to the note; and it would not
be violated if the bank should require as collateral a deposit of
bonds or of stocks, either of States, municipalities, or incorporated companies. Shoemaker v. National Bank, 2 Abb. (U. S.)
416; Schouler, Personal Property, pp. 87, 94; .Pittsburg Car
Works v. Bank, Thompson's Nat. Bank Cases, 315. In many
of these instances the bonds or stocks are secured by real
estate. This, however, does not change the character of the
collateral, or make it other than personal security. See also
First National Bank of Fort Dodge v. Haire, 86 Iowa, 448;
Merchants' National Bank v. Mears, Thompson's Nat. Bank
Cases, 853.
The decision of the learned court below questions neither
the right of the bank to recover the contents of the note by
suing the parties thereto, nor the validity of the lien created
by the mortgage. Here there are a bona fide subsisting debt,
evidenced by the note, whereof the bank is the lawful holder,
and a lien which Price & Co., before their attempted transfer
of it, could have made available. It does now inure to their
benefit, because they have assigned the note, and it cannot be
enforced by the bank, as it was made void in its hands. Is the

Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTHEWS.

lien then vacated? It certainly is, for all practical purposes, if
the extraordinary position taken below should be sustained
here.
Can the defendant in error, by a strained construction, be
permitted to make the objection and cancel a contract which
the statute does not declare to be void? There is some contrariety of opinion upon this question, and the court is referred
to some of the numerous cases which answer it in the negative.
Smith v. iSeely, 12 Wall. 360; Gold Mining Company v. National
Bank, 96 U. S. 640; Silver Lake Bank v. North, 4 Johns.
(N. Y.) Ch. 870. The decision in the last case is, that if the
bank had passed "the exact line of its power, it would rather
belong to the government to exact a forfeiture of the charter,
than to the court in this collateral way to decide a question of
misuser by setting aside a just and bona fide contract." The
same doctrine is repeated in Steam Navigation Company v. Wood,
(17 Barb. (N. Y.) 880), and supported by the judginents of the
courts of Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and other States. Ang.
& A. Corp., sect. 158.
Hr. , A. Hunter,Ar. o o W. Noble, and Mr. John C. Orrick,
for the defendant in error.
. The deed of trust is in effect a mortgage with a power of
sale thereto annexed. Although a third person is named as
trustee, and vested with that power, the grantor has an equity
of redemption, which may be judicially foreclosed and sold.
The cetui que trust has a beneficial interest in the lands.
Kennett v. Plummer, 28 Mo. 142; Ckaoppell v. Allen, 88 id.
218; Potter v. Stevens, 40 id. 229. In the absence of any
statutory prohibition, the assignments would have vested that
interest in the bank, but as the latter is permitted (Rev.
Stat., sect. 5137) to "purchase" or "hold" real estate in
certain specified cases, - of which this is not one, - and
in "no other," the assignments passed no interest in the
lands, and conferred no right to subject them to sale to pay
the note.
The words "purchase" and "hold," where they occur in that
section, are not confined to cases where the absolute title to the
fee has been conveyed. The provision allowing the bank to take
a mortgage, by way of security for debts previously contracted,

624

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTHEWS.

[Sup. Ct.

would be superfluous, if the general prohibitory words did not
forbid it to purchase such an interest in real property as a mortgage transfers. Looking at the mischief which the statute had
in view, it is immaterial whether the mortgage is made directly
to the bank, or is assigned to it. The interest acquired is in
each case the same.
The preceding section allows the bank to loan money on
personal security. This virtually prohibits loaning it on any
other. Expressio unius eat exclusio alterius.
The decided cases, without a dissent, affirm that all grants
of corporate power are to be construed favorably to the public at
large and most strongly against the corporation; that it has
only the powers expressly given or necessarily implied; that
the specification of certain powers prohibits by implication
the exercise of other substantive powers, and that the intention
of the law-maker is to be gathered from the whole statute.
Governed by these fundamental rules, it must be held that
the transaction on the part of the bank was ultra vires, not
allowed by, but in palpable violation of, the statute to which
it owes its existence, and consequently void. The injunction
was therefore properly awarded. Fowler v. Scully, 72 Pa. St.
456; Kansas T7alley National Bank v. .Rowell, 2 Dill. 371;
Ripley v. Harris,3 Biss. 190; Commonwealth Bank v: Clark,
4 Mo. 59; Griffith v. Commonwealth Bank, id. 255; Bank
of Lawrence v. Young, 37 id. 398; Downing v. Binger, 7 id.
585; White v. .Franklin Bank, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 181; Brown
v. Farkington, 3 Wall. 381; Beasley v. Bignold, 5 Barn. &
Ald. 335; Forster v. Taylor, id. 887; Cope v. Rowlands, 2
Mee. & W. 149.
SwAYNE, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case involves a question arising under the national
banking law, which has not heretofore been passed upon by
this court. We have considered it with the care due to its
importance.
Our attention has been called to but a single point which
requires consideration, and that is, whether the deed of trust
can be enforced for the benefit of the bank.
MR. JUSTICE

Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTHEWS.

The statutory provisions which bear upon the subject are as
follows: "SECT. 5136." Every national banking association is authorized "to exercise by its board of directors or duly authorized officers
or agents, subject to law, all such incidental powers as shall be
necessary to carry on the business of banking by discounting and
negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other
evidences of debt; by receiving deposits; by buying and selling
exchange, coin, and bullion; by loaning money on personal security;
and by obtaining, issuing, and circulating notes according to the
provisions of this title.
"SECT. 5137. A national banking association may purchase,
hold, and convey real estate for the following purposes, and for no
others: First, such as may be necessary for its immediate accommodation in the transaction of its business. Second, such as shall
be mortgaged to it in good faith by way of security for debts previously contracted. Third, such as shall be conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts previously contracted in the course of its dealings.
Fourth, such as it shall purchase at sales under judgments, decrees, or mortgages held-by the association, or shall purchase to
secure debts to it. But no such association shall hold the possession of any real estate under mortgage, or the title and possession
of any real estate purchased to secure any debts due to it for a
longer period than five years." Rev. Stat. 1999; 13 Stat. 99.

Here the bank never had any title, legal or equitable, to the
real estate in question. It may acquire a title by purchasing
at a sale under the deed of trust; but that has not yet occurred,
and never may.
Sect. 5137 has, therefore, no direct application to the case.
It is only material as throwing light upon the point to be considered in the preceding section. Except for that purpose it
may be laid out of view.
Sect. 5136 does not, in terms, prohibit a loan on real estate,
but the implication to that effect is clear. What is so implied
is as effectual as if it were expressed. As the transaction is
disclosed in the record, the loan was made upon the note as
well as the deed of trust. .Non, constat, that the maker who
executed the deed would not have been deemed abundantly
sufficient without the further security. The deed, as a mortgage would have been, was an incident to the nate and a right
VOL. VIII.

40

NATIONAL

BANK V. MATTHEWS.

[Sup. Ct.

to the benefit of the deed, whether mentioned or delivered or
not, when the note was assigned, would have passed with the
note to the transferee of the latter.
The object of the restrictions was obviously threefold. It
was to keep the capital of the banks flowing in the daily channels of commerce; to deter them from embarking in hazardous
real-estate speculations; and to prevent the accumulation of
large masses of such property in their hands, to be held, as it
were, in mortmain. The intent, not the letter, of the statute
constitutes the law. A court of equity is always reluctant in
the last degree to make a decree which will effect a forfeiture. The bank parted with its money in good faith. Its garinents are unspotted. Under these circumstances, the defence
of ultra vires, if it can be made, does not address itself favorably
to the mind of the Chancellor. We find nothing in the record
touching the deed of trust which, in our judgment, brings it
within the letter or the meaning of the prohibitions relied upon
by the counsel for the defendant in error.
In The FirstNhrationalBank of _PFort -Dodgev. Haire and Others
(36 Iowa, 443), the bank refused to discount a note for a firm,
but agreed that one of the partners might execute a note to the
other, that the payee should indorse it, that the bank should
discount it, and that the maker should indemnify the indorser
by a bond and mortgage upon sufficient real estate executed for
that purpose, with a stipulation that, in default of due payment
of the note, the bond and mortgage should inure to the benefit
of the bank. The arrangement was carried out. The note was
not paid. The maker and indorser failed and became bankrupts. The bank filed a bill to foreclose. The same defence
was set up as here. In disposing of this point, the Supreme
Court of the State said: "Every loan or discount by a bank is
made in good faith, in reliance, by way of security, upon the
real or personal property of the obligors; and unless the title
by mortgage or conveyance is taken to the bank directly, for
its use, the case is not within the prohibition of the statute.
The fact that the title or security may inure indirectly to the
security and benefit of the bank will not vitiate the transaction.
Some of the cases upon quite analogous statutes go much further than this. Silver Lake Bank v. North, 4 J. C. R. 370."

Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAi

BANK V. MATTHEWS.

But it is alleged by the learned counsel for the defendant in
error that in the jurisprudence of Missouri a deed of trust is
the same thing in effect as a direct mortgage, - with respect to
a party entitled to the benefit of the security, -and authorities
are cited in support of the proposition. The opinion of the
Supreme Court of Missouri assumes that the loan was made
upon real-estate security within the meaning of the statute.
and their judgment is founded upon that view. These things
render it proper to consider the case in that aspect. But, conceding them to be as claimed, the consequence insisted upon
by no means necessarily follows. The statute does not declare
such a security void. It is silent upon the subject. If Congress so meant, it would have been easy to say so; and it is
hardly to be believed that this would not have been done,
instead of leaving the question to be settled by the uncertain
result of litigation and judicial decision. Where usurious interest is contracted for, a forfeiture is prescribed and explicitly
defined.
In Harrisv. Bunnels (12 How. 79), this court said that "the
statute must be examined as a whole, to find out whether or
not the makers 'meant that a contract in contravention of it
was to be void, so as not to be enforced in a court of justice."
In that case, a note given for the purchase-money of slaves,
taken into Mississippi contrary to a statute oL the State,-was
held to be valid.
Where a statute imposes a penalty on an officer for solemnizing a marriage under certain circumstances, but does not
declare the'marriage void, the marriage is valid; but the penalty attaches to the officer who did the prohibited act. Milford
v. Worcester, 7 Mass. 48; Parton v. Hervey, 1 Gray (Mass.),
119; King v. Birmingham, 8 Barn. & Cress. 29.
Where a bank is limited by its charter to a specified rate of
interest, but no penal consequence is denounced for taking
more, it has been held that a contract for more is not wholly
void. The Planters' Bank v. Sharp et al., 12 Miss. 75; The
Grand Gulf Bank v. Archer et al., 16 id. 151; Bok River
Bank v. Sherwood, 10 Wis. 230.
The charter of a savings institution required that its funds
should be "invested in, or loaned on, public stocks or private

NATIONAL

BANK V. MATTHEWS.

[Sup. Ct.

mortgages," &c. A loan was made and a note taken, secured
by a pledge of worthless bank-stock. The borrower sought to
enjoin the collection of the note upon the ground that the
transaction was forbidden by the charter, and therefore void.
The court held the borrower bound, and upon a counter-claim
adjudged that he should pay the amount of the loan with interest.
Mott v. The United States Trust Co., 19 Barb. (N. Y.) 568.
Where a corporation is incompetent by its charter to take a
title to real estate, a conveyance to it is not void, but only
voidable, and the sovereign alone can object. It is valid until
assailed in a direct proceeding instituted for that purpose.
Leazure v. Hillegas, 7 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 313; Goundie v.
Northampton Water Co., 7 Pa. St. 233; Runyon v. Coster, 14
Pet. 122 ; The Banks v. Poitiaux,3 Rand. (Va.) 136 ; Helndoe
v. The City of St. Louis, 10 Mo. 577. See also Gold Mining
Company v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 640.
The authority first cited is elaborate and exhaustive upon the
subject. So an alien, forbidden by the local law to acquire
real estate, may take and hold title until office found. Fairfax's Devisee v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 604.
In Silver Lake Bank v. North (4 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.370), the
bank was a Pennsylvania corporation, and had taken a mortgage upon real estate in New York. A bill of foreclosure was
filed in the latter State. The answer set up as a defence "that
by the act of incorporation the plaintiffs were not authorized
to take a mortgage except to secure a debt previously contracted in the course of its dealings; and here the money was
lent after the bond and mortgage were executed." The analogy of this defence to the one we are considering is too obvious
to need remark. Both preent exactly the same question.
Chancellor Kent said: "Perhaps it would be sufficient for this
case that the plaintiffs are a duly incorporated body, with authority to contract and take mortgages and judgments; and
if they should pass the exact line of their power, it would
rather belong to the government of Pennsylvania to exact a
forfeiture of their charter, than for this court in this collateral
way to decide a question of misuser, by setting aside a just and
bona fide contract." . . . "If the loan and mortgage were concurrent acts, and intended so to be, it was not a case within

Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTUEWS.

the reason and spirit of the restraining clause of the statute,
which only meant to prohibit the banking company from vesting their capital in real property, and engaging in land speculations. A mortgage taken to secure a loan advanced bonafide
as a loan, in the course and according to the usage of banking
operations, is not surely within the prohibition."
It is not denied that the loan here in question was within
this category. This authority, if recognized as sound, is conclusive. See also Baird v. The Bank of Washington, 11 Serg.
& R. (Pa.) 411.
Sedgwick (Stat. and Const. Constr. 73) says: "Where it is
a simple question of authority to contract, arising either on a
question of regularity of organization or of power conferred by
the charter, a party who has had the benefit of the agreement
cannot be permitted in an action founded upon it to question
its validity. It would be in the highest degree inequitable
and unjust to permit a defendant to repudiate a contract, the
benefit of which he retains."
What is said in the text is fully sustained by the authorities
cited.
We cannot believe it was meant that stockholders, and perhaps depositors and other creditors, should be punished and
the borrower rewarded, by giving success to this defence whenever the offensive fact shall occur. The impending danger of
a judgment of ouster and dissolution was, we think, the check,
and none other contemplated by Congress.
That has been always the punishment prescribed for the
wanton violation of a charter, and it may be made to follow
whenever the proper public authority shall see fit to invoke its
application. A private person cannot, directly or indirectly,
usurp this function of the government.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Missouri will be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the
bill ; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICe. MiLLE dissenting.
I am of opinion that the National Banking Act makes void
every mortgage or other conveyance of land as a security for

630

NATIONAL BANK V. MATTHEWS.

[Sup. Ct.

money loaned by the bank at the time of the transaction to
whomsoever the conveyance may be made; that the bank is
forbidden to accept such security, and it is void in its hands.
The contract to pay the money, and the collateral conveyance for security, are separable contracts, and so far independent that one may stand and the other fall.
In the present case, the money was loaned on the faith of the
deed of trust, and that instrument is void in the hands of the
bank, but the note, as evidence of the loan of money, is valid
against Mrs. Matthews personally. With this latter contract
the State court did not interfere. It enjoined proceedings
under the deed of trust against the land, and did no more.
Its judgment in that matter ought, in my opinion, to be
affirmed.

