Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v.

NEW

ORLEANS.

tion; and yet the effect of the judgment of the court in this
case is to leave the judgment of the Circuit Court, rendered
without jurisdiction, in full force, which, in my judgment, is
error.
Six times, at least, the question in the case has been decided
by this court, without a dissent, which would seem to be a
sufficient justification of a member of the court who concurred
in all of the decisions for adhering to the rule which those cases
prescribe. For these reasons, I am of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and that the case
should be remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to
that court to dismiss the writ of error sued out from that court
to the District Court.

UNTTED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS.
1. The legislative branch of the government has the exclusive power of taxation, but may delegate it to municipal corporations.
2. When such corporations are created, the power of taxation is vested in them
as an essential attribute for all the purposes of their existence, unless its
exercise be in express terms prohibited.
3. When, in order to execute a public work, they have been vested with authority
to borrow money or incur an obligation, they have the power to levy a tax
to raise revenue wherewith to pay the money or discharge the, obligation,
without any special mention that such power is granted.
4. A limitation imposed by statute upon them, restraining them from creating
any indebtedness without providing at the same time for the payment of
principal and interest, will not control a subsequent statute, which, without
prescribing such limitation, authorizes them to incur a special obligation.
5. Bonds of the city of New Orleans, issued upon a subscription to the stock of
a railroad company, under an ordinance which declared that the stock
"should remain for ever pledged for the payment of the bonds," are an
absolute obligation of the city, the ordinance creating only a pledge of the
stock by way of collateral security for their payment.
6. The indebtedness of a city is conclusively established by a judgment recovered against it in a court of competent jurisdiction; and in enforcing
payment, the plaintiff is not restricted to any particular property or revenues, or subject to any conditions, unless such judgment so provides.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.

UNITED STATES v.

NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot.

This was a petition presented in April, 1876, by Morris Ranger,
the relator, for a writ of mandamus to compel the city of New
Orleans to pay three judgments. The petition alleges that he
had recovered them in the Circuit Court of the United States
for an amount exceeding in the aggregate $59,000 against the
city, on its bonds and coupons issued under the provisions of
acts of the legislature of Louisiana, passed on the 15th of March,
1854, and designated as Nos. 108 and 109; that executions had
been issued upon the judgments and returned unsatisfied; and
that there was no property belonging to the city subject to
seizure thereon.
It also alleges that in June, 1870, the city had sold eighty
thousand shares of stock of the New Orleans, Jackson, and
Great Northern Railroad Company, which it held, for the sum
of $320,000, and that by the act No. 109, of 1854, these shares
were for ever pledged for the payment of the bonds issued
under its provisions; that the city should therefore be compelled to pay out of their proceeds so much of the judgments
as appears on the face of the records to have been rendered
upon the bonds; or, in case their payment cannot be enforced
in this way, that it should be compelled to levy and collect a
tax for that purpose, and also a tax to pay so much of the
judgments as was rendered upon bonds and coupons issued
under the act No. 108, of 1854; but that the mayor and administrators, who represent and exercise the powers of the city,
refuse to pay the judgments out of any funds in their possession or under their control, or to levy a tax for their payment. The relator therefore prays the court to order them to
show cause why a writ of mandamus should not be issued compelling them to apply the proceeds and to levy a tax as mentioned.
The order to show cause was accordingly issued; and the
city authorities appeared and filed an answer to the petition,
in which they admitted the recovery of a judgment by the
relator, - speaking of the three judgments as one, - the issue
of executions thereon, and their return unsatisfied, the sale of
the eighty thousand shares of the capital stock of the New
Orleans, Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad Company for
$320,000, and the receipt of the money by their predecessors ;

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS.

and set up as a defence to the prayer of the petition that the
judgment was recovered upon certain bonds issued by the city
to that company under the act of March 15, 1854, No. 109,
making no mention of the act No. 108; that no tax for the
payment of the principal of the bonds is directed to be levied
by that act or any other act of the legislature ; that, as respects
the interest on the bonds, provision is made for its payment
out of the back taxes due to the city, and inserted in its budget
for 1876 ; and that the proceeds arising from the sale of the
stock of the railroad company are not in the treasury of the
city or under their control, having been used and expended by
their predecessors. They therefore prayed that the petition
be dismissed.
The relator demurred to this answer. The court overruled
the demurrer and refused the writ; and from its judgment the
case is brought to this court.
The city of New Orleans was incorporated under the name
of "the mayor, aldermen, and inhabitants of the city of New
Orleans," by an act of the legislature, approved Feb. 17,
1805, the sixth section of which. provides:"The said mayor and city council (aldermen) shall have power
to raise by tax, in such a manner as to them may seem proper,
upon the real and personal estate within said city, such sum or
sums of money as may be necessary to supply any deficiency for
the lighting, cleansing, paving, and watering the streets of said
city; for supporting the city watch, the levee of the river, the
prisons, workhouses, and other public buildings, and for such other
purposes as the police and good government of the said city may
require."
An act approved March 8, 1836, amending that act, constituted in effect a new charter, and divided the city "into
three separate sections, each with distinct municipal powers."
The fourth section provided:"Each of said municipalities shall possess separate corporate
rights, and are hereby declared to be distinct corporations, and
shall possess generally such rights, powers, and capacities as are
usually incident to municipal corporations, . . . and, in general,

UNITED STATES

v.

NEw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

shall possess and exercise within their respective limits all such
powers, rights, and privileges as are now possessed by the corporation of New Orleans."
The three municipalities thus created were, with the city of
Lafayette, consolidated into one, by acts approved Feb. 23,
1852. Acts La., 1852, Nos. 71, 72, pp. 42, 55.
Sect. 1 of the former act provides: "All that portion of the parish of New Orleans on the left bank
of the river Mississippi shall be the city of New Orleans, and all
the free white inhabitants thereof shall be a body corporate by the
name of the 'city of New Orleans,' and by that name they and
their successors shall be known in law, and shall be capable of
suing and being sued," &c.
Sect. 22 provides:"That upon the first organization of the common council of the
city of New Orleans, as hereinbefore provided, the city of New
Orleans, as established by this act, shall be vested with all the
powers, rights,privileges, and immunities incident to a municipal
corporation,and necessaryfor the proper government of the same ;
and upon the said organization of said council all the powers, rights,
privileges, and immunities possessed and enjoyed by the first, second,
and third municipalities of New Orleans, and by the general council
of the city of New Orleans, shall cease and terminate so far as regards the said municipalities and general council, and be vested in
the city of New Orleans, as established by this act."
Sect. 37 provides that the old city debt (prior to 1836) and
the debts of the separate municipalities shall be assumed by
the city of New Orleans, and that bonds shall be issued therefor, to be called the "consolidated debt;" and that " from
and after the passage of this act no obligation or evidence of
debt of any description whatever, except those herein authorized, shall be issued by the city of New Orleans or under its
authority; nor shall any loan be contracted, unless the same
be authorized by a vote of the majority of the qualified voters
of said city, which shall be taken in the manner prescribed by
the city council, after ten days' proclamation by the mayor, in
the newspaper chosen by the city council; and no ordinance
creating a debt or loan shall be valid unless such ordinance shall

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED

STATES V. NEW ORLEANS.

provide ways and means for the punctual payment of runnfiig
interest during the whole time for which said debt or loan shall
be contracted, and for the full and punctual discharge at vaturity of the capital borrowed or debt incurred; and such ordinance shall not be repealed until the principal and interest of
the capital borrowed or debt incurred are fully paid and discharged."
In 1854, the legislature passed two acts by which the city
was authorized to subscribe to the stock of the New Orleans,
Opelousas, and Great Western Railroad Company, and the
New Orleans, Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad Company, and to make the subscription immediately payable in
bonds of the city, for $1,000 each, having twenty years to run,
&c., and requiring the repeal of ordinances authorizing former
subscriptions.
The terms of the two last-named acts, mutatis mutandis, are
identical. Acts La., 1854, Nos. 108, 109, pp. 69, 72.
The act authorizing the subscription to the stock of the
New Orleans, Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad Company
provided, among other things, as follows :"SEcT. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Louisiana, in General Assembly convened, that it shall be lawful for the common council of the city
of New Orleans to subscribe to the stock of the New Orleans,
Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad Company, in a sum not
exceeding $2,000,000.
"SEeT. 2. Be it further enacted, &c., that any ordinance authorizing such subscription shall contain the following provisions,
to wit:"1st, A statement of the number and amount of shares for which
the city subscribes.
"2d, That the subscription of the city shall be made by the
mayor, and shall be payable in bonds of said city for 81,000 each,
having twenty years to run, bearing interest at the rate of six per
cent per annum, with interest-coupons attached, payable semiannually in New Orleans or New York, as the company entitled
to receive them may prefer, transferable by the indorsement of the
president and secretary of said company, and convertible into the
stock of said company at the option of the holders, at any time
within ten years after their date.
25
voL. vIII.

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot.

"3d, That a special tax on real estate and slaves shall be levied
in January of each year, sufficient to pay the annual interest on said
bonds, specifying the rates of said tax, which shall be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as the consolidated loan
tax of said city; and all ordinances, resolutions, or other acts passed
by said council, after the first day of January in each year, except
an ordinance to impose said consolidated loan tax, and an ordinance
to impose a tax for the payment of interest on bonds which may be
hereafter issued for subscription to the New Orleans, Opelousas, and
Great Western Railroad Company, shall be null and void, unless
a resolution imposing a special tax for the payment of the interest
on said bonds issued to the railroad company herein named shall
have been previously passed: Provided, that no levy of a tax for
the payment of interest on said bonds shall be made after the payment of dividends of six per cent per annum on the stock of said
company held by the city, as hereinafter provided, which dividends
shall be applied by the city to the payment of the interest. And
provided, further, that whenever the dividends on said railroad
stock of the city shall amount to more than six per cent per annum,
the excess, after the payment of interest, shall be applied to the
purchase of the city bonds issued under the provisions of this act;
it being understood that when dividends for less than six per cent
per annum are received on the railroad stock of the city, a tax for
interest shall be levied for the difference only between the amount
of said annual dividends and the amount of the annual interest.
"SECT. 3. Be it further enacted, &c., that the city bonds issued
to said railroad company shall be received by it at par value, and
said railroad company shall issue to the city of New Orleans therefor certificates of stock for an amount equal to the amount of the
bonds received, and the stock of the said company thus issued to
the city of New Orleans shall remain for ever pledged for the
redemption of said bonds: Provided, however, that any holder of
said bonds who may desire to convert them into the capital stock
of the company to which they may have been issued shall, on application to the treasurer of said city, and on surrender to him of the
bonds to be converted, receive from said treasurer a transfer of the
stock represented by the bonds surrendered, and said bonds shall
be immediately cancelled."

The other sections are not material for the disposition of the
present case.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V.NEW ORLEANS.

The following act of the legislature was approved March 0,
1867 :-

"SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Louisiana, in general assembly convened,
that the mayor and administrators of the city of New Orleans, or
such other officers, aldermen, or administrators as may hereafter be
ordained and established, be and they are hereby authorized and
directed to exchange all recognized and valid bonds of the city of
New Orleans and the late cities of Jefferson and Carrollton for
bonds known as the premium bonds of the city of New Orleans, in
accordance with the plan adopted by the city council, and approved by the mayor on the 25th of May and 31st of August, 1875.
The said premium bonds shall be dated the 1st of September, 1875,
and bear interest at the rate of five per cent per annum, from the
15th of July, 1875; they shall be signed by the mayor, the administrator of finance, and the administrator of public accounts,
as commissioners of the consolidated debt, and countersigned, when
issued, by such parties as the council have designated heretofore,
or may hereafter designate, with the authorization of the supervising committee hereafter named.
"SECT. 2. Be it further enacted, &c, that all outstanding bonds.
bearing interest shall have the interest computed up to the first
day of July, 1875, and thereafter the said bonds, when exchanged,
shall bear interest as provided in the ordinance above ratified,
which provides for the premium bonds.
"SECT. 3. Be it further enacted, &c., that the allotment of
series and premiums which have been made by virtue of ordinance
No. 3238, administration series, adopted Aug. 31, 1875, by the
city council, are hereby ratified and approved, and that further
allotments shall take place on the fifteenth day of April and: the
fifteenth day of October of each year, and of premiums on the
fifteenth day of January and the fifteenth day of July of each year,
or on such other date as the council may prescribe: Provided,that
payments be not made later than the fifteenth day of March and
the fifteenth day of September of each year.
"SECT. 4. Unimportant.
"SECT. 5. Unimportant.
"SECT. 6. Be it further enacted, &c., that it shall be the duty of
the city council, in the month of December of each year, or in
the annual budget annually adopted for the ensuing year, to include
an amount sufficient to meet and pay the principal and interest of

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

the premium bonds, together with premium included, in the several
allotments of series and premiums fixed for such year by the aforesaid ordinances and this act. It shall be the duty of the council
annually to levy an equal and uniform tax on all the assessed property within the corporate limits of the city, at a rate sufficient to
provide the amount included in the budget as aforesaid, and said
tax so levied shall constitute a special fund to be used for no other
purpose than the payment of said bonds and interest on the said
premiums comprised in said allotments, and the funds so raised
shall be placed to the credit of an account to be called the premiumbond account, and no money from said fund shall be paid out
except on the joint authority of the commissioners of the consolidated debt. The said tax so to be raised shall be denominated the
premium-bond tax, and shall be separately mentioned in the tax
rolls and receipts: Provided,that the taxable power of the corporation of the city of :New Orleans for all purposes, including general administration, school, police, lighting, salary of officers, court
expenses, and every other purpose of government, including the
sum to be raised to pay the premium bonds, as above stated, shall
never, until the full complete and final payment of the said premium bonds, exceed the rate of one and one-half per cent on the
dollar of all the assessed value of property subject to taxation
within the limits of the said city of New Orleans. The above
limitation of the taxable power of the corporation is hereby declared to be a contract, not only with the holder of the said premium bonds, but also with all residents and tax-payers of the said
city, so as to authorize any holder of said premium bonds, resident
or tax-payer, to legally object to any rate of taxation in excess of
the rate herein limited. It being also a part of the consideration
of this contract that the city of New Orleans shall be incompetent
to incur any debt or obligation, as now provided by the Constitution of this State, until the final payment and extinction of the
premium bonds aforesaid.
" SECT. 7. Be it further enacted, &c., that no tax for the payment of bonds or interest on bonds other than that authorized by
the preceding sections, shall be levied either for the year 1876, or
any year or years thereafter by the city of New Orleans, and that
all existing laws requiring or authorizing the city council to levy
any tax whatsoever for bonds or interest on bonds, other than said
premium bonds, be and the same are hereby repealed; and it shall
be hereafter incompetent for any court to mandamus the officers of
said city to levy and collect any interest tax other than that pro-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS.

vided in this act, or in case of such mandamus, by a receiver or
otherwise, to direct the levy and collection on any such tax.
"SECT. 8. Unimportant.
"SECT. 9. Unimportant.
' SECT. 10. Unimportant.
"SECT. 11. Be it further enacted, &c., that in addition to the
obligation of the said city to provide annually the sum required for
the execution of the premium-bond plan, at least a tax of one-half
of one per cent annually, to be used in the execution of the provisions of this act; and if the product of said half of one per cent be
more than adequate for the payment of the drawn premium bonds,
and the premiums as above provided, then the surplus to be used
in retiring the outstanding bonds; Provided,said half of one per
cent taxation be considered as part of the one and a half per cent
taxation to which the taxing power of the city is limited in this
act; the intention of this section being to limit the city taxation to
one and one-half per cent annually until the entire extinction of
the bonded debt; to authorize the council to levy annually out of
the one and one-half per cent taxation a sum adequate to the
annual execution of said premium-bond plan, and after the year
1881 to levy at least one-half of one per cent for the carrying out
of said plan, and to distribute the surplus realized therefrom, if any,
in retiring the outstanding bonded debt.
"SE T. 12. Unimportant.
"SECT. 13. Unimportant.
"SECT. 14. Unimportant.
"SECT. 15. Be it further enacted, &c., that this act in all its
provisions and limitations be held a contract between the city of
New Orleans, the holders of said premium-bonds, and the taxpayers or residents of said city, so as to authorize any of the contracting parties to resist any and all contracting of debt by the
said city, or increase of taxation above the rate limited in the
previous provisions of this act.
"SECT. 16. Be it further enacted, &c., that this act take effect
from and after its passage; that all laws or parts of laws inconsistent herewith be and the same are hereby repealed, and that all
ordinances of the city of New Orleans conflicting with this act be
and are hereby repealed."

.Mr. _. C. Labatt for the plaintiff in error.
1. Whenever a municipality is expressly authorized to levy a
tax for the payment of its obligations, it will, by mandamus, be

390

UNITED

STATES

v.

NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup.

Ct.

compelled to do so to satisfy a judgment recovered upon them,
where an execution has been returned unsatisfied. The Board
of Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall et al., 24 How.
376; Yon Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Benbow v.
Iowa City, 7 id. 313; Supervisors v. Rogers, id. 175; The Supervisors v. Durant, 9 id. 415; County of Cass v. Johnston, 95 U. S.
360.
2. If the statute authorizing or creating debts does not provide the means of paying them, the power to tax in order to
raise the means will be held to be ipso facto conferred, unless
there is an express limitation to that power which forbids such
inference. Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Lowell
v. Boston, 111 Mass. 460; Commonwealth v. Commissioners, 37
Pa. St. 277; Same v. Same, 40 id. 348; Same v. Same, 43 id.
403; Coy v. City Council of Lyons City, 17 Iowa, 1; Madison
County Court v. Alexander, 1 Walker (Miss.), 523 ; Gibbons v.
Mobile & Great Northern Railroad Co., 36 Ala. 439; Lx parte
Selma & Gulf Railroad .Co., 45 id. 730; City of Chicago v.
Hasley, 25 Ill. 595; Hasbrouck v. Milwaukee, 25 Wis. 122;
Ex parte Parsons,1 Hughes, 282.
3. The provision in the act of 1854, that the stock issued to
the city should remain "for ever pledged for the redemption
of said bonds," does not require the holder of them to first
resort to said stock for payment before he can demand it from
other funds. On the contrary, only a statutory pledge for
the payment of the bonds by way of collateral security was
created.
4. It is not alleged in the answer that the statutory limit of
taxation has been reached, nor does it appear that any limit
existed when these bonds were issued. No limit subsequently
imposed can curtail the power or affect the duty of the city
in respect to them. Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, supra;
Butz v. Muscatine, 8 Wall. 575; Milner's Adm'r v. Pensacola,
2 Wood, 641, and cases there cited; Commissioners v. Rather,
48 Ala. 446, and cases there cited.
Mr. B. P. Jonas and Mr. Henry C. Miller for the defendants
inerror.
1. The taxing power is vested in the Legislative Department
of the government. A mandamus is only effective to compel

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS.

the levy of a tax, when that department has directed or authorized such tax to be imposed. If no tax has been provided for
the payment of the bonds on which the judgments in this
case were recovered, granting the mandamus would be an
assumption of legislative power, and the application for the
writ must therefore necessarily fail. 1Bigg v. Julnson County,
6 Wall. 166 ; Suysrvisors v. United States, 18 id. 71 ; Heine v.
The Levee Commissioners,19 id. 655 ; Bees v. City of Watertown,
id. 107.
The act under which the bonds were issued provided only for a
tax to pay the annual interest on them until the dividends should
amount to that interest. An absolute prohibition of any other
tax was, therefore, necessarily implied. It was believed that the
stock itself, "to remain for ever pledged for the redemption of
the bonds," would prove a full equivalent for them, and that
before their maturity the dividends on it would not only pay
the interest, but produce a surplus. Hence the provision that
the excess after paying the interest should be applied to purchase them. A tax for the principal would be repugnant to
the manifest intent of the legislature, and it is actually prohibited by evident implication.
2. The relator maintains the doctrine that the power to tax
is implied from the power to contract, and that whenever a
judgment against a municipal corporation is unpaid, the exercise
of the taxing power can be coerced by suit. It is difficult to
reconcile that doctrine with the principle, heretofore acknowledged to be axiomatic, that the objects of taxation, the mode
in which taxes are to be levied and collected, and the purposes
to which they are applied, are subjects under the exclusive
control of the Legislative Department. The latter must determine how the public debts are to be provided for; and while
taxation is the ordinary means of raising the public revenues,
they are often drawn from other sources. But this principle
is completely ignored, if the mere power of such a corporation
to contract confers on its creditor the right to compel the levy
of a tax, when his debt exists in the form of unsatisfied judgments. For if without a law expressly authorizing such levy
to pay them, the exercise of the taxing power can be enforced
by judicial process, that power will, to a certain extent, be

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

transferred from the law-making branch of the government and
be vested in the courts of the country.
3. The act of March 6, 1876, prohibits the city from levying
any tax for bonds, or the interest on them, except that thereby
authorized, and excludes the relator's bonds. This legislation gave him no right to the tax he asks. The principal of
his bonds has been provided for in the act of 1854. The
power of the legislature to modify, change, and repeal taxation
is unrestricted, provided the taxes in existence when the debt
is created are preserved to the creditor. Von Hoffman v. The
City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535.
MR. Justice FIED, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The judge of the Circuit Court accompanied the judgment
with an opinion giving the reasons of his decision, which were
substantially those stated in the answer of the city : that the
statute authorizing the issue of the bonds, upon which the
judgments were recovered, made no provision for levying a
tax to pay the principal, but intended that it should be paid
out of the stock of the railroad company and its revenues; and
that the proceeds from the sale of the stock had been already
expended by the predecessors of the present city authorities.
The court, adopting the view of the city authorities as to the
construction of the statute, and the supposed intention of the
legislature, proceeded on the principle that the power of taxation belongs exclusively to the legislative branch of the government, and that the judiciary cannot direct a tax to be levied
when none is authorized'by the legislature; and that the issuing of a mandamus to apply the proceeds received from the
sale of the stock would be a futile proceeding, they having been
previously used for other purposes. A writ, said the court,
could not issue commanding the performance of an admitted
impossibility.
The position that the power of taxation belongs exclusively
to the legislative branch of the government, no one will controvert. Under our system it is lodged nowhere else. But it is
a power that may be delegated by the legislature to municipal
corporations, which are merely instrumentalities of the State

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS.

for the better administration of the government in matters of
local concern. When such a corporation is created, the power
of taxation ;s vested in it as an essential attribute, for all the
purposes of its existence, unless its exercise be in express
terms prohibited. For the accomplishment of those purposes,
its authorities, however limited the corporation, must have the
power to raise money and control its expenditure. In a city,
even of small extent, they have to provide for the preservation
of peace, good order, and health, and the execution of such
measures as conduce to the general good of its citizens; such as
the opening and repairing of streets, the construction of sidewalks, sewers, and drains, the introduction of water, and the
establishment of a fire and police department. In a city like
New Orleans, situated on a navigable stream, or on a harbor of
a lake or sea, their powers are usually enlarged, so as to embrace the building of wharves and docks or levees for the benefit of commerce, and they may extend also to the construction
of roads leading to it, or the contributing of aid towards their
construction. The number and variety of works which may be
authorized, having a general regard to the welfare of the city
or of its people, are mere matters of legislative discretion. All
of them require for their execution considerable expenditures
of money. Their authorization without providing the means
for such expenditures would be an idle and futile proceeding.
Their authorization, therefore, implies and carries with it the
power to adopt the ordinary means employed by such bodies to
raise funds for their execution, unless such funds are otherwise
provided. And the ordinary means in such cases is taxation.
A municipality without the power of taxation would be a body
without life, incapable of acting, and serving no useful purpose.
For the same reason, when authority to borrow money or
incur an obligation in order to execute a public work is conferred upon a municipal corporation, the power to levy a tax
for its payment or the discharge of the obligation accompanies
it; and this, too, without any special mention that such power
is granted. This arises from the fact that such corporations
seldom possess - so seldom, indeed, as to be exceptional - any
means to discharge their pecuniary obligations except by taxation. "It is therefore to be inferred," as observed by this

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. at.

court in Loan Association v. Topeka (20 Wall. 660), "that when
the legislature of a State authorizes a county or city to contract
a debt by bond, it intends to authorize it to levy such taxes as
are necessary to pay the debt, unless there is in the act itself,
or in some general statute, a limitation upon the power of taxation which repels such an inference."
The doctrine here stated is asserted by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania in Commonwealth v. Commissioners of Allegheny
County, 37 Pa. 277. That county was authorized by an act of
the legislature to subscribe to the capital stock of a railroad company, and to issue its bonds in payment thereof. The interest
on them being unpaid, a writ of mandamus was applied for to
compel the commissioners of the county to make provision to
pay it. The return of the officers set up, among other objections to the writ, that the act authorizing the subscription and
issue of the bonds provided no means of payment, either of the
principal or interest. To this defence the court said: "The
act of 1843 authorized subscriptions by certain counties to be
made as ' fully as any individual could do,' without prescribing
more precisely the terms. But by the fifth section of the act of
April 18, 1843, counties subscribing are authorized to borrow
money to pay for such" subscriptions. We have decided that
bonds or certificates of loan issued by a municipal corporation
is an ordinary and appropriate mode of borrowing money, and
the act of 1853 expressly authorized the issue of such securities. The subscriptions were accordingly made, and the bonds
issued. Thus was a lawful debt incurred by the county; and
as no other than the ordinary mode of extinguishing it, or of
paying the interest thereon, was provided, it follows, of course,
that the ordinary mode of raising the means must be resorted
to; namely, to provide for it in the annual assessment of taxes
for county purposes." Again, in the same case, the court said:
"In the next place, it is averred that there is no authority to
levy a tax for the payment of the interest by the county. We
have already treated of this, and said that the authority to create the debt implies an obligation to pay it; and when no
special mode of doing so is provided, it is also implied that
it is to be done in the ordinary way, -by the levy and collection of taxes."

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS.

In numerous cases, similar language is found in opinions of
the State courts, not required, perhaps, to decide the point in
judgment therein, but showing a recognition of the doctrine
stated. Thus, in Lowell v. Boston (111 Mass. 460), the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in speaking of bonds which
the legislature had authorized the city of Boston to issue, in
order to raise funds to be loaned to individuals to aid them in
rebuilding that portion of the city which was burned in the
great fire of November, 1872, said: "The issue of bonds by
the city, whatever provision may be made for their redemption, involves the possible and not improbable consequence of
a necessity to provide for their payment by the city. The
right to incur the obligation implies the right to raise money
by taxation for payment of the bonds; or, what is equivalent,
the right to levy a tax for the purposes for which the fund is to
be raised by means of the bonds so authorized." To the same
purport is the language of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in
Hasbrouck v. Milwaukee, 25 Wis. 122. And in the recent case
of Parsons v. -Tne 01t1 of Charleston,in the United States Circuit Court, the Chief Justice gave emphatic affirmation to the
doctrine. Hughes, 282. Indeed, it is always to be assumed, in
the absence of clear restrictive provisions, that when the legislature grants to a city the power to create a debt, it intends that
the city shall pay it, and that the payment shall not be left to
its caprice or pleasure. When, therefore, a power to contract a
debt is conferred, it must be held that a corresponding power
of providing for its payment is also conferred. The latter is
implied in the grant of the former, and such implication cannot
be overcome except by express words excluding it.
In the present case, the indebtedness of the city of New
Orleans is conclusively established by the judgments recovered.
The validity of the bonds upon which they were rendered is
not now open to question. Nor is the payment of the judgments restricted to any species of property or revenues, or subject to any conditions. The indebtedness is absolute. If there
were any question originally as to a limitation of the means by
which the bonds were to be paid, it is cut off from consideration now by the judgments. If a limitation existed, it should
have been insisted upon when the suits on the bonds were pend-

UNITED STATES

v. NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Or.

ing, and continued in the judgments. The fact that none is
thus continued is conclusive on this application that none existed.
If the question were an open one, our conclusion would be
the same, The act of 1854 provided that the railroad company
should issue to the city certificates of stock for an amount equal
to the amount of bonds received; and that the stock should
remain "for ever pledged for the redemption of said bonds."
It is plain that this language was intended only to create a
statutory pledge by way of collateral security for the payment
of the bonds. It does not import that the holders of the bonds
-were to be thereby precluded from looking to the city, or that
they were obliged to have recourse, in the first instance, to the
pledge. The city, by the terms of the bonds, was primarily
liable; and nothing in the language of the act in any respect
affects this primary liability. The bondholder is not compelled
to look to the security, but may proceed directly against the
city without regard to it. Besides, as was justly observed by
counsel, if we could seek the intention of the legislature from
other considerations than the words of the statute, it would be
still plainer that no such construction could be given to its language. The object of issuing the bonds for the stock was to
aid the company in obtaining funds to build its road. If the
stock had been available, the bonds would not have been needed;
the stock would have been sold. But it was not available; and
it is difficult to believe that the bonds would have been any
more so, if their payment had been limited to the revenues and
proceeds of the stock. The proposal of such a scheme for raising money would not have indicated much wisdom on the part
of the legislature; to have assented to it would have indicated
less on the part of the bondholders. And even if the bondholders had been required to look for payment of the bonds
only to the revenues and proceeds of the stock, it comes with
bad grace from the city, not to say evinces an insensibility to
its obligations, to allege exemption from liability after its authorities have sold the stock and diverted the proceeds to other
uses.
This construction is not affected, as contended by counsel, by
the" statutes of 1852 and 1853, restraining cities and towns from

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS.

creating any indebtedness without providing at the same time
for the payment of the principal and interest. Those statutes
were not limitations on the power of the legislature to authorize the creation of debts by cities upon other conditions. It
does not follow that because it was deemed expedient, as a general rule, to prohibit cities and towns from incurring debts on
their own motion, without making provision for their payment,
that the legislature might not authorize the incurring of a particular obligation without such provision. And it will be found,
upon examination, that the act of 1854 prescribed the details
of the ordinance which should be passed by the city in the execution of the authority conferred, and that the ordinance passed
conformed to them. Butz v. Muscatine, 8 Wall. 575; Ameyq v.
Allegheny, 24 How. 864; Commonwealth v. Pittsburg, 84 Pa.
St. 496; Commonwealth v. Commissioners, 40 id. 848; Commonwealth v. Perkins, 43 id. 400; Fosdick v. Perrysburg,4 Ohio
St. 472.
There is nothing, therefore, in the positions of counsel to impair the validity of the bonds upon which the judgments were
recovered, if we were at liberty to consider them on this application. But, as already said, the judgments are conclusive upon
this point. Owing the debt, the city has the power to levy a
tax for its payment. By its charter, in force when the bonds
were issued, it was invested, in express terms, "with all the
powers, rights, privileges, and immunities incident to a municipal corporation and necessary for the proper government of
the same."
As already said, the power of taxation is a power incident to
such a corporation, and may be exercised for all the purposes
authorized by its charter or subsequent legislation. Whatever
the legislature empowers the corporation to do is presumably
for its benefit, and may, in "the proper government of the same,"
be done. Having the power to levy a tax for the payment of
the judgments of the relator, it was the duty of the city, through
its authorities, to exercise the power. The payment was not
a matter resting in its pleasure, but a duty which it owed to
the creditor. Having neglected this duty, the case was one in
which a mandamus should have been issued to enforce its performance. .Knox County v. Aspinwall, 24 How. 876; Von

RAILROAD

Co. v.

GRANT.

[Sup. Ot.

Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Benbow v. Iowa City,
7 id. 318; Supervisors v. Rogers, id. 175; The Supervisors v.
.Durant,9 id. 415; County of Cass v. Johnston, 95 U. S. 360.

The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to issue the writ as
prayed in the petition of the relator; and it is
So ordered.
Non.- Three other cases against the city, on the relation respectively
of Charles Parsons, of William S. Peterkin, and of James Wadick, were argued
at the same time as the preceding case. The city was represented by the same
counsel. Mr. D. H. Chamberlain and Mr. William B. Hornblower appearing for
Parsons, and Mr. Thomas J. Semmes and Mr. Robert Mott for the relator in each
of the other cases.
MR. JusTicR FELD, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked, that
each of the cases was, in all essential particulars, similar to that of United States
v. New Orleans; and, upon the authority of the decision therein, the judgment
below must be reversed, and each cause remanded with directions to issue a writ
of mandamus to levy and collect a tax, as prayed by the relator, to pay the judgment described in his petition, with lawful interest thereon; and it is
So ordered.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GRAT.
The jurisdiction conferred upon this court by sect. 847 of the Revised Statutes
relating to the District of Columbia was taken away by the act of Congress approved Feb. 25, 1879, which enacts that a judgment or a decree of
the Supreme Court of that District may be re-examined here "where the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the value of 62,500." This
court, therefore, dismisses a writ of error sued out Dec. 6, 1875, to reverse
a final judgment of that court where the matter in dispute is of the value
of $2,250.
MoTioN to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of

the District of Columbia.
This is a writ of error sued out by the Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad Company, the defendant below, on the 6th
of December, 1875, to reverse a judgment rendered against it
for $2,250 by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

At that time sects. 846 and 847 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, defining the jurisdiction of
this court in that class of cases, were in force.

