Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

UNITED STATES

v.

HALL.

Congress has, under the Constitution, power to declare that the embezzlement or
fraudulent conversion to his own use by a guardian of the money which he,
on behalf of his wards, has received from the government as a pension due
to them, is an offence against the United States, and to vest the proper Circuit
Court with jurisdiction to try and punish him therefor.

CERTIFICATE Of division in opinion between the judges of

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
fr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Mr. P. C. &mit, contra.
MR. TUSTIOE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Pensions granted to children under sixteen years of age may,
in certain cases, be paid to their guardians, and the act of Congress provides that every guardian having the charge and
custody of the pension of his ward, who embezzles the same in
violation of his trust, or fraudulently converts the same to his
own use, shall be punished by fine not exceeding $2,000, or
imprisonment at hard labor for a term not exceeding five years,
or both. Rev. Stat., sect. 4783.
Sufficient appears to show that the defendant in the indictment is the guardian of William Williamson, who was at the
time mentioned, and long before had been, entitled to a Pension
from the government of the United States, and that the defendant, as such guardian, had collected pension-money belonging to his said ward as such pensioner, to the amount of $500,
for which he had never accounted, and which he had never
expended for nor paid to his said ward.
Payment of the money being refused and withheld, an indictment against the defendant was returned by the grand jury of
the Circuit Court, in which it is charged, among other things,
that he, the respondent, being then and there the duly appointed
guardian of William Williamson, who was entitled to a pension
from the government of the United States, and having then
and there, as such guardian, the charge and custody of the

844

UNITED STATES v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

pension-money belonging to said ward, did unlawfully and
feloniously embezzle, in violation of his trust, a large sum of
money, to wit, $500. pension-money belonging to his said ward,
which he. the defendant, as such guardian, had theretofore collected from the government of the United States.
Due appearance was entered by the defendant, and be demurred to the indictment. Hearing was had; and the following
questions arose, upon which the judges of the Circuit Court
were opposed in opinion, and the same were duly certified to
this court: 1. Whether the Circuit Court has any jurisdiction over the
alleged offence, or any power to punish the defendant for any
appropriation of the money after its legal payment to him as
such guardian, it appearing that the defendant is the legal
guardian of his ward under the laws of the State; and that the
money alleged to have been embezzled and fraudulently converted to his own use had been paid over to him by the government, and belonged to his said ward.
2. If the defendant did embezzle the money and convert the
same to his own use after it was paid over to him by the government, is he liable to indictment for the offence under the
act of Congress, or only under the State law?
8. Is the act of Congress under which the indictment is
found a constitutional and valid law ?
Preliminary to the examination of the questions certified into
this court for decision, it is proper to remark that the court, in
reproducing the questions exhibited in the transcript, has not
preserved the exact phraseology in which they appear to have
been framed, but it is believed that the form here adopted is,
in substance and legal effect, the same as the questions certified from the court below. They present only two questions
for decision which it is important to answer in any formal manner: 1. Whether the offence defined by the act of Congress is
committed when the embezzlement and conversion charged in
the indictment did not take place until the pension-money was
paid over by the government to the defendant, as guardian of
the ward.
2. Whether the act of Congress defining the offence charged

Oct. 1878.1

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

in the indictment is a valid law, passed in pursuance of tlhe
Constitution.
Attempt is made, undoubtedly, to raise a third question, as
before explained ; but it is so obvious that the act of Congress
-would be invalid if it defined an offence as punishable in the
courts of the United States which is justiceable only in the
courts of the State, that it is not deemed necessary to give
the question much consideration, it being clear that if the
offence charged in the indictment is punishable only by the
State law, then the defendant must prevail upon one or the other,
or both of the other two questions. Reasonable doubt upon
that proposition cannot arise, and it is equally clear that if the
answers to the.first and third questions certified are adverse to
the theory of the defendant, then the answer to the second
question must be in the negative, which is all that need be
said upon the subject.
Circuit courts have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and
offences cognizable under the authority of the United States,
except where the acts of Congress otherwise provide, and concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts of the crimes and
offences cognizable in those courts. 1 Stat. 79; Rev. Stat.,
sect. 629, p. 112.
Such courts possess no jurisdiction over crimes and offences
committed against the authority of the United States, except
vhat is given to them by the power that created them; nor
can they be invested with any such jurisdiction beyond what
the power ceded to the United States by the Constitution
authorizes Congress to confer, -from
which it follows that
before an offence can become cognizable in the Circuit Court
the Congress must first define or recognize it as such, and affix
a punishment to it, and confer jurisdiction upon some court to
try the offender. United States v. Hudson, 7 Craneh, 82;
United States v. Coolidge, 1 Wheat. 415; 1 Am. Cr. L.,
sect. 163.
Courts of the kind were not created by the Constitution, nor
does the Constitution invest them -with any criminal jurisdiction. Even the powers of an express character given to
Congress upon the subject embrace only a limited class of wellknown offences. Congress may provide for the punishment of

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the United
States, and may pass laws to define and punish piracies and
felonies committed on the high seas, and offences against the
law of nations. Treason is defined by the Constitution, but it
has never been decided that the offender could be tried and
punished for the offence until some court is vested with the
power by an act of Congress.
Implied power in Congress to pass laws to define and punish
offences is also derived from the constitutional grant to Congress to declare wax, to raise and support armies, to provide
and maintain a navy, and to make rules for the land and naval
forces, and to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining
the militia and for governing such parts of them as may be
employed in the public service. Like implied authority is also
vested in Congress from the power conferred to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over places purchased by the consent of the
legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the
erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other
needful buildings, and from the clause empowering Congress
to pass all laws which shall be liecessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers
vested by the Constitution in the government of the United
States, or any department or officer thereof.
Power to grant pensions is not controverted, nor can it well
be, as it was exercised by the States and by the Continental
Congress during the war of the Revolution ; and the exercise
of the power is coeval with the organization of the government
under the present Constitution, and has been continued without interruption or question to the present time.
Five days after the act passed organizing the judicial system
of the United States, Congress enacted that the military pensions which have been granted and paid by the States respectively, in pursuance of an act of the United States in Congress
assembled, shall be continued and paid by the United States
from the fourth day of March last for the space of one year,
under such regulation as the President may direct. 1 Stat. 95.
Before that provision expired, to wit, on the 5th of July of
the next year, Congress enacted that military pensions granted
and paid by the States in pursuance of former acts of Congress,

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

or of acts passed in the then present session, to invalids who
were wounded or disabled during the late war, shall be continued and paid by the United States for one year from the
4th of March preceding the approval of the act. Id. 129.
Seven years' half-pay of certain deceased officers was granted
to their widows or orphans, which grant it was supposed
was barred by a subsequent resolution; and the Congress,
on the 28d of March, 1792, passed an act that the right to
prosecute the claims should be extended for and during the
term of two years from the passing of the act giving the extension, and made further provision for placing other officers,
commissioued and non-commissioned, and soldiers and seamen
disabled in actual military service during the late war, on the
pension list during life or the continuance of such disability.
Id. 244.
Reference is made to these early acts of Congress in order to
show that the pension system of the country had its origin in
the Revolution, and beyond all question was sanctioned by the
framers of the Constitution who were members of the first
Congress, and enacted the laws for putting the new government
into operation.
Other acts of Congress of a like character were passed granting pensions to the officers and soldiers disabled in the war of
1812, and in the Mexican war, and in the more recent war
of the rebellion. Fresh as these laws are in the memory of
every one, it is not necessary to refer to the volumes where
they are found, as the public statutes of the United States
are full of such provisions; nor should it be forgotten that
some of these laws throughout the same period have been
passed by Congress in favor of the disabled officers and seamen
of the navy.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction of the offence alleged in the indictment,
which involves both the construction of the act of Congress
defining the offence, and the power of Congress to pass the
law, which latter point will more appropriately be considered
when the third question presented for decision is examined.
Guardians having the charge and custody of the pensions of
their wards, who embezzle the same in violation of their trust,

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

[Sup. Cf.

or fraudulently convert the same to their own use, are the
material words of the enactment; and the proposition is, that
the Circuit Court has no power to punish the defendant for
any appropriation by him of said money -after its legal payment
to him as such guardian, which to a demonstration is a mistake,
if the act of Congress is a valid and constitutional act, for
several reasons, each of which is sufficient to show that the
proposition is unsound: 1. Because the guardian has not, and
cannot have, in the nature of things, the charge and custody of
the pension-money of his ward until it is paid to him by the
government. 2. Because he cannot, within the meaning of
the act of Congress, embezzle the pension-money of his ward,
or fraudulently convert the same to his own use in violation of
his trust, before the same is paid to him as such guardian.
3. Because, if the theory of the defendant is correct, the act
of Congress defines certain acts of such a guardian as an offence
that in the nature of things is practically impossible, which
would show that the act of Congress is an absurdity. 4. Because the plain import and obvious meaning of the language of
the provision contradicts the theory of the defendant, and shows
that Congress intended to protect the pension-money as a fund
for the ward after it was paid to the guardian, and to punish
the depositary if he embezzled or fraudulently converted it to
his own use before he rendered an account for it or expended
it for the benefit of the ward, as the law required.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it follows that the
offence set forth in the indictment is well defined in the act of
Congress, and that the offence as there defined, if the -act of
Congress is valid and constitutional, consists of embezzling the
pension of the ward by the guardian, or of fraudulently converting the same to his own use after the same is paid to him by
the government.
Argument to show that the Circuit Courts have jurisdiction
of offences against the authority of the United States since the
passage of the Judiciary Act is unnecessary, as all the offences
cognizable in those courts have been defined since the Judiciary
Act went into operation. Grant all that, and still the question
is, whether the act defining the offence set forth in the indictment is a valid and constitutional act.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATFS V. HALL.

Briefly stated, the objections to the constitutionality of the
law are as follows; 1. That it is municipal in its character,
operating directly on the conduct of individuals, and that it
assumes to take the place of ordinary State legislation. 2. That
if Congress may pass such a law, then Congress may assume
all the police regulations of the States, and work their entire
destruction. 3. That inasmuch as the State law authorized
the guardian to receive the pension-money, the defendant cannot be subjected to an indictment under an act of Congress
for embezzling it after he lawfully received it. 4. That matters of police regulation are not surrendered to Congress, but
are exclusively within State legislation. 5. That a guardian
is a State officer, and as such is not subject to the laws of
Congress in the performance of his duties.
Power to protect the fund from misappropriation, fraud, and
unauthorized conversion to the use of another, and to secure
its safe and unimpaired transmission to the beneficiary, has
been claimed and exercised through the whole period since
Congress, under the Constitution, commenced to grant such
bounties.
Provision was made by the sixth section of the act of the
25th of March, 1792, that no sale, transfer, or mortgage of the
whole or any part of the pension or arrearages of pension payable to any non-commissioned officer, soldier, or seaman, before
the same shall become due, shall be valid; and the same section also provided that every person claiming such pension or
arrears of pension, or any part thereof, under power of attorney or -substitution, shall, before the same is paid, make oath
or affirmation before some justice of the peace of the place
where the same is payable, that such power or substitution is
not given by reason of any transfer of such pension or arrears
of pension; and any person who shall swear or affirm falsely
in the premises, and be thereof convicted, shall suffer as for
willful and corrupt perjury. 1 Stat. 245.
Three of the sections of that act were repealed by the revisory act of tae 28th of February, 1793, but the sixth section,
with its penal clause, was left in full force. Id. 324.
Officers of the navy, seamen, and marines, disabled in the
line of their duty, were declared to be entitled to pensions for

UNITED STTES

v.

HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

life or during their disability by the act of the 3d of March,
1803, and by the subsequent act of the 10th of April, 1806,
the operation of the act was extended to the widows and
children of such officers, seamen, and marines. 2 id. 376.
Rules and regulations for prosecuting applications to obtain
the benefits of the act were prescribed, and the eighth section
of the act, like the sixth section of the act of the 23d of March,
1793. prohibits the sale, transfer, or mortgage of the whole or
any part of the pension before the same becomes due, and
requires every person claiming such pension under a power of
attorney or substitution to make oath or affirmation, before the
same is paid to them, that the power of attorney or substitution is not given by reason of any transfer of such pension;
and the provision is, that if the affiant shall swear or affirm
falsely in the premises, and be thereof convicted, he shall suffer
as for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Regular allowances paid to an individual by government in
consideration of services rendered, or in recognition of merit,
civil or military, are called pensions. Military pensions are
divisible into two classes, - invalid and gratuitous, or such as
are granted as rewards for eminent services, irrespective of
physical disability. Laws of the kind in this country granting
invalid pensions were passed by the States during the Revolution, and were followed by similar provisions passed by the
Continental Congress. 1 Laws U. S. (Bioren & Duane's ed.)
687-692; 2 id. 73.
Many of those provisions were in force when the Constitution was adopted, and some of the early laws of the Congress
under the new Constitution were passed to fulfil and make
good the obligations which were acknowledged by continental
legislation. Such laws had their origin in the patriotic service,
great hardships, severe suffering, and physical disabilities contracted while in the public service by the officers, soldiers, and
seamen who spent their property, lost their health, and. gave
their time for their country in the great struggle for liberty
and independence, without adequate or substantial compensation.
Power existed in the States before the Constitution was
adopted, and it would serve to undermine the public regard

Oct. 1[878.]

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

for our great charter if it could be held that it did not continue
the same power in the Congress.. Even the respondent admits
that Congress may declare war, raise and support armies, provide and maintain a navy, and make rules for the government
and regulation of the land and naval forces ; and it is equally
clear that Congress may make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying the powers granted by the Constitution into execution.
Concede that, and it follows that Congress may grant such
donations to the officers, soldiers, and seamen employed in such
public service. Bounties may be offered to promote enlistments, and pensions to the wounded and disabled may be
promised as like inducements. Past services may also be compensated, and pensions may also be granted to those who were
wounded, disabled, or otherwise rendered invalids while in the
public service, even in cases where no prior promise was made
or antecedent indficement held out. Enactments of the kind,
it is conceded, may be valid; and if so, it is difficult to see
why Congress may not pass laws to protect the fund appropriated for such a beneficiary of the government, certainly until
it reaches his hands. Congress in many cases has passed such
laws, and provided that the money shall not be transferable or
subject to attachment, levy, or seizure, even after it has been
.received by the agent, attorney, or guardian.
Conclusive support to that proposition is found in the fourth
section of the act of the 15th of May, 1828, which provides
that the pay of the pensioners therein named shall not in any
way be transferable or liable to attachment, levy, or seizure by
any legal process whatever, but shall inure wholly to the personal benefit of the officer or soldier entitled to the same by
this act. 4 Stat. 270.
Exemptions of certain properties of small value, such as personal apparel and tools of trade, existed in the State laws; but
no court ever called the Federal exemption in question because
it was something in addition to what was contained in the
State law, nor because the operation of the act of Congress was
extended beyond the time when the money was received by
the agent, attorney, or guardian of the pensioner.
Payment of pensions under the second section of the act

UNITED STATES v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

passed the next year might be made to the widow of the deceased pensioner or to her attorney, or, if he left no widow or no
one then living, to the children of the pensioner or to their
guardian or his attorney, and if no child or children, then to the
legal representatives of the deceased. Id. 350.
Authority was also given to the Secretary of the Treasury
by the act of the 15th of June, 1832, to pay pensions to the
pensioners, or their authorized attorneys, at such places and
times as he might direct; but the same section provided that
the pay of the pensioner should not be in any way transferable
or liable to attachment, levy, or seizure by any legal process
whatever, and that it should inure wholly to the personal benefit
of the individual entitled to the same. Id. 356; 5 id. 128.
Certain duties in that regard, previously devolved upon the
Secretary of the Treasury, were, by the resolution of the 28th
of June, 1832, transferred to the Secretary of War. Five
years' half-pay and pensions were granted to certain widows of
the officers and soldiers of the Revolution by the act of the
7th of July, 1838; and the second section of the act provided that no pledge, mortgage, sale, assignment, or transfer of
any right, claim, or interest in any annuity, half-pay, or pension
granted by the act shall be valid, nor shall the half-pay, annuity, or pension granted by the act, or any former act of Congress, be liable to attachment, levy, or seizure by any process
in law or equity, and adds, as in the prior acts cited, that it
shall inure wholly to the personal benefit of the pensioner or
annuitant entitled to the same. Id. 303.
Ten years later, additional relief was granted to the widows
of officers and soldiers of the Revolution, and the second section
of the act contains the same prohibition and regulations as
those contained in the prior act. 9 id. 266.
Without more, these selections from the almost innumerable
list of acts passed granting pensions are sufficient to prove that
throughout the whole period since the Constitution was adopted
it has been the policy of Congress to enact such regulations
as will secure to the beneficiaries of the pensions granted the
exclusive use and benefit of the money appropriated and paid
for that purpose. Other legislation of Congress may also be
referred to confirming that proposition.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. HALL.

Pensioners of the kind are, in certain aspects, wards of the
United States, and the legislation of Congress already reviewed
shows that the national legislature has been constant and vigilant in endeavors to protect their interest and secure to them
the use of the annuities and pensions granted in their behalf.
For the same purpose and to the same end, Congress, on the
14th of July, 1862, prescribed the fees to be charged by agents
and attorneys for making out and causing to be executed the
papers necessary to establish claims for such pensions, bounty
or other allowance, and provided that if any agent or attorney
in such a case shall demand or receive any greater compensation
than the act allows, he shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and be punished as therein provided. 12 id. 568.
Stated fees were allowed to agents and attorneys by that act;
but Congress, two years later, passed a supplemental act, which
allows to such agents or attorneys a fixed sum instead of fees.
By that provisi6n they are allowed ten dollars in full for all
service in procuring a pension; and the provision is, that if the
agent or attorney shall demand or receive any greater compensation for his services, or agree to prosecute any claim foz a pension, bounty, or other allowance under the act, on the condition
that he shall receive a per centum upon any portion of the
amount of such claim, or shall wrongfully take from a pensioner or other claimant the whole or any part of the pension
or claim allowed and due to such pensioner or claimant, lie
shall be deemed guilty of the offence there defined, and be punished as therein prescribed. 18 id. 889.
Regulations somewhat different in certain respects are made
in the supplementary act of the 8th of July, 1866, and some of
those contained in the two preceding acts are repealed; but
every one of the provisions of those acts intended to give protection to pensions or bounties to be paid to the pensioner are
either left in full force, or are re-enacted in the supplemental
act in the same or equivalent words. 14 id. 56.
Prior regulations having proved inadequate to effect the intention of the law-makers that the pension should inure solely
to the benefit of the pensioner, Congress, on the 8th of July,
1870, enacted that hereafter no pension shall be paid to any
person other than the pensioner entitled thereto, nor otherwise
vOL. VIII.

23

UNITED

STATES V. HALL.

[Sup. Ot.

than according to that act, and that no warrant, power of
attorney, or other paper executed or purporting to be executed
by any pensioner to any attorney, claim-agent, broker, or other
person, shall be recognized by any agent for the payment of
pensions, nor shall any pension be paid thereon, subject to two
provisos: 1. That payment to persons laboring under legal disabilities may be made to the guardian of such persons in the
manner the act provides. 2. That pensions payable in foreign
countries may be made according to the provisions of existing
laws.
Provision is also made by the seventh section of the act that
the fee of agents and attorneys for the preparation and prosecution of a claim for pension or bounty land, under any act of
Congress granting the same, shall not exceed in any case the
sum of twenty-five dollars, and the eighth section makes it a
misdemeanor to demand, receive, or retain any greater compensation for such services in any particular case. 16 id. 195.
Enough appears in these references to the legislation of the
Congress under the Constitution to show that throughout the
entire period since its adoption it has been the unchallenged
practice of the legislative department of the government, with
the sanction of every President, including the Father of the
Country, to pass laws to prevent the diversion of pensionmoney from inuring solely to the use and benefit of those to
whom the pensions are granted. With that view, sales, pledges,
mortgages, assignments, and every other kind of conveyance
have been prohibited. Agents employed to collect the money
have been required to make oath that they have no interest in
such money by any such pledge, mortgage, transfer, agreement,
or arrangement, and that they know of none, and provision has
several times been made for their punishment if they swear
falsely.
Most of these regulations have been enacted to prevent agents,
attorneys, and guardians from withholding the fund or converting the same to their own use before it passes into the hands
of the beneficiary; but Congress has gone further, and passed
laws exempting the money from attachment, execution, and
seizure by any legal process in law or equity. No question of
such exemption is involved in the present case; but if Congress

Oct

1878.]

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

may legislate to protect the fond from the grasp of creditors
before it reaches the beneficiary, none, it is presumed, will
deny the power of Congress to legislate to the end to prevent
the agent, attorney, or guaxdian from converting the same to
his use.
Any other argument is hardly necessary to show that the act
of Congress in question is a valid and constitutional law; but if
more be needed, it will be found in the decisions of the courts,
which are numerous and decisive in support of the same proposition.
State courts in more than one instance have decided that
money received as pension from the United States is not liable
to attachment, levy, or seizure by or under any legal or equitable process whatever. Congress has the power, says Justice
Peters, to attach such condition to the grant of the bounty
beyond all doubt; and the court held that the language of
sect. 2, in the act of June 6, 1866, was comprehensive enough
to exempt such money from any such attachment, levy, or
seizure under State laws. .ecert & Co. v. McKee, &c.,
9 Bush (Ky.), 355.
It is undoubtedly competent for the United States, said
Judge Hoar, to attach such conditions as they may see fit to
the grant of a pension, and to fix by law the time and manner
in which the property shall finally pass to the pensioner.
Kellogg v. Waite and Trustee, 12 Allen (Mass.), 580. But the
court in that case held that the rule did not apply to the
money after the same had passed into the hands of the pensionex, which is a question that does not arise in this case.
Sects. 12 and 13 of the Pension Act of July 4, 1864, prescribed the fees of agents employed to collect pensions, and imposed a penalty for receiving a greater fee than that prescribed.
Marks was indicted for a violation of that provision, and by
the report of the case it appears that he had demanded and
received an excess of fees beyond what the act allowed, and
he contended that the act was unconstitutional. Hearing was
had; and Judge Ballard overruled the defence, holding that
the power of Congress for the protection of both persons and
things was coextensive with their powers of legislation; that
if they grant pensions to meritorious officers, soldiers, and sea-

356

UNITED STATES V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

men, or to their widows, they may by all suitable laws guard
and protect the fund thus devoted from being diverted from its
object by either the craft or the extortion of unscrupulous
agents. United States v. Marks, 2 Abb. (U. S.) 584; s. c. 10
Int. Rev. Rec. 42; United States v. Bennet, 12 Blatchf. 352.
Armies may be raised and supported by Congress, and under
this grant of power, says Judge Withey, Congress may enact
laws making it an offence punishable in the national courts to
detain from a military pensioner any portion of a sum collected
in his behalf as his pension. United States v. .Fairchilds,1 Abb.
(U. S.) 74; s. c. 16 Am. Law Reg. 806.
Pensioners were forbidden by the act of July 29, 1848, to
pledge the certificate by anticipation to an agent employed to
secure the pension; and Slosson, J., held that such a pledge,
no matter for what purpose or to whom made, was wholly void,
and that an action would lie against such agent, if he refused
to deliver it up, for the recovery of the value or the damages
resulting from its detention. Payne v. Woodhull, 6 Duer
(N. Y.), 169.
Moneys due to a debtor from the public authorities, says
Daly, J., cannot be reached by a creditor of a pensioner until
actually paid over to the debtor. Nagle v. Slagg, 15 Abb. Pr.
. s. (N. Y.) 848.
Proof of a grant of a pension certificate to the plaintiff, that
it is in the possession of the defendants, and that upon a demand made upon the defendants to deliver it to the plaintiff
they refused to do so, not only entitles the plaintiff to recover,
but makes a case which renders it impossible, in the nature of
things, for the defendants to prove any facts which can operate
as a bar to the action, or modify in any respect the plaintiff's
right to the whole relief sought. Moffatt v. Van Doren,1 Bosw.
610.
An agreement between the widow of a soldier of the Revolution entitled to a pension, and an agent, that the latter was
to receive a part of the pension-money for his services in obtaining it, says Nash, C. J., is void, and the money received
under such an agreement can be recovered back by the pensioner in an action of assumpsit. Powell v. Jennings, 3 Jones
(N. C.), 547.

Oct. 1878.]

ONITED

STATES V. HALL.

A widow entitled to arrears of pension dying and leaving
children, says Woods, J., cannot dispose of such arrears by
-will, nor can her executor, having received the same, retain it
for purposes of administration, but each child is entitled to an
equal share, and may recover it of the executor in an action for
money had and received. .Fogg v. Perkins, 19 N. I. 101;
Walton et al. v. Cotton et al., 19 How. 357.
It is competent for Congress to enforce by suitable penalties
all legislation necessary or proper to the execution of power
with which it is intrusted, and any act committed with a view
of evading such legislation or fraudulently securing its benefits
may be made an offence against the United States. United
States v. FPoz, 95 U. S. 670.

Acts of Congress granting such donations to officers, soldiers,
and seamen, or to their widows or children, in some cases direct that the payment may be made to the attorney or agent
of the beneficiary, and in other acts the direction is that the
payment may be made to the guardian of the party, and in
still another class of such acts the requirement is that the
money shall be paid directly to the beneficiary. 4 Stat. 350;
8 id. 569.
For the defendant, it is insisted that when the payment is
made to the guardian the money paid ceases to be within the
constitutional control of the United States, and that the act of
Congress, which enacts that the guardian who embezzles the
money or fraudulently converts the same to his own use is
guilty of a misdemeanor, is unconstitutional and void. But
the court is unhesitatingly of a different opinion, for several
reasons: 1. Because the United States, as the donors of the
pensions, may, through the legislative department of the government, annex such conditions to the donation as they see
fit, to insure its transmission unimpaired to the beneficiary.
2. Because the guardian no more than the agent or attorney
of the pensioner is obliged by the laws of Congress to receive
the fund; but if he does, he must accept it subject to the annexed conditions. 8. Because the word "guardian," as used in
the acts of Congress, is merely the designation of the person to
whom the money granted may be paid for the use and benefit
of the pensioners. 4. Because the fund proceeds from the

UNITED STATES 1V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

United States, and inasmuch as the donation is a voluntary
gift, the Congress may pass laws for its protection, certainly
until it passes into the bands of the beneficiary, which is all
that is necessary to decide in this case. 5. Because the elements of the offence defined by the act of Congress in question
consist of the wrongful acts of the individual named in the
indictment, wholly irrespective of the duties devolved upon
him by the State law. 6. Because the theory of the defendant that the act of Congress augments, lessens, or makes any
change in respect to the duties of a guardian under the State
law is entirely erroneous, as the act of Congress merely provides that the pension may be paid to the person designated
as guardian, for the use and benefit of the pensioner, and that
the person who receives the pension, if he embezzles it or
fraudulently converts it to his own use, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and be punished as therein provided.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that Congress possessed the power: 1. To define the offence set forth
in the indictment, and that the Circuit Court is vested with the
jurisdiction to try the offender and sentence him to the punishment which the act of Congress imposed. 2. That the
defendant, under the circumstances disclosed in the record, was
liable to indictment in the Circuit Court of the United States.
3. That the act of Congress defining the offence set forth in
the indictment is a valid and constitutional law enacted in pursuance of the Constitution.
Answers will be certified in conformity with this opinion;
that is, the answer to the first question must be in the affirmative, and the answers to the second and third questions in the
negative; and it is
So ordered.

