Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY Co. v. LoFTiN.

offset or payment to the bill of exchange in suit. In our
analysis of the statute, we have seen that this could not be
done. Nothing more need be said upon the subject.
In the third defence as set forth the like payment is alleged,
and there is a claim to recover double the amount paid by way
of counter-claim in the pending suit on the bill.
This pleading is also fatally defective for the same reason as
the first one. The remedy given by the statute for the wrong
is a penal suit. To that the party aggrieved or his legal representative must resort. He can have redress in no other mode
or form of procedure. The statute which gives the right prescribes the redress, and both provisions are alike obligatory upon
the parties.
While the plaintiff in such cases, upon making out the facts,
has a clear right to recover, the defendant has a right to insist
that the prosecution shall be by a suit brought specially and
exclusively for that purpose, - where the sole issue is the guilt
or innocence of the accused, without the presence of any extraneous facts which might confuse the case, and mislead the
jury to the prejudice of either party.
The point specified in the demurrer we have had no occasion
to consider. Both defences, as they appear in the record, are
perhaps liable to other objections ; but in examining the case
we have not gone beyond the points we have discussed, and we
decide nothing else.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILWAY COMPANY v. LOFTIN.
1. The act of the General Assembly of Arkansas of Jan. 12, 1853, incorporating

the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, and exempting for ever its capital
by
stock and dividends from taxation, does not so exempt the lands granted
the act of Feb. 9, 1853 (10 Stat. 155), to that State, and by her transferred
to the company.
road and
2. The lands, although granted by Congress to aid in constructing the
the necesused in lieu of capital, to that extent relieving the company from
the stock
sity of raising money through stock subscriptions, do not represent
within the meaning of the act of incorporation.
3. Railroad Companies v. Gaines (97 U. S. 697) cited and approved.

RAILWAY Co. v. LoFriN.

[Sup. Ct.

EROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.

The Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company was incorporated
by the General Assembly of the State of Arkansas, Jan. 12,
1853, to construct a railroad from the Mississippi River opposite
the mouth of the Ohio, in Missouri, by way of Little Rock,
Ark., to the Texas State line. The capital stock was fixed at
$1,500,000, with power of increase, divided into shares of $25
each, to be held as personal property. The board of directors
named in the act were authorized to open books of subscription
to the stock, and the directors for the time being had power
to require the payment of the sums subscribed in such manner and on such terms as they deemed proper. Sects. 11 and
13 are as follows:
'"SECT. 11. That the capital stock and dividends of said company
shall be for ever exempt from taxation. The road, fixtures, and
appurtenances shall be exempt from taxation until after it pays an
interest of not less than ten per cent per annum."
" SECT. 13. This act shall be deemed a public act, and shall be
favorably construed for all purposes therein expressed, and declared
in all courts and places whatsoever, and shall be in force from and
after its passage: Provided,that all the rights, privileges, immunities, and franchises contained in the charter, granted at this session
of the legislature of this State to 'The Mississippi Valley Railroad
Company,' and not restricting or inconsistent with this act, are
hereby extended to, and shall form a part of, this incorporation as
fully as if the same was inserted herein." Acts of 1853-54, p. 176.

Sect. 25 of the act to incorporate the Mississippi Valley
Company is as follows: "SECT. 25. That the capital stock of said company, with all the
immunities and franchises herein specified, and all machines, cars,
engines, or carriages belonging to said company, together with all
their works and property, and all profits which shall arise from the
same, shall be vested in the respective stockholders of the company
for ever, in proportion to their respective shares; and the capital
stock of said company and the dividends shall be exempted from taxation until a dividend of six per cent is realized upon the capital
stock; and the road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation, shall be
exempted from taxation for the period of twenty-five years from the

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY Co. v. LOFTIN.

completion of the road, and no tax shall ever be levied on said road
or its fixtures which will reduce the dividends below ten per cent
per annum. Said stockholders shall not be bound or liable for any
greater amount than the respective shares of stock which they or
either of them own." Acts 1853-54, p. 181.
On the 9th of February, 1853, Congress made a grant of
lands to the State of Arkansas to aid in the construction of the
Cairo and Fulton road (10 Stat. 155, 156), and on the 16th of
January, 1855, the State transferred the grant to the corporation. Sect. 2 of the statute of the State making this transfer
is as follows :"ScT. 2. That after the expiration of twenty years from the
date of the completion of the said Cairo and Fulton railroad from
the Missouri line to the Texas boundary line to the point where said
road shall cross Red River, near Fulton, said company shall pay
into the State treasury an annual tax upon the road, fixtures, lands,
tenements, and houses equal to that paid upon other taxable
property in this State, for the time being, and for the purposes of
taxation the road, fixtures, lands, tenements, and houses shall be
considered separate and distinct from the capital stock, whether all
the capital stock shall be expended in building said road, fixtures,
houses, tenements, or not, and the capital stock shall be exempt
from taxation, as provided for in the eleventh section of said Cairo
and Fulton railroad charter, approved the 12th of January, 1853.,'
Acts 1854-55, p. 150.
This act was amended Nov. 26, 1856, and this particular
provision repealed, but sect. 9 of the amended act is as follows :"SECT. 9. That after said Cairo and Fulton railroad shall have
been completed, and shall have declared a dividend of ten per cent
per annum upon the capital stock of said company, then, and in that
event, said Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company shall pay into the
State treasury two and one-half per cent upon their net proceeds
annually." Acts 1856-57, p. 7.
The road was not completed until Jan. 15, 1874, and no
dividend has ever been declared upon the stock of the company. The total quantity of lands included in the grant was
about 1,400,000 acres. Only about .$300,000 of capital stock,
36
vor. Vill.

RAILWAY Co. v. LOFTIN.

[Sul,. Ct.

was ever paid in, and the road, which cost about $11,000,000,
was built with money borrowed upon bonds and otherwise.
On the 8th of April, 1869, the General Assembly passed an
act requiring each railroad company in the State, on or before
the first day of January in each year, to furnish the auditor of
public accounts a full list of all lands acquired by grant, donation, or subscription in aid of the construction of its road, but
provided that such lands should not be listed or subject to taxation until conveyed to actual purchasers. Acts of 1868-69,
p. 131. The Cairo and Fulton company made its returns in
accordance with the requirements of this act. On the 30th
of November, 1875, another act was passed, as follows " SECT. 1. That the assessor in the different counties of this
State shall, at the time he assesses the personal property in his
county, in the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five,
assess and place on the tax-book of his county, under the same rule
and restrictions as is required in assessing lands in this State, all the
lands in his county heretofore donated, granted, or given to any
railroad or railroad corporation, when the title to the lands has
passed from the United States government, and such lands shall
thereafter be assessed and taxed as other lands in this State.
"SE cT. 2. That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this
act be and the same are hereby repealed, and this act take effect
and be in force from and after its passage." Acts 1875-76, p. 29.

The Cairo and Fulton company has been consolidated, pursuant to laws of Arkansas and Missouri, with the St. Louis
and Iron Mountain Railroad Company, under the name of the
St. Louis, Iron Mountain, and Southern Railway Company, the
plaintiff in this action. The lands granted to the Cairo and
Fulton company passed by the consolidation to the consolidated
company.
The unsold lands were assessed for taxation under the law
of 1875, and the consolidated company filed its bill in equity
in the State court against Loftin, the collector of Jackson
County, to restrain the collection, on the ground that the act
under which the assessment was made impaired the obligation
of the -contract of exemption contained in the charter of the
Cairo and Fulton company. The Supreme Court of the State,
upon appeal, decided otherwise, and affirmed the deeree of the

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v. LOTIIN.

court below, dismissing the bill.

To reverse this decree of

the Supreme Court, the present writ of error has been brought.
Mr. U. M. Rose for the plaintiff in error.
The capital stock represents the property of the company,
whatever that may be. Baltimore v. Baltimore 6. Ohio Railroad Co., 6 Gill. (Md.), 294; Rome Railroad Co. v. Malor.
14 Ga. 275; Augusta v. Georgia Railroad Co., 26 id. 661; l'ew
Haven v. City Bank, 81 Conn. 108; Hannibal It St. Joseph
Railroad Co. v. Shacklett, 80 Mo. 550 ; Richmond v. Richmond
& -Danville Railroad Co., 21 Gratt. (Va.) 604; State Bank v.

Brackenridge, 7 Blackf. (Ind.) 895; Osborne v. New York
Railroad (Co., 40 Conn. 491; State v. Haight, 84 N. J. L. 319;
.Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679.
The lands being a part of the capital stock, were therefore,
under the charter, exempt from taxation.
Mr. A. J. Garland,contra.
MR. CH= JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question in this case is whether the eleventh
section of the charter of the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, which exempts for ever from taxation the capital stock
and dividends of the company, carries with it an exemption of
the lands in question so long as they remain unsold. We had
occasion at the present term, in Railroad Companies v. Gaines
(97 U. S.697), to construe an exemption clause in a railroad
charter almost in the exact language of that now under consideration; and while conceding that ordinarily an exemption of
the capital stock is equivalent to an exemption of the property
into which the capital has been converted, unless a contrary
intention is in some way manifested, we held that as the railroad, with its fixtures and appurtenances, was only exempted
from taxation for twenty years, and the capital stock was exempted for ever, it was clear that the road and fixtures could
not represent the capital for the purposes of taxation. The
twenty-fifth section of the Mississippi Valley charter, even if
it was incorporated with that of the Cairo and Fulton company,
of which there may be doubt, does not materially change the
effect of the eleventh section. It vests the capital stock and

RAILWAY Co. v. LOFTIN.

[Sup. Ct

property of the company in the stockholders in proportion to
their respective shares, but that is far from making the stock
and the property identical for the purposes of taxation. Indeed, taking the whole section together, it is apparent that
there was in the case of that company the same intention to
separate the taxation of the stock from that of the property as
is found in the Cairo and Fulton charter.
But when the land grant was made, the intention not to include the lands granted in the exemption of the stock is still
more manifest; for it is there expressly provided that the " road,
fixtures, lands, tenements, and houses shall be considered separate and distinct from the capital stock," and while the original exemption of stock was continued, the lands, &c., were to
be taxed after twenty years from the date of the completion of
the road. It is quite true that this provision of the granting
act was afterwards repealed, and a different mode of taxation
adopted; but there is nowhere in the repealing act any intention shown of converting the lands into capital stock, and without some express declaration to that effect, no such conversion
will be presumed. The lands were used in lieu of capital.
They were given in aid of the construction of the road, and to
that extent relieved the company from the necessity of raising
money through stock subscriptions; but it would be unreasonable to hold that, because they rendered stock to some extent
unnecessary, they were on that account stock itself. Exemptions from taxation are never presumed. On the contrary, the
presumptions are always the other way; and as in this case the
capital stock is alone exempt, the property of the company is
not to be included in the exemption, unless it manifestly represents the stock, within the meaning of that term as used by
the legislature in the particular act to be construed. As we
said in Railroad Companies v. Gaines (supra), whenever property is exempted by reason of the exemption of capital stock, it
is because, taking the whole charter together, such appears to
ha-ve been the intention of the legislature.
On the whole, we are clearly of the opinion that the lands
in question are nou included in the exemptions of the original
charter. None of the other statutes set out in the bill amount
to a limitation of the power of future legislatures in respect to

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. SHERMAN.

the taxation of the property. They are in no sense contracts,
and are not, therefore, irrepealable. Tucker v. Ferguson, 22
Wall. 527.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITE

STATES V. SHERMAN.

Where, under sect. 8 of the act of July 28, 1866 (14 Stat. 329), the court grants a
certificate that there was probable cause for the acts done by an officer of the
United States, for which the judgment was rendered against him, the amount
payable out of the treasury does not include any interest which had accrued
upon the judgment before such certificate was given.

the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William A. Masry for the relator.
The Attorney- General, contra.

ERROR to

MiR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an application to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a mandamus to John Sherman, Secretary of
the Treasury, commanding him to pay to Alexander McLeod,
the relator, the sum of $4,279.94, with interest from the ninth
day of November, 1874. The facts of the case, as they are
made to appear, are as follows:On the eighteenth day of June, 1869, the relator recovered
a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina against T. C. Callicott, a supervising
special agent of the Treasury Department, for the sum of
$11,700.68, besides $119.30 for costs. On the 5th of July
next following a fl. fa. was issued upon this judgment. The
execution, however, was suspended by a writ of error sent from
this court to the Circuit Court, sued out by direction of the
Secretary of the Treasury. But the writ was dismissed on the
seventeenth day of February, 1871. Nothing further appears
to have been done until June 8, 1874, when the relator applied
to the Circuit Court for a certificate of probable cause under
the act of Congress of March 8, 1863 (12 Stat. 741), and the
act of July 28, 1866 (14 id. 329) ; and the court certified "that

