KESNER V. TRIGG.

[Sup. Ct.

charge, leaving open only the question as to the extent of the
infringement.
They also except to the master's report; but the exception
is not well founded, and the amount of profits found being quite
reasonable, it is clear that the decree of the Circuit Court is
correct.
Decree affirmed.

KESNER v. TRIGG.
1. In Virginia, a party cannot avail himself of the defence of usury, without averring and proving it, and he is required to pay the principal of his debt.
2. Where a party at the time of contracting a debt, executed to secure the payment thereof, a deed of trust of lands to which he had a perfect record title,
and a third party subsequently makes claim that he had, at the date of the
deed, a title to them, - Held,that the trustee and cestui que trust must be considered as purchasers; and if they had no notice of such claim, the lands are
subject to sale to satisfy the debt. If the sale yields a surplus, the rights
of such third party thereto will be the same as they were to the land.
3. A post-nuptial contract, made upon sufficient consideration, and wholly or partially executed, will be sustained in equity.
4. By the common law, if the husband and wife sell and convey her lands, the
money which he receives therefor, without any reservation of rights on her
part, will belong to him.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Virginia.
Philip Kesner, of Washington County, Virginia, an adjudicated bankrupt, surrendered real estate, viz. : -

"One-half interest in 1 5 0 T6T acres of land lying in Washington
County, Virginia, near Cedarville, with improvements thereon.
"Life-estate in the other one-half of the above tract, $800.
"The other half of this tract belongs to the petitioner's wife."

Afterwards, on the 6th of August, 1873, by leave of the court
he filed an amended schedule, varying the description of his
land, -viz.:"All the petitioner's interest in a tract of 150TI- acres of land
lying in Washington County, Virginia, near Cedarville, conveyed
to petitioner by George Dutton, in consideration chiefly of his wife's
lands, near Lyon's Gap, in Smyth County.

Oct. 1878.]

KESNER V. TRIGG.

"If his wife's claim to one-half is sustained, then he surrenders
his petitioner's life-interest in that half.
"Petitioner's wife claims one-half of this land: value of
$2,400
.
.......
the whole tract ............
1,200
.
"If his wife sustains her claim of one-half, will be
800"
...
...
............
"Value of life-interest
Kesner's assignee advertised the land; but Jane B. Kesner,
his wife, filed her bill, and a temporary injunction was awarded
forbidding the sale.
She claims that the whole land is her own property, and
that there was a contract between her and her husband, not
reduced to writing, by which she was to claim no interest
in his property, and he none in hers; that an arrangement
between one Thomas T. Hull, one George Dutton, and her
husband, by which Dutton was to get Hull's land, Hull hers,
and her husband Dutton's, was made, o which she assented,
with the distinct understanding between her husband and herself, and in the belief, that she would have in the Cedarville
land (the land surrendered by Philip Kesner) the same rights
she had in her own land; that she was one of the three children of John Davis, who died intestate, leaving real estate at
Lyon's Gap, which was divided, and one-third of it assigned
to Kesner and wife, one-third to Moffett and wife, and onethird to Porterfield and wife; that Moffett and wife sold
their third to Kesner and wife, who conveyed the two-thirds
thus acquired to Hull's executor, by their deed, duly executed
and acknowledged, May 26, 1852, and recorded 24th August,
1853; that the deed to the Cedarville land was made by Dutton and wife to Philip Kesner alone, on the 25th of January, 1851, and recorded Aug. 6, 1853; that the purchase-money
paid to Moffett and wife was derived from the sale of certain
slaves which the complainant received as part of her father's
estate.
The bill further alleges that Philip Kesner executed a deed
of trust, conveying the Cedarville farm, Jan. 29, 1862, to one
Bekem, to secure the payment of a promissory note, of even
date therewith, for $2,000, borrowed money, payable two
years thereafter to one Greenway; that the money borrowed
consisted of Virginia and North Carolina notes, which were

KESNER

v.

TRIGG.

[Sup. Ct.

greatly depreciated; that said debt is not a lien on the land,
and that if it be set up as such, it should only be at its " scaled
value."
The deed of said Kesner and wife to Hull's executor was
acknowledged by her before two justices of the peace of the
county, who state in their certificate that she was by them examined privily and apart from her husband, and that the deed
having been fully explained to her, she acknowledged the same
to be her act, and declared that she had voluntarily executed the
same, and did not wish to retract it.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The bill makes Trigg, the assignee in bankruptcy, Greenway,
and other persons parties. The grounds therein set up for
relief are denied by the answers. Upon final hearing, the bill
was dismissed, and the complainant appealed to this court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. James Hf. Gilmore
for the appellant, and by Mr. John TV. Johnston for the appellees.
Mr. JUSTICe. SwAYNF, delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill, so far as it relates to the debt claimed to be owing
to the estate of John C. Greenway, deceased, secured by the
deed of trust to Bekem, cannot be sustained, for several reasons.
It is silent as to the objection of usury. In Virginia, a party
cannot avail himself of this defence, without averring and proving it; and in such case he is required by statute to pay the
principal of the debt. Brown v. Toell's Adm'r, 5 Rand. (Va.)
543; .farnsbargerv. Kinney, 6 Gratt. (Va.) 287.
It is asserted that the consideration of the note was a loan
of Virginia and North Carolina bank-notes; that at the time of
the transaction they were largely depreciated; that the -value
of the consideration should be fixed by scaling this currency;
and that the amount to be paid on the note should be reduced
accordingly.

But, upon looking into the record, we find no

evidence whatever upon the subject. The depreciation may
have been more or less, or there may have been none. We
cannot, as is suggested, take judicial notice of the facts, whatever they may have been. We must take the record as it is,
and we cannot look beyond it.

Oct. 1878.]

KESNER v. TRIGG.

No notice of any infirmity in the title of Kesner to the premises is brought home, either to the trustee or to the cestui que
trust, and it is denied by the latter. Like a mortgagee, they are
regarded as purchasers; and, in this case, they must be considered as such, bona fide, and without notice of the adverse
rights of the appellant, if any she have. Wickham & Gos-

horn v. Lewis, llorton, & Co., 13 Gratt. (Va.) 427 ; Evans, Trustee, v. Greenhouse et al., 15 id. 156. This part of the case
may, therefore, be laid out of view. The premises in question
are clearly liable for the amount secured by the deed of trust.
The position of the judgment creditors is different. They were
not purchasers, and they can take by virtue of the liens of
their judgments only what Kesner was entitled to. 15 Gratt.
8upra.
It remains to consider the claim of the appellant touching
the premises in controversy. It is clear that she inherited
from her father one-third of Lyon's Gap farm, and received,
as a distributee of the estate of her father and mother, several
slaves; that she and Kesner bought another third of the farm
from her sister, Mrs. Moffett, and took from Asbury, the attorney of her sister and her sister's husband, a bond for the execution of a deed. The purchase-money was procured by the sale
of slaves which came to Kesner by the appellant. On the 26th
of Mlay, 1852, the appellant and her husband, Kesner, conveyed
the two-thirds of the Lyon's Gap farm to Sheffy, as executor of
Hull. On the 25th of January, 1851,Dutton and wife conveyed
to Kesner alone the Cedarville farm, which is the property in
controversy. The transaction was an exchange of lands. $600
-was paid to Dutton, as the difference in value of the two tracts.
Kesner raised the money in the same way as that before mentioned. The appellant is neither named nor referred to in the
deed to her husband. On the 29th of January, 1862, Kesner
alone executed the trust-deed to Bekem. It embraced the entire Cedarville property. The tract contained about a hundred and fifty acres. In his first inventory in bankruptcy
Kesner gave in half of this farm, and his life-interest in the
other half, which was stated to belong to his wife. In an
amended schedule subsequently filed, he gave in all his interest
in the entire tract, which, he alleged, was conveyed to him

KESNER v. TRIGG.

[Sup. Ct.

chiefly in consideration of the deed to Sheffy of his wife's lands
near Lyon's Gap. He stated that she claimed one-half of the
tract, and that if her claim were sustained, then he surrendered
his life-interest in that half.
The whole tract must be sold to satisfy the debt secured by
the deed of trust. If there should be any surplus, the appellant's rights will be the same with respect to that fund that
they were as to the land. Jones v. Lackland, 2 Gratt. (Va.) 81;
Graham v. Dickens, 3 Barb. (N. Y.) Ch. 1; Olcott v. Bynum
et al., 17 Wall. 44.
If there were no valid contract between the appellant and
her husband, as claimed, the slaves-by the law of Virginia
being chattels- were the absolute property of the latter, and
at his death would have been assets in the hands of his personal representative.

So by the common law, if the husband

and wife sell and convey her land, and he receives the consideration money without any reservation of rights on her
part, the money belongs to him. Hamlin, Receiver, V. Jones
and Wife, 20 Wis. 536; Schouler, Domestic Relations, 120.
No question is raised as to the Statute of Frauds, and we
need not, therefore, consider that subject. It is now well settled that a post-nuptial contract made upon sufficient consideration, and wholly or partly executed, will be sustained in
equity. Gosden and Wife v. Tucker's Heirs, 6 Munf. (Va.) 1;
Livingston v. Livingston, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 537; Bullard
v. Briggs, 7 Pick. (Mass.) 533; 2 Kent, Com. 139; Cord,
Married Women, sects. 36, 37. The counsel on both sides
have argued the case upon the hypothesis that the contract
set out in the bill, if made, was valid. The contention
between them is only as to the sufficiency of the proof of
its existence. Our further examination of the case will be
upon this basis, and our remarks will be confined to that subject.
The alleged contract is thus set out in the bill. Speaking
of her marriage to Kesner, the appellant says: "It was then
agreed, and has always since been agreed and understood between herself and her husband, that she was to take no interest
in his property, and he was to take no interest in hers. On
their marriage they settled on a farm owned by Mr. Kesner in

Oct. 1878.]

O.ES NER V. TRIGG.

this county of Washington, and in pursuance of this agreement
she relinquished her rights in this land."
With reference to the conveyance by herself and Kesner to
Sheffy, executor of Hull, and the c6nveyance by Dutton and
wife to Kesner, she says: "Your oratrix being assured this
was an exchange of land, and that she would thereby acquire
an interest in this land exchanged for her land, assented to it.
Your oratrix never would have consented to a sale of her land
for money, or to any arrangement which would have deprived
her of her inheritance in her land, and have her fee-simple
converted into a mere dower right. With this distinct understanding between her husband and herself, and believing she
would have in the Cedarville land the same rights she had in
her own land, she assented to this arrangement. But being a
fene covert, and ignorant of business, she intrusted the whole
management of her business to her husband."
She claims one-half of the land free from her husband's t i4
ancy by the curtesy, and the reversion of one-half of the residue at her husband's death.
While Kesner, in his schedule, speaks of his wife's means as
having chiefly paid for the property in question, he is wholly
silent as to any contract between them. She claims threequarters, while his concession is only to the extent of one-half;
and he does not put that admission upon any ground of right
growing out of a contract. They seem not to have understood
her claim alike. His deposition was subsequently taken, but
he was asked no question upon the subject. In Dutton's deposition this question was asked: "Was the trade and exchange
intended to preserve to Jane Kesner the same rights in the
Cedarville land which she had in the Lyon's Gap land? "-Ane.
" This was my understanding of it." From whom or in what
way he got his understanding is not disclosed.
James C. Porterfield, who married the sister of the appellant,
was present at her marriage to Kesner, and had known them
both thirty years, testified fully as to the means which came to
Kesner in right of his wife. He was asked no question and
said nothing as to any contract between them. Mrs. Porterfield, the sister, also testified. At the close of her deposition
this question and answer are found: "After the trade for the

PEERS v. BOWmAN.

[SUP. Ct.

Cedarville land, did you hear Mrs. Kesner claiming it as her
land?" -Ans. "I don't recollect hearing her claim it as her
land."
There is no other testimony in the record bearing in any
wise upon the subject. It is perhaps not a violent presumptioll
that the appellant knew in 1852 that Dutton and wife conveyed
the land to her husband alone, and that she knew he treated it
ts exclusively his in 1862, by conveying it, without her concurrence, to Bekem in trust to secure the debt to Greenway. It
does not appear that she set up any special claim, or alleged
the contract set up in her bill, until Kesner went into bankruptcy in 1873. But irrespective of those deeds, it is too clear
to admit of doubt that the contract set forth in the bill is
wholly unsustained by the proofs in the record. See Harris's
.Ex'rs v. Barnett et als., 3 Gratt. (Va.) 339.
Decree affirmed.

PETERS v.

Bowxx.

1. In a suit to enforce a lien for the purchase-money, where there has been
no fraud and no eviction, actual or constructive, the vendee, or the party
in possession of the lands under him, cannot controvert the title of the
vendor.
2. A party claiming the lands by an adverse title cannot be permitted to bring
it forward, and have it settled in that suit.
3. The vendee and those claiming under him must rely on the covenants of title
in the deed of the vendor: if there be none, there is, in the absence of
fraud, no redress.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James B. Chalmers and Mr. Mike L. Woods for the
appellant.
Mr. H. T. -llett, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to enforce a lien upon real estate situate in
Tunica County, in the State of Mississippi. Bowman owned
the premises in fee-simple, and sold the undivided half to

