Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK v. GRAND LODGE.

NATiONAL BAxK v. GRAND LODGE.
An association having issued bonds, some of which were as collateral security in
the hands of its creditors, a corporation adopted a resolution whereby it assumed the payment of the bonds, provided that stock was issued to the corporation by the association to the amount of said assumption of payment by
said corporation as the said bonds were paid. Held, that a holder of the
bonds is not in such privity with the corporation, nor has he such interest in
the contract between it and the association, as to warrant a suit in his own
name to compel the corporation to pay the bonds.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This is an action by the Second National Bank of Saint
Louis, Missouri, against the Grand Lodge of Missouri of Free
and Accepted Ancient Masons, to compel the payment of certain
coupons formerly attached to bonds issued in June, 1869, by the
Masonic Hall Association, a corporation existing under the laws
of the State of Missouri, in relation to which bonds the Grand
Lodge, Oct. 14, 1869, adopted the following resolution: -

"R esolved that this Grand Lodge assume the payment of the
two hundred thousand dollars bonds, issued by the Masonic Hall
Association, provided that stock is issued to the Grand Lodge by
said association to the amount of said assumption of payment by
thig Grand Lodge, as the said bonds are paid."
The court below instructed the jury, that, independently of
the question of the power of the Grand Lodge to pass the
resolution, it was no foundation for the present action, anddirected a verdict for the defendant.
The jury returned a verdict in accordance with the direction
of the court; and judgment having been entered thereon, the
plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
Hr. John C. Orrick for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John ). S. Dryden, contra.
STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to consider the several assignments of error
in detail, for there is an insurmountable difficulty in the way
of the plaintiff's recovery. The resolution of the Grand Lodge
MR. JUSTICE

NATIONAL BANK v. GRAND LODGE.

[Sup. Cr.

was but a proposition made to the Masonic Hall Association,
and, when accepted, the resolution and acceptance constituted
at most only an executory contract inter partes. It was a
contract made for the benefit of the association and of the
Grand Lodge, -made that the latter might acquire the ownership of stock of the former, and that the former might obtain
relief from its liabilities. The holders of the bonds were not
parties to it, and there was no privity between them and the
lodge. They may have had an indirect interest in the performance of the undertakings of the parties, as they would have in
an agreement by which the lodge should undertake to lend
money to the association, or contract to buy its stock to enable
it to pay its debts; but that is a very different thing from the
privity necessary to enable them to enforce the contract by
suits in their own names. We do not propose to enter at large
upon a consideration of the inquiry how fal privity of contract
between a plaintiff and defendant is necessary to the maintenance of an action of assumpsit. The subject has been much
debated, and the decisions are not all reconcilable. No doubt
tlae general rule is that such a privity must exist. But there
are confessedly many exceptions to it. One of them, and by
far the most frequent one, is the case where, under a contract
between two persons, assets have come to the promisor's hands
or under his control which in equity belong to a third person.
In such a case it is held that the third person may sue in his
own name. But then the suit is founded rather on the implied
undertaking the law raises from the possession of the assets,
than on the express promise. Another exception is where the
plaintiff is the beneficiary solely interested in the promise, as
where one person contracts with another to pay money or
deliver some valuable thing to a third. But where a debt
already exists from one person to another, a promise by a third
person to pay such debt being primarily for the benefit of the
original debtor, and to relieve him from liability to pay it
(there being no novation), he has a right of action against the
promisor for his own indemnity; and if the original creditor can
also sue, the promisor would be liable to two separate actions,
and therefore the rule is that the original creditor cannot sue.
His case is not an exception from the general rule that privity

Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK v. GRAND LODGE.

of contract is required. There are some other exceptions recognized, but they are unimportant now. The plaintiff's case
is within none of them. Nor is he sole beneficiary of the
contract between the association and the Grand Lodge. The
contract was made, as we have said, for the benefit of the asso
ciation, and if enforceable at all, is enforceable by it. That the
several bondholders of the association are not in a situation to
sue upon it is apparent on its face. Even as between the association and the Grand Lodgie, the latter was not bound to pay
any thing, except so far as stock of the former was delivered or
tendered to it. The promise to pay and the promise to deliver
the stock were not independent of each other. They were concurrent and dependent. Of this there can be no doubt. The
resolution of the lodge was to assume the payment of the
two hundred thousand dollar bonds, issued by the association,
"-Provided, that stock is issued to the Grand Lodge by said association to the amount of said assumption," . . . "as said bonds
are pait." Certainly the obligation of the lodge was made
contingent upon the issue of the stock, and the consideration
for payment of the debt to the bondholders was the receipt of
the stock. But the bondholders can neither deliver it nor
tender it; nor can they compel the association to deliver it.
If they can sue upon the contract, and enforce payment by
the Grand Lodge of the bonds, the contract is wholly changed,
and the lodge is compelled to pay whether it gets the stock or
not. To this it cannot be presumed the lodge would ever
have agreed. It is manifest, therefore, that the bondholders of
the association are not in such privity with the lodge, and have
no such interest in the contract, as to warrant their bringing
suit in their own names.
Hence the present action cannot be sustained, and the Circuit Court correctly directed a verdict for the defendant.
Judgment affirmed.

