HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ct.

as to give a right to the present action. As the answer to this
question disposes of the case, it is unnecessary to consider the
other questions certified.

Judgment affirmed.

HENDRIM V. SAYLES.
Where, before the issue of letters-patent therefor, a party assigns his invention,
and letters are lawfully issued to the assignee in his own name, the latter is
entitled, where the instrument of assignment does not show a different intention, to obtain a renewal of them at the expiration of the original term.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
Lafayette F. Thompson and Asahel G. Bachelder, claiming
to be inventors of a railroad brake, executed, before letterspatent were issued to them therefor, the following assignment, which was duly recorded in the Patent Office: -

" Whereas we, Lafayette F. Thompson, of Charlestown, and
Asahel G. Bachelder, now or late of Lowell, in the State of Massachusetts, have invented an improved mode of operating the brakes
of railway cars, and have applied, or intend to apply, for letterspatent of the United States of America therefor.
"Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth, that for and in consideration of $100, in hand paid, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, I have assigned and set over, and do hereby assign,
sell, and set over, to Henry Tanner, of Buffalo, in the State of New
York, all the right, title, and interest whatever which we now
have, or by letters-patent would be entitled to have and possess, in
the aforesaid invention, the said invention being described in the
specification as prepared and executed by us, or to be prepared
and executed by us, for the obtaining of said letters-patent; the
whole to be enjoyed and held by the said Henry Tanner and his
legal representatives, to the full extent and manner in which the
same would have been or could be held and enjoyed by us had this
assignment never been made.

"And we do, by these presents, authorize the Commnissioner of
Patents to issue the said letters-patent to the said Henry Tanner

Oet. :18T8.]

HENDRIE v. SAYLES.

and his legal representatives, as the assignee of our whole right and
title to the same and to the new invention aforesaid.
"In witness whereof, we have hereto set our signatures and seals,
this first day of April, A.D. 1852.

"€Witness, il H. EDDY."

"LAFAYETTE F. THoupsox.
"ASAREL G. BACHELDER.

[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]

Letters-patent were issued on the sixth day of the following
July to Tanner,, who, July 13, 1854, assigned to Thomas
Sayles all his remaining right and title in them for the unexpired term thereof, and "any extension thereof that may
hereafter be granted," excepting, however, certain reserved
territory and specified railroad corporatibns. Said letters were
renewed and extended for seven years from July 6, 1866.
After that date, and until some time in 1873, Hendrie infringed the patents within the territory not so reserved, and
Sayles filed his bill for an account, &c., to which Hendrie demurred, upon the ground that Sayles had no legal title to the
extended term. The demurrer was overruled, and a decree for
want of an answer passed for the complainant. Hendrie thereupon appealed here.
fr..D. Bethune Duffield for the appellant.
Unless the complainant has the sole legal title to the extended
term, he cannot maintain this suit. 1 Barb. Oh. Pr. 39; 1 Dan.
Oh. Pr. 241. The whole case depends upon the assignment
of April 1, 1852, to Tanner. If it gave him such an interest
in that term that the legal title thereto would vest in him the
monient the extension should be granted, the demurrer is bad.
The assignment is to be construed like any other contract
to carry out the intention of the parties, and to further that
intention their situation and the surrounding circumstances
may be considered. 2 Pars. Contr. 499; SLore v. Wilson,
9 C1. & Fin. 555-569; Mumford v. Getling, 7 0. B. N. s.
809; Carrv. Montefiore, 5 B. & S. 427. It was made before
the issue of the patent. The inventors then had an inchoate
right to the exclusive use of their invention, it being complete ;
and they could assign it, so that the legal right which would
result from the issue of the patent would vest in Tanner.
Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477. And they perhaps had an

HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ct.

inchoate right to an extension, assignable with the same effect
as their right to a patent. Railroad Company v. Trimble,
10 Wall. 367.
The granting clause of the instrument, when taken as a whole,
plainly indicates the invention and the letters-patent intended
to be conveyed, as described in and to be obtained by the specification, and the latter was not prepared to obtain the extension.
And again, the inventors authorize the issue of "said letterspatent" to Tanner, as the assignee of their "whole right and
title to the same," not to any letters-patent, but to "said
letters-patent." There is no grant of, and no reference to, an
extension. This clearly shows that the original term was alone
intended to be conveyed.
This court has never passed directly upon the question
whether an assignment of the "invention" necessarily includes
both terms of a patent, or clearly shows an intention so to do.
The authorities on the circuit rule otherwise. Clum v. Brewer,
2 Curt. C. C. 520 ; Waterman v. Wallace, 13 Blatch. 182.
Mr. Albert Hf. Walker, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Patents or any interest therein may be assigned by an instrument in writing, and the patentee, his assigns or legal representatives, may in like manner grant and convey an exclusive
right under the patent; and where the conveyance precedes the
granting of the patent, it may be issued to the assignee, the
assignment thereof being first entered of record in the Patent
Office. 16 Stat. 202, 203; Rev. Stat., sects. 4895, 4896.
Sufficient appears to show that the complainant claims to be
the lawful owner of the patented improvement, which consists
of a new mode of operating railroad brakes, and that he became
such, as he alleges, by virtue of an instrument of assignment,
bearing date July 13, 1854, from the assignee of the original
inventors.
Prior to the granting of the patent, to wit, on the first day of
April, 1852, the inventors conveyed and set over to the assignor
of the complainant all the right, title, and interest whatever
which they had, or by letters-patent would be entitled to have
and possess, in the described invention; and the record shows

Oct. 1878.]

HENDRIE v. SAYLES.

that the assignment was duly recorded in the Patent Office, as
required by law.
Such an assignment may be made before the patent is obtained; and provision is made that the patent may be issued
to the assignee, provided the application is made and duly
sworn to by the inventor himself, and the assignment is duly
recorded. When so granted, the exclusive interest is vested as
a legal estate in the assignee, who thus becomes the lawful
holder of the invention, and the inventor himself is divested of
the legal title. Curtis, Patents (4th ed.), sect. 168; 16 Stat. 202.
By virtue of the assignment the legal title to the invention
vested in the assignee of the inventors, and the record also
shows that the patent, on the 6th of July, 1852, was duly
issued in his name, it appearing that the application for the
same was duly sworn to by the inventors, and that the assignment was duly recorded in the Patent Office, as the act of Congress requires.
Even the respondent concedes that the legal title to the invention was vested in the assignee, as the patentee named in
the patent, for the period of fourteen years, which is the term
for which the patent was granted. From the date of the assignment to the close of the term for which the patent was granted,
it is conceded that the legal title to the invention became vested
in the assignee of the inventors, by virtue of the instrument
of assignment which they executed to the assignee before the
patent was issued. Such an instrument, though executed
before the patent is granted, transfers the legal title to the
assignee. qayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477; Bathbone v. Orr,
5 McLean, 131; Bich v. Lippincott, 2 Fish. 1; Herbert v.
Adams, 4 Mas. 15; Dixon v. Myer, 4 Wash. 72.

Assume that the legal title to the invention was in the
assignee, and it requires no argument to prove that he could
convey the entie interest to a purchaser for a valuable consideration. Well-founded doubt upon that subject cannot arise,
and the record shows that the assignee of the inventors, on the
13th of July, 1854, sold, assigned, transferred, and conveyed to
the complainant all his right, title, interest, and claim whatsoever which he then had or may have in and to said invention
and patent, and any extension thereof that may hereafter be

550

HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ct.

granted, with certain specified exceptions not material to be
noticed in this investigation. Before the term of the original
patent expired, due application was made for a renewal and
extension of the patent; and it is conceded that it was duly extended and renewed by the commissioner for the further term
of seven years from and after the expiration of the first term.
Controversy arising between these parties, the complainant
instituted the present suit in the Circuit Court against the respondent. When instituted, the bill of complaint contained
many matters which are wholly immaterial in the present controversy, and consequently are omitted. Suffice it to say in
this connection that the complainant charges that the respondent has infringed his exclusive right under the extended term
of the patent, and prays for process and for an account.
Service was made, and the respondent appeared and demurred
to the bill of complaint, showing for cause that the complainant has not in and by his amended bill of complaint made any
such title in himself to the extended term of the patent therein
set forth as entitles him to any relief. Hearing was had, and
the court overruled the demurrer and entered a decree in favor
of the complainant, the respondent electing to stand upon his
demurrer. Prompt appeal was taken by the respondent to this
court, and he maintains the same proposition that he did in the
court below, to wit, that the bill of complaint shows no legal
title to the extended term in the complainant.
When the patentee assigns the patent to a purchaser, the assignee acquires only the exclusive right to make, use, and vend
the patented improvement during the term for which the patent was granted, unless the instrument of assignment contains
words showing that the parties intended that the instrument
should be more comprehensive and include the extended
term in case an extension should be granted by the commissioner. During the term for which the patent is granted the
assignee of all the right, title, and interest of the patentee in
the same may himself sell, assign, and convey the patent for
the residue of the term granted, or he may continue to hold the
same during that period, and may make, use, and vend the patented improvement, but his title to the invention terminates
when the term of the patent expires; nor will his assignee or

Oct. 1878.]

HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

grantee stand in any better condition, as the maxim i-erno dat
qui non habet applies to the assignee of the patentee. Benjamin,
Sales (2d ed.), 5; Peer v. Huimphrey, 2 Ad. & E. 495.
Assignees of the patent from the patentee can only sell and
convey what they acquire by virtue of the instrument of assignment, and inasmuch as the presumption is that the grantor
contracts to sell and convey only what is secured by the patent,
the proper construction of the instrument limits the right conveyed to the term expressed in the patent, unless the instrument
contains words to indicate a different intent. Holders of patents may not be the inventors, nor is it true in every -case that
the patent is issued to the inventor. On the other hand, the
inventor is vested by law with the inchoate right to the exclusive use of the invention to every extent that the Patent Act
accords, which he may perfect and make absolute by proceeding
in the manner which the law requires.
Bona fide inventors' rights are never derivative, and they,
even before the patent is issued, have the exclusive inchoate
right not only to the original patent that may issue, but to any
reissue, renewal, or extension that may thereafter be granted
under the Patent Act. Authorities to support that proposition
are numerous and decisive, and it is equally clear that they
may sell, assign, or convey the invention, including the inchoate
right to obtain the patent, and to surrender and reissue it or to
procure a renewal or extension of the monopoly from the commissioner, if the instrument of assignment contains apt words
to show that such was the intent of the grantor.
Such an inventor has no exclusive right to make, use, and
vend the improvement until he obtains a patent for the invention, and that is created and secured by the patent; nor can
the inventor maintain any suit for infringing the same before
the patent is issued, but the inventor, says Mr. Chief Justice
Taney, is vested by law with an inchoate right to the exclusive
use, which he may perfect and make absolute in the manner
which the law requires. Gayler v. Wilder, supra.
Enough appears in that case to show that the invention had
been made and the specification prepared to obtain a patent
before the instrument of assignment was executed, and the
question was whether the instrument was sufficient to transfer

552

HENDRIE v. SAYImS.

[Sup. Ct.

the inchoate right of the inventor to the assignee, it appearing
by the language of the instrument that it was intended to operate upon the perfect legal title which the inventor then had
a lawful right to obtain, as well as upon the imperfect and
inchoate interest which he also possessed. Speaking to that
point, the learned Chief Justice said there would seem to be
no sound reason for defeating the intention of the parties by
restraining the operation of the assignment to the right to
obtain the patent, and compelling them to execute another
transfer of the other inchoate riglft, unless the act of Congress
makes it necessary in order to render the transfer complete;
and the court held that no such second assignment is required,
as the matter to be assigned is the monopoly or the right of
property vested in the inventor, so that when the party acquired
an inchoate right to it, and the power to make that right perfect and absolute at his pleasure, the whole interest of the
inventor, whether the instrument was executed before or after
the patent issued, passed to the assignee.
Two other reasons were given by the Chief Justice in support of the construction of the assignment, which the court
adopted in that case, both of which are entitled to weight:
1. That no purpose of justice would be subserved by the opposite rule, which would require the execution of a second instrument to accomplish what the parties intended to do by the
first. 2. That the construction was the same as had prevailed
in such cases under the prior patent acts. Herbert v. Adams,
supra.
Views of a like character were expressed by Mr. Justice
Curtis at a later period, in a case of great importance. Clum
v. Brewer, 2 Curt. C. C. 520. Prior to obtaining the patent,
the inventor conveyed to the assignee one undivided fourth part
of the invention, and all his rights and property therein; and
the patent having subsequently been obtained and the term
extended, the question was whether the assignee held the same
interest in the extended term. Both parties were represented
by able counsel, and the court, upon the authority of Gayler
v. Wilder (supra), held that the extended term passed by the
assignment as well as the original term. Discussion, it seems,
had taken place at the bar in respect to the extent of the prop-

Oct. 1878.]

HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

erty of the inventor in his invention before it is secured by a
patent. Preliminary to that subject he adverted to the fact
that the instrument of assignment only conveyed one quarter
part of the inchoate right. But the inventor, remarked the
judge, has not only an inchoate right to obtain a patent securing to him the exclusive right to his invention for the terni of
fourteen years, but also a further inchoate right to have the
term extended on the conditions annexed by the law to the
right.
Differences of opinion prior to that time existed in some
quarters whether the inchoate right to obtain an extension of
the term was the proper subject of purchase and sale; but the
court in that case answered the inquiry in the affirmative, and
supported his conclusions by the following satisfactory reasons:
1. That the inchoate right to obtain an extension of the patent
appertains to the invention as well as the inchoate right to
obtain the original patent. 2. That each is incomplete, and
its completion depends upon the compliance by the inventor
with the statutory conditions and the performance by public
officers of certain acts prescribed by law. S. Though there is
an additional condition annexed to the right to obtain an extension of the term beyond what is required to obtain a patent,
yet that does not change the nature of the right, and it no
more prevents it from being the subject of a contract of sale
than any other condition which is attached to it; and he held
that the inchoate right to obtain the extension passed by the
assignment as well as the inchoate right to obtain the original
patent.
Instruments of the kind have more than once been construed
by this court, and always in the same way, where the instrument
was executed under existing laws. Railroad Companyi v. Trimble,
10 Wall. 867; A 7iColson _Pavement Co. v. Jenkins, 14 id. 452.
A deed of assignment, says Mr. Justice Swayne, by which a
patentee of an invention conveys all the right, title, and interest
which he has in the "said invention," as secured to him by
letters-patent, and also all right, title, and interest which may
be secured to him from time to time, the same to be held by
the assignee for his own use and that of his legal representatives
to the full end of the term for which said letters-patent are or

HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

[Suip. Ct.

may be granted, carries the entire invention and all alterations
and improvements and all patents whatsoever, issued and extensions alike, to the extent of the territory specified in the
instrument.
Beyond doubt, the assignment in that case was made subsequent to the issuing of the patent; but the case fully supports
the proposition that the operation of such an instrument is not
limited to the term specified in the patent, where the instrument contains apt words to show that the parties intended that
its operation should be more comprehensive.
Decisive support to that view is also found in the second case.
An assignment of an invention secured by letters-patent, says
Mr. Justice Davis, is a contract, and, like all other contracts, is
to be construed so as to carry out the intention of the parties
to it; and he adds, that it is well settled that the title of an
inventor to obtain an extension may be the subject of a contract of sale, and when it is, the instrument by which the sale
was effected is the proper subject of construction, in order to
determine whether it secures to the purchaser any subsequent
extension of the patent, or merely the patent for the original
term.
Conveyance in that case was made of all the title and interest
the patentee had in the reissued patent, to be enjoyed by the
grantee and his legal representatives to the full end of the term
for which the patent is or may be granted. Taking the whole
instrument together, say the court in that case, it is quite clear
that it was intended to secure to the grantee and his assigns
the right to use the invention in the locality specified as long
as the patentee and his legal representatives have the right to
use it anywhere else. Manifestly, say the court, something
more was intended to be assigned than the interest secured by
the patent, and the court decided that it included the renewal
as well as the residue of the original term.
Apt words are required, where the conveyance is of an existing patent, to show that the conveyance includes more than
the term specified in the patent; but where the conveyance is
of the invention, whether before or after the patent is obtained,
the rule is otherwise, unless there is something in the instrument to indicate a different intention, the rule being that a

Oct. 1878.]

BARNET v. NATIONAL BANK.

conveyance of the described invention carries with it all its
incidents, and all the well-considered authorities concur that
the inchoate right to obtain a renewal or extension of the
patent is as much an incident of the invention as the inchoate
right to obtain the original patent; and if so, it follows that
both are included in the instrument which conveys the described invention, without limitation or qualification. -Ezmons
v. Sladden, 9 Off. Gaz. 854; Gay/ler v. Wilder, supra; Clum Y.
Brewer, supra; Carnanv. Bowles, 2 Bro. C. 0. 84.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions,.the court is of opinion
that the entire interest in the invention passed from the inventors to the assignor of the complainant by the instrument of
assignment which they executed to him before the patent was
granted, and that the patent was properly issued in the name
of their assignee. They, the inventors, do not controvert the
exclusive right of the complainant, nor does the respondent
.deny that the terms of the assignment from the assignee of the
inventors to the complainant are amply sufficient to convey to
him all that he claims, if his assignor at the time held the title
to obtain the extended term; and the court being of opinion
that the assignor of the complainant did hold that right, it
follows that there is no error in the record.
.Decree affirmed.

BARNET

v.

NATIONAL BANR.

1. In a suit by a national bank against all the parties to a bill of exchange discounted by it, to recover the amount thereof, the assignees of the acceptor

-the latter having made an assignment for the benefit of his creditorscannot, having intervened as parties, set up by way of counter-claim or
set-off that the bank, in discounting a series of bills of their assignor, the
proceeds of which it used to pay other bills, knowingly took and was paid
a greater rate of interest than that allowed by law.
2. The act of June 3, 1864 (13 Stat. 99, sect. 30), having prescribed that, as a
penalty for such taking, the person paying such unlawful interest, or his
legal representative, may, in any action of debt against the bank, recover
back twice the amount so paid, he can resort to no other mode or form of
procedure.

ERR OR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.

