Oct. 1878.]

MCKNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

case is devoted to a consideration of the question there decided.
It is sufficient to say that we are satisfied with the soundness
of the opinion given in that case, and it must govern the one
now before us.
The result of those considerations is, that the decree of the
Circuit Court ascertaining the sum due the plaintiff, and fixing
the order in which the various parcels of land shall be sold,
and in fact all of said decree, will be affirmed, except so far as it
fails to give a time for redemption; and the ease will be remanded
to that court with directions to amend the decree so as to allow
redemption of each parcel which may be sold, as provided by
the statute of Illinois on that subject. As appellant had to
take this appeal to obtain correction of the error in this respect, he must recover costs.
So ordered.
NoT-.- At a subsequent day of the term, Orvis, the appellant, was granted
a reargument because the question of the order in which lands mortgaged, and
sold subsequently by the mortgagor, to different parties at different dites should
be subjected to the satisfaction of the mortgage debt, was a new one in this court,
and because the subsequent sales on which the court had to pass in the case were
numerous and, as presented by the record, a little perplexing.
The reargument was had by printed briefs submitted by Mr. Benjamin F.
Butler, Mr. 0. D. Barrett, and Mr. Melville W. Fuller for the appellant, and by
Mr. Julius .osenal and Mr. A. M. Pence, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court, ordering that the same
decree be entered that was made on the former hearing.

MC]IGmT v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES V. MCKNIGHT.
1. Where a claim against the United States was allowed by the proper offcers
of the treasury, and a part thereof paid to the assignees of the claimant,
upon his receipt for the whole sum, the United States, when sued by them for
the balance, cannot, on the ground that the assignment was not executed in
the manner prescribed by law, set up as a counter-claim the amount so
paid.
2. The United States, by paying a'part of the claim to the assignees, did not
waive its right to withhold from them the residue.

MCKNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

3. A., in whose favor the allowance was made, being then indebted as surety
on an official bond given to the United States, the amount of such
indebtedness was properly retained by the Treasury Department as a
set-off to await the final adjustment and settlement of the accounts of
his principal. Held, that the Court of Claims was bound to adjudge accordingly.

from the Court of Claims.
This was a suit by William S. McKnight and James W.
Richardson, assignees of Simeon Hart, to recover from the
United States the sum of $9,000. The United States interposed a counter-claim and set-off for $21,675.68.
The court below found the following facts 1. On the 6th of January, 1873, the Second Comptroller
of the Treasury certified to the Secretary of War a balance
arising on an account settled by the Third Auditor, as folAPPEAL

lows :-

"No. 6611.]

"TTREAsuRy DEPARTMENT,
"SECOND COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE,

" Jan. 6, 1873.
"I certify, in conformity with law, that there is due from the
United States to William S. McKnight and James W. Richardson,
composing the firm of McKnight & Richardson, assignees of Simeon

Hart, a government contractor, a balance of thirty thousand six
hundred and seventy-five and

r dollars:

"Which amount is allowed in pursuance of the decision
of the Second Comptroller, made Dec. 14,1872, being
for the value, at contract rates, of 51,920 lbs. of flour,
delivered at Albuquerque, New Mexico, May 13,
$10,643.60
1861, at 20" cts. per lb ...
.............
"May 23, 1861, 49,800 lbs. of flour, delivered at Fort
..
9,213.00
..........
Stanton, at 18" cts. per lb...
"May 26, 1861, 52,776 lbs. flour, delivered at Albuquerque, at 20- cts. per lb...
..........
.10,819.08
Total .......

...............

$30,675.68

"A report in favor of the payment of said balance having been
made by the Judge-Advocate-General, and approved by the Secretary of War, Feb. 28, 1872, and the allowance being in conformity with the opinion of the Attorney-General, dated Dec. 5,
1872.

Oct. 1878.]

MCKNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

"Payable out of the appropriation for subsistence of the army
prior to July 1, 1870.
"To the claimant assignees, McKnight & Richardson.
"In the care of H. D. Cook, attorney of record, present.
"J. M. BRODHEAD,

,"Comptro2e..

BELNAP,
"HoN. WI. W.
"Secretary of War."

2. Subsequently the following requisition, with memorandum
atached, was signed and recorded :"C,Sement Bequisition, No. 2254.
"WA

DzPAnT=sT, Jan. 81, 1878.

"To the Secretary of the Treasury:
"Sin, -Please to cause a warrant for thirty thousand six hundred and seventy-five dollars and sixty-eight cents to be issued in
favor of William S. McKnight and James W. Richardson, composing the firm of McKnight & Richardson, assignees of Simeon
Hart, a government contractor, care of H. D. Cook, attorney of
record, present; due on settlement as per certificate of Second
Comptroller, No. 6611. To be charged in the undermentioned
appropriations.
"Given under my hand this seventh day of January, 1878.
"$30,675.68.
"WI!. W. BzLXNAP,
"Secretary of "War.
Jan. 7, '73.
"Countersigned
"J. M. BRODUEAD,
",ecoend Comptroller.
'78.
Jan. 7,
"Registered

"ALLEN RUTHERFORD, "
" Third Auditor.

"Appropriations:
"Subsistence of the army prior to July 1, 1870.

.

.

$30,675.68

"Of this amount the sum of nine thousand dollars ($9,000) will
be paid to the Treasurer of the U. States, to be by him deposited
in the Treasury, on 'general account,' on account of a debt due
the U. States by Simeon Hart as surety on a bond given by Lieut.Col. John B. Grayson, Com'y of Subs., to await the final adjustment and decision of Grayson's accounts.
"J. M. BRODHEAD, ComPt."

[Sup. Ct.

MCKNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

3. Thereupon the following warrant was drawn, signed, and
recorded : " WAE-SL-TTLEXF'T WARP_&XT

Xo. 409.

$30,675.68.

"Appropriatams.
"Special.

"J. H. SVnZE,
" Chief Clerk.
"71. Subsistence of Army,
S30,675.68,
"It is directed that of the
amount of this warrant the sum
of nine thousand dollars ($9,000)
be paid to the Treasurer of the
United States, to be by him deposited in the Treasury, on' general account,' on account of a
debt due the U. S. by Simeon
Hart, as surety on a bond given
by Lieut.-Colonel John B. Grayson, commissary of subsistence.
(SEAL]

"Gao. S. BourwELI.
"Secretary.

"Rec'd draft No. 615.

"H. D. Cooic."

" TEASURY DEPARTMENT.

"To the TREASURER OF

THE

"UITED STATES, greeting:

"Pay to William S. McKnight and
James W. Richardson, firm of McKnight
& Richardson, assignees of Simeon Hart,
care of H. D. Cook, att'y of record, present,
or order, to be charged to the appropriations named in the margin, thirty thousand six hundred and seventy-five dollars
and sixty-eight cents, due Simeon Hart
on settlement, pursuant to a requisition,
No. 2254, of the Secretary of War, dated
Jan. 7, 1873, countersigned by the Second Comptroller of the Treasury and
registered by the Third Auditor. And
for so doing this shall be your warrant.
"Given under my hand and the seal
of the Treasury Department this thirtyfirst day of January, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-three, and of Independence the
ninety-seventh.
[sE"]
"J. F. HARTLEY,
"Ass't Secretary.
"Countersigned 31st.
"R. W. TAYhEE,
"First Comptroler.
"Registered 31st.
"J. A.

GRAHAM,

"Ass't .egister'."
4. Upon said warrant the following draft was issued to said
McKnight & Richardson, delivered to H. D. Cook, attorney,
indorsed by claimants, and paid by defendants : -

Oct. 1878.]

MCKNIGHT V.UNITED STATES.

"Draft No. 615 on WarrantNo. 409,.2't, Series of 1870, c.
"TREAsURY OF THE UNITED STATES,

"WASINGTON, D. C., Jan. 81, 1873.
"Pay to William S. McKnight and James W. Richardson, firm
of McKnight & Richardson, assignees of Simeon Hart, or order,
twenty-one thousand six hundred and seventy-five.ph dollars.
"1L. R. TUTTLE,
"$21,675-A.
Asmt. Treasurerof the United States.
"Registered Jan. 81, 1878.
"IJOmr ALIsoNr,

"Regi8ster of the Treasury."
And at the same time the following draft was issued to the
Treasurer, by him indorsed, and the amount therein specified
deposited in general account as ordered; and the same has
never been paid out of the Treasury of the United States: "JDraft No. 616 on War-warrantNo. 409, p't, Series of 1870, d.
"TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES,

"WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 81, 1873.
"Pay to Treasurer of the U. S., to be deposited in 'general
account,' on account of a debt due the U. S. by Simeon Hart, as
surety on a bond given by Lt.-Col. John B. Grayson, Comm'y of
Sub., or order, nine thousand dollars.
"L. R. TUTTLE,
Asst. Treasurerof the United States."
"89,000.
5. Said certificate of the Second Comptroller, requisition of
the Secretary of War, and warrant of the Secretary of the
Treasury, were founded upon the alleged voluntary indorsement, order, or assignment by Simeon Hart, of a voucher filed
in the Treasury Department, alleged to have been issued by
Lieut.-Col. John B. Grayson, Commissary of Subsistence of the
United States Army, for flour delivered by him in May, 1861,
under contracts; but the claimants did not prove, or offer to
prove, at the trial in this court, the genuineness of said voucher,
or the indorsement, order, or assignment thereof, or the delivery
of the flour therein mentioned.
6. The following is a copy of the voucher upon which said
account was settled, as transmitted by the Secretary of the
Treasury o this court: -

MCKNIGHT v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

" The United ,States to Simeon Hart,Dr.
"1861.
"May 13. To 51,920 lbs. flour, delivered at Albuquerque,
under the contracts of 3d and 10th Novem.$10,643.60
ber, 1860, at 201 cts............
,, 23. To 49,800 lbs. flour, delivered at Fort Stanton, under the contract of 10th November,
...
9,213.00
1860, at 181 cts. per lb ...........
,, 26. To 52,776 lbs. flour, delivered at Albuquerque, under the contracts of 3d and
10,819.08
10th November, 1860, at 201 cts. lb. . .
30. To 500 lbs. flour, delivered at Albuquerque,
to make up short delivers under the contracts of 3d and 10th November, 1860, at
...
102,50
204 ots. lb ....
...........
$30,778.18
"I certifr that the above is correct and just; that the services
were rendered as stated, and necessary for the public service.
"I certify, on honor, that the above account is correct and just;
that this flour has been faithfully issued; that I have accounted for
this flour by the receipts of officers duly qualified to receive the
same; that it was purchased at the prices mentioned and contracted
for (see contracts of 3d and 10th November, 1860) ; and that Judge
Hart is entitled to the amount specified on the face of this account;
and I have not paid this account, owing to the order of the Secretary of War, through the Commissary-General, of 11th May, 1861.
"JNo. B. GRAysoN,
"Brv't Lt.- Col., C'ry S'e.
186 , of
, U. S. Army, thirty
"Received
thousand seven hundred seventy-eight dollars and eighteen cents,
in full of the above account.
"S. HART."
7. No asssignment or power of attorney to collect the claim
was executed or delivered by Simeon Hart or his personal representatives after the settlement warrant set forth in the third
finding was drawn and signed.
The court below entered a judgment dismissing the petition
of the claimants, and also the counter-claim of the United
States, whereupon both parties appealed here.

Oct. 1878.]

M KNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

Mr. Enoch Totten for McKnight.
Mr.Asistant Attorney-Ceneral Smith for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross-appeals in the same case. The sum, of
$80,675.68 was awarded by the proper accounting officers to
McKnight & Richardson, as assignees of Simeon Hart, a government contractor, for furnishing army supplies. The assignment
was made by parol, and the delivery to the assignees of a
receipt signed by Hart, with a blank for the amount that might
be paid by the United States, to be filled in accordingly. Upon
the allowance of the claim as stated a treasury warrant was
The reissued to McKnight & Richardson for $21,675.68.
maining $9,000 was retained in the treasury "on account of a
debt due the United States from Simeon Hart, as surety on a
bond given by Lieut.-Col. Jno. B. Grayson, Com. of Subs., to
await the final settlement of said Grayson's accounts." This
reservation of the 89,000 was made by order of the Second
Comptroller and the Secretary of the Treasury. McKnight &
Richardson sued in the Court of Claims to recover this sum.
The United States thereupon set up a counter-claim, and insisted upon their right to recover back the $21,675.68 which
had been paid already to the petitioners.
The Court of Claims adjudged against both parties, and both
appealed to this court.
The claim of the United States cannot be sustained. According to the settled usages and practice of the department, the evidence in the record was sufficient to warrant the allowance of
the amount found due to Hart. Lieut.-Col. Grayson, as a commissary of subsistence, was charged with the duty of receiving
and inspecting the articles delivered, and of certifying the
quantities and the prices to be paid. The voucher which he
gave is explicit upon these points, and presupposes full knowledge on his part of what is set forth. His fidelity in the discharge of this duty was secured by his honor as a soldier, his
commission, and his bond. It does not appear that any fraud
was ever suspected, or that there is the slightest ground for
such an imputation. It is true the assignment was contrary to
law, and therefore a nullity, but there was nothing contrary.

MCKNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

to good morals or conscience in the payment or receipt of the
money. The facts were all known. There was no indirection,
concealment, or improper purpose on either side. Although the
petitioners had no claim against the United States, they had a
valid claim against Hart. The money was received in payment
of his debt, and discharged it to that extent. He is estopped by
his receipt from setting up any claim against the government.
It does not appear that he has ever complained. Under the
circumstances, it is quite clear that if the controversy were between private parties, there could be no recovery. 1 Story,
Contracts, sect. 541.
With a few exceptions, growing out of considerations of public policy, the rules of law which apply to the government and
to individuals are the same. There is not one law for the former and another for the latter.
There are also fatal objections to the case of the petitioners.
The assignment, as we have already said, was wholly void.
Sppofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484. It conferred no right, that the
United States was bound to regard. The payment of a part
was not a waiver of this objection as to the residue. An agreement to that effect, express or implied, looking to the future,
would have been without validity. There could have been no
consideration for it, and no one had authority to make it.
The statute is conclusive upon the subject. In the view of
the law, the claim is as if the facts of which it is predicated
were not.
It was also competent for the United States to set off the
amount due to Hart under his contract, so far as was necessary
to meet his liability as surety on the bond of Grayson, and the
Court of Claims was bound to adjudge accordingly. Rev. Stat.
1059; Gratiot v. United &ates, 15 Pet. 336.
Judgment affirmed.

