OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

FOUIRTH NATIONAL BANK v. ALBAUG-.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 159. Argued January 29, 30, 1903.-Decided February 23,1903.

Cross, who was president of a bank and had been misusing its funds, gave
to Martindale two instruments of assignment, providing that Martindale
should pay himself for any paper oilwhich Cross and Martindale were
mutually makers or indorsers. The bank and other parties held such
paper. Cross killed himself the day after the assignment was given.
There was an earlier assignment to Martindale as trustee. The receiver
of the bank alleged that the earlier assignment was made to protect
the bank. Martindale was the only witness as to delivery of the assignment and admitted that it was for the benefit of the bank but only to a
limited amount. Held, in an action in which other holders of paper
made by Cross and Martindale sought to obtain the proceeds of sale of
the property assigned, that it was not error to admit testimony that Martindale had stated that the earlier assignment had been made to secure
the bank generally for Cross's liability thereto.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

_3i. T. F. Garver for appellants. .Mr. J. B. Zarihnr, .ir.
Frank.H.agerman and zlfr. C. iV.Sterry were on the brief.
_J&. Josep~ 1. Webster for appellees.
on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE

.Afr. J. Jay Buck was

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought to require the defendant
Albaugh to apply a certain fund to payment of debts due to
the Fourth National Bank of St. Louis from one Cross, of
whose estate the defendant Newman is administrator, and
from the defendant Martindale. By cross bill and intervening
petitions the other appellants set up similar claims. The fund
is the proceeds of property of Cross sold by agreement. The
appellants claim under an alleged assignment of the property
by Cross to Martindale as trustee, dated July 15, 1898, and

FOURTI

NATIONAL BANK v. ALBAUGH.
Opinion of the Court.

another assignment to Martindale dated November 15, 1898.
The former instrument contains the provision "the said Martindale . . . is to pay himself for any paper upon which
he and I are mutually makers or indorsers." The debts due to
the appellants were on paper of this description, and they
claim the benefit of the security on this ground. The later assignment was given to Martindale, according to his testimony,
also as security for similar liabilities. It needs no special
mention.
The defendant Albaugh, as receiver of the First National
Bank of Emporia, claims the fund under an earlier assignment
to Martindale as trustee, dated March 4, 1898. Cross was
president of this bank and had been misusing its funds. Albaugh contends that this assignment was made for the purpose
of securing the bank, and if that fact is established there will
be nothing left for the appellants, assuming that otherwise
they make out their case. Only Cross and Martindale were
present when the assignment was delivered, and as Cross killed
himself on November 16, 1898, Martindale alone could testify
as to the delivery and purposes of the instrument. He was
put on as a witness for the plaintiffs, and on cross-examination
testified to the delivery of the paper and by implication to
the trust being in favor of the bank, but he limited it to a sum
of $7500, which amount he testified that Cross said he wanted
to use in a particular manner. Exceptions were taken to allowing the cross-examination to be extended to these facts.
Subsequently other witnesses were allowed to testify, subject
to exceptions, that at different times out of court Martindale
had stated that the assignment of March 4 was made to secure
the Emporia bank generally for Cross' liability to it. There
was a decree for the defendant Albaugh in the Circuit Court,
which was affirmed on appeal by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
107 Fed. Rep. 819. An appeal then was allowed to this court.
The only error alleged which it is necessary to consider is
the admission of the above evidence. Indeed, that is the only
ground on which the appeal can be based. If that evidence
was competent and Martindale's declarations were believed, the
receiver's case was proved. If' it should have been excluded,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the decree would be hard to support either on the other evidence to the same point or on the suggestion that the appellants had not proved what the burden lay on them to prove.
So far as the cross-examination of Martindale goes, we see no
occasion for reversing the decision of the court. Wills v. Ras8ell, 100 U. S. 621, 626. Nor do we think the suggestion
material that the defendant thereby made Martindale his own
witness. The evidence of Martindale's declarations was put in
not merely to contradict what he said on the stand, but as evidence largely relied on to prove the facts which he declared.
It is said that as soon as the appellants' interest under the
later assignment had vested Martindale could do nothing to
destroy it; that he could not release it, and that therefore he
could not end it obliquely by a declaration. The conclusion
does not follow from the premises, granting those premises for
the purpose of argument, although they presuppose the rights
of the appellants under the later instruments to be established.
To destroy by release is one thing, to destroy in the sense of
disproving or qualifying by proof is another. The latter is free
to any one who knows the facts. There is no doubt, of course,
that Martindale had a right to testify to what he was shown
to have declared, however bad it might be for the appellants.
Therefore the only question is whether his declaration was some
evidence as against them of facts which certainly might have
been established by his oath.
If ever a declaration not made under oath is to be admitted
against any other than the person making it, it should be admitted in this case. The declaration was obviously against interest. It was the only evidence in the nature of things that
could be had, when Martindale haltingly denied the fact upon
the stand. If we were to take it very nicely, it simply did away
with a qualification engrafted by Martindale upon his testimony
that the instrument was security for the bank, and made it
easier to accept the principal fact without the qualification.
The appellants say that they have a standing under the instrument independent of Martindale. So no doubt they have for
some purposes, if we follow the somewhat sweeping and undiscriminating notion of equity embodied in many decisions to be

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. ALBAUGH.
Opinion of the Court.

found. Nevertheless, they claim in Martindale's right as against
the estate of Cross or any prior assignee. The fact that equity
gives them a right to have the security applied does not enlarge
or change the character of the security, and that was, as we
have quoted, to enable Martindale "to pay himself for any
paper" on which he was liable with Cross. The appellants get
their rights from and through Martindale. Their right is only
to have Martindale's right enforced as it was on July 15 or
November 15. Cunningham v. .acon & B'unswick R. R. Co.,
156 U. S. 400, 4i9. It even was argued on this ground that it
appeared from other evidence that Martindale had no equity as
against the Emporia bank, and that therefore the decree could
be upheld. But, as we have said, the evidence objected to was
too important not to have had an influence on the decision, and
therefore we confine ourselves to the consideration of that.
It may be urged that, even if the appellants get their rights
by subrogation, (and it is to be noticed that the only claim
made in their pleadings is to be subrogated to the rights of
Martindale,) still their rights are independent when the subrogation is complete. In reply we fall back upon the distinction
between admissions and an attempt to release the rights. The
distinction was recognized in England in the case of a suit by a
naked trustee. If he undertook fraudulently to release the
cause of action and his release was pleaded, the plea would be
ordered off the files. Innell v. Newman, 4 B. & Ald. 419. See
Payne v. Rogers, 1 Dougl. 407; Anon., 1 Salk. 260; Troeder
v. flyams, 153 Massachusetts, 536, 538. But his admissions
were evidence for the defendant. Bauerman v. Radenius, 7
Term Rep. 663; Orai5 v. d'Aeth, 7 Term Rep. 670, n. (b). The
analogy by no means is perfect, but it is sufficient. In these
days, when the whole tendency of decisions and legislation is to
enlarge the admissibility of hearsay where hearsay must be admitted or a failure of justice occur, we are not inclined to
narrow the lines. The interest of Martindale continued, the
appellants claim through it, and we are of opinion that, under
the circumstances, admissions by Martindale contrary to that
interest properly were let in. Cases of admissions by a trustee
having no interest in the suit may stand on different ground.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-47

738

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

The decree is objected to as granting affirmative relief to
Albaugh against his co-defendant Newman. As the appellants
are dismissed out of court, the error, if it was one, does not concern them.
Decree .ffirsned.
MR~. JusTicE BREwERp and

Miz.

JusTICE, PEOKIIAm

dissented.

