OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 140, 265. Argued and submitted January 20, 21, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.
Section 5 of the act of 1855 of the General Assembly of Illinois incorporating the plaintiff provides, " That the property of whatever kind or description belonging or appertaining to said seminary shall be forever free
and exempt from all taxation for all purposes whatever." Section 2 provides, "That the seminary shall be located in or near the city of Chicago."
Property of the incorporation other than the seminary buildings was
taxed under the general taxing law of 1872. The Supreme Court of
Illinois construed the statute of 1855 as meaning that the exemption was
limited to property used in immediate connection with the seminary and
did not refer to other property held by the institution for investment,
although the income was used solely for school purposes.
Held, that as the rule of the Supreme Court of Illinois in construing an act
exempting property from taxation under legislative property is that the
exemption must be plainly and unmistakably granted and cannot exist
by implication only-a doubt being fatal to the claim-and as the construction placed on theact is not such an unnatural, strained or unreasonable construction as shows it to be erroneous, this court will affirm the
judgment even though it might be otherwise construed so as to affect a
total exemption.
The act incorporating the seminary also provided that "It shall be deemed
a public act and be construed liberally in all courts for the purposes
therein expressed."
Held, that such provision should not be construed as a complete overthrow
of the canon of construction adopted by the Supreme Court of Illinois in
regard to exemption of property from taxation.

THESE cases, between the same parties, come here by writs of

error to the Supreme Court of Illinois, which held certain
property of the plaintiff in error not exempt from taxation.
189 Illinois, 439.
The case No. 140 involves taxes for the year 1899, and
No. 265 for the year 1900.
The plaintiff in error claims exemption under its charter
passed in 1855, entitled " An act to incorporate the Chicago

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

Theological Seminary," a copy of which is set forth in the
margin. 1
The Supreme Court of the State held that the provision granting the exemption from taxation in section 5 referred only to
property used in connection with the seminary and did not include other property which might be owned, rented or held by
the seminary as an investment, although the income thereof
was used solely for school purposes. Accordingly property
which was not so included and which is involved in these actions
was taxed under the general taxing law of the State enacted in
1. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois, represented in
the General Assembly, That Stephen Peet, (and twenty-three other persons,
named in the act,) and their successors be and they hereby are created a
body politic and corporate, to be styled" The Board of Directors of Chicago
Theological Seminary," and by that name and style to remain and have
perpetual succession, with full power to sue and be sued, plead and be
impleaded; to acquire, hold and convey property, real and personal; to
have and use a common seal; to alter and renew the same at pleasure; to
make and alter a constitution and by-laws for the conducting and government of said institution, and fully to do whatever may be necessary to carry
out the object of this act of incorporation.
Sie. 2. That the seminary shall be located in or near the city of Chicago.
The object shall be to furnish instruction and the means of education to
young men preparing for the gospel ministry, and the institution shall be
equally open to all denominations of Christians for this purpose.
SEc. 3. That the board of directors shall consist of twenty-four members,
nine of whom shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
The directors shall hereafter be elected in accordance with the provisions
of the consLitution under which they act, and shall hold their office until
their successors are appointed.
Si-c. 4. The board of directors shall have power to appoint an executive
committee and such agents as they may deem necessary and such officers,
professors and teachers as the government and instruction of the seminary
may require, and prescribe their duties, to remove any of them for sufficient reasons, and prescribe and direct the course of studies to be pursued
in the institution; also, to confer such degrees as are consistent with the
object of the institution.
SEc. 5. That the property, of whatever kind or description, belonging or
appertaining to said seminary, shall be forever free and exempt from all
taxation for all purposes whatsoever.
SEC. 6. This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage,
and it shall be deemed a public act, and shall be construed liberally in all
courts for the purposes therein expressed.

ISEc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

18'72. In enforcing the taxation of the outside property of
plaintiff in error under that act, it is claimed that the obligation
of the contract contained in the act of 1855, the charter of the
plaintiff in error, was impaired.
It is conceded that the charter of incorporation was duly accepted, and that acting on the faith of its provision the plaintiff in error has acquired by donation and purchase a part of
the real estate on which the taxes in question were levied, and in
addition has expended in the erection and purchase of buildings
on the real estate owned by it an amount exceeding $200,000,
and a large number of students have been and are being instructed by it in pursuance of its charter. The pieces of real
estate upon which the taxes in these cases were levied were
acquired by the plaintiff in error by gift or purchase, and were
held by it to promote the objects for which it was incorporated,
and the rentals received from such real estate are used for those
purposes, although the property is not used in immediate connection with the seminary.
_Yh. John J. He'r'ick, with whom _JMr. David Fales was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
I. This court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
state court, and, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, has power
to determine the question as to the construction to be given
to the provision in the charter of plaintiff in error exempting
its property from taxation. Universitg v. People,99 U. S. 309;
Asyluin v. Nvew Orleans, 105 U. S. 362; State Bank of Oio v.
_Jnoop, 16 How. 378 ; Home o'the_-riendlessv.Rouse, 8 Wall.
430; Thie JMaslingtoa University v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 439; Wi!;minglon .Railvoad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 266 ; ]iumnlerey v. Pegue,:,
16 Wall. 244; Pacific Rairoad Co. v. -Maguire,20 Wall. 36.
The determination of the Federal question presented, involves the decision of the question as to the proper construction of the exemption provision of the charter of plaintiff in
error, and this court will, therefore, determine for itself, in the
exercise of its appellate and revisory jurisdiction, the question
of construction presented, irrespective of the decision made by
the state Supreme Court. Jefferson County Bank v. Skelly,

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 'v. ILLINOIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

1 Black, 443; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboem, 1 Wall. 144;
lDelmar v. Insurance Co., 14 Wall. 668; J-louston & Texas
alater
Central R. R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66; Columbia
Power Co. v. Columbia Electric Street Railway Co., 172 U. S.
475, 487.
In both the cases before the court, the state Supreme Court
expressly decided the Federal question involved adversely to
the plaintiff in error, and such decision was necessary to the
judgment rendered.
Although its two previous decisions, (People v. Chicago Tteological Seminary, 174 Illinois, 177, and Chicago Theological
Seminary v. People, 189 Illinois, 439,) were referred to by the
state Supreme Court, in the opinion in No. 265, as controlling
on the question, the judgments in those cases were not in the
record, and the decisions were referred to, not as res adjudicata
but only as previous decisions of the same court on the particular question, binding on it under the doctrine of stare decisis
It also appears from the opinion in People v. Chicago Tlieological Seminary, 174 Illinois, 177, that the particular case was
reversed and remanded by the state Supreme Court "for further
proceedings in accordance with the views herein (in the opinion)
expressed," and for that reason, not being a final judgment, it
was not subject to review by this court. Brown v. -Baxter,
146 U. S. 619; Rice v. Sanger, 144 U. S. 197; Johnson v.
Keith, 117 U. S. 199.
It also appears from the record in No. 140 that both at the
time of the judgment in the County Court and of the decision
by the state Supreme Court in No. 265, a writ of error had
been sued out from this court to review the judgment, and the
case was pending in this court.
II. The provision in the charter of plaintiff in error exempted
from taxation the property in question, and, for that reason,
the law under which the taxes were levied, impaired the
obligation of the contract and the judgment should, therefore,
be reversed.
The sole question presented by the decision of the state
Supreme Court is: To what did the words "said seminary " in
the exemption provision refer-to the institution incorporated

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by the act, or to the place where instruction was to be giventhe school buildings and grounds?
The words, "said seminary," in the exemption provision, referred to the corporation created by the act, and designated in
the title as the Chicago Theological Seminary, and not to the
school buildings and grounds, as held by the state Supreme
Court, and this being so, the exemption provision indisputably
exempted from taxation the property against which the judgments were rendered.
The first mention of "the seminary" in the act is in the
title, "an act to incorporate the Chicago Theological Seminary." It is well settled that the title of an act may properly
be referred to to ascertain the legislative intention. There can
be no room for question that this first mention of the" Chicago
Theological Seminary " referred to the institution incorporated
by the act, and not "to the property," the school buildings,
etc. Holy Tinity Cl ur.ch v. United States, 143 U. S. 457;
Srnyt/e v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374; Rieirs of Emersoa v. I1dl, 13
Pet. 409, at 413; Bell v. Xayor, 105 N. Y. 144; Preidcnt,
etc., of St. incent's College v. Schaefer, 104 Missouri, 261.
Similar corporate names are found in all the earlier charters;
those creating railroad corporations, incorporated banks, etc.,
as well as charitable institutions, such as " the President and
Board of Directors of," etc. But it was not therefore necessary
or customary to always use the cumbersome full nafic when
the corporation was referred to. Angel and Ames on Corporations, sec. 99.
On the contrary, instead of using the full corporate name,
it was natural and appropriate to use the woyds " said seminary"
to designate the incorporated institution referred to in the title
of the act as "The Chicago Theological Seminary," and again
in section 4 as " the seminary." .3farine Bank of Bdtimwo'e
v. Bias, 4 HKar. & J. ([d.) 338 ; -Noblesv. Ham line UnIversity,
46 Minnesota, 316.
This use of the shorter designation instead of the full, formal
name, is illustrated in the title of the act; in the proceedings
in the County Court, in the return of delinquent property and
in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois, in No. 140. In

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.

667,

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

fact, that the general words "the Chicago Theological Seminary" were appropriate to designate the incorporated institution
is recognized in the very name itself, "the Board of Directors
of the Chicago Theological Seminary."
The seminary buildings had no board of directors. The Board
of Directors referred to in this corporate name as "the Board
of Directors of the Chicago Theological Seminary," were the
directors of the incorporated institution created by the act and
referred to in its title.
The precise word "located " is frequently used in charters
and other statutes as applied to corporations. At common law
it was an attribute of every corporation that it had a locality.
Its locality was the place where it carried on its operationswhere it did business. Angel and Ames on Corporations,
sec. 103; Sangamon & iforgan -. 1. Co. v. County qf 3florgan, 14 Illinois, 163 ; B'istol v. C(ihcago & Aurora 1. 1?. Co.,
15 Illinois, 436; (harlotte National Ban/k v. Morgan, 132 U. S.
141.
Our construction of the exemption provision is forcibly confirmed by the adjudicated cases, in which like provisions were
construed, and it was held, on grounds peculiarly pertinent to
the case before the court, that similar general words, "belonging to" and " the college," "the institution," "the asylum,"
etc., referred to the corporation created by the act, and that
all the propertv of the corporation was, therefore, exempt.
County of Nobles v. Jlamdine University, 46 Minnesota, 316;
Asylum. v. New Orleans, 105 U. S.362; P)resident and -Faculty
of St. Vincent's College v. Schaefer, 104 Missouri, 261.
If the meaning is given to the words "said seminary," and
"belonging to," in the exemption provision, which the state
Supreme Court found it necessary to give to them to reach the
conclusion it did, the result is that the provision, as a whole, is
given an unreasonable, and, in fact, absurd meaning. It is fainiliar law that in giving construction to a statute an absurd or
unreasonable meaning will not be attributed to the legislature
if the language admits of any other construction. Lau Ow
Bew v. United States, 144 U. S.47, 59 ; People ex rel. v. Gaulter, 149 Illinois, 39.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The decision of the state Supreme Court, in both cases, is
based on a construction of its previous decision in 174 Illinois,
which gives to the exemption provision a meaning wholly different from the meaning given it by the same court in its opinion in 174 Illinois, and one which it is impossible to derive from
the words of the provision.
The construction of the state Supreme Court is based wholly
on the erroneous view that, instead of construing the provision
of exemption in a fair and liberal sense, so as to promote the
charitable object for which the corporation was formed, it should
be construed narrowly by applying the rules of strict construction, and that the express provision of the charter that " this
act shall be construed liberally in all courts," should be given a
construction contrary to its plain intention, which would in
fact render it wholly meaningless.
The rule of strict construction does not apply to exemptions
in favor of charitable corporations, but such exemptions should
be construed liberally, to promote the charitable object for
which the corporation was created. Yale University v. .VStv
Baven, 71 Connecticut, 316; Pltilli)s Academy v. Aj,dover,
175 Massachusetts, 118; Associationafor Colored Oi/ans v.
Mfayor, 104 N. Y. 581; People v. Sayles, 50 N. Y. Supp. 8;
Long Branch Firemen's Relilf Ass'n v. fo/nson, 62 N. J. L.
625 ; Sisters of C/tarity v. Towns/hip of C]/atltam, 52 N. J. L.
373 ; State v. Fisk University, 87 Tennessee, 233 ; .XA. Cit rch
v. Hinton, 92 Tennessee, 88.
Whatever the rule in the absence of an express provision in
the charter-whether the rule of strict construction applies to
an exemption provision in the charter of a charitable corporation or not-the legislature of Illinois, in granting this charter,
expressed its intention (in section 6) not to leave the question
open, by making the express provision on the subject, that the
act should be "construed liberally in all courts." For cases
in which under similar statutory provisions, either abolishing
the rule of strict construction as to all statutes, or providing
that it shall not apply to particular statutes, the rule of liberal
construction was held to apply in giving a construction to criminal and penal statutes, see Commonwealth v. Davis, 12 Bush,

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(Kentucky), 240; People v. Soto, 49 California, 67; Ialnkins v.
People, 106 Illinois, 628; .Jfaxwell v. People, 158 Illinois, 248;
Peterson,v. Currier,62 Illinois App. 163.
For a case in which a similar charter provision was referred
to as requiring a liberal construction of a provision in the
charter of Brown University, exempting its property from taxation, see Brown University v. Granger, 19 R. I. 704.
The decision of the state Supreme Court is not only based
on the erroneous view that the rules of strict construction apply,
but on the wholly erroneous assumption, that under these rules
"if the language (of a provision) is capable of a broader, or
more restricted meaning the latter must be adopted." Such is
not the effect of the rules of strict construction, even on the assumption that they apply, but on the contrary, the words used,
if " capable of " two meanings, should be given their primary
and ordinary meaning in the absence of other language showing
that a different meaning was intended, and such meaning as
will best express the legislative intention.
The rule of strict construction does not require that if the
language used "admits of two meanings," either one or the
othei" of these two meanings " must be " adopted, or in any way
change or override the other rules of construction, including
the well settled rule that, where a word admits of two meanings, the natural and ordinary meaning should be adopted, in
the absence of other provisions showing a contrary intention.
Endlich on the Interpretation of Statutes, sees. 337,466; United States v. Mfinn, 3 Sutum. 209 (quoted with approval in Black
on Interpretation of Statutes, p. 290); United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, at p. 395 ; feadowcraft v. People, 163 Illinois, 56, at p. 70.
The construction of plaintiff in error does not "extend the
meaning of the words used, by implication," as erroneously held
by the state Supreme Court.
It is proper to refer to other charters, passed by the same
legislature, as an aid in ascertaining the meaning it was intended
the words used in the particular provision should have. Vane
v. Newcombe, 132 U. S. 220; 23 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
under the title " Statutes," p. 311; Clase v. Lord 77 N. Y. 1,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

18 ;

fiddleton, v. Greeson, 106 Indiana, 18 ; Levering v. Phila-

dell)hia, Germantown & .NTorristown,R. P". Co., 8 Watts & S.
459 at 463; Reiche v. Smrnythe, 13 Wall. 162.
On reference to the different charters passed by the same
legislature, containing provisions for exemption from taxation,
it will be seen that there are many passed at different sessions
which provide by specific language for a partial exemption from
taxation identical (or substantially so) with the exemption the
state court holds was intended by the provision in question.
.Mr. Edwin I. Sims, Air. 1?rakn L. Shepard and Mr&. lfl7iam F Struckmann, for defendant in error, contendled in their
brief :
I. This court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of
the state court.
One of the grounds for the judgment of the state court is
resjudicata,and this is not a Federal question.
It is well settled law that where there are two grounds for
the judgment of a state court, only one of which involves a
Federal question and the other is broad enough to maintain a
judgment sought to be reviewed, this court will not look into
the Federal question but will dismiss the writ of error. Bacon
v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207; LAstis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Beau.pre v. .Sroyes, 138 U. S. 397; Rutland v. Central VTermont R.
R., 159 U. S. 630; Gillis v. Stinchfield, 159 U. S. 658; &,neca
Nation,v. C risty, 162 U. S. 283.
The state court did not give effect to and enforce a new rule
of exemption established by the revenue act of 1872. It was
not necessary to determine whether the act of 1S72 changed
the rule of exemption; the state court did not pass on any
such question. IX2ox v. Exchange Bavk, 12 Wallace, 383;
R ailroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wallace, 177-181 ; St. Paul,etc., fly.
Co. v. Todd Co., 142 U. S. 282; Railroad Co. v. JfcClure,
10 Wallace, 511-515.
II. The charter of plaintiff in error exempts only such property owned by it as is a part of or connected with its seminary
located in the city of Chicago.
The exemption clause of the charter has been construed by

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the Supreme Court of Illinois in Theological Seminary v. Pecople, 174 Illinois, 177, and this is resjudicata.
It is the law of the State of Illinois, as it is the law adhered
to by the Supreme Court of the United States, that all laws
exempting property from taxation must be strictly construed.
It is not to be presumed that the legislature intended to exempt property from taxation ; that intention must appear affirmatively, and will be strictly construed.
As to the question of strict construction of contracts exempting property from taxation when there is involved a question
of the alleged impairment of that contract contrary to the
provisions of the Federal Constitution, reference is had to the
following adjudicated cases: Wilmington & Welon R. R. v.
Alsbrook, 146 U. S. 279-293; Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall.
206; _Farrinqton v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679; Ohio life Ins.
Co. v. Debolt, 16 Howard, 416 ; Railroad v. Dennis, 116 U. S.
668; Provide nce Bank v. Beattie, 4 Peters, 514; Charles River
Bridge v. JVarren Bridge, 11 Peters, 544; Chenango Bridge
Co. v. Binghamton Bridge Co., 2 Wall. 51; University v. The
People, 99 U. S. 309.
The Supreme Court of Illinois has consistently adhered to
the same rule. F,irst . Ef. Chuarch of Chicago v. City, 26 Illinois, 482; Mfontgonery v. WVyman, 130 Illinois, 17; Theological Seminary v. The People, 101 Illinois, 518; In re Swigert,
123 Illinois, 267.
The title of an act furnishes little aid in the construction of
the provisions of the act itself, and can only be referred to
when there is a doubt as to the meaning of the act itself, and
when necessary to refer to the title that fact of itself is sufficient to defeat the claim of exemption. Ifadden v. The Colleetor, 5 Wall. 107-110; Yazoo R. R. Co. v. Thomas, 132 1U. S.
174-188.
A reasonable and consistent construction of the exemption
clause of the charter of plaintiff in error calls for the following
definitions of the wvords used, viz., the verb " belong" is to be
defined as " to be a part of or connected with," as is given in
Webster's International Dictionary. And the word "seminary" is to be defined, according to the same authority, as "a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of Lho Court.

place of education, as a school of a high grade, an academy,
college or university."
Construing the exemption clause of the charter in this manner it will exempt all property owned by the corporation which
is a part of or connected with the school, which the corporation has located and is maintaining in the city of Chicago.
M

.JU STICE

PEOKHAMY,

after making the foregoing statement

of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, by its decision in this case,
has but followed its prior decision upon the same question between these parties, reported in 174 Illnois, 177, decided in
1898. It there held that the exemption was limited to property
used in immediate connection with the seminary, and did not
include such property as is involved in these cases, which was
not property used in immediate connection with the seminairy,
but was other property separate and apart therefrom, and
owned or rented or held by the seminary as an investment, the
income from which was nevertheless used solely for school purposes.
The rule of construction followed by the Supreme Court of
Illinois in construing this act exempting property from taxation
is so well established by this and other courts as scarcely to
need the citation of authorities. One or two, however, from
this court may be given. Tucker v. Fewguson. 22 Wall. 527;
.New Orleans City &f lake Railroadv. ilew Orleans,143 U. S.
192, 195 ; Bank of Comnmerce v. Ten nessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146.

The rule is that, in claims for exemption from taxation under
legislative authority, the exemption must be plainly and unmistakably granted; it cannot exist by implication only'; a
doubt is fatal to the claim.
The reasoning of the Supreme Court of Illinois, 174 Illinois,
s71pra, in refusing the exemption claimed, so far as relates to
the property not connected with the seminary, is best stated in
the language of the opinion of that court. After stating the rule
of construction, as above mentioned, the court said (p. 181)
"If, however, taking the express words of the act, and with-

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

out extending their meaning by implication, they may be held
to include all property belonging or appertaining to the
'seminary ' mentioned in the second section, or to include all
the property belonging or appertaining to the corporation, and
there is reasonable ground for doubt which was intended by
the legislature, that doubt must be resolved in favor of the
State. In other words, if the language is capable of a broad
or more restricted meaning, the latter must be adopted. The
second section of the charter mentioning certain property to be
located in or near the city of Chicago, and which is denominated ' the seminary,' we think the words in the fifth section,
'said seminary,' refer to that particular property, and to so hold
seems to do no more than to give the language of the two sections their literal and ordinarily understood meaning. To say,
as is contended by appellee, that 'said seminary' was intended
to mean the corporation, is to extend the meaning of those
words by implication, which is not permissible.
"It is said that the only entity mentioned in the charter
capable of owning property is the corporation, and therefore it
could not have been intended that property belonging or
appertaining to the seminary was meant by section 5. We
think this position is based upon a too limited meaning of the
words 'belonging or appertaining,' as here used. Of course, if
the language of section 5 had been that the property, of whatever kind or description, owned by the said seminary shall be
forever free from all taxation, etc., or if, as counsel seem to
assume, the words ' belonging or appertaining ' here necessarily
meant ownership of the property, then there would be force in
this argument of counsel. It is undoubtedly true that the
word 'belonging' may mean ownership, and very often does.
But that is not its only meaning. Webster's International
Dictionary defines it: '2. That which is connected with a
principal or greater thing; an appendage; an appurtenance.'
He also defines the word 'pertain' as meaning, 'to belong or
pertain, whether by right of nature, appointment or custom;
to relate, as "things pertaining to life."' Manifestly, the purpose of section 5 was to exempt property owned by the corporasion, but it does not follow that the intention was to include in
VOL. OLXXXVIII-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

that exemption all property owned by it used for purposes of
the school."
We think there is force in this reasoning, and we are disposed to concur in the result arrived at.
It is contended by counsel for plaintiff in error that the words
"said seminary," contained in section 5 of the charter, referred
to the corporation created by the act and not to the school
buildings and grounds, and that, therefore, the exemption necessarily exempted from taxation all the property against which
the judgments below were rendered.
Here are two different constructions of the exemption clause,
each of which might be maintained with some plausibility.
That view which limits the range of the exemption to property
used in immediate connection with the seminary might seem to
niany to be the correct one, while in the opinion of others, the
broader claim of total exemption would be the best founded.
The judges of the Supreme Court of Illinois have unanimously
taken the former view, while counsel for the plaintiff in error
very strongly and very ably has taken and maintained the
other. We can ourselves see that a construction either way
would not be clearly erroneous, or, at any rate, either construction would not be so obviously erroneous as to leave no doubt
upon the question. In such cases we think the rule as to the
construction of statutes of exemption from taxation should be
applied, and as there may be room for reasonable doubt whether
a total or only a partial exemption was meant, the partial exemption should alone be recognized. Great weight ought also
to be attached to the decision of a state court regarding questions of taxation or exemption therefrom under the constitution
or laws of its own State. As is said in Ifilson v. Standefer,
184 U. S. 399, 412:
":Especial respect should be had to such decisions when the
dispute arises out of general laws of a State, regulating its exercise of the taxing power, or relating to the State's disposition
of its public lands. In such cases it is frequently necessary
to recur to the history and situation of the country in order to
ascertain the reason as well as the meaning of the laws, and
knowledge of such particulars will most likely be found in the

THEOLOGICAL SEMIENARY v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

tribunals whose special function is to expound and interpret the
state enactments."
We acknowledge and affirm the principle that this court in
this class of cases must decide upon its own responsibility as to
the existence and meaning of the contract, but in arriving at
such meaning in a case like this, the decision of the state court
is entitled to exercise marked influence upon the question this
court is called upon to decide, and where it cannot be said that
the decision is in itself unreasonable or in violation of the plain
language of the statute, we ought, in cases engendering a fair
doubt, to follow the state court in its interpretation of the statutes of its own State.
The case of University v. People, 99 U. S. 309, is no authority for the construction contended for by the plaintiff in error.
In that case the charter provided "That all property, of whatever kind or description, belonging to or owned by said corporation, shall be forever free from taxation for any and all
purposes." The difference between the two provisions is intrinsic and material. What is lacking in the case at bar is
present in the case cited, namely, a provision exempting all the
property "owned by said corporation." In the case before us
it is the property "belonging or appertaining to said seminary,"
and the word "belonging" is construed by the Supreme Court
as not synonymous with "owned by," nor is the word "seminary" regarded in this connection as the equivalent of the
word "corporation."
But the plaintiff in error contends that however correct the
construction adopted by the state courts might be if founded
upon general rules of construction pertaining to claims for exemption from taxation, it is plainly erroneous under the provision of section 6 of the charter, providing that the act "shall
be deemed a public act, and shall be construed liberally in all
courts for the purposes therein expressed."
To adopt the construction contended for by the plaintiff in
error would call for a reversal of the rules otherwise prevailing
in and governing claims for exemption from taxation. But it
is nevertheless urged that if in any way the language of exemption can by a liberal construction be said to cover the whole

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

property owned by the corporation, such construction must be
adopted by reason of the provisions contained in section 6. We
think this is claiming entirely too much for the language of
that section.
As is therein stated, the act must be construed liberally for
the purposes therein expressed. What are those purposes? In
this respect the word "purposes" in section 6 is synonymous
with the word "object" in section 2, as we think, and we find
"
that the object or purpose is stated in section 2, To furnish
instruction and the means of education to young men preparing for the gospel ministry, and the institution shall be equally
open to all denominations of Christians for this purpose." It
is for the accomplishment of this purpose or object that the act
is to be liberally construed. If a question should arise regarding the meaning of the language "to furnish instruction or the
means of education," and how far the words should be extended
and what they should include, the words should be liberally
construed as provided for in the sixth section, because to furnish instruction or the means of education is the expressed
purpose or object of the act. So in regard to the powers of the
board of directors as provided for in the charter; those powers
should be liberally construed for the furtherance of the object
stated in the charter. To do so would not violate any wellsettled rule of construction and would nevertheless be sufficient
in case of doubt to turn the decision in favor of a construction
more liberal in its nature than might otherwise be properly
adopted. But we do not think it was intended by the language
of the sixth section to provide a complete overthrow of a canon
of construction such as the one in question, which has obtained
for so many Years and has been so universally and so strictly
adopted and adhered to by the courts of the whole country.
We again resort to the language of the opinion of the Illinois
court for the presentation of its own reasons for the somewhat
strict construction of the exemption clause adopted by it.
After stating that it should not be presumed that the legislature
intended to exempt property from taxation, but such intention
must appear affirmatively, and it will be strictly construed, and

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
JUSTICES WHITE,

Bizowx and HOLmES, dissenting.

that any ambiguities must operate against the parties who claim
the exemption, the court (p. 181) continued:
"That laws exempting property from taxation are generally
subject to these rules of construction is not seriously questioned,
but counsel for appellee say said rules do not apply here, because by section 6 of the charter it is provided that the act
'shall be construed liberally in all courts for the purposes
therein expressed.' We do not think this language was intended to or could be held to change or qualify the general
rules of construction applicable to the section under consideration. Here the very question to be determined is, what is the
purpose expressed in that section? And to say that liberal
rules of construction must, under section 6, be applied in favor
of the contention that all property belonging or appertaining
to the corporation is exempt would be to beg the whole question. In determining what purpose is expressed in the section,
resort must necessarily be had to the general rules for considering such laws. When that purpose is ascertained, liberal rules
of construction, if necessary, are to be resorted to, to give effect
to such purpose. . . . We think this case turns upon whether
or not the words ' said seminary,' used in the fifth clause, should
be given the meaning of 'said corporation.' In our opinion the
application of the rules of construction above referred to do not
warrant such a construction."
This is not such an unnatural, strained or unreasonable construction of the act as shows it to be erroneous, and while it
might be otherwise construed so as to effect a total exemption,
we are not prepared to hold that the state court so clearly
erred as to call upon us to reverse its determination. We,
therefore, adopt, though we admit with some hesitation, the
views of the state court, which lead to an affirmance of the
judgments.
Afflwmed.
JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concur MR.JUSTIcE BRowN
and MR.JUSTICE HOLmES, dissenting.
AIR.

The court, in stating the facts, refers to a previous opinion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WITE, BROWN and HoL-,Es, dissenting.

the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, announced in a case
between the same parties, involving a question of law like unto
that which arises on this record. In that case, however, the
Supreme Court of Illinois but reversed and remanded for a new
trial, and hence the judgment was not final and not susceptible
of being brought to this court to test the issues involving the
constitutional right under the contract. After the record in
the previous case reached the trial court the case was not further
pressed by the plaintiff for such length of time as to cause it,
under the Illinois statute, to bein effect abandoned. The question here now for review is not, therefore, controlled by the
thing adjudged arising from the previous judgment. The court
does not now decide to the contrary, but the matter is referred
to by me lest a misconception be caused by the mention made
of the subject in the opinion of the court.
I do not dispute the elementary proposition that exemptions
from taxation are s8ticti juiris, that is, not to be extended by
implication. This, however, does not imply that a contract
exemption is to be disregarded, simply because it may be possible for a subtle mind to suggest a possible doubt as to the
exemption, however conjectural may be the assumption on which
the doubt is rested. iNor does the rule mean that, because it is
deemed that a particular contract exemption was an unwise one
for the public interest, therefore the meaning of the contract is
to be disregarded by a court in order to relieve the public from
the burdens arising from the obligations of the contract. The
rule, as understood by me, is this only, that the language from
which an exemption is claimed to arise is to receive a literal construction, and is not to be extended so as to embrace a right
not within the clear meaning of the contract. I do not, moreover, dispute the principle that where the contract which is asserted to have been impaired arises from a state law, it is the
duty of the court, in case of doubt as to the meaning of the contract, to adopt the construction given to it by the state court.
This rule does not imply that because the state court has decided
against the contract right, therefore there is doubt and, hence,
the resulting duty to affirm the action of the state court. If
such were the case, the power of this court to review the action

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY v. ILLINOIS.
JUSTICES WHITE, BROWN

and HOLMES, dissenting.

of state courts concerning the alleged impairing of the obligations of a contract would be at an end wherever the contract
took its origin in state law. The significance of the rule is this,
that if, fairly considering the issue of contract arising from the
state law and its alleged impairment, this court, in the exercise
of its independent judgment, remains in doubt, the decision below construing the state law will be allowed to solve the doubt,
and thus secure the affirmance of the judgment. The obligation on me as a member of the court is identical with that which
rests on the court.
Coming to apply these rules to the case in hand, my mind
has no doubt whatever as to the true meaning of the contract.
Let me state what the contract is, in order to show why I do
not doubt on the subject.
The first section of the act from which the contract arises
creates a corporation for a religious and benevolent purpose,
under the name of "The Board of Directors of the Chicago
Theological Seminary." The second section provides as follows:
"That the seminary shall be located in or near the city of
Chicago. The object shall be to furnish instruction and the
means of education to young men preparing for the gospel
ministry, and the institution shall be equally open to all denominations of Christians for this purpose."
The third section provides for the board of directors ; the
fourth relates to the powers of the board ; and the fifth is as
follows :
"That the property, of whatever kind or description, belonging or appertaining to said seminary, shall be forever free and
exempt from all taxation for all purposes whatsoever."
The sixth section provides when the act shall take effect, and
declares that it "shall be construed liberally in all courts for
the purposes therein expressed." Does the exemption covered
by the fifth section relate to the Theological Seminary, the
corporation created by the act, or does it apply only to a
building to be erected by the corporation? is the question at
issue.
It is admitted that if the exemption applies to the Theolog-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
JUSTICES WRITE, Bnowx and HOLMES, dissenting.

ical Seminary, the contract has been impaired and the judgment should be reversed. It is now decided that the exemption relates only to the seminary, that is, to the buildings, and,
therefore, the judgment is affirmed. Now, giving to the words
of exemption their natural meaning, and construing them
strictly, there does not seem to me to be a doubt that they relate to the Theological Seminary incorporated by the act, and
referred to as such in its first section. IMy mind does not enable me to see what else the words can mean. If it was intended merely to exempt a building or buildings, language could
have been employed which would have aptly conveyed such
meaning. Instead of doing this, the language used in the actas I understand it-excludes such construction, since it declares
that the exemption shall relate to the property "belonging or
appertaining to said seminary;" the word " belonging" clearly
referring to the corporation created by the act and on whom
was conferred the power to own and possess property. Emphasis is added to this view wheni the scope of the exemption
is borne in mind ; since it embraces not a mere building or its
accessories, but the property of whatever dnd or description,
thus describing and referring to the power to own and acquire
property of every kind and description, real or personal, conferred on the Theological Seminary by the act. It is further
to be observed, as throwing light upon the subject, that in
the fourth section, immediately preceding the grant of the
exemption, the particular buildings or place of learning to be
constructed by the Theological Seminary is twice referred to
as the institution, thus showing that the legislative mind had
immediately before it when the exemption was granted the
distinction between the Theological Seminary as a corporate
entity to which the exemption was granted, and the institution
to be constructed and supported by the Theological Seminary.
I cannot, moreover, conceive that the words of the statute, immediately following the section granting the exemption, commanding that the provisions of the contract "shall be liberally
construed in all courts for the purposes therein expressed,"
should have what seems to me their plan meaning, disregarded, by causing them to refer, not to the act as a whole,

INDIANA MANUFACTURING CO. v. KOEHNE.

681

Syllabus.

but to some particular provision in it. I find nothing in the
language which lends itself to such a view.
I therefore dissent.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR.
JusrICEiHoLmEs concur in this dissent.

INDIANA MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
KOEIINE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 177.

Argued October 24, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Certain taxes having been assessed against complainant, an Indiana corporation, pursuant to a law of Indiana upon the value of letters patent owned
by it, an action was brought against the collector to enjoin the collection
of such taxes, the appeal to equity being founded on the grounds: (1) That
the assessment constituted a cloud upon title; (2) that there was no adequate remedy at law; (3) that a multiplicity of suits would be avoided; (4)
that it would prevent irreparable injury to complainant. Iheld:
(1) That in the absence of any statute makingtie assessment upon shares
a lien on tle real estate and of any averment that the company
owned any real estate, no cloud upon title is made apparent.
(2) That the statute of Indiana provides a proceeding for the recovery of
taxes wrongfully assessed, and as it does not appear that such statute has been repealed, an adequate remedy at law exists.
(3) That the procedure under such statute would not involve amultiplicity of suits.
(4) That where a plain and adequate remedy is given for the recovery of
taxes illegally assessed no irreparable injury can be inferred from
general statements in the absence of the averment of specific facts
from which the court can see that irreparable injury would be a
natural and probable result.
Equitable jurisdiction of a Federal court cannot be maintained except on a
ground recognized by the Federal courts, and the mere fact that the action involved tie taxing of letters patent does not give the Federal courts
jurisdiction in equity where no such recognized ground appears.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

