OCTOBER TERMT,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

before us, but are of opinion that they are clearly untenable
and were properly disposed of by the court below.
Finding no error in the record, the judgment is

.Affirmed,.

BOSTON AND MONTANA CONSOLIDATED COPPER
AND SILVER MINING COMPANY v. MONTANA ORE
PURCHASING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 103. Argued December 3, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

To give the Circuit Court jurisdiction under section 1 of the act of March 3,
1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, Federal questions must
appear necessarily in the statement of the plaintiff's cause of action and
not as mere allegations in the plaintiff's bill of the defence which the defendants intend to set up or which they rely upon. And if it further
appear from defendant's answer that no such defence is set up, no jurisdiction exists to try questions not of the kind coming within the statute,
and the Circuit Court should dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
In order for a parby in possession to maintain a bill of peace for the purpose of quieting his title to land against a single adverse claimant ineffectually seeking to establish a legal title by repeated actions of
ejectment, it is necessary for tie bill to aver that complainant's title has
been established by at least one successful trial at law; and where it
appears from the bill that an action at law involving the same questions
has been commenced, but has not been tried, it is a fatal defect.
To maintain a bill of peace in the Federal courts there must be an allegation that the complainant is in possession, or that both parties are out of
possession.

THE appellant in this case (being the complainant below) has
brought it to this court by an appeal from the judgment of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Montana
dismissing its complaint and ordering judgment for the defendants on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of the
action. A decree having been entered in accordance with the
direction of the court dismissing the bill, the Circuit Court has
certified to this court the question of jurisdiction, and whether
or not a Federal question is presented in complainant's amended
bill and the answer of the defendant corporation.

BOSTON &c. MINING CO. v. MONTANA ORE CO. '633
Statement of the Case.

The cause of action relates to the ownership of a certain
quantity of copper ore taken and converted by the defendants
from the mining ground alleged to be owned by the complainant. For the purpose of presenting the question of jurisdiction,
the court below has certified to this court the amended bill and
the answer of the defendants. The complainant in the bill alleges that it is the owner and entitled to possession of certain
property therein described, known as and called the Pennsylvania lode mining claim, lot No. 172, situated in Summit Valley mining district, county of Silver Bow, Montana. A full
description of the land is given in the bill. The complainant's
title is next set out with much particularity and detail, from
which it appears that the original source of its title is a United
States patent covering the claim, dated April 9, 1886, issued to
persons named therein, from whom the complainant deraigns
title. It is then averred that on April 1, 1895, defendants
wrongfully and unlawfully entered upon complainant's premises, and from that time on extracted from the mine large quantities of valuable ores, of the reasonable value of $500,000, and
that they have continued to extract and mine ores from the
premises belongring to the complainant, and are now mining
and extracting ores therefrom and threatening to continue to
do so unless enjoined by the court.
The land which the complainant claims to own is valuable
almost exclusively for the copper, silver and gold ores which
are found there in large quantities, and it is these ores that
the defendants have extracted and are threatening to continue
to extract in the future.
It is averred that the complainant has no means of ascertaining the quantity or value of the ores which the defendants
have extracted or may hereafter extract from such premises,
and if the defendants are permitted to continue to extract such
ores it will be altogether uncertain and indefinite as to what
the amount or the value of such ores may be, and the complainant will be compelled to rely to a great extent on the defendants as to such amount and value; that unless the defendants
are enjoined and restrained from taking the ores the complainant will be required to bring numerous actions for the deter-

OCTO"BER TERM:, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

mination of the damages it has from time to time sustained by
reason of such trespasses, which are continuing on the part of
the defendants. Therefore the complainant brings this suit in
order to avoid a multiplicity of suits in the premises; and by
reason of the trespasses of the defendants and their threatened
continuance the complainant has suffered and will suffer great
and irreparable injury and damage, unless the defendants arc
enjoined from further trespass as prayed for.
This is the complainant's cause of action, as set forth in the
bill, regarding the trespass and the injury inflicted and the difficulty of proof thereof and the prevention of a multiplicity of
suits.
The complainant then further averred in the bill, for the purpose as therein stated, of showing the jurisdiction of the court
to determine the matters set forth in such bill, that the determination of the controversy between the parties involved the
construction of the mining laws of the United States; that the
property of the complainant is a mining claim and has been
patented as such under the provisions of the Revised Statutes
of the United States relating to mines and mineral lands; that
the defendants owned a portion of certain properties called the
Rarus lode claim, lot No. 1'79; the Johnstown lode claim, lot
No. 173; and the Little Ida lode claim, lot No. 126, which
claims lie north of and partially adjoining and near to the Pennsylvania lode claim, owned by the complainant.
It is further stated that the various claims which are and
will be made by the defendants as to their rights in complainant's mine by reason of their ownership of the other mines
above mentioned are without foundation, yet, nevertheless, they
will be urged as a defence to the cause of action set forth in
the bill of complaint, and the claims of defendants are denied
and disputed, as are also the facts upon which the defendants
base their defence, and the law arising from the same, and complainant adds "that it disputes each and every one of the claims
made by the defendants, relative to the construction of said
several patents, and it (complainant) claims that all veins,
whose apexes lie within the Johnstown patent must be governed
and regulated in extralateral rights, if any they have, under the

BOSTON &c. MINING CO. v. MONTANA ORE CO. 635
Statement of the Case.

Johnstown patent, and not under or by virtue of the Rarus
patent." The complainant also averred "that the said defendants contend and claim that the complainant cannot under any
circumstances obtain any relief for ores extracted within that
portion of the premises owned by it, without first showing that
the apices of the veins from which the ores were extracted are
within the surface lines of the ground owned and claimed by
the complainant, whereas your orator claims that prima facie
it is the owner of all ores found within its boundaries extended
downward into the earth, until it has been shown that some
other person or company has some right thereto by reason of
ownership of the apex of the vein within some other claim."
The complainant further stated its right to enjoin defendants
from mining ore beneath the ground of complainant, because
no vein having its apex in the defendants' claim passes in its
strike through the end lines thereof so as to confer extralateral
rights.
And finally: "Wherefore, your orator shows to your honors
that there is involved in the matters in controversy, between
your orator and the said defendants, the numerous questions
aforesaid, involving the construction of the statutes of the United States, relative to locating, purchasing and patenting of
mineral lands and the construction of the statutes, relative to
the right of one claimant to follow veins down to and into the
premises of another, under the circumstances and situation of
the parties as hereinbefore set out, and also the construction of
the said statutes in relation to patenting of claims and whether
the vein can be patented to one person and the surface to another, and to the right of the Land Department to segregate
the surface from the mineral in the ground, granting one to
one person and the other to another, and as to whether said
action is authorized under and by virtue of said statutes; and
also as to whether, when an apex of a vein is divided upon the
surface, part being within the premises granted in one patent
and a part within another, as to what, if any extralateral rights,
are granted under such circumstances to either party."
The answer of the defendants is also set forth in the certificate of the court below, in which the defendants deny that they

OCTOI3ER TtRMi,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

wrongfully or unlawfully entered the premises of the complainant or that they took out any amount of ore belonging to the
complainant from that mine, and deny that the defendants ever
mined or extracted ores from premises belonging to the complainant or threatened to do so; also deny the averments as to
the value of the ore set forth in the bill. Defendants also deny
that the determination of the controversy between the parties
involves a construction of the mining acts of the United States
or the construction of any statute of the United States whatever. They admit that the Rarus and the Johnstown lode
claims are mineral claims, located under the laws of the United States, and that the same have been patented under those
laws, and that the defendants own a portion of the lode called
the Rarus lode claim. The defendants also assert that they
are the owners of a certain parcel of ground within the Johnstown lode claim, and also the owners of that portion of the
Pennsylvania lode claim -thereafter described, and they claim
the right to enter upon the premises of the complainant, namely,
that portion of the Pennsylvania lode claim described in its
amended bill of complaint, by reason of the fact that certain
veins owned and claimed by the defendants and in their possession have their top or apices within the Johnstown lode claim,
lot No. 173, and that portion thereof owned by the defendants,
and that the defendants assert the right to follow such veins on
their downward course or dip, although the same so far depart
from a perpendicular as to depart from the said Johnstown lode
claim and from that portion thereof claimed by the defendants,
and enter the premises owned and claimed by the complainant,
namely, that portion of the Pennsylvania lode claim described
in its amended bill of complaint. But the defendants deny that
they claim the right to enter complainant's premises by reason
of the fact that any veins owned or claimed by them or in their
possession have their top or apices within the Rarus lode claim
or in that portion thereof owned by the defendants, or by reason of the fact that the same have their top or apices within
the Little Ida lode claim or any portion thereof, and deny that
the defendants assert the right or any right to follow such veins
on their downward course or dip, although the same so far de-

BOSTON &c. MINING CO. v.MONTANA ORE CO. 637
Statement of the Case.
part from a perpendicular as to depart from said Rarus lode
claim, and to enter the premises claimed by the complainant;
and deny that they assert or claim the right to enter the premises of the complainant by reason of the fact that any veins
owned or claimed by the defendants have their top or apices
within that portion of the Johnstown lode claim owned by the
defendant, or that they assert the right to follow such veins on
their downward course or dip, although the same so far depart
from a perpendicular as to depart from the Johnstown lode
claim and from the portions thereof owned by the defendants
and enter the premises of the complainant.
It was further averred in the answer "that in this action it
makes no claim of any right under the Rarus patent to enter
upon the veins within the ground claimed or owned by the complainant, but that it asserts its right to do so by reason of its
ownership of a portion of the Johnstown lode claim, and the
fact that the top or apices of the veins or lode in question are
within said portion of the Johnstown lode claim." It also "denies that in this action it contends or claims that only the surface ground of the Johnstown claim was patented to the patentees named therein or that all or any veins lying within the
original location lines of the Rarus claim were patented to the
claimant under the Rarus claim;

.

.

.

but defendant al-

leges that it contends and claims in this action, and in so far as
this controversy between complainant and defendant is concerned, that its extralateral rights to the veins in question
should be determined by its ownership of that parcel of ground
now included within the Johnstown claim and not by the Rarus,
for the reason that said veins or lodes have their tops or apices
within the said parcel of ground owned by defendant."
Various other denials were made, from which it appears that
the only claim made by the defendants in this action is by virtue of their ownership of the Johnstown lode claim. The defendants by this answer therefore admit the averments in the
bill that their rights must be governed and regulated in this
action by reason of their ownership of the Johnstown patent,
and not by virtue of the Rarus patent, and as to those rights
the complainant claims that the course of the vein cannot be
followed because of the nature of the ground.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

_M?,. Louis .Ysa2,8rall for appellant.
on the brief.

Jir.Jom Ff.
FForbiswas

_ib'. o/hn J. _Jfoatton for appellees.
was on the brief.

.ADr. John I. Cotter

MR. JUSTICE PEOCKHM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is quite plain that the various averments contained in the
complainant's bill for the purpose of showing jurisdiction in the
Circuit Court are wholly unnecessary in order to make out complainant's cause of action for the conversion of ore by the defendants on premises belonging to complainant. To make out
aprimafacie case on the part of complainant, so far as its
right to the ore in question is concerned, all that was necessary
was to show the patent and the complainant's possession under
it, and from such patent and possession the presumption would
be that the complainant was the owner of all ores found within
the boundaries contained in the patent extended downward into
the earth, and the burden would then rest upon the defendants
to show that, notwithstanding such presumption, they had the
right to enter upon and take the ore from the ground within
the limit described in the patent under which the complainant
derives title. It could then prove facts to sustain its averients
in regard to ascertaining the quantity and value of the ores
which the defendants were extracting or might extract from
the complainant's premises, and that it would be altogether uncertain and indefinite as to what amount of ores or the value
thereof the defendants might extract in the future, and that the
complainant would be compelled to rely upon the good faith
and showing of the defendants as to the amount and value of
the ores which they had theretofore extracted and might thereafter extract from the premises. Indeed, the complainant asserted in the bill, an extract from which is contained in the
foregoing statement, that primafacieit is the owner of all ores
found within its boundaries extended downwards into the earth,
until the contrary has been shown. It would be wholly unnecessary and improper in order to prove complainant's cause of

BOSTON &c. MINING CO. v. MONTANA ORE CO. 639
Opinion of the Court.

action to go into any matters of defence which the defendants
might possibly set up, and then attempt to reply to such defence,
and thus, if possible, to show that a Federal question might or
probably would arise in the course of the trial of the case. To
allege such defence and then make an answer to it before the
defendant has the opportunity to itself plead or prove its own
defence is inconsistent with any known rule of pleading so far
as we are aware, and is improper.
The rule is a reasonable and just one that the complainant
in the first instance shall be confined to a statement of its cause
of action, leaving to the defendant to set up in his answer what
his defence is and, if anything more than a denial of complainant's cause of action, imposing upon the defendant the burden
of proving such defence.
Conforming itself to that rule the complainant would not,
in the assertion or proof of its cause of action, bring up a single
Federal question. The presentation of its cause of action would
not show that it was one arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States.
The only way in which it might be claimed that a Federal
question was presented would be in the complainant's statement
of what the defence of defendants would be and complainant's
answer to such defence. Under these circumstances the case
is brought within the rule laid down in Tennessee v. Union &
Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454. That case has been cited and
approved many times since, among the latest being Arkansas
v. Kansas &c. Railroad, 183 U. S. 185, where it was stated by
Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court, at page 188,
as follows:
"Hence it has been settled that a case cannot be removed
from a state court into the Circuit Court of the United States
on the sole ground that it is one arising under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by
plaintiff's statement of his own claim ; and if it does not so appear, the want of it cannot be supplied by any statement of the
petition for removal or in the subsequent pleadings. And moreover that jurisdiction is not conferred by allegations that defendant intends to assert a defence based on the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

or a law or treaty of the United States, or under statutes of
the United States, or of a State, in conflict with the Constitution." See also Blakb u'rn v. Partland&c. Co., 175 U. S. 571;
S/osone &c. Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505.
The test of the right of removal is that the case must be one
over which the Circuit Court might have exercised original
jurisdiction under section 1 of the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 24 Stat. 552; 25 Stat.
433. The cases hold that to give the Circuit Court original
jurisdiction the Federal question must appear necessarily in the
statement of the plaintiff's cause of action, and not as mere allegations of the defence which the defendants intend to set up
or which they rely upon. Third Street R ailway Com~pany v.
Lewis, 173 U. S.457.
It is urged, however, on the part of the complainant that its
averments in regard to the jurisdiction of the court are necessary to be set forth as a part of its cause of action, and that
they show that the appellees are questioning complainant's title
and interfering with its enjoyment of its property right by asserting ownership to a portion of such claim of complainant
based upon two government patents issued for the Rarus and
Johnstown claims respectively, and although such assertion of
ownership of the appellees is, as complainant avers, without
legal foundation, yet, for reasons stated in the bill, the consideration of which necessitates an examination of Federal questions,
the case is in effect one to quiet conplainant's title or to prevent
an interference with its rights and property, and complainant
avers that the allegations of jurisdiction relate to its cause of
action; that they state the controversy existing between the
parties as to its subject matter, not as anticipatory of the defence, but as establishing the complainant's right to have its
title quieted.
But it is plain that the suit is not in truth a suit to quiet title.
There is a cause of action alleged that is not founded upon any
such theory, to prove which it is not necessary or proper to go
into the defendants' title or to anticipate their defence to the
cause of action alleged by the complainant. What is thereafter
said is for the purpose of showing jurisdiQtion in, the Federal

BOSTON &c. MINING CO. v. MONTANA ORE CO. 641
Opinion of the Court.

court, not over an equitable cause of action in the nature of a bill
to quiet title, but over a cause of action arising out of the laws
of the United States: and the various mining laws of the United
States are cited to show the truth of the assertion. It is also
clear that jurisdiction in a Federal court cannot be predicated
in this case upon an assertion that it is brought to prevent a
multiplicity of suits. Even then the complainant's proof in the
first instance would remain the same as already stated. The
frequent trespasses, as alleged, of the defendants, by reason
of which an equitable remedy by injunction is sought, might
exist, and still it would not necessarily appear from the complainant's proof that the defendant's justification arose by reason
of an alleged right under the Constitution or laws of the United
States. That might appear in the defence, but would constitute
no cause of action by complainant.
If, however, the bill is to be looked upon as one in the nature
of a bill of peace or to quiet title, it is fatally defective in that
aspect. There are two distinct kinds or classes of bills of peace,
or bills to quiet title, the one brought for the purpose of establishing a general right between a single party and numerous
persons claiming distinct and individual interests; the other
for the purpose of quieting complainant's title to land against a
single adverse claimant. In the second class the suit can be
maintained by a party in possession against a single defendant
ineffectually seeking to establish a legal title by repeated actions
of ejectment, and in such case it is necessary to aver that the
title of complainant has been established by at least one successful trial at law before equity will entertain jurisdiction. 3
Pom. Eq. Jur. 2d ed. ยง 1394, note 3, and 1 Porn. Eq. Jur. ยง 246.
This bill evidently would come under the second of these
classes, and it is defective in not containing an averment that
the complainant's title has been at least once successfully tried
at law. On the contrary, it appears from the bill itself that an
action at law has been commenced involving the same questions,
but has not been tried.
It is also objected that, as a bill of peace or to quiet title, it is
defective, because there is no allegation that the complainant
was in possession, which is necessary in such a bill. If not in
VOL. CLXXXVIII-

4

l

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

possession, an action of ejectment would lie. The contention
that under the Code of Montana a person not in possession may
maintain an action to quiet title cannot prevail in a Federal
court, unless it be alleged and proved that both parties are out
of possession. Tldtelieaf] v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146.
The complainant fails, on both these grounds, to show that
its bill is sufficient as one to quiet its title, and it therefore fails
to show that the case is not covered by the Union & Planters'
Bank case, 152 U. S. 454, and other cases, above cited. If the
bill do not contain facts sufficient to constitute it a bill to quiet
title, all the averments as to defendants' claims as defences, and
complainant's answers thereto, are only material for the purpose of showing that the defence may disclose facts which will
show a case arising out of the mining laws of the United States.
But this would not constitute complainant's cause of action.
But assuming for this purpose (what is otherwise denied) that
the bill is sufficient to confer jurisdiction, it is so only because
of its averments as to the defence to be iade by the defendants
to the complainant's cause of action. When we come to examine their answer we find that defendants disclaim any righ t
under the patent for the Rarus lode claim, and confine their alleged rights to such as exist by virtue of their ownership of the
Johnstown lode claim only. Defendants' claim of right to follow
the veins which they aver have their top or apices in the Johnstown patent is denied by complainant. It sets up in the bill
that it denies and disputes the fact that the veins upon which
defendants have mined in the claim of complainant, even if
such veins had their apices in defendants' ground, (which complainant does not admit,) are yet such veins as can be followed
on their dip beyond the lines of defendants' possessions into the
ground of complainant, and complainant alleges that the veins
are broken and intersected by faults in such a manner that the
same cannot be traced or followed from the ground of defendants into that of the complainant, and therefore defendants
have no right to enter upon the ground of complainant for the
purpose of extracting ores therefrom by reason of their ownership of the apices of any veins within their ground. There is
the further fact alleged that the veins, if any, which have their

BOSTON &c. MINING CO. v. MONTANA ORE CO. 643
Opinion of the Court.

apices in defendants' claim, do not pass in their strike through
the end lines of defendants' claim. This alleged inability to
follow the veins, assuming that they apex in the defendants'
Johnstown patent, and the allegation as to the veins not passing through end lines, are mere questions of fact, depending
upon the proof as to the truth of those averments. This does
not constitute a question arising out of the Constitution or laws
of the United States. The answer, by its denials and disclaimers
as to what it sets up by way of defence, takes away a defence
which might show the case as arising under such Constitution
or laws.
Complainant contends, however, that if a case of jurisdiction
is made out by the bill, the court is not ousted thereof by
whatever is set up in the answer. In this case the contention
cannot be maintained. The only foundation for the alleged
jurisdiction consists of the averments of complainant relative
to the contention of the defendants as to their defence. Now,
if it appear from the answer of defendants that no such claim
as is necessary to give the court jurisdiction is in fact made,
but on the contrary is disclaimed and denied, then the basis of
jurisdiction fails and the court cannot proceed. This is so held
in Robinson v. Anderson, 121 U. S. 522, 524. In that case Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for this court and delivering its
opinion, said:
"Even if the complaint, standing by itself, made out a case
of jurisdiction, which we do not decide, it was taken away as
soon as the answers were in, because if there was jurisdiction
at all it was by reason of the averments in the complaint as to
what the defences against the title of the plaintiffs would be,
and these were of no avail as soon as the answers were filed
and it was made to appear that no such defences were relied
on." See also Crystal Springs &c. Co. v. City of Los Angeles,
82 Fed. Rep. 114, affirmed 177 U. S. 169.
Jurisdiction in this class of cases must be based upon the
fact that the case is one arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States. If it appear to be such in the plaintiff's
pleading simply because of the allegations as to what the defences are on the part of the defendant, if when the answer

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

come in it is seen that no such defence in fact is set up or insisted upon, it is then seen that no such case exists as stated in
the complaint, and no jurisdiction therefor exists to try questions
which are not of a kind coming within the statute, and the

court should then dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
The complainant also objected that the defendants did not
properly or effectively disclaim or deny the allegations of the
complainant's bill.
In relation to the evasive character of the answer it was
stated by Circuit Judge Gilbert in 93 Fed. Rep. 274, in regard
to this case, as follows:
"It is objected that the denials of the answer do not fully
and explicitly traverse the new averments of the amended bill,
but that they are denials only that the defendant relies in ' this
action' upon the alleged rights and claims, and that the defendant disclaims only for the purpose of this present suit,
without waiving its right to assert such claims in some other
suit or proceeding hereafter. No exception, however, was
taken to the answer for insufficiency. It was accepted as
responding to the allegations of the amended bill. We think
it was properly so accepted. If, in view of some possible other
action affecting other interests, the defendant has attempted
to reserve the privilege to assert other rights 'under the Rarus
patent, it is immaterial to the present controversy. It is only
to the rights asserted by the complainant in this suit that the
defendant must make answer. It is required to make its defence to the allegations of the bill, and to show cause why the
relief prayed for should not be decreed. It has answered as
to its rights to extract the ores in question. It says that it
claims nothing by virtue of the Iarus patent, but that it relies
solely upon the fact that the ores it has taken belong to a vein
which has its apex in the Johnstown lode claim, and in its
strike passes through the end lines of said claim, and in its
downward course extends beneath the surface of the complainant's claim. Upon such a bill and such an answer all questions
concerning the right of the defendant to mine the ores in controversy are determinable, and the decree, if against the defendant, would be as effective to bar it from hereafter assert-

