BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

township of Ontonagon, to the sorting grounds and pier jams
of the complainant; they are then loaded aboard cars and
shipped by rail to Green Bay, Wisconsin, via the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, and pass out of the State of
Michigan at a point near the village of Iron Mountain in said
State."
The number of the logs shipped by rail from Ontonagon to
Green Bay before the levy of the tax complained of is given in
the stipulation of facts, and it is stipulated that "about five
hundred thousand feet of complainant's said logs in said river
have been (in said river of slough) constantly within said village since 1898, for the purpose of shipment by rail to the
destination as aforesaid."
The appellant's contention is that the movement of the logs
commenced at the opening of navigation of the river (presumnably in the spring or summer of 1896 and 1897,) and from
that date were in continuous transit as subjects of interstate
commerce, and exempt from taxation. The contention is more
extreme than that made and rejected in Coo v. Errol.
Defree afirmed.

BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
tRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 106. Argued December 4, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

The claim that section 2 of the act providing for the taxation of life estates,
as construed by the highest courts of the State of Illinois, is in contra-

vention of the Fourteenth Amendment in that the classification of life
tenants is arbitrary and unreasonable and denies to life tenants the equal

protection of laws because it taxes one class of life estates where the remainder is to lineals and expressly exempts life estates where the remainder is to collaterals or to strangers in blood, cannot be sustained.
Inheritance tax laws are based upon the power of a State over testate
and intestate dispositions of property, to limit and create estates, and to
impose conditions upon their transfer or devolution. This court has
already decided in regard to this law that such power could be exercised
by distinguishing between the lineal and collateral relatives of a testator.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.
Whether the amount of the tax depends upon him who immediately receives, or upon him who ultimately receives, makes no difference with the
power of the State. No discrimination being exercised in the creation of
the class, equality is observed. 3lagou v. Illinois Trzist and Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283, followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

_11r. James P. .leaglher, with whom Xlh.
ill'iam D. Guthd'ric
was on the brief, for the plaintiff in error, contended that this
case differed and should be distinguished from, _fayoun, v. Plinois Trust and Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, as that case did
not decide that tenants for life or for years could be discriminated against in the manner provided in section 2 of the act,
now before the court. The point could not have been considered in that case for the plain reason that Mrs. Miagoun was not
a tenant for life or for years, and could not have been heard to
complain of discrimination in a class to which she did not belong. The whole class of life tenants or tenants for years could
have been exempted, and such a classification would be within
the discretion of the legislature. The constitutionality of the
exemption under section 2 is now directly challenged by the
plaintiffs in error because they belong to the class affected, and
they contend that in their class they are discriminated against
in that the tax is not similarly imposed upon others within the
same class receiving substantially the same kind of property or
exercising the same privilege.
Submitted by Mr. Hfowland J. Hamlin, Attorney General
of the State of Illinois, for defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE MOKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The case presents the question of the constitutionality, under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, of section 2 of the inheritance tax law of the State of
Illinois. Rev. Stat. Illinois, 1895, c. 120, par. 308. The constitutionality of the law was passed upon in i£aygoun v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, and is there set out.
As much of section 2 as is necessary to quote is as follows:

BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court

"SEc. 2. When any person shall bequeath or devise any
property or interest therein or income therefrom to mother,
father, husband, wife, brother and sister, the widow of the son,
or a lineal descendant during the life or for a term of years or
(and) remainder to the collateral heir of the decedent, or to the
stranger in blood or to the body politic or corporate at their
decease, or on the expiration of such term, the said life estate
or estates for a term of years shall not be subject to any tax
and the property so passing shall be appraised immediately
after the death at what was the fair market value thereof at
the time of the death of the decedent in the manner hereinafter
provided, and after deducting therefrom the value of said life
estate, or term of years, the tax transcribed by this act on the
remainder shall be immediately due and payable to the treasurer of the proper county, and, together with the interests
thereon, shall be and remain a lien on said property until the
same is paid; . .
It is claimed, however, that the question presented in this
case was not passed upon in .lagoan v. Illinois Trust & Savinys Bank. If this be not so, if this case cannot be distinguished from that, it follows necessarily that the judgment
sought to be reviewed must be affirmed.
The proceedings originated in the County Court of Cook
County, Illinois, which entered a judgment order assessing
taxes, under the law in controversy, upon the property and
estates passing to the plaintiffs in error. The order was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 189 Illinois, 472.
Albert M. Billings, a resident of Chicago, died in that city,
February 7, 1897. He left surviving him a widow, Augusta S.
Billings; a son, Cornelius K. G. Billings, one of the plaintiffs
in error, and grandson, Albert M. Billings Ruddock, who is the
other plaintiff in error. He also left a son by a former marriage, with whom this record is not concerned. His estate was
very large, and he devised and bequeathed it all to his wife, excepting certain reservations, during her natural life. How it
should be divided, then, the will proceeded to provide as
follows:
"I do also herein give and bequeath to my son Cornelius

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Kingsley Garrison Billings, and to my grandson Albert M.
Billings Ruddock, to be held and owned by them at the death
of my wife Augusta S. Billings as is hereinafter explained and
set forth, all the property and estate herein bequeathed to her
my wife not otherwise disposed of by my said executors hereinafter named, in the manner following to wit: Two thirds
thereof to my son C. K. G. Billings and one third thereof to
my grandson Albert M. Billings Ruddock to be held and
owned by them as above stated during their lifetime, and
should my son C. K. G. Billings die, not leaving a living child
or children of his own issue, the property herein bequeathed to
him shall revert and be held and owned by my grandchild
Albert M. Billings Ruddock during his lifetime, and should
my grandson Albert M. Billings Ruddock die not leaving a
child or children of his own issue, then all the property and
estate herein bequeathed to him shall revert and become the
property and estate of my brother John D. Billings (should he
be alive at that time) and my living nephews and nieces who
shall be living at the time of the death of my said grandson,
as aforesaid, said brother, nieces and nephews to share and
share alike in said estate."
The will, therefore, created a life estate in the widow in the
entire estate, and at her death life estates of two thirds and
one third of the property bequeathed respectively to the testator's son and grandson, the plaintiffs in error.
The widow renounced the provision made for her, and elected
to take in lieu thereof her dower and legal share, and the estates to the plaintiffs in error accrued at once. The County
Court appointed an appraiser to fix the fair market value of
the estates for the purpose of assessing the inheritance tax as
provided by the statute. "The widow's dower award," to
quote from the opinion of the Supreme Court, "and one third of
the personalty were appraised at the total sum of $2,363,151.75,
the tax upon which, after deducting the $20,000 exemption,
was fixed at $23,443.53. The life interest (as it was decreed
to be) of said Cornelius in the two thirds bequeathed to him
was appraised at $2,472,118.75, and after deducting his exemption of $20,000, the. tax to be paid by him was assessed at

BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

$24,821.18. This included the specific devise of real estate
valued at $30,000. The life interest of Albert Al. Billings
Ruddock in the one third interest bequeathed to him was appraised at $1,408,374.77, and after deducting his exemption of
$20,000, his tax was assessed at $14,043.74. This included
also the tax on a specific devise to him of real estate valued at
$16,000. The court, in approving the appraiser's report, found
that Cornelius K. G. Billings took a life estate in the two thirds
of the residuary estate bequeathed to him, and that there was
a remainder therein of the value, at the testator's death, of
$864,584.70, which had not vested, and that there was a remainder in the one third bequeathed to Albert M. Billings
Ruddock for life of the value of $250,976.95, which had not
vested, and ordered that the tax on these remainders be postponed until they shall have become vested."
The widow was an appellant in the Supreme Court of the
State, but she is not a party here.
The assignment of error is "that the statute is in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States of America, in that the classification of life tenants is arbitrary and unreasonable, and denies to the plaintiffs
in error, as life tenants, the equal protection of the laws; because the statute, as interpreted and enforced by the state
courts, taxes life estates where the remainder is to lineals, but
does not tax, and expressly exempts, similar life estates where
the remainder is to collaterals or to strangers in blood."
Turning to the _ilagoun case, we find that the objection made
to the statute was that it denied to the appellant the equal protection of the laws, and the sonewhat elementary and lengthy
discussion in the opinion was induced by the grounds upon
which, and the ability with which, the statute was attacked.
It is very certain that no consideration was omitted from the
arguments at bar which could have aided the court to form a
judgment. If there had been a proper classification there could
not have been the denial of the equal protection of the laws,
and we, therefore, expressed and illustrated the principle upon
which it should be based. We said it was established by cases
that classification must be based on some reasonable ground.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

It could not be a "mere arbitrary selection." But what is the
test of an arbitrary selection? It is difficult to exhibit it precisely in a general rule. Classification is essentially the same
in law as it is in other departments of knowledge or practice.
It is the grouping of things in speculation or practice, because
they "agree with one another in certain particulars and differ
from other things in those same particulars." Things may have
very diverse qualities, and yet be united in a class. They may
have very similar qualities, and yet be cast in different classes.
Cattle and horses may be considered in a class for some purposes. Their differences are certainly pronounced. Salt and
sugar may be associated in a grocer's stock for a grocer's purposes. To confound them in use would be very disappointing.
Human beings are essentially alike, vet some individuals may
have attributes or relations not possessed by others, which may
constitute them a class. But their classification-indeed, all
classification-must primarily depend upon purpose-the problem presented. Science will have one purpose, business another
and legislation still another. The latter, of course, on account
of the restraints upon the legislature, may not be legl-may
not be within the power of the legislature. To dispute that
power, however, is not the same thing as to dispute a classification, and yet that there may be dependence-more freedom of
classification in some instances-has been indicated by the cases.
A State cannot regulate interstate commerce, however accurate
its classification of objects may be. On the other hand, the
taxing power of a State is one of its most extensive powers. It
cannot be exercised upon persons grouped according to their
complexions. It can be exercised if they are grouped according
to their occupations. A State may regulate or suppress combinations to restrict the sale of products. The power cannot
be exerted to forbid combinations among those who buy products and permit combinations among those who raise or grow
products. Connolly v. Union Sewei Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
And yet, exercising its taxing power, it has been decided, that
a State may make that discrimination. Avmerican Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89. Other illustrations may
be taken from the cases which tend to the same end. If the

BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

purpose is within the legal powers of the legislature, and the
classification made has relation to that purpose, (excludes no
persons or objects that are affected by the purpose, includes all
that are,) logically speaking, it will be appropriate; legally
speaking, a law based upon it will have equality of operation.
And, excluding our right to consider policies or assume legislation, we have many times said that a State in its purposes and
in the execution of them, must be allowed a wide range of discretion, and that this court will not make itself "a harbor in
which can be found a refuge from ill-advised, unequal and
oppressive legislation." .Jfobile Co. v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
691.
These principles were announced in the ifagoun case and
found to sustain the Illinois statute. We said: "There are
three main classes in the Illinois statute, the first and second being based, respectively, on lineal and collateral relationship to
the testator or intestate, and the third being composed of
strangers to his blood and distant relatives. The latter is again
divided into four subclasses dependent upon the amount of the
estate received. The first two classes, therefore, depend on substantial differences, differences which may distinguish them from
each other and them or either of them from the other classdifferences, therefore, which 'bear a just and proper relation
to the attempted classification '-the rule expressed in the Gu/f,
Colorado& Santa J7' Railway Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150. And
if the constituents of each class are affected alike, the rule of
equality prescribed by the cases is satisfied. In other words,
the law operates 'equally and uniformly upon all persons in
similar circumstances.'"
But it is insisted that the classification sustained in the iJ-agoun case " related solely to the graduated feature of the tax."
In the case at bar, it is said, the question is " whether or not
the Illinois legislature can discriminate against constituents of
a certain class, and apply different rules for the taxation of its
members. Life tenants constitute but a single class, and the
incidents of such an estate, the source thereof, the extent, the
dominion over and quality of interest in the tenant, is the same
irrespective of the ultimate vesting of the remainder. The tax

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Syllabus.

is not upon the property, but is upon the person succeeding to
the property."
Undoubtedly, life tenants regarded simply as persons, may
be in legal contemplation the same; estates for life regarded
simply as estates with their attributes also in legal contemplation, may be said to be the same, but that is not all that is to
be considered, nor is it determinative. We must regard the
power of the State over testate and intestate dispositions of
property, its power to create and limit estates, and, as resulting,
its power to impose conditions upon their transfer or devolution.
It is upon this power that inheritance tax laws are based, and
we said, in the Xfagoun case, that the power could be eKercised

by distinguishing between the lineal and collateral relatives of

a testator. There the amount of tax depended upon him who
immediately received; here the existence of the tax depends

upon hin who ultimately receives. That can make no difference
with the power of the State. No discrimination being exercised

in the creation of the class, equality is observed.

Crossing the

lines of the classes created by the statute discriminations may

be exhibited, but -within the classes there is equality.
Judgment a/firmed.

AMERICAN COLORTYPE COMPANY v. CONTINENTAL COLORTYPE COMPANY.
FOR THE
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES
ILLINOIS.
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
No. 440.

Submitted December 22,1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

An Illinois corporation transferred to a New Jersey corporation contracts

of employment containing stipulations that the employ~s would not accept employment from any other person during specified periods and

would never divulge the secrets of the trade. The New Jersey company

by consent of all parties became substituted as a party to such contracts
in valuable
and instructed the employ6s, who accepted the employment,

trade secrets. The employgs who were not citizens of New Jersey then
entered into an arrangement to work for a rival Illinois corporation.

