OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

what justice requires upon the part of the Government. If any
exceptions ought to be made to the general rule it is for Congress to make them.
We have not overlooked the allegation in the petition that
the plaintiff entered the elevator "at the request of the United
States, and of its officers, employ6s and duly authorized agents,
each acting within the scope of his authority." This, we assume, means at most only that the plaintiff entered, or attempted
to enter, the elevator with the assent of those who had control
of it and of the building in which it was erected. But if more
than this was meant to be alleged; if the plaintiff intended to
allege an express or affirmative request by officers or agents of
the United States, the case would not, in our view, be changed ;
for the court knows that, without the authority of an act of
Congress, no officer or agent of the United States could, in writing or verbally, make the Government liable to suit by reason
of the want of due care on the part of those having charge of
an elevator in a public building.
We are of opinion that this case is one sounding in tort, within
the meaning of the act of 1887, and therefore not maintainable
in any court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the action for
want of jurisdiction is
Affirmed.

CUMMIIGS v. CHICAGO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 136. Submitted December 19, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

1. The plaintiffs by their complaint asserted a right, under the Constitution of the United States and certain acts of Congress and a permit of
the Secretary of War, issued in conformity with those acts, to construct
a dock in the Calumet River, a navigable water of the United States
within the limits of the city of Chicago. The bill showed that this

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Statement of the Case.
right was denied by the city of Chicago, upon the ground that the
plaintiffs had not complied with its ordinances requiring a permit from
its Department of Public Works before any such structure could be
erected within the limits of that city. Held:
(1) That the suit was one arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and was therefore one of which, under the act
of August 13, 1888, c. 866, the Circuit Court of the United States
could take jurisdiction, without reference to the citizenship of the
parties.
(2) As such a suit involved the construction and application of the
Constitution of the United States, the appeal from the final judgment of the Circuit Court in such an action could be taken directly
to the Supreme Court of the United States under the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517.
2. Neither the act of Congress of March 3, 1899, c. 425, nor any previous
act relating to the erection of structures in the navigable waters of the
United States manifested any purpose on the part of Congress to assert
the power to invest private persons with power to erect such structures
within a navigable water of the United States, wholly within the territorial limits of a State, without regard to the wishes of the State upon
the subject.
3. Under existing legislation, the right to erect a structure in a navigable
water of the United States, wholly within the limits of a State, depends
upon the concurrent or joint assent of the state and National Governinents.

Tni appellants, citizens of Illinois, brought this suit against

the city of Chicago for the purpose of obtaining a decree restraining the defendant, its officers and agents, from interfering
with the construction of a dock in front of certain lands owned
by the plaintiffs and situated on Calumet River, within the
limits of that city.
The city demurred to the bill upon the ground that it did
not state facts entitling the plaintiffs to the relief asked. The
demurrer was sustained and the bill was dismissed for want of
equity.
The controlling question in the case is whether the plaintiffs
have the right, in virtue of certain legislation of Congress and
of certain action of the Secretary of War, to which reference
will be presently made, to proceed with the proposed work in
disregard of an ordinance of the city of Chicago requiring the
permission of its Department of Public Works as a condition
precedent to the construction of any dock within the limits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

the city. The plaintiffs had not obtained any permit from that
Department.
The legislation of Congress and the action of the Secretary
of War upon which the plaintiffs rely are very fully set forth
in the bill and are as follows :
In the River and Harbor Appropriation Act of August 2,
1882, c. 375, will be found this provision: "Improving harbor
at Calumet, Illinois: Continuing improvement, thirty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That with a view to the improvement
of the Calumet River, in the State of Illinois, from its mouth
to the Fork at Calumet Lake, the Secretary of War shall appoint a board of engineers who shall examine said river and
report upon the practicability and the best method of perfecting and maintaining a channel for through navigation to said
Fork at Lake Calumet, adapted to the passage of the largest
vessels navigating the Northern and Northwestern Lakes,
limiting and locating the lines of channel to be improved by
the United States, and of docks that may be constructed by
private individuals, corporations, or other parties, and clearly
defining the same under the direction of the Chief of Engineers, United States Army; and the Secretary of War shall
report to Congress the result of said examination, and the estimated cost of the proposed improvement; also what legislation,
if any, is necessary, to prevent encroachments being made or
maintained within the limits of the channel designated as
above provided for." 22 Stat. 194-.
Thereafter, the bill alleges, the Secretary of War appointed
a board of engineers, who surveyed the river and defined the
lines of its channel and of docks to be constructed, under the
direction of said Chief of Engineers; and the Secretary of War
thereafter reported to Congress the estimated cost of the proposed improvement.
In the River and Harbor Appropriation Act of July 5, 1S8S,
c. 229, this provision was inserted : "Improving Calumet River,
Illinois: Continuing improvement, fifty thousand dollars:
Povided, however, That no part of said sum shall be expended
until the right of way shall have been conveyed to the United
States, free from expense, and the United States shall be fully

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Statement of the Case.

released from all liability for damages to adjacent propertyowners, to the satisfaction of the Secretary of War." 23 Stat.
133, 143.
Under these enactments, the bill alleged, the United States
caused a plat to be made establishing the channel of the river
and its lines, and fixing the dock lines thereof. That plat was
approved by the Chief of Engineers of the Army and was duly
recorded in the recorder's office of Cook County.
The above legislation was followed by this provision in the
River and Harbor Act of August 5, 1886, c. 929: "Improving
Calumet River, Illinois: Continuing improvement, thirty thousand dollars; of which eleven thousand two hundred and fifty
dollars are to be used between the Forks and one half mile east
P rovided, however, That no
of Hammond, Indiana, ...
part of said sum, nor any sum heretofore appropriated, except
the said eleven thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, for the
river above the Forks, shall be expended until the entire right
of way, as set forth in Senate Executive Document Number
Nine, second session Forty-seventh Congress, shall have been
conveyed to the United States free of expense, and the United
States shall be fully released from all liability for damages to
adjacent property-owners, to the satisfaction of the Secretary
of War; . . ." 24 Stat. 310, 325.
Without going into all the details set forth in the bill, it may
be assumed that the deeds of conveyance which the above acts
of 1884 and 1886 required to be made to the United States were
in fact made and accepted.
The bill alleges that the United States by its duly authorized
officials thereafter entered upon the improvement of Calumet
River in accordance with the surveys and plans adopted by the
Chief of Engineers of the United States Army and "thereby
established said dock or channel line on the west line of said
river in the manner and form shown by said plat approved by
the said Chief of Engineers and filed for record as aforesaid."
By the seventh section of the River and Harbor Act of Congress, approved September 19, 1890, c. 907, it was provided:
"That it shall not be lawful to build any wharf, pier, dolphin,
boom, dam, weir, breakwater, bulkhead, jetty, or structure of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

any kind outside established harbor-lines, or in any navigable
waters of the United States where no harbor-lines are or may
be established, without the permission of the Secretary of War,
in any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, navigable river, or other
waters of the United States, in such manner as shall obstruct
or impair navigation, commerce, or anchorage of said waters,
and it shall not be lawful hereafter to commence the construction of any bridge, bridge-draw, bridge piers and abutments,
causeway or other works over or in any port, road, roadstead,
haven, harbor, navigable river, or navigable waters of the United
States, under any act of the legislative assembly of any State,
until the location and plan of such bridge or other works have
been submitted to and approved by the Secretary of War, or
to excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter or modify the
course, location, condition, or capacity of the channel of said
navigable water of the United States, unless approved and authorized by the Secretary of War: P'ovided, That this section
shall not apply to any bridge, bridge-draw, bridge piers and
abutments the construction of which has been heretofore duly
authorized by law, or be so construed as to authorize the construction of any bridge, drawbridge, bridge piers and abutments,
or other works, under an act of the legislature of any State,
over or in any stream, port, roadstead, haven or harbor, or other
navigable water not wholly within the limits of such State."
26 Stat. 426, 454.
Then, by the tenth section of the River and Harbor Act of
March 3, 1899, c. 425, it was provided: "That the creation of
any obstruction not affirmatively authorized by Congress, to
the navigable capacity of any of the waters of the United States
is hereby prohibited ; and it shall not be lawful to build or commence the building of any wharf, pier, dolphin, boom, weir,
breakwater, bulkhead, jetty, or other structures in any port,
roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, navigable river, or other water
of the United States, outside established harbor lines, or where
no harbor lines have been established, except on plans reconmended by the Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War; and it shall not be lawful to excavate or fill,
or in any manner to alter or modify the course, location, con-

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Statement of the Case.

dition, or capacity of, any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal,
lake, harbor of refuge, or inclosure within the limits of any
breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of the
United States, unless the work has been recommended by the
Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War
prior to beginning the same." 30 Stat. 1121, 1151.
Subsequently, the plaintiffs and the Calumet Grain and Elevator Company-the latter also owning land on the Calumet
River in front of which the proposed new dock would be built
-caused plans of the dock to be prepared and submitted to the
Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers of the Army, and
application was made to the former for permission to rebuild
the dock along the front of their lands on Calumet River as
shown by those plans.
Those plans were approved by the United States Engineer
stationed at Chicago, and were subsequently recommended by
the Chief of Engineers of the Army. The Secretary thereupon
issued and delivered to the plaintiffs and the Grain and Elevator
Company the following instrument:
"Whereas, by section 10 of an act of Congress, approved
March 3, 1899, entitled 'An act making appropriations for the
construction, repair and preservation of certain public works
on rivers and harbors, and for other purposes,' it is provided
that it shall not be lawful to build or commence the building
of any wharf, pier, dolphin, boom, weir, breakwater, bulkhead,
jetty, or other structures in any port, roadstead, haven, harbor,
canal, navigable river, or other water of the United States, outside established harbor lines, or where no harbor lines have
been established, except on plans recommended by the Chief of
Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War; and it
shall not be lawful to excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter
or modify the course, location, condition, or capacity of, any
port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, lake, harbor of refuge, or
inclosure within the limits of any breakwater, or of the channel
of any navigable water of the United States, unless the work
has been recommended by the Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War prior to beginning the same; and
whereas, D. M. Cummings, as executor of the estate of Q. R.

OCTOBER TERI,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

Cummings, and the Calumet Grain and Elevator Company
have applied to the Secretary of War for permission to rebuild
the dock in front of that part. of block 108, in sections 5 and 6,
T. 37, R. 15, E., fronting on Calumet River, south of 95th street,
Chicago, Illinois, along the lines shown on the attached plans,
which have been recommended by the Chief of Engineers; now
therefore this is to certify that the Secretary of War hereby
gives unto said D. M. Cummings, as executor of the estate of
C. R. Cummings, and the Calumet Grain and Elevator Coinpany permission to rebuild the dock, at said place, along the
lines shown on said plans, subject to the following condition:
That the work herein permitted to be done shall be subject to
the supervision and approval of the engineer officer of the
United States Army in charge of the locality. Witness my
hand this 12th day of May, 1900. Elihu Root, Secretary of
The bill then allegedThat after the granting of permission by the Secretary of
War, the plaintiffs became entitled, in virtue of that permission
and the provisions of the act of March 3, 1899, to build the
proposed dock in front of their premises, subject only to the
condition that the work should be under the supervision and
be approved by the engineer officer of the Army in charge of
the locality;
That after the action of the Secretary of War they entered
into a contract for the building of the dock and were engaged
in the prosecution of the work when, about the 15th of October, 1900, the city of Chicago, by its officers and agents, put a
stop to the work by force and threats, asserting that it could
not be prosecuted unless a permit therefor be issued by its
Department of Public Works;
That this action of the city was taken pursuant to certain
ordinances theretofore passed by the city council and which
made it the duty of the city's Harbor Master to require all
parties engaged in repairing, renewing, altering, or constructing any dock within the city to produce such permit and in default thereof to cause the arrest of any parties engaged in the
work and the removal of the dock;

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Statement of the Case.

That the engineer officer in the Department of Public Works
of the city, having agreed that the city had no power to interfere with the plaintiffs or prevent the building of said dock by
them, agreed that the work should not be interfered with by
the city or its agents;
That the plaintiffs thereupon resumed the construction of the
dock, but they were again stopped by the city through its
police, and plaintiffs' contractors, agents and servants were
forced to discontinue the work, being threatened with arrest
and violence if they should attempt to continue it further;
That the city by its officers and agents has notified the
plaintiffs that they will not be permitted to continue the work
or to build the dock in front of their premises, notwithstanding
the permission or authority given to them by the Secretary of
War, and that, by its police, it would forcibly prevent the
building thereof, arrest those engaged in doing the work, and
remove any dock built; and,
That the city wholly refuses to recognize the permission and
authority given the plaintiffs by the Secretary of War to build
said dock, and their right "under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and more particularly under the said act of
Congress of March 3, 1889, to build it by virtue of the said
authority and permission granted by the Secretary of War and
the approval and recommendation of the plans therefor by the
Chief of Engineers of the United States Army;"
That in view of the action taken by the city and its police,
they fear that attempts to continue their work will necessarily
be futile and lead to breaches of the peace and conflicts between
the men engaged in the work and the police of the city of
Chicago ; and that the right to build said dock in front of their
premises in accordance with the permission and authority given
them by the Secretary of War and on the lines recommended
by the Chief of Engineers and within the dock line established
by said survey and by the deed to the United States is a property right, which the plaintiffs have as the owners of the premises and of the land upon which the dock is to be built, and that
the action of the city in thus preventing the building of the
dock is a taking of the property of the plaintiffs "without due
VOL. OLXXXVIII-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

process of law, and a taking thereof for public use without just

compensation, in violation of the Fifth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States."
The relief asked was a decree enjoining the city, its agents
and officers, from interfering with the building of the clock,
and that upon the final hearing of the cause, it be adjudged and
decreed that under the acts of Congress the plaintiffs have the
right by virtue of the permission granted by the Secretary or
War to build the lock on the lines shown by the plans recomimended by the Chief of Engineers, and that the city of Chicago
has no right, power or authority to interfere therewith.
i.. S. A. Lynde and Mr. Marren B. Wilson for appellants.
I. The United States, in its survey and plat of the channel
of this river and in its improvement of the river under the acts
of Congress of August 2, 1882, and July 5, 1881, has fixed and
established' the lines of the channel of the river and of the
docks that might be constructed thereon.
II. By the terms and provisions of the deeds which Congress
required to be made to the United States by the owners of the
land fronting on this river, as a condition for the expenditure
of the moneys appropriated for the improvement of the river,
the shore and dock lines as established and fixed by the government survey, are to be taken for all purposes as the true meander lines of this stream; and, under the deed which was made
to the United States pursuant to this provision of the act of
Congress, aforesaid, by Columbus R. Cummings, and under the
acts of Congress of August 2, 1882, and of July 5, 184, referring to the improvement of this river, the appellants are
entitled as the owners of these premises to build their proposed
dock on the line shown by the plan attached to the permit that
issued to them by the Secretary of War, which is within the
line which has been established by the United States as the
dock line of these premises and which has been fixed and made
the meander line of this stream.
As riparian owners the appellants had the right to build
their dock, subject only to the public easement for the purpose
of navigation. Yates v. 2liwukee, 10 Wall. 491; Chicago

CUMMINGS v. UNITED STATES.

419

Argument for Appellants.

v. Laflin, 49 Illinois, 172 ; Chicago v. MeGinn, 51 Illinois, 266;
Chicago v. Van Ingen, 152 Illinois, 624.
III. Congress has takdn jurisdiction over this river as one of
the navigable waters of the United States, and has improved
it and made it navigable and available for commerce, and has
directed and caused the channel and dock lines of the river to
be defined and established. Its jurisdiction over this river for
the purpose of navigation and the protection thereof, and its
power to control the building of docks or other structures in
this river is, when exercised, supreme; and neither the State
of Illinois nor the city of Chicago, its agent, has any power to
interfere with or prevent the erection of any dock or structure
which Congress has authorized to be built in this river. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat, 1; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling etc.
Bridge Co., 13 Howard, 518, 566; S. C., 18 Howard, 421,
460; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 724; Pound v.
Tarck, 95 U. S. 459; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 379, 387;
Bridge Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 470, 475, 479; Cardwell v. American Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 1; Willamette Iron
Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1.
As to power of Congress to determine what shall or shall
not be deemed in law an obstruction to navigation, Pennsylvania v. Vheeling etc. Bridge Co., 18 Howard, 421, 460; In re
Clinton Bridge, 10 Wall. 454; South Carolinav. Georgia, 93
U. S. 4; North Bloomfield Gravel .Zining Co. v. United States,
88 Fed. Rep. 675.
A State has no power to interfere with erection of any structure in navigable waters authorized by Congress. Decker v. B.
& N. Y. R. Co., 30 Fed. Rep. 723; Stockton v. B. & AT. 7. R.
Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 9 ; Penn. R. Co. v. N. Y P.. Co., 37 Fed. Rep.
129.
On question as to police power of State, in addition to authorities above cited, see also County qf .fobile v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 691, 699; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 683;
Sands v. Afanistee River Imra). Co., 123 U. S. 288.
IV. Under the provisions of section 10 of the act of March 3,
1899, the Secretary of War was empowered by Congress to approve and permit the erection of (locks in navigable rivers of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

the United States on plans recommended by the Chief of Engineers; and the permit which was issued to the appellants by
the Secretary of War to rebuild their dock in front of these
premises on the plan attached thereto, which was approved
by the Chief of Engineers gave theta full right and authority
under said act of Congress to build said dock in accordance
with said permit, and the city of Chicago had no power or
authority to interfere with or prevent them from building this
dock, and could not lawfully stop its construction.
The appellants base their claim of right to build this dock
without interference from the city of Chicago on two grounds:
1. On the acts of August 2, 1882, and July 5, 1884, and the
provision of the deed from Cummings to the United States, that
this line, which has been established by the United States, shall
be taken as the "true meandered" line of this stream.
2. On the act of March 3, 1899, and the permit, which the
Secretary of War has issued to them thereunder.
This authority from the Secretary of War is given by and
under the act of M11arch 3, 1899, and is paramount, and excludes
any state or municipal control of this same matter. South
Carolinav. Georgia,93 U. S. 4; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S.
379; United States v. Milwaukee & St. Paul Piy. Co., 5 Bissell,
410; Federal Cases No. 15,778; United States v. Milwaukee ce
St. Paul By. Co., 5 Bissell, 410; Federal Cases, No. 15,779;
1Villamette Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1; United States v.
Bellinghan Bay Boom Co., 176 U. S. 211, 217; United States
v. Orrsby, 74 Fed. Rep. 207 ; United States v. City of .Joline,
82 Fed. Rep. 592.
The delegation of power to the Secretary of War by the act
of 1899 to issue this permit is valid.
In addition to authorities last above cited, see Luthar v.
Borden, 7 How. 1; .Jfiller-v. MAayor of -Yew Yor ", 109 U. S.
385; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; ield v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649; L. . & . S. fy. Co. v. State of Oh/o, 165 U. S. 365.
V. The right to build this structure upon their premises
within the dock line established by the United States and under
the permit issued to them under the said act of Congress is a
property right vested in the appellants which is conceded to be

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Argument for Appellees.

of greater value than $2000, and the action of the city of Chicago in preventing the building of said dock by the appellants
is a taking of their property without due process of law and a
taking thereof for public use without just compensation in violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
.X2. Charles 3L 11ralker and Mr. Henr Schofield for appellees.
I. The Circuit Court, as a Federal court, had no jurisdiction.
If the statement of the claim, or demand, in each bill does
not, in and of itself, show, that the claim, or demand, arises
under the Constitution, or laws, of the United States, the fact
that the defendant filed a demurrer cannot aid the statement
to that end. Ten~nessee v. Union & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S.
454; Houston, & Texas Central Rd. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S.
66, 78, and cases cited; New Orleansv. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411,
424, 431.
The jurisdiction cannot rest on section 629, subdivision "sixteenth," of the Revised Statutes, because said section, if in
force, has no application.
II. Even if the Circuit Court, as a Federal court, did have jurisdiction in these cases, this court has no jurisdiction, because
section 6 of the Court of Appeals Act vests the appellate jurisdiction in these cases in the Court of Appeals exclusively.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court could not rest on the
ground that the suits arise under the Constitution of the United
States, because the attempt to draw in question the validity of
an ordinance of the city of Chicago is wholly abortive, neither
the ordinance itself being set forth, nor any statute of the State
authorizing the passage of the ordinance being set forth, in any
way whatever. The State of Illinois cannot be convicted of
violating the Fourteenth Amendment without allegation, or
proof, approximating, at least, to a certainty. No reason is
perceived why the rule stated in Yazoo & Mississippi Reaiload Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 41, 48, on error to a state court,
is not applicable. A municipal ordinance is not a state act,
unless passed under legislative authority. Hacnilton Gas Light

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

Co. v. Tamilton City, 146 U. S. 25S, 265-266. This court has
no jurisdiction under section 5 of the Court of Appeals Act.
Curtis' Jurisdiction of U. S. Courts, 2d ed. pp. 67-73.
The cases are " cases other than those provided for" in section 5 of the Court of Appeals Act; and the act of March 3,
1899, under sections 10 and 12 of which these cases arise, being a
criminal law, section 6 of the Court of Appeals Act makes the
judgment of the Court of Appeals final.
II. The court below, as a courtof equity, had no jurisdiction
because the remedy at law is entirely adequate. That is, the
bills do not show that it is not. And also a court of equity will
not generally stop the enforcement of a penal police ordinance.
Peole v. Canal Board of Yew York, 55 N. Y. 390 ; Davis v.
Am erican Society for Peventing Gruelly to Animal., 75 N. Y.
362; Poyet v. TIillage of Des Plaines, 123 Illinois, 111 ; 1 Foster's Fed. Practice, 2d ed. sec. 215 ; Tn e Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200 ;
ffarkrader v. TFadley, 172 U. S. 166; Pitts v. Mc/hee, 172
U. S. 531; Osborne v..31issouri Pacific Ry. Co., 147 U. S.
248, 258.
IV. Complainants should have joined in one bill, as, at best,
they held a joint permit under section 10 of the act of March 3,
1899. ilfi nesota v. l7ortkern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 234,
238. One is not a party, though named in the pleadings, unless
he is brought in by process, or appears. T'crr-y v. Con. Bank,
92 U. S. 454; .3ayv. Le Claire, 11 Wall. 217.
V. Complainants do not own the land they intend to build
on. It is conceded that it is established law in the State of Illinois, that a conveyance of land callingfr running ivater as a
boundar'y carries title to submerged land to the middle of such
running water, whether the water be navigable or not. Notwithstanding the decision of the majority of the judges m
v. Jordan., 140 U. S. 371 (1890), the rule is different
Iadin
where the conveyance calls for still water, ponds or lakes, navigable or not, for a boundary. Fller v. Slted(d, 161 Illinois,
462 (1896). The descriptions in the bill call for a fixed boundary or for a definite extent of land. In .MeCornnick v. Tuse, 78
Illinois, 363, the extent of land, or quantity of land, conveyed
controlled. In Brophy v. Richeson, 137 Indiana, 114, meander

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Argument for Appellees.

lines and stakes controlled. Rockwell v. Baldwin, 53 Illinois,
19. In Handly's Lessees v. Anthony, 5 Wheaton, 374, the
words "northwest of the River Ohio," in the Virginia grant of
the Northwest Territory, was held to restrict the boundary to
the low water mark on the northwest bank of the Ohio River.
A plat referred to in a description is part of the description.
Henderson v. Ifatterman,146 Illinois, 555 ; Smith v. Young, 160
Illinois, 163, 170. Appellants are asking a court of equity to aid
them to commit trespasses. Braxon v. Bressler, 64 Illinois,
488, a case of taking rocks from bed of a stream, held to be
trespass. lVashington lee Co. v. Shortall,101 Illinois, 46, taking
ice found on stream held to be trespass. Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 138.
VI. There is no collision between section 10 of the act of
March 3, 1899, and the ordinance of the city of Chicago.
In the absence of any national or state statute, or municipal.
ordinance regulating the subject, the ownership of the submerged soil, by the law of Illinois, gives only a license to such
owner to build a whaif on such soil. When a State parts with
its title to the bed of navigable water, and thereby gives, as in
Illinois, an implied license to build wharves in the bed in aid of
commerce, it nevertheless retains its power to control and prohibit, in the interest of the public, the building of wharves and
other structures in such bed, and does not, and cannot thereby,
in any way, impair, or diminish, the power of Congress, under
the commerce clause, to regulate and prohibit, in the interest of
interstate and foreign commerce, the use of such bed, or the
police power of the State. Prosserv. NMorthern Pacific R. R.
(b., 152 U. S. 59, 64-65; Stively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.1, 40, VII;
lWalker v. _Mfarks, 17 Wall. 648; Weber v. State Harbor Comrns.
18 Wall. 57; Con. v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53; People v. ANew York
& Staten Island Ferry Co., 68 N. Y. 71 ; State v. Sargent, 45
Connecticut, 358; H1awkins Point Light hlouse, 39 Fed. Rep.
77, brief for the Government; Gould, Waters, 3d ed. sec. 138
and sec. 179, at p. 349, and cases cited.
In the case of navigable streams, the cases in Illinois all recognize, that the license of a riparian owner on a navigable stream
in Illinois, by virtue of his ownership of the bed in front of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

land, may be regulated and prohibited by the legislature in the
interest of the public easements of navigation, etc. .middleton
v. Pritchard,3 Scam. 510 (1842); People v. St. Louis, 5 Gilman, 351 (1848); Canal Tirustees v. Havan, 5 Gilman, 548
(1849); Illinois River Packet Co. v. PeoriaBiridge Co., 38 Illinois, 417 (1865):;Ensm-inger v. People,47 Illinois, 384 (1868);
City of Chicago v. Layfin., 49 Illinois, 172 (1868) ; City qf (Icago v. -McGinn, 51 Illinois, 766 (1869); Rockwell v. Baldwi(,
53 Illinois, 19 (1869); Hubbard v. Bell, 54 Illinois, 110 (1870);
Biraaon v. Bqressler, 64 Illinois, 488 (1872); TVaslingtonf e Co.
v. Skortall 101 Illinois, 46 (1881); Piper'v. Connolly, 108 Illinois, 646 (1884).
There can be no doubt that Congress has power to prevent
the erection of any kind of structures, constituting obstructions
to navigation, over, or in, the Calumet River, the same being
navigable waters of .the United States, even when such structures are authorized by state law.
It is very apparent that the River and Harbor Act of 1899 is
preventive legislation, and is not legislation designed to grant
authority. The power of the Secretary of War is to prevent
the erection of structures, bridges, on, over, and in, navigable
waters of the United States, if they will be obstructions, and not
to authorize them. The act is preventive and defensive, and it
has been so authoritatively decided in regard to the River and
Harbor Act of 1890, almost the first of the acts containing
these preventive, defensive regulations. Lake Sliore & .lficigan Southervu R. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365. See Lane v. Smilh,
71. Connecticut, 65, 70.
The language of the act of Congress of 1899 is prohibitory,
preventive and defensive, and is not apt language to affirmatively give authority. See sections 9 and 10 of act.
There is no material difference between the act of 1890,
involved in 165 U. S. 365, and the act of 1899, involved in the
case at bar. The construction of the act of 1890, sanctioned
by the Supreme Court, had previously been given by Mr. Attorney General Miller. 20 Ops. Atty. Genl. 102, 114.
If the power of the Secretary of War is exclusive of any action by the State, then the United States should bear all the

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

expense of managing and controlling the Calumet River, and
the city of Chicago should abolish its Harbor Department,
and use the money spent in maintaining it for some other purpose.
Numerous decisions of the Supreme Court, from Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1 (1824), (for a leading case, see Cooley v. Te
Board of JVardens qf the Port of Philadelphia,12 How. 299,
1851), conceded to the states power over local matters such
as bridges, quarantine, pilots, wharves, etc., in the absence of
any legislation on the same subject by Congress, although the
exercise of such power by the States might, and often did,
incidentally affect, impede and embarrass interstate commerce.
The policy of the recent River and Harbor Acts is not to
abrogate this state power entirely, but to control its exercise
in defence of interstate and foreign commerce. Sinnot v.
Davenport, 22 How. 227; Exparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371.
We believe that the construction which counsel seek to put
upon the power vested in the Secretary of War by the act of
Congress of 1899, makes the constitutionality of that act, as
applied to the facts in this case, very doubtful. Where does
Congress get the power to authorize the Secretary of War to
give a private person leave to put a structure of no aid at all,
or, at best, of only doubtful and purely private aid, to interstate commerce, in a local harbor, and thus displace the police
power of the States, expressly reserved to them and to the
people. Constitution, Art. X; Art. X of Amendments; Yick
l'Vo v. Ilol)kins, 118 U. S. 356.
At any rate, that the ordinances of the city and the act of
Congress are not irreconcilably in conflict would seem to be
clear.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

1. We hold that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction in this
case. That the parties, plaintiffs and defendant, are citizens of
the same State is not sufficient to defeat the jurisdiction; for
by the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

August 13, 1888, c. 866, the Circuit Courts have jurisdiction,
without reference to the citizenship of the parties, of suits at
common law or in equity arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States. 24 Stat. 552; 25 Stat. 434. The present
suit does arise under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, because the plaintiffs base their right to construct the
dock in question upon the Constitution of the United States,
as well as upon certain acts of Congress and the permit (socalled) of the Secretary of War-which legislative enactments
and action of the Secretary of War were, it is alleged, in execution of the power of Congress under the Constitution over the
navigable waters of the United States. Clearly, such a suit is
one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. That it is a suit of that character appears from the
bill itself. The allegations which set forth a Federal right
were necessary in order to set forth the plaintiffs' cause of
action.
2. The appeal was properly taken directly to this court, since
by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, this court has jurisdiction
to review the judgment of the Circuit Court in any case involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States. 26 Stat. 834. The )resent case belongs to that
class ; for, it involves the consideration of questions relating to
the power of Congress, under the Constitution, over the navigable waters of the United States.
3. We come now to the merits of the suit as disclosed by the
bill. The general proposition upon which the plaintiffs base
their right to relief is that the United States, by the acts of
Congress referred to and by what has been done under those
acts, has taken "possession" of Calumet River, and so far as
the erection in that river of structures such as bridges, docks,
piers and the like is concerned, no jurisdiction or authority
whatever remains vith the local authorities. In a sense, but
only in a limited sense, the United States has taken possession
of Calumet River, by improving it, by causing it to be surveyed, and by establishing lines beyond which no dock or
other structure shall be erected in the river without the approval or consent of the Secretary of War, to whom has been

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

committed the determination of such questions. But Congress
has not passed any act under which parties, having simply the
consent of the Secretary, may erect structures in Calumet River
without reference to the wishes of the State of Illinois on the
subject. We say the State of Illinois, because it must be assumed, under the allegations of the bill, that the ordinances of
the city of Chicago making the approval of its Department of
Public Works a condition precedent to the right of any one to
erect structures in navigable waters within its limits, are consistent with the constitution and laws of that State and were
passed under authority conferred on the cit.y by the State.
Calumet River, it must be remembered, is entirely within the
limits of Illinois, and the authority of the State over it is plenary, subject only to such action as Congress may take in execution of its power under the Constitution to regulate commerce
among the several States. That authority has been exercised
by the State ever since it was admitted into the Union upon an
equal footing with the original States.
In Esea,?wba Com)any v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 683, the
question was as to the validity of regulations made by the city
of Chicago in reference to the closing, between certain hours of
each day, of bridges across the Chicago River. Those regulations were alleged to be inconsistent with the power of Congress
over interstate commerce. This court said: "The Chicago
River and its branches must, therefore, be deelned navigable
waters of the United States, over which Congress under its coinmercial power may exercise control to the extent necessary to
protect, preserve, and improve their free navigation. But the
States have full power to regulate within their limits matters
of internal police, including in that general designation whatever will promote the peace, comfort, convenience, and prosperity of their people. This power embraces the construction
of roads, canals, and bridges, and the establishment of ferries,
and it can generally be exercised more wisely by the States than
by a distant authority. They are the first to see the importance
of such means of internal communication, and are more deeply
concerned than others in their wise management. Illinois is
more immediately affected by the bridges over the Chicago

OCTOBER TERWf, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

River and its branches than any other State, and is more di-

rectly concerned for the prosperity of the city of Chicago, for
the convenience and comfort of its inhabitants, and the growth
of its commerce. And nowhere could the power to control the
bridges in that city, their construction, form, and strength, and
the size of their draws, and the manner and times of using them,
be better vested than with the State, or the authorities of the
city upon whom it has devolved that duty. When its power
is exercised, so as to unnecessarily obstruct the navigation of
the river or its branches, Congress may interfere and remove
the obstruction. If the power of the State and that of the Federal Government come in conflict, the latter must control and
the former yield. This necessarily follows from the position
given by the Constitution to legislation in pursuance of it, as
the supreme law of the land. But until Congress acts on the
subject, the power of the State over bridges across its navigable
streams is plenary. This doctrine has been recognized from
the earliest period, and approved in repeated cases, the most
notable of which are IVillson v. The Blackbird Creek 211a,'ts.
Co., 2 Pet. 245, decided in 1829, and Gilman v. .Philadelphia,
3 Wall. 713, decided in 1865."
To the same effect is the recent decision in Lake ik ore &
XIichigaq Railway v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365, 366, 368. See also
Cardwell v. .Ame.icam Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205, and Hiuse v.
Glover, 119 U. S. 543.
Did Congress, in the execution of its power under the Constitution to regulate interstate commerce, intend by the legislation in question to supersede, for every purpose, the authority
of Illinois over the erection of structures in navigable waters
wholly within its limits? Did it intend to declare that the
wishes of Illinois in respect of structures to be erected in such
waters need not be regarded, and that the assent of the Secretary of War, proceeding under the above acts 'of Congress, was
alone sufficient to authorize such structures?
These questions were substantially answered by this court in
Lake Shore & 3fichigan Railway v. Ohio, above cited, decided
in 1896. That case required a construction of the fifth and
seventh sections of the River and Harbor Act of September 19,

CUMMINGS v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

1890, upon which sections the plaintiffs in this case partly rely.
In that case this court said : "The contention is that the statute
in question manifests the purpose of Congress to deprive the
several States of all authority to control and regulate any and
every structure over all navigable streams, although they be
wholly situated within their territory. That full power resides
in the States as to the erection of bridges and other works in
navigable streams wholly within their jurisdiction, in the absence of the exercise by Congress of authority to the contrary,
is conclusively determined. . . . The mere delegation to the
Secretary of the right to determine whether a structure authorized by law has been so built as to impede commerce, and to
direct, when reasonably necessary, its modification so as to remove such impediment, does not confer upon that officer power
to give original authority to build bridges, nor does it presuppose that Congress conceived that it was lodging in the Secretary power to that end. . . . The mere delegation of power
to direct a change in lawful structures so as to cause them not
to interfere with commerce cannot be construed as conferring
on the officer named the right to determine when and where a
bridge may be built." Referring to the seventh section of the
act of 1890, the court said: "The language of the seventh section makes clearer the error of the interpretation relied on. The
provision that it shall not be lawful to thereafter erect any bridge
in any navigable river or navigable waters of the United States,
under any act of the legislative assembly of any State, until the
location and plan of such bridge . . . have been submitted
to and approved by the Secretary of War,' contemplated that
the function of the Secretary should extend only to the form
of future structures, since the act would not have provided for
the future erection of bridges under state authority if its very
purpose was to deny for the future all power in the States on
The construction claimed for the statute is
.
.
the subject.
that its purpose was to deprive the States of all power as to
every stream, even those wholly within their borders, whilst
the very words of the statute, saying that its terms should not
be construed as conferring on the States power to give authority to build bridges on streams not wholly within their limits,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

by a negative pregnant with an affirmative, demonstrate that
the object of the act was not to deprive the several States of
the authority to consent to the erection of bridges over navigable
waters wholly within their territory."
The decision in Lake Shore & fAichigan ]ailway v. Ohio
was rendered before the passage of the River and Harbor Act
of 1899. But the tenth section of that act, upon which the
permit of the Secretary of War was based, is not so worded as
to compel the conclusion that Congress intended, by that section, to ignore altogether the wishes of Illinois in respect of
structures in navigable waters that are wholly witlin its limits.
We may assume that Congress was not unaware of the decision
of the above case in 1896 and of the interpretation placed upon
existing legislative enactments. If it had intended by the act
of 1899 to assert the power to take under national control, for
every purpose, and to the fullest possible extent, the erection of
structures in the navigable waters of the United States that
were wholly within the limits of the respective States, and to
supersede entirely the authority which the States, in the absence of any action by Congress, have in such matters, such a
radical departure from the previous policy of the Government
would have been manifested by clear and explicit language.
In the absence of such language it should not be assumed that
any such departure was intended.
We do not overlook the long-settled principle that the power
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States "is complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations other than are prescribed in the ConGibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196; Brown v.
stitution."
.iaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446; Brown v. Rouston, 114 U. S.
630. But we will not at this time make any declaration of
opinion as to the full scope of this power or as to the extent to
which Congress may go in the matter of the erection, or authorizing the erection, of docks and like structures in navigable
waters that are entirely within the territorial limits of the several States. Whether Congress may, against or without the
expressed will of a State, give affirmative authority to private
parties to erect structures in such waters, it is not necessary in

CALUMET GRAiN & ELEVATOR CO. v. CHICAGO. 431
Opinion of the Court.

this case to decide. It is only necessary to say that the act of
1899 does not manifest the purpose of Congress to go to that
extent under the power to regulate foreign and interstate commerce and thereby to supersede the original authority of the
States. The effect of that act, reasonably interpreted, is to
make the erection of a structure in a navigable river, within
the limits of a State, depend upon the concurrent or joint assent of both the National Government and the state government. The Secretary of War, acting under the authority conferred by Congress, may assent to the erection by private parties
of such a structure. Without such assent the structure cannot
be erected by them. But under existing legislation they must,
before proceeding under such an authority, obtain also the assent of the State acting by its constituted agencies.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

CALUMET GRAIN AND ELEVATOR
CHICAGO.

COMPANY v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 135.

Submitted December 19, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Same counsel as in No. 136, see p. 410, ankd.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case relates to the construction of a dock in Calumet
River, on or in front of land belonging to the appellant. The
facts upon which that company principally bases its claims for
relief are those upon which the plaintiffs relied in CUmmings
v. Chicago, just decided. Upon the authority of the decision in
that case, the judgment in this case is

Apnkm~d.

