OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

A number of other alleged errors are embraced in the assignments, but we see none to which we find it desirable to call attention. For the error in the instruction regarding Brown's
affidavit and in ruling out the declarations of the four witnesses
named,
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
case remanded to le Circuit Courtfor the Districtof Kansas with instructionsto grant a new trial.
VMR. JusTICE BREWER and MR. JUsTICE WHiTE dissented.

EASTON v. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 92. Argued January 14, 15, 1903.-Decided February 2, 1903.
Congress having power to create a system of national banks, is the judge
as to the extent of the powers which should be conferred upon such
banks, and has the sole power to regulate and control the exercise of their
operations. Congress having dealt directly with the insolvency of national banks by giving control to the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Comptroller of the Currency, who are authorized to suspend the operations of the banks and appoint receivers thereof when they become insolvent, or when they fail to make good any impairment of capital, and
full and adequate provision having been made for the protection of creditors of national banks by requiring frequent reports to be made of their
condition, and by the power of visitation of Federal officers, it is not
competent for state legislatures to interfere, whether with hostile or
friendly intentions, with national banks or their officers in the exercise
of the powers bestowed upon them by the general government.
While a State has the legitimate power to define and punish crimes by general laws applicable to all persons within its jurisdiction, and it may declare, by special laws, certain acts to be criminal offences when coimitted by officers and agents of its own banks and institutions, it is
without lawful power to make such special laws applicable to banks organized and operated under the laws of the United States.

IN 1899, in the District Court of Wenneshiek County, State
of Iowa, James H. Easton, who had been previously indicted,

EASTON v. IOWA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was tried, found guilty, and sentenced to imprisonment in the
penitentiary of Iowa at hard labor for a term of five years, under the provisions of a statute of that State, for the offence of
having received, as president of the First National Bank of Decorah, Iowa, a deposit of one hundred dollars in money in said
bank, at a time when the bank was insolvent and when such
insolvency was known to the defendant.
At the trial it was contended, on behalf of the defendant,
that the statute of Iowa, upon which the indictment was found,
did not, and was not intended to, apply to national banks, organized and doing business under the national bank acts of the
United States, or to the officers and agents of such banks ; and
that, if the state statute should be construed and held to apply
to national banks and their officers, the statute was void in so
far as made applicable to national banks and their officers.
Both these contentions were overruled by the trial court, and
thereupon an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the
State of Iowa, and by that court, on April 12, 1901, the judgment of the District Court was affirmed. 113 Iowa, 516. The
cause was then brought to this court by a writ of error allowed
by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Iowa.
. Reed, with whom Mr.
MHr. Charles F. Brown and Ar'. I.
Jo/in J. Crawqford and .Afl. C. IV. Reed were on the brief, for
the plaintiff in error.
National banks are agencies of the National Government
created by Congress to enable it to exercise and conduct its fiscal powers and operations. They are instruments of the Federal Government created for public purposes and as such necessarily subject to the paramount authority of the United States.
]kfcCulloeh v. i faryland,4 Wheaton, 425; Osborn v. T_.S. Bank,
9 Wheaton, 738; Legal Tender Cases, 110 U. S. 421.
The necessity for the incorporation and regulation of such
institution theretofore being a matter solely within the jurisdiction of Congress, the whole subject is a matter out of the
plane of state control and jurisdiction. The States cannot legislate upon such a matter, and statutes enacted by state legislatures cannot, by judicial interpretation and construction, be

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

made applicable to such institutions. Davis v. Elaira Savings
Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283.
The National Banking Act does not prohibit or forbid the
receipt of deposits by a bank when insolvent at any time before
it is taken out of the control of its officers by the Comptroller
of the Currency, acting under the provisions of the National
Banking Act. State v. Fields, 98 Iowa, 74; .AlcDonald v.
Chemical Nat. Bank, 174 U. S. 610 ; Rev. Stat. sec. 5205.
A State has no power to legislate in reference to national
banks, or to alter or supplement any of the provisions of the
National Banking Act. Farmers' Nfational Bank v. Dearing,
91 U. S. 29 ; Prigg v. Pennsylvania,16 Peters, 539; H1all v.
DeCuir, 95 U. S. 499; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100.
The statute of Iowa violates the fundamental propositions in
that it attempts to supplement the National Banking Act and
to regulate and control and limit the business of national banks
within the State of Iowa, and directly invades the jurisdiction
conferred by Congress upon the Secretary of the Treasury and
the Comptroller of the Currency. .McClellan v. Chipman,
164 U. S. 356; Fuzz v. Spaunhorst, 67 Missouri, 256.
This case falls within the principles laid down in .McCulloch
v. Maryland, and in Osbo'n v. United States Bank, that the
States have no power to tax a national bank. It is also within
the principle applied in Prigg v. Pennsyvania, Ohio v. 7homas,
.7nre Waite and Cunningham v. .Nagle. The means and agencies
provided and selected by the Federal Government as necessary
and convenient to the exercise of its functions cannot be subject to the taxing power of the States, and so also the Federal
Government is without power to tax the corresponding means
and agencies of the States. Cooley on Taxation, chap. 1, p. 7,
chap. 3, pp. 56-58, cases already cited; Weston, v. Cbarleston, 2
Peters, 499; Bank of Commerce v. New 1-ork, 2 Black, 620;
Palfrey v. Boston, 101 Massachusetts, 329; Dobbins v. (owmissioners of Erie Co., 16 Peters, 435; Ward v. Jfaryland, 12
Wall. 418-427; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 117; Freedman, v.
Sigel, 10 Blatch. 327; .kfoore v. Quirk, 105 Massachusetts, 49;
Car2enter v. Snelling, 97 M assachusetts, 455; People v. Gates,
43 N. Y. 40; Green v. Holway, 101 Massachusetts, 293; State

EASTON v. IOWA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Gaston, 32 Indiana, 1; Cooley on Constitutional Limitation,
pp. 481, 484, and cases cited in notes.
The argument of the learned attorney general does not sustain the proposition for which he contends.
His argument, briefly stated, is as follows: The certificate
of the Comptroller of the Currency is issued to a bank because
of its solvency and ability to carry on a legitimate banking
business. No certificate would be issued to an insolvent bank.
Therefore, whenever a bank becomes insolvent, its authority
to continue business must necessarily cease. The fact that a
bank holds the Comptroller's certificate cannot and does not
authorize it to continue business or to receive deposits a single
instant after it becomes insolvent. It is contended that these
propositions are supported by the well recognized and sound
principle of law that the receipt of a deposit of money by an
insolvent bank is a fraud, and it is contended that no act of
Congress or certificate of Comptroller of the Currency can
authorize a fraud.
This argument is sufficiently answered by reference to the
sections of the National Banking Act, which authorize a bank
to carry on its business after it is insolvent, and do not prohibit the receipt of deposits when insolvent, but refer the
subject of the control of such institutions, under all circumstances, to the Comptroller of the Currency and Secretary of
the Treasury.
Admitting all that the attorney general says, we submit
it has no relevancy to the question of the power of the State
of Iowa to enact the statute in question. Everything that is
said on pages fifteen and sixteen of the brief of the learned
attorney general might well be addressed to Congress, but
it has no force in determining the scope of the constitutional
power of a State upon the subject under consideration. The
argument of the learned attorney general all leads up to the
conclusion stated upon page sixteen of his brief as follows:
"The effect of the statute is to require of the officers of all
banks within the State, a higher degree of diligence in the
discharge of their duties. It gives to the general public greater
confidence in the stability and solvency of national banks, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

in the honesty and integrity of their managing officers. It
enables them, better to accomplish the purposes and designs
of the General Government, and is an aid, rather than an impediment, to their utility and efficiency as agents and instrumentalities of the United States."
Assuming this to be true, is not Congress the sole judge of
the policy to be adopted and enforced in cases of the insolvency of national banks ?
Can a state legislature say: The scheme adopted and put in
force by Congress in respect to national banks does not command public confidence; or that does not give to such institutions sufficient stability. The States can exercise no concurrent or independent power in reference to the management of
such institutions, as from their nature institution or where the
purpose to be served is one which must be necessarily exercised by the National Government exclusively.
Gilman v.
Philadeljphia,3 Wallace, 730.
.Xi'. Charles If..[ Xullan, attorney general of the State of
Iowa, for defendant in error.
I. The legislature of Iowa intended that the statute should
apply to national banks transacting business in Iowa. State v.
Fields, 98 Iowa, 748 ; State v. Easton, 85 N. W. Rep. 795 ; distinguishing State v. .Menche, 56 Kansas, 77; Common wealth v.
.fetner, 92 Pa. St. 372; Allen v. Carter,119 'Pa. St. 192. It is
a familiar rule of law that the construction of a statute by the
highest court of the enacting State will be followed by the Federal courts. Buc er v. Cheshire .. 1?. Co., 125 U. S. 582;
Bacon v. 117ortlhwestern Life Ams. Co., 131 U. S. 264; Anh ,y
v. Glai'c, 148 U. S. 354; Adams Esvpress Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.
219.
II. The statute is not invalid as to national banks conducting
business in Iowa. It is based on the well recognized and sound
principle of law which is that the receipt of a deposit of money
by an insolvent bank is a fraud. No act of Congress or certificate of the Comptroller of the Currency, can authorize or legalize the commission of a fraud. .Meadowcraft v. The People,
163 Illinois, 65; St..Lois &c. By. Co. v. Johnson, 133 U. S. 566;

EASTON v. IOWA.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Craigie v. iladley, 99 N. Y. 131; The NiT.Yf. Breweries Co. v.
Higgins, 79 Hun, 250; Masson v. H7awkins, 59 Fed. Rep. 233;
Trust & Savings Bank v. Mfg. Co., 150 Illinois, 340; First
National Bank v. Strauss, 66 Mississippi, 479; 14 Am. St. Rep.
581; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Bank v. Comqnonwealth, 9 Wall. 361, cited as distinguishing and limiting,
-McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 and Farmers' &o.
Nat. Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29; Jft Clellan v. Chipman,
164 U. S. 356. The statute does not and, therefore, cannot be
held invalid on the ground that it in anywise, does interfere,
impair, impede or destroy the efficiency of national banks in
attaining the objects for which they were created, or impair
their efficiency and utility as instrumentalities of the government. Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283;
IWaite v. Dowley, 94 U. S. 533; citing and distinguishing Cook
County Nat. Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; Ohio v.
Thomas, 173 U. S. 276; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1; In re IVaite,
81 Fed. Rep. 363. The States are original sovereign powers
and as such retain every sovereign right not delegated to the
General Government. They are the foundation upon which the
Federal government rests. -Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 76;
Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 31; Texas v. WTite, 7 Wall.
725.
III. The Federal government has not, as yet, intervened and
occupied this field of legislation, to the exclusion of the power
of the State to legislate upon the subject. See Gilman v.
Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 730, as to when States may exercise
concurrent or independent power. Prigg v. Pennsylvania,16
Peters, 539, and People v. Fonda, 62 lM[ichigan, 401, cited and
distinguished, the latter as being in direct conflict with decisions
of this court. Cross v. North Carolina,1391U. S. 139; Teal v.
Felton, 12 How. 284; ffoore v. People, 14 how. 13; Comnmonwealth v. Tenny, 97 Massachusetts, 50; foke v. The People,
122 Illinois, 511; Conmnonwealth v. Luberg, 94: Pa. St. 85, cited
as overruling State v. Ketner, 92 Pa. St. 372.
IV. The enactment of the statute was a proper exercise of
the police power of the State. Cooley on Const. Lim. 6th ed.,
704, 706 ; United States v. De litt, 9 Wall. 4:1 ; License Cases,
VOL. OLXXXVIII-15

OCTOBER TERMN,

1902.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

5 How. 504; Passenger Cases, 7 Iow. 283; Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 503.
The police power of a State cannot be alienated even by an express grant; it is a power and responsibility which legislatures cannot divest themselves of if they would. Thotp)v. R?.
& B. 1. R. Co., 27 Vermont, 149; Beer Co. v. .][assacltusetts,
97 U. S. 33; Stone v. 3ississippi,101 U. S. 814. The Fourteenth Amendment does not take from the States the police
powers reserved at the time of the adoption of the Constitution. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Barbiei-v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; JlXuglei v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 555; State v. _Noyes, 47 Maine,
189 ; Lake View v. Rose fill Cemetery, 70 Illinois, 191. Fraud
is trespass upon the rights of others and may therefore always
be punished. Tiedeman's Limitations of Police Powers, 291.
An insolvent bank has no right to continue business or to receive deposits; it is the duty of its officers to at once close its
doors, decline deposits and discontinue business. Anonymous
Case, 67 N. Y. 598 ; Craigiev. Hadley, 99 N. Y. 133 ; 52 Am.
Rep. 9; St. 1ouis &c. ]By. Co. v. Johnson, 133 U. S. 566; Am,.
Trust &fic. Bank v. Gueder &c. .flg. Co., 150 Illinois, 336;
.Aleridan -FirstNSat. Bank v. Straw, 56 Mississippi, 479; 14
Am. St. Rep. 579. The Supreme Court of Mississippi, in a
case precisely like the one at bar, sustained the validity of a
similar statute. State v. Bardwell, 72 Mississippi, 535.
V. The statute does not unjustly discriminate against banks
and their officers and agents or deny them equal protection
under the laws of the State, and is not repugnant to, or void
under, the Fourteenth Amendment. The law bears equally
Cooley's
upon all persons falling within its classification.
Constitutional Limitations, "6th ed. 479-481. Legislation limited as to business or territory does not infringe upon the constitutional right of equal protection and right of contract where
all persons subject to it are treated alike under like circum[Tunn v. Illinois,94 U. S. 113; TFalsstances and conditions.
ton v. Nfeven, 123 U. S. 578; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
392; Rayes v. -Missouri,120 U. S. 68; 31'o. Pac. Py. Co. v.
Jaekey, 127 U. S. 205 ; X'inneapolis &o. By. Co. v. Herrick, 127

EASTON v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 210; -ate v. Schenmer, 10 L. R. A. 135; VFt. loan &
T-ust Co. v. Whitehead, 49 N. W. R. 318; State v. X2oore, 104
N. 0. 714; Exparte Swan, 96 Missouri, 44.
The statute does not go so far as to attempt to regulate the
business of banks, but simply makes fraudulent acts of persons
within the State an offence punishable under the law.
MR. JUSTICE SHRnAs, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Those portions of the Iowa statute whose validity is the question in this case consist of sections 1884 and 1885 of the code
of that State, and are in the following terms:
"SEc. 1884. No bank, banking house, exchange broker, deposit office, firm, company, corporation, or person engaged in
the banking, brokerage, exchange or deposit business, shall,
when insolvent, accept or receive on deposit, with or without
interest, any money, bank bills or notes, United States Treasury notes or currency, or other notes, bills, checks or drafts, or
renew any certificate of deposit.
"SEc. 1885. If any such bank, banking house, exchange
broker, deposit office, firm, company, corporation or person
shall receive or accept on deposit any such deposits, as aforesaid, when insolvent, any owner, officer, director, cashier, manager, member or person knowing of such insolvency, who shall
knowingly receive or accept, be accessory, or permit, or connive
at receiving or accepting on deposit therein, or thereby, any
such deposits, or renew any certificate of deposit, as aforesaid,
shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars, or by imprisonment in the penitentiary for a term of not more than ten
years, or by imprisonment in the county jail not more than
one year, or by both fine and imprisonment."
At the trial evidence was adduced tending to show, and the
jury found, that the defendant, being engaged in the banking
business, as an officer, to wit, president of the First National
Bank of Decorah, on the 21st day of August, A. D. 1896, did,
as president of said bank, receive and accept on deposit in said

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

bank the sum of one hundred dollars in lawful paper money and
of the value of one hundred dollars, from one John French, the
bank being then and there insolvent, and the defendant then
and there well knowing that the said bank was insolvent.
It will be observed that national banks or banking associations are not specifically named in the statute; and it was hence
argued on behalf of the defendant, that such institutions are
not within the enactment. As, however, the state courts, following a previous decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in
the case of Stae v. Fields, 98 Iowa, 748, held that the statute
was applicable to all banks, whether organized under the laws
of the State or the acts of Congress, we must accept that construction as correct, and confine our consideration to the question whether, as so construed, the act is within the jurisdiction
of the State.
It is obvious that the two sections of the statute, above quoted,
must be read together as one enactment. If section 1884, regarded as applicable to national banks, is a valid exercise of
power by the State, then the penalties declared in section 1885
can be properly enforced; but if section 1884 must be held invalid as an attempt to control and regulate the business operations of national banks, then the penal provisions of section 1885
cannot be enforced against their officers. In other words, the
validity of the mandatory and of the penal parts of the statute
must stand or fall together.
What, then, is the character of a state law which forbids
national banks, when insolvent, from accepting or receiving on
deposit, with or without interest, any money, bank bills or
notes, United States Treasury notes or currency, or other notes,
bills, checks or drafts, or renewing any certificate of deposit
The answer given by the Supreme Court of Iowa to this
question is as follows:
"The acts of Congress provide no penalty for the fraudulent
receiving of deposits, and the statute under consideration operates upon the person who commits the crime. And it is not a
material question to determine whether it will be necessary to
investigate the financial condition of the bank, to prove that
the bank was insolvent when the deposit was received. This

EASTON v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

statute is in the nature of a police regulation, having for its object the protection of the public from the fraudulent acts of
bank officers. The mere fact that in violating the law of the
State the defendant performed an act pertaining to his duty as
an officer of the bank, does not in any manner interfere with
the proper discharge of any duty he owes to any power, state
or Federal. Surely, it was not intended by any act of Congress
that officers of a national bank should be clothed with the power
to cheat and defraud its patrons. National banks are organized
and their business prosecuted for private gain, and we can conceive of no reason why the officers of such banks should be exempt from the penalties prescribed for fraudulent banking."
We think that this view of the subject is not based on a correct conception of the Federal legislation creating and regulating national banks. That legislation has in view the erection
of a system extending throughout the country, and independent,
so far as powers conferred are concerned, of state legislation
which, if permitted to be applicable, might impose limitations
and restrictions as various and as numerous as the States. Having due regard to the national character and purposes of that
system, we cannot concur in the suggestions that national banks,
in respect to the powers conferred upon them, are to be viewed
as solely organized and operated for private gain. The principles enunciated in _ilfcCulloe v. )Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 425,
and in Osborn, v. Uniledl States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, though
expressed in respect to banks incorporated directly by acts of
Congress, are yet applicable to the later and present system of
national banks.
In the latter case it was said by Chief Justice Alarshall:
"The bank is not considered as a private corporation, whose
principal object is individual trade and individual profit; but
as a public corporation, created for public and national purposes.
That the mere business of banking is, in its own nature, a private business, and may be carried on by individuals or companies having no political connection with the government, is
admitted; but the bank is not such an individual or company.
It was not created for its own sake or for private purposes. it
has never been supposed that C6ngress could create such a cor-

OCTOBER TERMV[, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

poration. The whole opinion of the court, in XAcCulloch v.
.Aapyland, is founded on, and sustained by, the idea that the
bank is an instrument which is ' necessary and proper for carrying into effect the powers vested in the government of the
United States.'"
A similar view of the nature of banks organized under the
national bank laws has been frequently expressed by this court.
Thus, in Fazners' lVational Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29, it
was said:
"National banks organized under the act are instruments designed to be used to aid the government in the administration
of an important branch of the public service. They are means
appropriate to that end."
Such being the nature of these national institutions, it must
be obvious that their operations cannot be limited or controlled
by state legislation, and the Supreme Court of Iowa was in
error when it held that national banks are organized and their
business prosecuted for private gain, and that there is no reason
why the officers of such banks should be exempt from the penalties prescribed for fraudulent banking. Nor is it altogether
true, as asserted by that court, that there is no act of Congress
prohibiting the receipt of deposits by national banks or their
officers, when a bank is insolvent. It is true that there is no
express prohibition contained in the Federal statutes, but there
are apt provisions, sanctioned by severe penalties, which are
intended to protect the depositors and other creditors of national banks from fraudulent banking. It is not necessary to
quote at length those provisions, but it will be sufficient to say
that a bank organized under the national bank act is authorized to make contracts; to prescribe, by its board of directors,
by-laws regulating the manner in which its general business
shall be conducted, and the privileges granted by law exercised
and enjoyed; to exercise by its board of directors, or duly authorized officers, all such incidental powers as shall be necessary
to carry on the business of banking, by discounting and negotiating promissory notes and drafts, bills of exchange; by receiving deposits; by buying and selling exchange; by loaning
money on personal security. Such banks are required to deposit

EASTON v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

with the Treasurer of the United States, as security for their
circulating notes, United States bonds in an amount not less
than one fourth of their capital; to report to the Treasurer of
the United States twice each year the average amount of their
deposits, and to pay to said Treasurer each half year a tax upon
such deposits; and to make to the Comptroller of the Currency not less than five reports during each year, (and special
reports as often as he may require,) according to such form as
he may require, verified by the oath or affirmation of the president or cashier, which reports shall exhibit in detail the resources
and liabilities of the association. The Comptroller is directed
to appoint suitable persons to make examination of the affairs
of every banking association, who shall have power to make a
thorough examination into all the affairs of the association, and
in doing so to examine any of the officers or agents thereof, and
to make a full and detailed report of the condition to the Comptroller. Whenever the Comptroller becomes satisfied of the
insolvency of such bank he may, after due examination of its
affairs, appoint a receiver, who shall take possession of the assets of the association, wind up its affairs, and make ratable
distribution of its assets. And severe penalties are imposed
upon any officer or agent of such association who violates any
of the provisions of the national bank act.
It thus appears that Congress has provided a symmetrical
and complete scheme for the banks to be organized under the
provisions of the statute.
It is argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf of
the State of Iowa that "the effect of the statute of Iowa is to
require of the officers of all banks within the State a higher
degree of diligence in the discharge of their duties. It gives to
the general public greater confidence in the stability and solvency of national banks, and in the honesty and integrity of
their managing officers. It enables them better to accomplish
the purposes and designs of the general government, and is an
aid, rather than impediment, to their utility and efficiency as
agents and instrumentalities of the United States."
But we are unable to perceive that Congress intended to
leave the field open for the States to attempt to promote the wel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

fare and stability of national banks by direct legislation. If
they had such power it would have to be exercised and limited
by their own discretion, and confusion would necessarily result from control possessed and exercised by two independent
authorities.
Nor can we concede that by such legislation of a State, as
was attempted in this instance, the affairs of a national bank, or
the security of its creditors, would be advantageously affected.
The provision of the state statute is express that it is the duty
of the officers of the bank, when they know it is insolvent, to
at once suspend its active operations; for it is obvious, that to
refuse to accept deposits would be equivalent to a cessation of
business. Whether a bank is or is not actually insolvent may be,
often, a question hard to answer. There may be good reason
to believe that, though temporarily embarrassed, the bank's
affairs may take a fortunate turn. Some of the assets that
cannot at once be converted into money may be of a character
to justify the expectation that, if actual and open insolvency
be avoided, they may be ultimately collectible, and thus the
ruin of the bank and its creditors be prevented. .XJ.Donald
v. Chemical 3Tat. Bank, 174 U. S. 610. But under the state
statute, no such conservative' action can be followed by the officers of the bank except at the risk of the penalties of fine and
imprisonment. In such a case the provisions of the Federal
statute would permit the Comptroller to withhold closing the
bank and to give an opportunity to escape final insolvency. It
would seem that such an exercise of discretion on the part of
the Comptroller would, in many cases, be better for all concerned than the unyielding. course of action prescribed by the
state law. However, it is not our province to vindicate the
policy of the Federal statute, but to declare that it cannot be
overridden by the policy of the State.
Similar legislation to that of the State of Iowa has been considered and disapproved by the Supreme Courts of several of
the other States.
Thus in Comm onwealth, v. -etner, 92 Penn. St. 372, one Torrey was indicted and found guilty under a charge that, as the
cashier of the First National Bank of Ashland, organized under

EASTON r. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

the laws of the United States, he had embezzled the moneys of
the said bank contrary to the form of the act of assembly of the
State of Pennsylvania, prescribing a penalty of fine and imprisonment. A writ of habeas corpus was allowed by the Supreme
Court of the State, and the accused was discharged. That
court, having quoted the acts of assembly relied on, said:
"We are spared further comment upon these acts for the reason that they have no application to national banks. Neither
of them refers to national banks in terms, and we must presume,
that when the legislature used the words 'any bank,' that it
referred to banks created under and by virtue of the laws of
Pennsylvania. The national banks are the creatures of another
sovereignty. They were created and are now regulated by the
acts of Congress. When our acts of 1860 and 1861 were passed,
there were no national banks, nor even a law to authorize their
creation. When the act of 1878 was passed, Congress had already defined and punished the offence of embezzlement by the
officers of such banks. There was therefore no reason why the
State, even if it had the power, should legislate upon the subject. Such legislation could only produce uncertainty and confusion, as well as a conflict of jurisdiction. In addition, there
would be the possible danger of subjecting an offender to double
punishment, an enormity which no court would permit, if it
had the power to prevent it. An act of assembly prescribing
the manner in which the business of all banks shall be conducted, or limiting the number of the directors thereof, could
not by implication be extended to national banks, for the reason, that the affairs of such banks are exclusively under the
control of Congress. Much less can we, by mere implication,
extend penal statutes . . . to such institutions. The offence for which the relator is held, is not indictable, either at
common law or under the statutes of Pennsylvania. We therefore order him to be discharged."
In Allen's Appeal, 119 Pa. St. 192, the question was whether
a state law, which forbade "any cashier of any bank from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the purchase or sale of stock,
or in any other profession, occupation or calling other than his
duty as cashier," and which declared the same to be a misde-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

meanor, was applicable to the cashier of a national bank, and
it was held that it was not so applicable, the court saying,
among other things:
"The national banking act and its supplements create a complete system for the government of those institutions. Conceding the power of Congress to create this system, we are
unable to see how it can be regulated or interfered with by
state legislation. The act of 1860, if applied to national banks,
imposes a disqualification upon cashiers of such institutions
where none has been imposed by act of Congress. If the State
may impose one qualification upon the cashiers, why not another? If upon the cashier, why not upon the president or
other officer? Nay, further, suppose the legislature should leclare that no person should be a bank director unless he has
arrived at fifty years -of age, or should -be the owner of one
hundred shares of stock, could we apply such an act to national
banks? If so, such institutions would have a precarious existence. They would be liable to be interfered with at every
step, and it might not be long before the whole national banking system would have to be thrown aside as so much worthless
lumber."
People v. Fonda,62 Michigan, 401, was a case wherein a clerk
of a national bank was prosecuted in a state court and found
guilty of larceny and embezzlement of the funds of the bank
under the statute of the State. But it was held by the Supreme
Court of the State that the offence was within the laws of the
United States, and that, accordingly, the state court was without jurisdiction. It was said by the court, in view of section
711 of chapter 12 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
in the following terms: "The jurisdiction vested in the courts
of the United States in the cases and proceedings hereinafter
mentioned, shall be exclusive of the courts of the several States:
First, of all crimes and offences cognizable under the authority
of the United States;" that, Congress, by law, created the
national banking system, and provided for its internal workings, and prescribed a punishment for the offence charged
against the defendant. It seems clearly the case is one falling
within section 711 above quoted, and that by the Federal law

EASTON v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

itself the jurisdiction of the State is expressly excluded. Chancellor Kent, in his commentaries, 1 Com. 400, says: "In judicial
matters the concurrent jurisdiction of the state tribunals depends
altogether upon the pleasure of Congress, and may be revoked
and extinguished whenever they think proper, in every case in
which the subject matter can constitutionally be made cognizable in the Federal courts ; and, without an express provision
to the contrary, the state courts will retain a concurrent jurisdiction in all cases where they had jurisdiction originally over
the subject matter ;" and accordingly the judgment of the trial
court was reversed and the prisoner discharged.
In Common wealth.v.]7eltm, 101 Massachusetts, 204, the defendant was charged with being an accessory to an embezzlement by an officer of a national bank, and it was said by the
court:
"The difficulty in the way of holding the defendant upon the
present indictment is, that the act of Congress has taken the
crime of the principal out of our jurisdiction. Our courts cannot deal with him upon that charge."
A law of the State of Kansas provided that no bank should
receive deposits when it was insolvent, and prescribed a punishment for a violation of that provision by any officer or agent of
such bank; but it was held by the Supreme Court of that State
that the provisions of the state law had no application to national banks, and that the penalties prescribed were not operative as against officers of national banks. State v. Menke, 56
Kansas, 77.
The same view has prevailed in the lower Federal courts. In
Sutton Aanufacturiny Company v. Hlutchinson, 63 Fed. Rep.
496, 501, it was said by the Circuit Court of Appeals, through
Mr. Justice Harlan:
"A corporation is not required by any duty it owes to creditors to suspend operations the moment it becomes financially
embarrassed, or because it may be doubtful whether the objects
of its creation can be attained by further effort upon its part.
It is in the line of right and of duty when attempting, in good
faith, by the exercise of its lawful powers and by the use of all

OCTOBER TERMW, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

legitimate means, to preserve its active existence, and thereby
accomplish the objects for which it was created."
In 1n 'e Waite, 81 Fed. Rep. 359, it was held by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa that a pension examiner of the United States was not liable to a criminal
prosecution in the courts of a State for acts done by him in his
official capacity. In the opinion it was said:
"The question which marks the limit of the state jurisdiction
is whether the person sought to be called to account was acting
under the authority of the United States when the acts complained of were done, in and about a subject matter within
Federal jurisdiction . . . for the criminal statutes of the
State are not applicable to acts done within the plane of Federal jurisdiction, and under the authority of the United States.
Whenever it is made to appear in a criminal case pending in
the state court that the acts cbared in the indictment were
done by defendant as an officer or agent of the United States
in and about a matter within Federal control, . . . then it
is made to appear that the state court is asked to assume a jurisdiction which it cannot rightfully exercise ; and if that court
entertains the case, and proceeds to adjudicate on the question
of the extent of the authority possessed by the officers of the
United States, . . . testing the same by the provisions of
state statutes, . . . it proceeds at the peril of having its
jurisdiction questioned and denied."
So, in In 'e Thomas, 82 Fed. Rep. 304, it was held by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Ohio that, the governor of the soldiers' home at Dayton, Ohio,
in serving to the inmates, as food, oleomargarine furnished by
the government, is not subject to the law of the State prescribing the manner in which oleomargarine shall be used in eating
houses, because his act is that of the government of the United
States within its constitutional powers, and wholly beyond the
control or regulation of the legislature of the State.
This judgment was affirmed by this court in Ohio v. Tionas,
173 U. S. 276.
A leading case in which this court had occasion to consider
the limitation of legislation by a State affecting a subject within

EASTON v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

the scope of action by Congress is that of Priggv. Pennsylvania,
16 Pet. 539, from which we quote the following observations:
"If Congress have a constitutional power to regulate a particular subject, and they do actually regulate it in a given manner, and in a certain form, it cannot be that state legislatures
have a right to interfere, and, as it were, by way of coinplement to the legislation of Congress, to prescribe additional regulations, and what they may deem auxiliary provisions for the
same purpose. In such case, the legislation of Congress, in
what it does prescribe, manifestly indicates that it does not intend that there shall be any farther legislation to act upon the
subject matter. Its silence as to what it does not do, is as expressive of what its intention is as the direct provisions made
by it."
On the immediate subject of control over national banks it
was said, in Farmers' .NationalBank v. Dearing,91 U. S. 29:
"The States can exercise no control over national banks, nor
in anywise affect their operation, except so far as Congress
may see proper to permit. Everything beyond this is 'an
abuse, because it is the usurpation of power which a single State
cannot oive.' Against the national will 'the States have no
power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or
in any manner control the operation of the constitutional laws
enacted by Congress to carry into execution the powers vested
in the general government.'
This subject has received recent and careful consideration in
the case of Davis v. ElmiraSavings Bank, 161 U. S. 9-75, twice
argued in this court. The legislature of the State of New
York had provided by law that savings banks, organized under
the laws of that State, should have a preference as depositors
in banks in case of the insolvency of such banks, and it was
sought to apply this provision to the case of a deposit by a
savings bank in a national bank which had subsequently become insolvent. But this court held that such a provision
could not be extended by a State to national banks, because
it was repugnant to that provision of the national banking
act which requires the assets of an insolvent national bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

to be ratably distributed among its creditors. In the opinion
of the court, by Mr. Justice White, it was said:
"National banks are instrumentalities of the Federal government, created for a public purpose, and as such necessarily
subject to the paramount authority of the United States. It
follows that an attempt, by a State, to define their duties or
control the conduct of their affairs is absolutely -void, wherever
such attempted exercise of authority conflicts with the laws of
the United States, and either frustrates the purpose of the
national legislation or impairs the efficiency of those agencies
of the Federal government to discharge the duties, for the
performance of which they were enacted. These principles are
axiomatic, and are sanctioned by the repeated adjudications of
this court."
Our conclusions, upon principle and authority, are that Congress, having power to create a system of national banks, is
the judge as to the extent of the powers which should be conferred upon such banks, and has the sole power to regulate and
control the exercise of their operations; that Congress has
directly dealt with the subject of insolvency of such banks by
giving control to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Comptroller of the Currency, who are authorized to suspend the
operations of the banks and appoint receivers thereof when
they become insolvent, or when they fail to make good any
impairment of capital ; that full and adequate provisions have
been made for the protection of creditors of such institutions
by requiring frequent reports to be made of their condition,
and by the power of visitation by Federal officers; that it is
not competent for state legislatures to interfere, whether with
hostile or friendly intentions, with national banks or their officers in the exercise of the powers bestowed upon them by the
general government.
UCross v. Arorth Ca'olina, 132 U. S. 131, was a case wherein
this court pointed out the distinction between crimes defined
and punishable at common law or by the general statutes of a
State and crimes and offences cognizable under the authority of
the United States; and accordingly it was held that the crime
of forging promissory notes, purporting to be made by indi-

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LTHOGRAPHING CO. 239
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

viduals, and made payable to or at a national bank, was a distinct and separate offence, indictable under the laws of the
State.
Undoubtedly a State has the legitimate power to define and
punish crimes by general laws applicable to all persons within
its jurisdiction. So, likewise, it may declare, by special laws,
certain acts to be criminal offences when committed by officers
or agents of its own banks and institutions. But it is without
lawful power to make such special laws applicable to banks organized and operating under the laws of the United States.
It was by failing to observe the distinction between the two
classes of cases that, we think, the courts below fell into error.
T]iejudgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is reversed, and
the cause isremanded to that co urt to take further action
not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 117.

Argued

-Decided

February 2, 1903.

Chromolithographs representing actual groups of persons and things, which
have been designed from hints or descriptions of the scenes represented,
and which are to be used as advertisements for a circus are "pictorial
illustrations" within the meaning of Rev. Stat. ยง 4952, allowing a copyof any engraving,
right to the "author, designer, or proprietor ...
. or chromo" as affected by the act of 1874, chap. 301,
cut, print...
ยง 3, 18 Stat. 78, 79. And on complying with all the statutory requirements the proprietors are entitled to the protection of the copyright
laws.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Afr. Ansley Wilcox and AJf'. Arthur von Briesen for plaintiffs in error:
This action comes here upon writ of error to the Circuit Court

