INDIANA MANUFACTURING CO. v. KOEHNE.

681

Syllabus.

but to some particular provision in it. I find nothing in the
language which lends itself to such a view.
I therefore dissent.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR.
JusrICEiHoLmEs concur in this dissent.

INDIANA MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
KOEIINE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 177.

Argued October 24, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Certain taxes having been assessed against complainant, an Indiana corporation, pursuant to a law of Indiana upon the value of letters patent owned
by it, an action was brought against the collector to enjoin the collection
of such taxes, the appeal to equity being founded on the grounds: (1) That
the assessment constituted a cloud upon title; (2) that there was no adequate remedy at law; (3) that a multiplicity of suits would be avoided; (4)
that it would prevent irreparable injury to complainant. Iheld:
(1) That in the absence of any statute makingtie assessment upon shares
a lien on tle real estate and of any averment that the company
owned any real estate, no cloud upon title is made apparent.
(2) That the statute of Indiana provides a proceeding for the recovery of
taxes wrongfully assessed, and as it does not appear that such statute has been repealed, an adequate remedy at law exists.
(3) That the procedure under such statute would not involve amultiplicity of suits.
(4) That where a plain and adequate remedy is given for the recovery of
taxes illegally assessed no irreparable injury can be inferred from
general statements in the absence of the averment of specific facts
from which the court can see that irreparable injury would be a
natural and probable result.
Equitable jurisdiction of a Federal court cannot be maintained except on a
ground recognized by the Federal courts, and the mere fact that the action involved tie taxing of letters patent does not give the Federal courts
jurisdiction in equity where no such recognized ground appears.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

.Wfr, C'.ester B'adford for appellant.
the brief.

X,. F. Winter was on

-Mr. William L. Taylor for appellees. -IM,. Xerrill .foores
and .i. Cassius C. Iladley were on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE 1PEoKnA-.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The complainant herein has appealed from the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana,
which dismissed its bill. It was a suit in equity to enjoin the
collection of taxes. It appears that certain taxes had been
assessed against the complainant, a corporation of Indiana, and
process had issued for the collection thereof which included all
the years from 1893 to 1898, (both years inclusive,) and also
for the year 1900 ; that such taxes, or the greater part of them,
-were (as averred) illegal, because they were, among other things,
assessed pursuant to a law of the State of Indiana, upon the value
of certain letters patent of the United States, for inventions,
owned by the corporation, that such state law was in violation
of the Federal Constitution, and was therefore void ; that the
part of the taxes which complainant admitted to be legal it had
paid, and notithstanding such paynent the tax officials were
threatening to levy upon its property to collect the residue.
By reference to the general tax laws of Indiana of 1891 it
will be seen that it is therein provided that each district assessor
shall, commencing in April in each year, inquire of each person
concerning his property, while as to corporations their officers
are to deliver to the assessor a sworn statement of the property
of such corporation in detail, and among the items to be reported is the "market value, or if no market value, then the
actual value of the shares of stock " of the company. The statement made by the corporation to the assessor is by hhn delivered to the county auditor, who in turn delivers it to a board of
review, which values and assesses the capital stock and all franchises and other property of the company. This board of review makes the original assessment. The corporation so assessed, or any taxpayer, may appeal from the assessment upon
the corporation, to the state board of tax commissioners. Sec-

INDIANA MANUFACTURING CO. v. KOEHNE.

683

Opinion of the Court.

tion 125 of the tax law of 1891, as amended by the act of
1895, p. 79. Upon such appeal the state board decides as to
the assessment, and may, if it decides that the property is assessable, make such an assessment, increasing or reducing it, as
it may decide proper, and the auditor then certifies such changes
in valuation made by the state board to the several counties, and
provision is made for the collection of the same by the proper
officials. By the act of 1853, Rev. Stat. of Indiana, ed. of 1881,
sees. 5813, 5814; Rev. Stat. ed. of 1894, sees. 7915, 7916, provision is made that any person or corporation may appear before
the board of commissioners of any county and establish by proper
proof that such person or corporation has paid taxes which were
wrongfully assessed against him or it, and it is thereby made
the duty of the board to order the amount so proved to have
been paid, to be refunded to the payer from the county treasury
so far as the same was assessed and paid for county taxes.
Where a portion of the amount so wrongfully assessed and paid
shall have been paid for state purposes and shall have been paid
into the state treasury, it is made the duty of the board to certify to the auditor of the State the amount so proved to have
been wrongfully paid, and the auditor is directed to audit the
same as a claim against the treasury, and the treasurer of the
State is directed to pay the same out of any moneys not otherAvise appropriated.
The further steps to be taken in case the authorities refuse,
upon such application, to pay over the taxes wrongfully assessed,
are adverted to hereafter.
The bill states that defendant Koehne is the treasurer of
Marion County, where these taxes were assessed, and he is by
law also the treasurer of the city of Indianapolis, and as the
treasurer of the county of Marion and the city of Indianapolis
he collects for them all taxes and makes distribution thereof,
and also collects all taxes due the State from Marion County,
and in fact he collected all taxes assessed for all purposes against
appellant. There is no other treasurer of the city of Indianapolis, and the money for that city collected by tax remains in
the hands of the county treasurer of the county of Marion until it is expended, the county treasurer thus retaining all taxes

OCTOBER TERMT,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

in his bands belonging both to the county of Marion and the
city of Indianapolis until those taxes are properly expended.
Other averments were contained in the bill, but none material to the case as we view it, and upon all the facts complainant comes into a court of equity for the purpose of enjoining
the collection of the alleged illegal portion of these taxes which
had been imposed on the letters patent mentioned, and it was
claimed by the complainants that, excluding the value of such
patents, the shares had no value above the indebtedness of the
corporation, and therefore it was wholly exempt or exempt
with the exception of a very small sum from taxation, and that
sum it had paid.
The foundation of this appeal to equity, as averred by complainant, was (1) on the ground that the assessment constitutes
a cloud upon title; (2) that there is no adequate remedy at
law ; (3) that a multiplicity of suits is avoided; and (4) that it
prevents irreparable injury to complainant.
It has long been the settled doctrine of the Federal courts
that the mere illegality of a tax, or the mere fact that a law
upon which the tax is foun.ded is unconstitutional, does not
entitle a party to relief by injunction against proceedings
under the law, but it must appear that the party has no
adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of the law, or that the
case falls under some other recognized head of equity jurisdiction, such as multiplicity of suits, irreparable injury, etc. See
Cruickshans v. Bidwell, 176 U. S. 73, 80, where many of the
authorities upon this subject are collected in the opinion which
was delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller. See also Pittsburgh
&o. Railway v. Board of Public lMork&, 172 U. S. 32, where
Mr. Justice Gray dealt with the subject quite fully. We must
judge the case at bar under .the rules laid down by the authorities cited.
We take the grounds in the order above stated.
(1.) In regard to the averment that the assessment constitutes
a cloud upon title.
It is the ordinary case of an assessment upon the value of
the capital stock of a corporation and its franchises. Our attention has not been called to any statute which makes the

INDIANA MANUFACTURING CO. v. KOEHNE.

685

Opinion of the Court.

assessment upon the shares alien upon the real estate of a corporation, and if it were such lien, there is no averment that the
company owned any real estate; hence, no cloud upon its title
is made apparent, even if there could be a cloud cast upon the
real estate merely by reason of an ordinary assessment, such as
is made in this case. There is nothing in the objection.
(2.) There is the averment that the complainant is without
any adequate remedy at law, and one of the grounds for such
averment is stated in the bill as follows:
"And your orator further shows unto your honors that the
defendant Armin C. Koehne is the treasurer of Marion County,
Indiana, whose duty it is as such treasurer, under the laws of
the State of Indiana, to receive and collect taxes for the said
State of Indiana, and also for Marion County in said State, and
also for the city of Indianapolis within said county, and also
for the school board of the city of Indianapolis, Indiana.
That a large proportion of the amounts received and collected
by the said defendant as treasurer, as aforesaid, are for and on
account of and for the benefit of the State of Indiana, a sovereign State, and one of the United States, and that under the
Constitution and laws no suit can be maintained against the
State of Indiana. That it is a part of the duty of the said defendant Armin C. Kochne, as aforesaid, to pay over into the
treasury of the State of Indiana a large portion of the amounts
so received and collected by him as taxes, and, therefore, that
if said amounts are so collected and received and paid over,
they will become mixed with the moneys of the said State, and
thus be beyond reach of any process of this or any court, and
irrecoverable, and that great and irreparable injury will result
to your orator if such unlawful collection and paying over as
aforesaid be not prevented."
The averment that a portion of the tax is to be paid to the
State of Indiana and that the State cannot be sued is answered
by the remedy provided by the law of Indiana for such a case.
Under that law the complainant was bound in the first place
to appeal from the decision of the board of review, which included the letters patent in the value of the shares of stock of
the corporation. Such appeal would, by the provision of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, be taken to the state board of tax commissioners, and
if that board affirmed the decision of the board of review the
corporation could pay the tax and immediately file a petition
with the board of county commissioners to recover it back under
the act of 1853, above referred to. An appeal is given from
the refusal of that board to repay the tax. 3 Rev. Stat. Indiana,
sec. 7917, ed. of 1894; S ultz v. Board &c., 20 Indiana, 178;
State v. Board &e., 63 Indiana, 497, 501. This appeal would
be taken to the Circuit Court, and by the general law an appeal
lies from that court to either the appellate court or the Supreme
Court of the State, according to the amount involved.
The fact that a portion of the money raised by the tax might
be for state purposes is not material under the provisions of the
act of 1853, supra. The courts of Indiana have held that the
filing of a petition with the board of commissioners under that
act was in itself notice to the county, and if thereafter the money
was paid over to the State or to the city, it was no defence;
that when the board of commissioners received notice, the county
became a trustee for the claimant, and in the event the money
was awarded to him the county was bound to refund the same,
and a payment by the county authorities after such notice, or
the commencement of an action, to the state or town authorities, was at its own risk and peril. The taxpayer could not be
required to pursue such funds into the hands of the parties to
whom they were wrongfully distributed, and the fact that the
taxes were voluntarily paid constituted no defence under the
statute cited. .Du&
Bois v. Board &e., 10 Ind. App. 347. It
is also said in the above case that if the money had been paid
over when the petition was filed, the statute provided that the
commissioners should give the claimant a certificate to the state
auditor for the repayment by the state treasurer, when taxes
had been paid that were wrongfully assessed for state purposes.
There was nothing, therefore, to prevent the complainant herein
from paying the tax and immediately filing its petition with
the board of county commissioners to have it refunded, and the
payment to the State (if made) was immaterial and constituted
no defence. The tax could be recovered back notwithstanding
the payment to the State.

INDIANA MANUFACTU RING CO. v. KOEHNE.

687

Opinion of the Court.

It has been urged, however, that the act of 1853 was not
broad enough, inasmuch as it required that the taxes should
have been wrongfully assessed and that mere illegality would
not be sufficient in order to recover under the statute, citing
Comnmissioners &c. v. Armstrong, 91 Indiana, 528. That case
simply held that where property was legally taxable and the
tax assessed was justly and equitably due, if through some irregularity or default it had not been legally assessed, it could
not be said to have been " wrongfully" assessed within the
meaning of the statute of 1853 and recoverable back under that
statute; but that very case shows that if property which was
not taxable was assessed and the money paid, such assessment
was " wrongful" within the statute of 1853, being made upon
property not liable to taxation, and therefore it could not be
said that any tax so assessed was justly or equitably due.
In this case, if the complainant be right in its averment that
the letters patent owned by it are property exempt from taxation by or under state authority, then such property is "wrongfully" assessed within that statute, and proceedings could be
taken to recover back the tax so paid, upon complying with the
provisions of the law of Indiana. Donch v. Boardof Commissioners, 4 Ind. App. 374, decided in 1891, subsequently to the
decision in 91 Indiana, supra; Du Bois v. Board &c., 4 Ind.
App. 138, and again reported, reaffirming the same doctrine, in
10 Ind. App. 347; Newsomn v. Board &c., 92 Indiana, 229;
Board &c. v. Senn, 117 Indiana, 410.
Complainant could set forth in its petition to the county commissioners its claim under the Federal Constitution for the exemption of the letters patent owned by it from taxation, and it
could make the same claim if the board refused to admit it, in
its action in the Circuit Court and on appeal from an adverse
decision in that court to either the appellate court or the Supreme Court of the State, and if either court to which the appeal was taken and before which the question was raised decided
it adversely to the complainant, a writ of error would lie from
this court and the subject could be reviewed and finally decided
here. There is no doubt, therefore, of the adequacy of the
remedy at law, provided the act of 1853 is in force.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

It is argued that the act of 1853 is repealed by the general
tax act of 1891 under which these assessments were made.
There is no specific repeal of the statute contained in the general tax act, and repeals by implication are concededly not favored. It would have to appear that the two acts were inconsistent with each other, or that the act of 1891 was a complete
system in itself, and was really meant to cover the cases, and
the method of recovery which was to be pursued, in matters of
wrongful taxation, and to exclude all remedy except such as
that act provided. This, we think, cannot be maintained.
And again, the act is contained in the edition of the Revised
Statutes of Indiana, of the revision of 1894, by Burns, and is
reproduced therein as sections 7915 and 7916,and it is not stated
in that edition that there had been any claim that those sections,
constituting the act of 1853, had ever been repealed, but on the
contrary the act is treated as a valid and subsisting part of the
Revised Statutes of the State. The sections are also cited in
Donch v. Board &c., sua)ra, as sections 5813 and 5814 of the
edition of the Revised Statutes of ISS1, and there is no remark
in that case that they had since been repealed by the act of 1891.
See also Du Bois v. Board &c., 4 Ind. App. supra. True, the
questions discussed in these cases arose prior to the passage of
the general tax act of 1891, but these decisions were made subsequently to the passage of that act, and the sections were not
referred to in any of those opinions as if they had been repealed
by the general tax act and were only applicable to cases happening before the passage of that act.
We see nothing in Hart v. Smith, recently decided by the
Supreme Court of Indiana and reported in 64 N. E. Rep. 661,
to support the claim of the repeal of the act of 1853. It was
there held that, upon the mere matter of a valuation of the
shares of the stock, the decision of the state board of tax commissioners was not reviewable by the court. Upon which counsel argues that, "if we could go before the county commissioners
with a claim after the state board had passed upon it, then inevitably we could also go to the Circuit Court of Marion County,
and thence to the appellate or Supreme Court of the State, according to the amount involved. Therefore, if the Supreme

INDIANA MANUFACTURING CO. v. KOEHNE.

689

Opinion of the Court.

Court I has no power to review' the decisions of the state board
of tax commissioners, then the county commissioners have no
power to begin a course of proceedings which must inevitably,
at its conclusion, come to a tribunal which has declared that it
'has no power to review,' " and it is therefore urged that if the
court has no power to review this determination of the tax commissioners, it is because the act of 1853 has been repealed. But
the decision of the tax commissioners upon a mere question of
judgment as to the value of shares of stock is a decision of a
question of fact upon which the judgment of the board would
be final, even if the act of 1853 were not repealed. In that
very case, however, the court did review a decision of the board
as to valuation when it appeared that, in arriving at such decision, the board included property, as part of the value of the
shares, which the lawv did not permit to be taxed, and an assessinent for valuation thus arrived at was held illegal, and as it
could not be determined how much of the total assessment depended upon the valuation of the property not taxable, the court
held the whole assessment illegal, and gave judgment accordingly. We are not convinced that the act of 1853 has been repealed, and the remedy thereby provided being sufficient, we
hold complainant had an adequate remedy at law.
(3.) The further ground of jurisdiction in equity, that it
prevents a multiplicity of suits, cannot be sustained.
The remedy provided by the State of Indiana is in truth but
one proceeding, and all the complainant had to do in order to
avail itself of such remedy was to appear before the board of
review when the assessment was first made and object to it,
and if its objections were overruled, then to appeal to the state
board, and if that board also overruled the objection, then to
pay the tax. The proceeding thereafter is one suit commenced
by application to the board of county commissioners to recover the tax wrongfully assessed, and if the claim were refused, then the party might go into the Circuit Court, and if
refused again, it had the further right of, appeal, and if still
refused, it then had the right of review by writ of error from
this court, if any Federal question had been decided against
.it. The right to come into a Federal c urt an. invoke its
-YoL. OLXXXVIII-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

equitable jurisdiction in order to avoid the remedy thus provided by the State cannot, under these facts, be founded upon
the alleged prevention of a multiplicity of suits. The claimu
on such ground is without foundation.
(4.) Nor is there any irreparable injury as averred.
There is a general averment that to enforce the tax by
distraint and sale of complainant's property would result in
irreparable injury, but there is no fact stated from which it
could be inferred that irreparable injury would be likely to
result from such enforcement, and where a plain and adequate
remedy to recover the amount is given by statute no such irreparable injury can be inferred. Some averment of specific
facts must be made from which the court can see that irreparable
injury would be a natural and probable result. Nothing of
the sort is shown here. Indeed, the averment of irreparable
injury seems to be founded upon the other averment, that if
the tax got into its treasury the State could not be sued
to recover it back, and hence the necessity of appealing to
equity. But the answer to that has already been given by referring to the act of 1853, which fully provides for such contingency.
The claim is also made that complainant had the right under
section 1 of the act of 1888, 25 Stat. 433, chap. 866, amending
the act of 1875, to resort to the Federal court on the ground
that the case arose under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, inasmuch as it was claimed that under such Constitution the letters patent were not taxable by or under state authority. But the right to resort to a Federal court as a court
of equity must be founded upon some ground of equitable
jurisdiction recognized by the Federal courts, and when, as
here, no such ground appears, jurisdiction in equity cannot be
maintained.
Whether the value of letters patent is in any way taxable by
or under state authority, we have no occasion to now decide,
because the question is not before us. We simply show a plain
and adequate remedy at law, after paying the tax, to recover
it back, in an action or proceeding where the question as to the
exemption of this kind of property from taxation can be raised,

HYATT v. CORKRAN.
Statement of the Case.

and if not admitted by the state court, it can be reviewed here
on writ of error.
We see no ground for interfering with the judgment of the
court below, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

HYATT v. PEOPLE &o. ex rel. CORKRAN.
ERROR TO THE COUr OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 492. Argued January 7, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.
A person, for whose delivery a demand has been made by executive authority of one State upon the executive authority of another State under
clause 2 of section 2 of Article IV of the Constitution, and who shows
conclusively, and upon conceded facts, that he was not within the demanding State at the time stated in the indictment, nor at any time when
the acts were, if ever, committed, is not a fugitive from justice within
the meaning of Rev. Stat. sec. 5278, and the Federal statute upon the
subject of interstate extradition and rendition.
If the governor of the State upon whom the demand is made issues a warrant for the apprehension and delivery of such a person, the warrant is
but prima facie sufficient to hold tie accused, and it is open to him, on
habeas corpus proceedings, to show that the charge upon which his delivery is demanded assumes that lie was absent from the demanding State
at'the time the crime alleged was, if ever, committed.

THis proceeding by habeas coipus was commenced by the relator, defendant in error, to obtain his discharge from imprisonment by the plaintiff in error, the chief of police in the city of
Albany, State of New York, who held the relator by means of
a warrant issued in extradition proceedings by the governor of
New York. The justice of the Supreme Court of New York,
to whom the petition for the writ was addressed, and also upon
appeal, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of PNew
York, refused to grant the relator's discharge, but the Court of
Appeals reversed their orders and discharged him. 172 N. Y.
176. A writ of error has been taken from this court to review
the latter judgment.

