OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. SODERBERG.
APPEAL FROM1 THE OIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUMT
No. 61. Argued December 12, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

1. Although the jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Court be originally
invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship, the attribute of finality
cannot be impressed upon the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
unless it appear that the original jurisdiction was dependent entirely
upon such diversity of citizenship, and where the case made by the plaintiff depends upon the proper construction of an act of Congress with the
contingency of being sustained by one construction, and defeated by another, it is one arising under the laws of the United States, and this
court has jurisdiction thereof under section 1 of the act of 1888.
2. Lands valuable solely or chiefly for granite quarries are mineral lands
within the exception and the meaning of the provisions of the act of
Congress of July 2, 1864, granting, under conditions therein stated, every
alternate odd-numbered section of public land not minerat to the amount
of twenty alternate sections per mile on each side of its line to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company. The word mineral need not be
construed as synonynous with metalliferous.
Land grant statutes should receive a strict construction, and one which
supports the contention of the government rather than that of the individual-the sovereign rather than the grantee. Nothing passes by implication.

Tnis was a bill filed by the Railway Company in the Circuit
Court for the District of Washington to enjoin the defendant
Soderberg from taldng, removing or disposing of granite from
a quarter section of land of which he had taken possession under
a mineral location, and for an account of the granite quarried
or removed.
The bill alleged the incorporation of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company under an act of Congress of July 2, 1S61,
with power to construct a railroad from Lake Superior to Puget
Sound, with a branch line via Columbia River to Portland;
the grant of every alternate odd-numbered section of public

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SODERBERG.

527

Counsel for Appellant.

land, not mineral, to the amount of twenty alternate sections
per mile, on each side of the line when passing through the
Territories; acceptance of the act by the Railroad Company;
a joint resolution of Congress approved May 31, 1870, authorizing the company to issue bonds for the construction of the
road, with a privilege to the company of building its main road
by the valley of the Columbia River, with a branch across the
Cascade Mountains to Puget Sound; the definite location on
March 26, 1884, of the Cascade branch of the road; the completion and acceptance of the road coterminus with its public
lands; the conveyance on August 3, 1896, of all its property to
the Northern Pacific Railway Company, which has since continuously operated such road.
The bill further alleged that the quarter section in dispute
was rough, mountainous land, the principal value of which consisted in the existence of a ledge of granite of good merchantable quality, and valuable for building stone; that the defendant
in 1898 entered upon this quarter section and began to quarry,
remove and dispose of such granite under a mineral location
of the land in question, contending that such land is excepted
from the general land grant, and that the question whether
this land is mineral or non-mineral has not yet been determined
by the department. Wherefore an injunction was prayed.
The answer raised no issue of fact, but averred that the lands
were mineral in character and as such excepted from the grant,
and that defendant having complied with the rules and regulations of the Land Department and made the proper proof,
it was assumed and decided that the defendant was entitled to
a patent. That he paid the proper fees to the receiver, who forwarded the proofs and records to the Land Department with
a recommendation that a patent issue. The patent, however,
does not seem to have been actually issued until after the beginning of this suit. The court heard the case upon a stipulation of facts and entered a decree dismissing the bill, and quieting the title of the defendant to the lands in question. 99 Fed.
Rep. 506. On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals this decree was affirmed. 104 Fed. Rep. 425.
Mr. C. I.

Btnn and -fr. James B. -Ierrfor appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Mi'. R. A. Ballinqger and A1r. T.. T. Roland for appellee.
.Xr. Assistant Attorney GeneralVan Devanter for the United
States. Mr'. Assistant Attorney Pugh was on the brief.
1. JUSTIOc BROWS, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

1. Nlotion was made to dismiss this appeal for the reason that,
as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked upon the
ground of diverse citizenship, the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is final, under section 6 of the Court of Appeals act
of 1891, as interpreted by the decisions of this court in Colorado
Central -Mining Co. v. Turcie, 150 U. S. 138; Borgmeyer v.
Idler, 159 U. S. 408, and Press Publishing Co. v. .Ionroe, 164
U. S. 105. But, to impress the attribute of finality upon a
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it must appear that
the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was dependent
C. entirely " upon diverse citizenship.
That is not the case here.
Plaintiff's bill does indeed set up a diversity of citizenship as
one ground of jurisdiction, but as it appears that its title rests
upon a proper interpretation of the land grant act of 1864 as to
the exception of non-mineral lands, there is another ground
wholly independent of citizenship under that clause of section 1
of the act of 1888, 25 Stat. 433, clothing the Circuit Court with
jurisdiction of all civil suits involving over $2000, "and arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States." If the
case made by the plaintiff be one which depends upon the
proper construction of an act of Congress, with the contingency
of being sustained by one construction and defeated by another,
it is one arising under the laws of the United States. Doolan
v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618; Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375. Under
the allegations of the bill the fact that the Land Department
had not determined whether the land in question was mineral
or non-mineral, does not involve a question of fact, as the facts
are admitted, but solely a question of law whether land valuable
for its granite is mineral or non-mineral under the terms of the
grant. .Aforton v. Yebraska, 21 Wall. 660. The fact that a
patent issued pending suit is neither set up in the pleadings nor

NORTHERN P.A.CIFIC RAILWAY v. SODERBERG.

529

Opinion of the Court.

noticed in the opinion of either court. The motion to dismiss
must therefore be denied.
2. We are thus brought to the main question in the case,
viz.: Whether lands valuable solely or chiefly for granite quarries are mineral lands within the exception of the grant of 1864?
The third section of the act containing the granting clause of
land "not mineral" also contains the following provisos:
" Providedfirther, That all mineral lands be, and the same are
hereby, excluded from the operations of this act.

.

.

.

And

pirovided,.firther,That the word ' mineral,' when it occurs in
this act, shall not be held to include iron or coal." The inference from this proviso is that in the absence of a special provision both iron and coal would be considered as minerals, and
thus to repel the idea that only metals were included in the
word mineral. This inference is strengthened by the fact that
the day before this act was passed, July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 343,
another act was approved authorizing the public sale to the
highest bidder of "any tracts embracing coal beds or coal
fields," and providing that any lands not thus disposed of shall
thereafter be liable to private entry. Relying largely upon this
act as a "legislative declaration" this court held in illullan v.
United States, 118 U. S. 271, that coal lands are mineral lands
within the meaning of that term as used in the statutes regulating the disposition of the public domain. This effectually
disposes of the argument that the word "mineral" must be
construed as synonymous with metalliferous.
Upon the other hand, section 2 declares that "the right,
power, and authoritV is hereby given to said corporation to
take from the public lands, adjacent to the line of said road,
material of earth, stone, timber, and so forth, for the construction thereof." There is a possible inference from this that stone
was not to be regarded as mineral, although it is more likely that
a grant was intended of all material serviceable in the construction of the road, even though it might otherwise be excepted
from the grant as a mineral. Taking these two sections together, it would seem that the reason for providing in the third
section that iron and coal lands should not be deemed mineral
was the same as the liberty given by the second section to take
VOL. CLXxxvIII-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

materials of earth, stone and timber, namely, to facilitate the
construction and operation of the railroad, in which large quantities of coal and iron would be required.
The word "mineral" is used in so many senses, dependent
upon the context, that the ordinary definitions of the dictionary

throw but little light upon its signification in a given case.
Thus the scientific division of all matter into the animal, vegetable or mineral kingdom would be absurd as applied to a grant
of lands, since all lands belong to the mineral kingdom, and
therefore could not be excepted from the grant without being
destructive of it. Upon the other hand, a definition which would
confine it to the precious metals, gold and silver, would so limit
its application as to destroy at once half the value of the exception. Equally subversive of the grant would be the definition of minerals found in the Century Dictionary: as "any constituent of the earth's crust ;" and that of Bainbridge on Mines:
"All the substances that now form, or which once formed, a
part of the solid body of the earth." Nor do we approximate
much more closely to the meaning of the word by treating minerals as substances which are "mined," as distinguished from
those which are "quarried," since many valuable deposits of
gold, copper, iron and coal lie upon or near the surface of the
earth, and some of the most valuable building stone, such, for
instance, as the Caen stone in France, is excavated from mines
running far beneath the surface. This distinction between underground mines and open workings was expressly repudiated
in .Aidland Ry.Co. v. lHaunchwood Co., L. R. 20 Oh. Div. 552,
and in -ext v. Gill, L. R. '7Oh. App. 699.
The ordinance of May 20, 1M85, authorizing the sale of lands
in the western territory, with a reservation of "one third part
of all gold, silver, lead and copper mines, to be sold or otherwise disposed of, as Congress shall hereafter direct," was evidently intended as an assertion of the right of the government
to a royalty upon the more valuable metals-a prerogative wvhich
had belonged to the English Crown for centuries, though there
confined to gold and silver, which were only considered as royal
metals, and having its origin in the king's prerogative of coinage. 1 Black. Com. 391. While intrinsically the precious

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SODERBERG.

531

Opinion of the Court.

metals are the more valuable, in the aggregate, the non-precious
metals have probably contributed as much or more to the general wealth of the country.
A division of land into agricultural and mineral would also
be a most uncertain guide to a proper construction of the word
4 mineral," since most of the lands included in the limits of this
grant are neither one nor the other, but desert or rocky land,
of no present value for agriculture, and of little value for their
mineral deposits. So, too, the general reservations in the earlier
acts of Congress of lead mines and saline springs seem to have
been dictated by the fact that those were the only valuable minerals known to exist in the States to which the acts were applied, while in Michigan and Wisconsin there was a similar
reservation of copper, lead and other valuable ores, which were
just then being discovered and made available. In the earlier
grants of Congress in aid of -railroads there was generally no
reservation of mineral lands, but in the grants subsequent to
1860, to the Lake Superior and Pacific roads, through unsurveyed and almost unknown territories, a reservation was invariably made of lands suspected of being rich in metals. It is
quite true that, had it not been for the actual or suspected presence of these metals, Congress might not have deemed it worth
while to reserve the non-metallic mineral lands; but when its
attention was called to the fact that valuable mines might exist
along the line of these roads, as it appears to have been about
1860, its policy was changed, and not only metalliferous but
all mineral lands were reserved. Subsequent to that, it was
only in States which had already received grants without reservation, or in known agricultural States, that such grants continued to be made.
Considerable light is thrown upon the Congressional definition of the word "minerals" by the acts subsequent to the
Northern Pacific grant of 1864, and prior to the defifiite location of the line in 1884. The first of these acts, that of July 26,
1866, 14 Stat. 251, declares that the "mineral lands" of the public domain shall be free and open to exploration and occupation, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by law, and
subject also to the local customs or rules of miners in the sev-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

eral mining districts. The second section provides that whenever any person, or association of persons claim a vein or lode
of quartz, or other rock in place, bearing gold, silver, cinnabar
or copper, he shall be entitled to enter such tract and receive a
patent therefor, upon complying with certain preliminaries, and
with a right to follow such vein, etc., into adjoining lands. The
argument made in this connection by the Railway Company
would confine the term " mineral lands" to lands bearing gold,
silver, cinnabar or copper, which would exclude all other metalliferous lands, such as contain iron, lead, tin, nickel, platinum,
aluminum, etc.-a limitation wholly inconsistent with the use
of the word "mineral" in the first section.
This act was amended July 9, 1870, 16 Stat. 217, to allow
the entry of " placer" claims, " including all forms of deposit,
excepting veins of quartz, or other rock in place," and declaring that they shall be subject to patent under the same provisions as vein or lode claims. As placers are merely superficial
deposits, occupying the beds of ancient rivers or valleys, washed
down from some vein or lode, United States v. Ir'on Silver
lfining Co., 128 U. S. 673, this act has little bearing upon the
present case, though in Freeze, v. Sweeney, 8 Montana, 508, it
was held by the Supreme Court of Montana to authorize the
locating and patenting of a stone quarry.
Another act having a more important bearing is that of
May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91, " to promote the development of the
mining resources of the United States," and providing in the
first section that "all valuable mineral deposits " in public
lands should be open to exploration and purchase, according to
the local customs or rules of miners. This section is an obvious extension of section 1 of the act of 1866, above cited, by
substituting the words " valuable mineral deposits in lands"
for the words " mineral lands," as used in the prior act. The
second section is also in line with the second section of the act
of 1866, and provides that "mining claims upon veins or lodes
of quartz or other rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar,
lead, tin, copper, or other valuable deposits heretofore located,
shall be governed as to length along the vein or lode by the
customs, regulations, and laws in force at the date of their

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SODERBERG.

533

Opinion of the Court.

location." This section, like section 2 of the act of 1866, is
susceptible of two interpretations, either that the words "valuable mineral deposits" of the first section are limited to the
particular metals described in the second section, or that those
metals stood in particular need of regulation as to the length
and breadth of vein, and power to pursue such veins downward
vertically, and even beyond the vertical side line of the locations. This appears to us the more reasonable interpretation.
The fact that no such limits were imposed on veins of coal or
other minerals or metals indicates, not that the act was intended
to be confined to the minerals enumerated in section 2, since
that would be a clear restriction upon the words "valuable
mineral deposits" in the first section, but that these particular
metals stood in special need of limitation and protection.
Equally pregnant with meaning is the act of June 3, 1878,
20 Stat. 89, for the sale of timber lands in California, Oregon,
Nevada and Washington, which provides that " lands valuable
chiefly for timber, but unfit for cultivation," as well as lands
'valuable chiefly for stone," may be sold in quantities not exceeding 160 acres, with a proviso excluding mining claims, or
lands containing gold, silver, cinnabar or coal. This was followed by another act, August 4,1892, 27 Stat. 348, authorizing
the entry of lands "chiefly valuable for building stone," under
the placer mining laws, and extending the previous act to all
public land States. This act was passed after the line of the
road had been definitely located, and consequently has no
direct bearing upon the case, and can only be regarded as explaining to some extent the previous reservation of all lands
valuable for mineral (leposits.
Conceding that in 1864 Congress may not have had a definite idea with respect to the scope of the word " mineral," it
is clear that in 1884, when the line of this road was definitely
located, it had come to be understood as including all lands
containing " valuable mineral deposits," as well as lands" chiefly
valuable for stone," and that when the grant of 1864 first attached to particular lands by the definite location of the road
in 1884, the railway found itself confronted with the fact that
the word " mineral" had by successive declarations of Congress

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

been extended to include all valuable mineral deposits. As no
vested rights had been acquired by the Railroad Company
prior to the definite location of its line, it took the lands in
question encumbered by such definitions as Congress had seen
fit to impose upon the word "mineral," subsequent to 1861.
Indeed, by the very terms of the granting act of July 2,
1861, not only are mineral lands excluded, but the grant is
limited to those lands to which "the United States have full
title, not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated,
and free from pre6mption or other claims or rights, at tie time
the line of said road is definitely fieed, and a plat thereof filed
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
It results from this that if, before the definite location of the
road, Congress had withdrawn certain of these lands from the
grant, the company was bound by such withdrawal and compelled to accept other lands in lieu thereof within the indemnity
limits of the grant.
In construing this grant we must not overlook the general
principle announced in many cases in this court, that grants
for the sovereign should receive a strict construction-a construction which shall support the claim of the government
rather than that of the individual. Nothing passes by implication, and unless the language of the grant be clear and explicit as to the property conveyed, that construction will be
adopted which favors the sovereign rather than the grantee.
The rulings of the Land Department, to which we are to look
for the contemporaneous construction of these statutes, have
been subject to very little fluctuation, and almost uniformly,
particularly of late years, have lent strong support to the theory of the patentee, that the words" valuable mineral deposits"
should be construed as including all lands chiefly valuable for
other than agricultural purposes, and particularly as including
non-metallic substances, among which are held to be alum, asphaltum, borax, guano, diamonds, gypsum, resin, marble, mica,
slate, amber, petroleum, limestone, building stone and coal.
The cases are far too numerous for citation, and there is practically no conflict in them.
The decisions of the state courts have also favored the same

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SODERBERG. 535
Opinion of the Court.

interpretation. Thus in Gibson v. Tyson, 5 Watts, 34, chromate of iron was held to be included in a reservation of all
mineral. In Ifartwell v. Canman, 10 N. J. Eq. 128, a grant
of "all mines, minerals open or to be opened," was held to include paint stone, on the ground that it was valuable for its
mineral properties-the court distinctly repudiating the idea
that the term should be confined to metals or metallic ores.
In Pyunk v. Ilaldeman., 53 Pa. St. 229, and in Gill v. Weston,
110 Pa. St. 313, petroleum was held to be mineral, although
the act authorizing the lease of mining lands was passed before
petroleum was discovered. See also Gird v. Calfn-nia Oil
Company, 60 Fed. Rep. 531. The same principle was extended
in 11. & C. Ngatural Gas Company v. De Vitt, 130 Pa. St. 235,
to natural gas, which was said to be a mineral .ferw nattrwe.
In A'rmstrong v. Lake C]amar)lain G-anite Company, 147 N. Y.
495, a conveyance of " all minerals, and ores," was held to include granite subsequently discovered on the premises, though
it would not pass under the name of "mineral ores." In Johnston v. Ilarwrington, 5 Washington, 73, 78, the Supreme Court of
that State thought it would hardly be disputed that stone was
a mineral, though it seems inconsistent with the subsequent
case, in the same volume, of Wh/ieeler v. Smith, 5 Washington,
704, holding that the term mineral was only intended to enibrace deposits of ore.
The rulings of the English courts have, with a possible exception in some earlier cases, adopted the construction that
valuable stone passed under the definition of minerals. Said
Baron Parke in The ] l of losse v. l1'aihnan, 14 M. & W.
859, 872: "The termn ' minerals,' [used in an act of Parliament,
reserving to the lord all mines and minerals,] though more frequently ap)lied to substances containing metals, in its proper
sense includes all fossil bodies or matters dug out of mines; and
Dr. Johnson says that 'all metals are minerals, but all minerals
are not metals;' and mines, according to Jacob's Law Dictionary, are ' quarries or places where anything is digged ;' and in
the year book, 17 Edw. 3, c. 7, "minerm de pierre' and 'de
charbon' are spoken of. Beds of stone, which may be dug by
winning or quarrying, are therefore properly minerals, and so

OOrOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

we think they must be held to be in the clause in question, bearing in mind that the object of the act was to give the surface
for cultivation to the commoners and to leave in the lord what
it did not take away for that purpose." This case was followed
in Xlicklethwait v. Winter, 6 Excb. 6-44, in which the same act
of Parliament was held to include stone dug from quarries. In
Midland Py. v. Citeckley, L. R. 4 Eq. 19, stone for road making or paving was held to be a mineral, the Master of the Rolls
observing: "Stone is, in my opinion, clearly a mineral; and
in fact everything except the mere surface, which is used for agricultural purposes ;. anything beyond that which is useful for any
purpose whatever, whether it is gravel, marble, fire clay, or the
like, comes within the word 'mineral' when there is a reservation of the mines and minerals from a grant of land." In -Midland Ry. Co. v. Haunchwood, L. R. 20 Chan. Div. 552, brick
clay was held to be a mineral; and in Hext v. Gill, L.R. 7
Chan. App. 699, the House of Lords held that china clay, and
"every substance which can be got from underneath the surface of the earth for the purpose of profit," was a mineral,
"unless there is something in the context or in the nature of
the transaction to induce the court to give it a more limited
meaning." The same rule was applied in several analogous
cases of granite, sandstone, flintstone and in other similar circumstances. Attorney General v. Welsh Granite Co., 35 *W.
R. 617 (granite); Bell v. W ilson, 2 Drew. & S. 395 (sandstone);
Tucker v. -Liger,L. R. 8 App. Cas. 508 (flintstone), and a dozen
other cases to the same effect.
We do not deem it necessary to attempt an exact definition
of the words "mineral lands" as used in the act of July 2, 1864.
With our present light upon the subject it might be difficult to
do so. It is sufficient to say that we see nothing in that act,
or in the legislation of Congress up to the time this road was
definitely located, which can be construed as putting a different
definition upon these words from that generally accepted by
the text writers upon the subject. Indeed, we are of opinion
that this legislation consists with, rather than opposes, the overwhelming weight of authority to the effect that mineral lands
include not merely metalliferous lands, but all such as are chiefly

PROUT v. STARR.
Statement of the Case.

valuable for their deposits of a mineral character, which are
useful in the arts or valuable for purposes of manufacture.

The decree of the Court of Appeals is therefore
Ajflrned.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

PROUT v. STARR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 150. Argued January 26, 27, 1903.-Decided February 23,1903.

It is competent and proper for all the parties to an action to agree to dispense with taking evidence, to accept the evidence taken in other cases in
which the allegations of fact and the contentions of law are the same,
and to abide by decrees to be entered therein. And, where the decrees
entered in such other cases have been affirmed by this court, the Circuit
Court in which the cases are pending should enter a similar decree in the
case in which the agreement is made.
Such agreement when made by the attorney general of the State as a party
to any action is binding upon his successors in office who have been properly substituted as parties to the action in his place.
The Constitution of the United States, with the several amendments thereof,
mnst be regarded as one instrument, all of whose provisions are to be
deemed of equal validity. And in an action properly instituted against
a state official the Eleventh Amendment is not a barrier to a judicial inquiry as to whether the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment have
been disregarded by state enactments.
The contentions of law in this case were considered and determined by this
court in Smnyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, which is now followed.

ON August 3, 1893, James C. Starr and Samuel W. Allerton,
citizens of the State of Illinois, on their own behalf and on behalf of others similarly situated, filed a bill of complaint in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
against the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific RaihVay Coinpany ; George H. Hastings, Attorney General ; John C. Allen,

