OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Syllabus.

MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the same questions as that of the Boston
and .lfontana Consolidated Cop2er and iSilve'r -Mining Oowpany v. T/,e ifontana Oi'e Puicea,.ing Company &c., (TNo. 103,)
ante, p. 632, the only point of difference between the two being
that the Chile Gold Mining Company and the other defendants
herein are sued as lessees of the Montana Ore Purchasing
Company, they having as such lessees attempted to interfere
with the complainant's right of property. The complaint was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
For the reasons stated in the opinion in No. 103, this decree

is also
Affirmed.

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM[ THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUVIBIA.

No. 125. Argued December 17, 18,190.-Decided February 23,1903.
A lease containing a covenant to renew at its expiration with covenants,
terms and conditions similar to those contained in the original lease, is
fully carried out by one renewal without the insertion of another covenant to renew. Otherwise a perpetuity is provided for, and this the
court will not presume in the absence of plain and peculiar language.
Where land is owned by three trustees under a trust requiring an exercise
of the judgment and discretion of all the trustees and there is no evidence
of authority for one of them to act alone, the execution of what purports to
be a lease for five years by one of the trustees does not make a valid lease
of the property, nor does it affect the share of the trustee executing it as
in the case of ordinary joint tenants; and where all the trustees do not
join in the execution of an instrument, the burden is ol the grantee to
prove the deaths of those not joining therein. Recognition or ratification by the other trustees cannot be assumed unless it is shown to have
been founded upon full knowledge of all the facts.
The receipt of rent by the beneficiary under the trust directly from the
tenant will not amount to a part performance of the contract in such
manner as to make it binding upon the trustees not signing when it appears that the check received for such rent was not endorsed by the trus-

WINSLOW r'. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

647

Statement of the Case.
tee and there is no proof that the beneficiary knew there was no binding
lease in existence, but it does appear that subsequently rent was refused
and only accepted under an agreement that the acceptance was without
prejudice.
Where a lease contains an option to the lessee to purchase at a price named
in the lease during the continuance thereof and tie trustees making the
lease have no general or absolute power of sale, specific performance of
that portion of the contract should be denied.
Where a railroad company has built its line on land affected bysuch a lease,
and the trustees have commenced an action to recover rent for the period
of occupancy subsequent to the expiration of the lease, and also to recover possession of the property, there is no ground for an injunction
against the prosecution of the action as to the recovery of the rent; it is
proper, however, for this court to enjoin for a reasonable period, in order
to permit condemnation proceedings to be instituted and prosecuted,
that portion of the action which is an attempt to oust the railroad company from land upon which it has entered with a view to its purchase
and constructed its road thereon for public purposes under the sanction of public authority and over which the public have rights which
should not be obstructed or destroyed either by the company itself or by
antagonistic parties claiming ownership as a result of a private agreement.

THE Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, reversing
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District, (which
dismissed the bill of the railroad company,) directed that court
to give judgment in favor of the company, and from the judgment of the Court of Appeals an appeal to this court has been
taken by the defendants below.
The company brought this suit to obtain a judgment declaring the validity of an alleged lease to it for five years from
the first day of August, 1897, and to compel the specific performance of an alleged contract to sell to it the same land
mentioned in the lease and lying in the city of Washington,
owned by the defendants as substituted trustees under the will
of the late Catherine Pearson, deceased, and to enjoin the de.
fendants from continuing proceedings at law which they bad
commenced to obtain possession of the premises, and also to
enjoin them from the prosecution of an action to recover damages for the use and occupation of the land by the railroad
company. The facts are as follows:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Catherine Pearson in her lifetime owned certain land, consisting of unimproved lots in the city of Washington, near the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company's depot, and lying on
the line of its Metropolitan branch as subsequently constructed
in that city. After the decease of Mrs. Pearson, and on
June 30, 1868, her will was duly proved before the proper
probate court in the District. In it she devised the premises
to trustees for the sole and separate use of her daughter, Eliza
W. Patterson" During the term of her natural life, and so that the same
shall not be liable for the debts or subject to the control, contracts or engagements of her present or any after-taken husband; to permit her by herself, or her special attorney appointed in writing, to be signed by her, to receive the annual
income and profits of the same for her own sole and separate
use, her receipt or that of her attorney so appointed as aforesaid alone to be an acquittance to the person or persons charged
with the payment of such income or any part of the same, and
to the extent only therein expressed to have been paid-and if
she please to occupy, possess and use for her own account, accommodation and convenience and that of her family any part
of the property, real and personal, so held for her separate use
and benefit, she shall be allowed to do so; and if at any time
the said Eliza Patterson shall in writing, to be signed by her
in the presence of and to be attested by a subscribing witness,
desire the said Carlisle P. Patterson, William H. Philip and
Walter S. Cox, or the survivors and survivor of them, to sell
any part of the estate, real and personal, held by them for her
separate use, for the purpose of changing the investment
thereof, it shall be lawful for the said named trustees or the
survivors or survivor of them to sell the same for such purpose
only, and to transfer and convey the absolute estate in fee
therein, to the purchaser thereof; to receive the proceeds of
any and every such sale of the purchaser, who shall not be required to see to the application thereof; and to invest the
same in such manner as the said Eliza W. Patterson may require; and such new investment shall be held by the said
trustees for the same use, trusts and purposes, and with the

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & 0110 RAILROAD.

649

Statement of the Case.

same powers and authority of sale and reinvestment as is
herein declared of and concerning the original trust, subject
and separate estate.
" And after the death of the said Eliza W. Patterson the said
named trustees and their successors shall hold the said trust,
subject and separate estate-original and subsequently acquired
by sale and reinvestment-for the use and benefit of any child,
or children, of the said Eliza W. Patterson, and the issue of any
child or children of the said Eliza who may die leaving issue in
the lifetime of the said Eliza, and such issue shall take the share
or portion of the said estate which their parent or parents would
have taken had they survived the said Eliza. And if the said
Eliza W. Patterson shall die without leaving a child or children,
or issue of any child or children, living at the time of her death,
the said trustees and their successors shall hold the said trust,
subject and separate estate for my right heirs. And if it shall
happen that either of the said trustees shall die, or become incapable of acting, or shall refuse to act in the execution of said
trust, then and in every such case the continuing trustees or
trustee shall from time to time nominate some other person or
persons to be approved by the said Eliza W. Patterson to be
trustee or trustees in the place and stead of the person or persons so dying, or becoming incapable or refusing to act, and
shall convey and settle the said trust, subject and separate estate in such manner, that the same shall be legally vested in
such continuing trustees or trustee, and such person or persons
so named and appointe(l to that office for the same uses, trusts
and purposes, and with the same power and authority of administration, sale and reinvestment as is hereinbefore declared
of and concerning the said trusts, subject and estate, and the
said new trustee or trustees shall have the same power to act in
the premises in conjunction with the continuing trustee or trustees, and as survivors of them, as if they had been originally
nained trustee or trustees in the premises in this my last will
and testament.
" I (1o hereby nominate and appoint Carlisle P. Patterson,
William II. Philip and W. S. Cox to be the executors of this
my last will and testament."

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

In 1872 the trustees under Mrs. Pearson's will leased to the
railroad company the land for five years, the lease containing
a privilege to the railroad company to purchase such land
during those five years on payment of $12,592. It also contained an agreement to renew the lease with the same covenants and privileges for another term of five years, or until the
lessors were prepared to convey the premises as agreed in the
lease with a perfect title in fee simple.
From the time of the first lease in 1872, and under various
leases thereafter, the company occupied the land, constructed
part of its branch line thereon, and paid rent therefor up to 1888.
On January 30 of that year a lease was made, which was signed
by the trustees and by the president of the railroad company,
though not by Mrs. Patterson. By the terms of that lease the
premises were rented for five years from August 1, 1887, at the
same rent and with the same covenants as to renewal and for
the sale of the lands as contained in the first lease of 1872. The
company continued in the occupation of the premises under
this lease for the five years mentioned therein. Upon October 17, 1892, the company still being in occupation of the land,
another instrument was executed in the fdrm of a lease, signed
by but one of the trustees, and purporting to lease the land for
five years from August 1, 1892, at the same rental as the lease
of 1888, and with the same covenants to sell at the same price
($12,592,) and to renew the lease for five years, as contained
in the lease of 1888. This lease was signed by Winslow, alone,
he then being one of the substituted trustees, but Jay, another
of the substituted trustees, did not sign it, and, so far as appears,
never saw it. These two substituted trustees had been duly
appointed prior to or in the year 1883. The former trustee,
Judge Cox, had resigned in June, 1892, and it does not appear
that his successor had then been appointed.
The company retained possession of the property from August 1, 1892, up to August 1, 1897, and paid the amount of
money mentioned in the paper of 1892, being at the same rate
that had been paid since 1872, and as was provided in the lease
of 1888. About the first of August, 1897, questions arose as to
the terms of future occupation of the land. The trustees re-

WINSLOW r. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

651

Statement of the Case.

fused to execute any further lease, denied any obligation to
renew it for any term, and said they preferred to sell, but refused to do so on the old terms, the land having in the meantime largely appreciated in value. In September, 1897, Mr.
Winslow, in a letter to the company, said they were prepared
to convey the property with a perfect title, and that they also
preferred to execute such conveyance to any renewal of the
lease. The company, however, prepared a lease, which provided for again leasing the land to it on the same terms for a
period of five years, commencing on August 1, 1897, and this
lease also contained a provision for a renewal for another five
years, or until the lessors could convey the premises in fee simple
to the company. This lease was never signed. Negotiations
continued in regard to the matter, the company insisting it had
the right to a renewal of the lease by virtue of the instrument
dated August 1, 1892, while the trustees denied that contention,
and though willing to sell, were not willing to do so at the price
named in the former lease, as they said that the value of the
land had increased from $12,592 to over $30,000. During these
negotiations and disputes the company retained possession of
the land, and on or about February 1, 1898, (the dispute and
the negotiations between the trustees and the company being
still unsettled,) in accordance with the custom which it had followed during the running of the various instruments since 1872,
of paying the rent semi-annually on the first days of February
and August as it accrued, it sent the money that would have
been due for rent, (if a lease were then in existence,) in the form
of a money order payable to the order of Mr. Winslow, trustee
of Eliza V. Patterson, and enclosed it in a letter addressed to
Mr. Winslow, in care of Fisher & Co., agents, who sent it to
Mrs. Patterson, as Mr. Winslow was then absent in Nicaragua
as secretary of the Canal Commission. This money order was
received by Mrs. Patterson, who thereupon wrote the following
letter, under date of February 5, 1898, to one of the officers of
the company:
I returned to you a few days ago the draft
which you sent me for the rent of my property on First street,
"DEAR SIR:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Washington, by the railroad company of Balto. & Ohio of
$377.77. The draft was made out to Mr. Francis Winslow,
trustee, and I could not draw it, as M[r. Winslow in Nicaragua,
and I could not send it so far away to him, fearing it might
be lost. I therefore return it to you, with the request that
you would sign it, as you always have done heretofore, Cox,
Jay & Winslow, trustees. Judge Cox & Mr. Jay are both
here, so that they can sign it at once and I can have the money.
By giving prompt attention to this small matter of business
you will greatly oblige,
"ELIZA

W.

PATrESON.)

The statement in this letter, that Judge Cox could sign the
draft or order, was evidently a mistake, as his resignation had
been accepted by the court years prior to the date of the letter.
The company afterwards sent back the draft, and, under
some arrangement between Mrs. Patterson and Fisher & Co.,
which it does not appear was known by the trustees, but which
was consented to by the company, the same was endorsed
"Francis Winslow, trustee, by Thomas J. Fisher & Co., attorneys," and on such endorsement the money on the voucher
was obtained from the company and received by Mrs. Patterson.
On August 1, 1898, the company sent a draft or money order
for $377.77, the amount of rent which would have been due if
there had been a valid lease in existence, the draft being sent
to Mr. Winslow, trustee, which he declined to negotiate, and
insisted that the rights of the company had been terminated by
his notice prior to and in September, 1897, and that since that
time the company had been occupying the property as tenants
by sufferance.
This voucher, and those which succeeded it, and which were
forwarded to Mr. Winslow, as trustee, and made payable to his
order, were retained by him until January, 1900, when they
were returned to the company and a check given for the
aggregate amount under an agreement that its acceptance
should be without prejudice to the rights of the respective
parties and their claims relating to the leasing of the land or

WINSLOW c. BALrIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

653

Statement of the Case.

the renewal of the lease, or to any question or matter connected
therewith.
The dispute between the parties continued, as also did the
negotiations in regard to a settlement thereof, until some time
in M~arch, 1900, when Mr. Winslow, Mr. Jay and the American
Security and Trust Company, the substituted trustees, took
proceedings against the company before a justice of the peace
to obtain possession of the premises, based upon a notice to
quit, given under the statute. Judgment in favor of the trustees was rendered in that case by default, and an appeal by
the company, as provided for by law, was prosecuted, and was
undetermined at the time of the commencement of this suit.
On August 15, 1900, the substituted trustees also commenced
an action against the company for the use and occupation of
the premises from August 1, 1897,to April 16, 1900, claiming
$6500, with interest from the last-named date. Soon thereafter the company commenced this suit asking for a judgment
that the company was entitled to a lease from August 1, 1897,
for five years, and also for a judgment for specific performance
of the contract to sell, and obtained an injunction restraining
the prosecution of both of the proceedings above mentioned.
The trial court held that there had been no valid contract
for a sale, and that there was then no valid lease in existence
such as was required to be proved before a court of equity
would decree specific performance. The court expressed no
opinion as to the effect of continued occupation after the expiration of any lease under the facts in the case with reference to the amount of the rental to be paid. That was a matter which it was held could be determined on the law side of
the court. A decree was therefore entered dismissing the bill
and dissolving the injunction which had been granted.
The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the trial
court, 18 App. D. C. 438, and remanded the case, and in its
opinion it was stated as follows:
"In view of what has been said, we are of opinion that, under the provisions of the lease of 1892, executed by Francis
Winslow, trustee, for and on behalf of the life tenant, Mrs.
Eliza W. Patterson, the appellant was and is entitled to one

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

renewal of such lease for the term of five years from and after
the first day of August, 1897, upon the terms and conditions
of said lease as to the rents to be paid therefor; and that during"the continuance of such term no suit for the dispossession
of the appellant can be maintained. We are, also, of opinion
that, for the time subsequent to the determination of said renewed lease for which the appellant shall require the use and
occupation of said land, the appellan't is entitled, and it is its
duty to acquire the right to such use and occupation, under
the exercise of the right of eminent domain conferred upon it
by the act of Congress, by the ascertainment of the value of
such use and occupation, and payment to the owners of the
land of the just compensation so to be ascertained. And the
bill of complaint in this cause may be retained for the purpose
of such ascertainment of value and just compensation. It follows that the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia dissolving the injunction granted in this cause and
dismissing the bill of complaint, must be reversed, with costs;
and that the cause will be remanded to that court, with directions to vacate said decree, to restore the injunction and make
the same perpetual, and for such further and other proceedings
as may be just and proper, according to law and in conformity
with this opinion. And it is so ordered."
.

. Tiliain G. Johnson for appellants.

Mr. X. J Colbert and -Mb'. George
lee.

E . Hamilton

for appel-

MR. JUSTIOE PEOKILM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is quite plain that a lease containing a covenant to renew
at its expiration with similar covenants, terms and conditions
contained in the original lease is fully carried out by one renewal without the insertion of another covenant to renew.
Otherwise a perpetuity is provided for. Piggot v. J11rason,
(1829) 1 Paige's Ch.412; Carr v. Ellison, (1838) 20 Wend. 178 ;

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

655

Opinion of the Court.

gyns v. layor, (1887) 105 N. Y. 153; Cunningham. v. Pattee,
(1868) 99 Massachusetts, 248 ; Taylor's Landlord & Tenant, 8th
ed. §§ 333, 334.
From the ordinary covenant to renew, a perpetuity will not
be regarded as created. There must be some peculiar and plain
language before it will be assumed that the parties intended to
create it.

There is no question of the validity of the lease of 1888. It
was for five years from the first of August of the year 1887,
with a covenant of renewal, and that covenant would have been
satisfied by giving a lease in 1892 for five years, up to August,
1897, without any covenant therein for a further renewal. In
fact, however, the lease was not legally renewed in 1892, because the paper of that year was signed by one trustee only.
In our opinion his signature did not make a valid lease. It
required the signatures of all the trustees. A deed of land executed by one trustee does not convey his share as in the case
of ordinary joint tenants. So where a deed of land was executed by two out of three trustees, the burden is upon the purchaser to prove the third trustee was dead. 1 Perry on Trusts,
(2d ed.), sec. 411 ; 2 Perry on Trusts, secs. 499, 502; 2 Story Eq.
Juris. (12th ed.) see. 1280; Brennan v. Willson, 71 N. Y. 50,-507.
The authorities cited by the counsel for the company, to the
effect that one of several trustees may, when so authorized by
his associates, act with regard to the execution of some portions
of the trust, as their agent, and that when not previously so
authorized a subsequent ratification of his act by his associates
may bind them all, do not embrace the facts in this case. There
is no evidence of any authority to one trustee to sign a lease.
The granting of a lease was an important and material act in
the way of carrying out the trust-under the will, requiring an
exercise of the judgment and discretion of all the trustees. it
was therefore necessary for them all to act in order to make a
valid instrument.
That one of several trustees can be entrusted by his associates with the transaction of the business of the trust may
be, under certain circumstances, conceded, but those circumstances will not justify the doing of an act by one trustee on

OCTOBER TERMH, 1902.
Opinion of the Cour.

his own responsibility which is of a nature to require the de-

liberate discretion and judgment of all the trustees. In the case
of a lease of property, such as is presented herein, the signatures
of all are necessary to the validity of the paper.
The case cited of Insurance Co2mj)an.y v. C]iase, 5 Wall. 509,
relates to an insurance effected by one of several trustees, and
the question was whether the policy covered the individual interest of the person taking out the insurance or his interest as a
trustee; if the former, it was void because he had no interest
as an individual, and the policy was therefore one in the nature
of a wager. The court in the course of the opinion remarked:
"It is true, that in the administration of the trust, where
there is more than one trustee, all must concur, but the entire
body can direct one of their number to transact business, which
it may be inconvenient for the others to perform, and the acts
of the one thus authorized, are the acts of all, and binding on
all. The trustee thus acting is to be considered the agent of
all the trustees, and not as an individual trustee. If, within
the scope of his agency, he procures an insurance, it is for the
other trustees, as well as himself. If he does it without authority, still it is a valid contract, which the underwriter cannot
dispute, if his co-trustees subsequently ratify it. In fact, so
liberal is the rule on this subject, that where a part owner of
property effects an insurance for himself and others, without
previous authority, the act is sufficiently ratified, where suit is
brought on the policy in their names."
The facts in this case do not bring it within the principle mentioned, and it is clear that to render the lease originally valid
it must have been signed by all the trustees. Without it the
instrument as a lease for five years was void under the statute
-of frauds. Comp. Stat. D. C. 131, sec. 1.
It is contended that the act of one of the trustees in signing
the lease was subsequently ratified by the other by a recognition
of its existence by long continued silence, if not by an express
ratification. But an express ratification would consist of the
signature of the other trustee to the paper, and of that there is
no pretense. A ratification of an invalid instrument of this
nature by recognition, we do not understand. The. instrument

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

657

Opinion of the Court.

was void under the statute of frauds, because of the lack of
those signatures which could alone render it valid as a lease for
five years. Recognition could not take the place of the absent
signature. Whether the conduct of the trustees, or of Mrs. Pattorson, amounted to such a part performance of an invalid contract as would take the place of the otherwise necessary signatures is another question. It is difficult to see how there
could be any technical ratification of this instrument without a
signing thereof by the other trustee.
But assuming that something in the nature of a ratification
might be based upon subsequent recognition, yet such recognition or ratification must be shown to have been founded upon
a full knowledge of all the facts. There is no evidence of that
kind in the case; none that the other trustee even knew of the
existence either of the written paper of 1892 or that it contained a covenant to renew at all for any time. The possession
by the company and the payment of rent were provided for by
the covenant to renew contained in the lease of 1888, and hence
there was a justification for that possession and for the payment of the money, which was entirely compatible with the
non-existence of any written lease from 1892, or of any covenant to again renew for five years from August 1, 1897. This
possession and payment cannot therefore be used as a basis for
the presumption of knowledge on the part of the trustee of the
existence of the so-called lease of 1892 or of the covenant contained therein.
Regarding the asserted part performance of the alleged contract of lease in 1892, or of the covenant contained in that lease,
we think there was none such as to justify the contention that
the covenant to renew in 1897 for five years was thereby so far
rendered valid as to call for its recognition and enforcement.
In this case there was reason, as we have said, without reference to any assumed part performance of, and aside from the
alleged covenants in, the paper of 1892, for the possession by
the company and for the taking of the rent of the land by the
trustees up to 1897. Thisreason was based upon the obligation
which existed under the valid lease of 1888. The remaining
in possession from 1892 to 1897 and the payment of the money
voi.. crxxxviii-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

need not, therefore, be referred to as a part performance of the
invalid contract of lease and renewal contained in the paper of
1892. Without any reference to any paper of that character,
possession and payment of rent were proper and amounted to
nothing more than an acknowledgment of the obligations provided for in the before mentioned lease of 1888.
Acts of part performance which will take a case out of the
J7llhms v.
statute must be referable solely to the contract.
_Morris, 95 U. S. 444, 457 ; Phillipsv. D~wm..on, I Johns. Chy.
131; Byrne v. Romaine, 2 Edwards Chy. 445 ; J),vi8 v. ASmith,
Hoff. Chy. 470 ; Lo'd v. Underd.unck, 1 Sand. Chy. 46 ; lfo/fe
v. Frost, 4 Sand. Chy. 72.
And again, specific performance of a void contract will not
be decreed because of part performance, unless fraud and injustice would be clone if the contract were held inoperative.
Purcell v. _Miner, 4 Wall. 513 ; Williams v. .foras, 95 U. S.
444. Such would not be the result here.
Nor can the receipt of rent in February, 1898, by Mrs. Patterson, under the circumstances detailed in the foregoing stateinent of facts, amount to such part performance of the invalid
covenant to renew as to authorize its enforcement. Neither
trustee received the rent. The signing of the name of Mr. Winslow, one of the trustees, on the back of the draft from the company in February, 1898, was without the knowledge of or authority from such trustee, although the endorsement was made
in perfect good faith by Fisher & Co., and the money was paid
to and received by Mrs. Patterson. That signing was not a
part performance of the contract of lease on the part of the
trustees or either of them.
Mr. Winslow was at this time absent in Nicarauga. There
is no proof in the case that Mrs. Patterson knew there was no
valid covenant in existence for the granting of a further liveyear lease from August 1, 1897. Her receipt of the money as
beneficiary under the will of her mother would not bind the
trustees to renew a lease under an invalid covenant to do so, or
operate as a part performance of that invalid covenant. Especially would this be so where, as in this case, there had for
months, or ever since August 1, 1897, been a substantial refusal

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

6.59

Opinion of the Court.

by the trustees to renew on the old basis or to sell at the old
price, and negotiations were still in progress between the trustees and the company relative to the terms of a continued occupation of the lands. The trustees and the company were
alone the parties who could agree upon a lease, and while negotiations were pending on the subject, the receipt, unknown at
the time to the trustees, of the money by Mrs. Patterson, as
stated, could not be equivalent to a part performance by the
trustees or either of them, of an alleged covenant to renew contained in the paper of 1892, the validity of which was at the
same time denied.
Subsequently when drafts were received by the trustees they
were not cashed, and when they were finally paid it was under
a specific agreement that the payment should not in any way
affect the situation between the parties. Hence the receipt of
these drafts constituted no part performance upon which to
base the recognition of the covenant to renew from August 1,
1897, which was repudiated as invalid by the trustees and which
was in fact invalid.
Upon the question of the alleged contract to sell, after carefully examining all the facts, we agree with the Court of Appeals in holding that the company was not entitled to a decree
for the specific performance of that alleged contract, and, therefore, specilic relief of that nature should be denied. Under the
terms of the will it is plain the trustees had no general and absolute power of sale, and the conditions upon which it could be
exercised did not exist.
Regarding the other relief, we are of opinion that the portion of the injunction prohibiting the further prosecution of
the trustees' action to recover the rental value of the land
occupied by the company from August 1, 1897, up to the time
mentioned in the complaint in that action, should be dissolved.
As to that part of the injunction which prohibits the further
prosecution of the proceedings to recover the possession of the
land there is more to be said. We agree with the Court of
Appeals upon the subject of ousting the company from such
possession. That court held that the evidence showed the
company entered upon the use and occupation of the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

in controversy with a view to its purchase when it could properly be effected. It was understood by all the parties what the
character of the use and occupation of the land by the company was intended to be. Subsequently to its obtaining possession of the land in 1872 the railroad company constructed
what is known as its Metropolitan branch, part of a highway
between Washington city, the adjoining States and the West.
This highway is not a merely private enterprise nor a matter
of purely private concern. It is a public road, constructed for
public purposes, under the sanction of the public authority, and
over which the public have rights which cannot be permitted
to be obstructed, much less destroyed, either by the company
itself, to which the franchise has been granted as a public trust
to construct and operate this road, or by antagonistic parties
claiming the ownership of the land upon which it has been
permitted to enter without previous payment therefor, or as the
result of any private controversy between the railroad company
and such parties. The company having entered by the license
of the lessors, an action at law for the dispossession of the railroad company cannot be maintained if the company is willing
to make compensation for its use and occupation of the land.
These views of the Court of Appeals we concur in, but we do
not say that the company can take proceedings in this suit to
condemn the land. The proceeding to condemn is otherwise
provided for by law, and although the appellants contend that
the company has no power under the law to do so, we are of
opinion that by virtue of the various acts passed relative to the
company, it has such power in this city with reference to this
land. The court ought to keep in force for a reasonable time,
say six months, that portion of the injunction prohibiting the
trustees from continuing their proceeding to dispossess the
company from the land, in order to enable it to condemn such
land in proper proceedings for that purpose, which cannot be
taken in the present suit. If more time is needed, the trial
court may upon application, after notice, extend the time as to
it may seem reasonably necessary. If no proceedings to
condemn are taken within six months from the issuing of the

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

661

Opinion of the Court.

mandate from this court to the court below, then the injunction
should be wholly dissolved.
Our judgment, therefore, will be to reverse the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, with directions to remand the case to the Supreme Court of the District,
with directions to that court to refuse specific performance of
the alleged contract to sell the land, and to deny enforcement
of any alleged covenant to lease the same from August 1, 1897,
and also to dissolve that portion of the injunction enjoining the
trustees from prosecuting their suit to recover the rental value
of the land from August 1, 1897, and to retain that portion
which enjoins further action on the part of the trustees to oust
the company from the land, for six months from the date of
the mandate of this court., and for further time, if the Supreme
Court of the District shall be of opinion that it is proper. If
no proceedings are taken to condemn the land within six
months, then the injunction shall be dissolved. When the
condemnation proceedings are concluded, or if not taken within
the time stated, then, at the end of that time, application may
be made to the trial court, and such judgment then entered as
shall be consistent with this opinion, and with such provision
in regard to costs incurred, subsequent to the mandate from
this court, as shall to that court seem proper.
IReversed andl remianded wiith (irectiols to ree'se the decree
below avd remand the case for further proceedings in conJormity to this ojnion.

