FRANCIS r". UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

separating Indian territory from that of the State, and providing that intercourse and trade with the Indians should be carried
on solely under the authority of the United States."
I regard this decision as inconsistent with the views of the
framers of the Constitution, and of Marshall, its great expounder.
Our form of government may remain notwithstanding legislation or decision, but, as long ago observed, it is with governments, as with religions, the form may survive the substance of
the faith.
In my opinion the act in question in the particular under consideration is invalid, and the judgments below ought to be reversed, and my brothers

BREWER,

SHIRAs and

PECKHAM

concur

in this dissent.

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued December 15, 16, 1902.-Decided February 23,1903.

A slip retained by the agent of a lottery which is the duplicate of a slip
retained by the purchaser, indicating the numbers selected by him, is not
a paper, certificate or interest purporting to be or to represent chances,
shares and interest in the prizes thereafter to be awarded by lot in the
drawings of a lottery commonly known as the game of policy within the
meaning of the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 191, 28 Stat. 963.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Jo n G. Carlisle and _31r. Afiller Outcalt for petitioners.
.Mr.
Ar. lVilliam D. Guth'rie's brief in No. 2 (p. 321, ate,) was
also entitled in this action.

Xr'. Assistant Attorney General Beck for the respondent argued and submitted the same brief as in C0iamnionv. Ames, the

Zotlery Case, p. 321, ante.
MR. Jus'rcE HOLMtEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment under Rev. Stat. ยง 5440, for conspiring

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

to commit an offence against the United States. The offence
which the defendants are alleged to have conspired to commit
and to have committed is that of causing to be carried from
one State to another, viz., from Kentucky to Ohio, five papers,
certificates and instruments, purporting to be and to represent chances, shares and interests in the prizes thereafter to be
awarded by lot in the drawings of a lottery, commonly known
as the game of policy. Act of -March 2, 1895, c. 191, 28 Stat.
963. It appears that the lottery in question had its headquarters in Ohio and agencies in different States. A purchaser, or
person wishing to take a chance, went to one of these agencies,
in this case in Kentucky, selected three or more numbers, wrote
them on a slip, and handed the slip to the agent, in this case to
the defendant Hoff, paying the price of the chance at the same
time, and keeping a duplicate, which was the purchaser's voucher
for his selection. The slip in this case was taken by the defendant Edgar to be carried to the principal office, where afterwards,
in the regular course, there would be a drawing by the defendant Francis. If the purchaser's number should win, the prize
would be sent to the agency and paid over. The carriage from
one State to another, relied upon as the object of the conspiracy,
and as the overt act in pursuance of the conspiracy, was the
carriage by Edgar of slips delivered to Hoff, as above described.
The case was sent to the jury by the District Court, the defendants were found guilty, and the judgment against them was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Reilley v. United AStates,
106 Fed. Rep. 896. The case then was brought here on certiorari.
An exception was taken at every step of the trial in the hope
that some shot might hit the mark. We entirely agree with the
Circuit Court of Appeals in its unfavorable comments on the
practice. But, little attention as most of the objections may
deserve, they at least succeeded in raising the broad questions
whether the act of 1895 is constitutional and whether the offence proved is within it. The former is disposed of by the
case of Champion v. Anes, p. 321, ante, decided this day. The
latter remains, and thus far seems to us not to have received
quite sufficient notice.

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The game was played by mixing seventy-eight consecutive
numbers and drawing out twelve after all the purchases for
the game had been reported. If th6 three on any slip corresponded in number and order with three drawn out, the purchaser won. The purpose of bringing in the slips to headquarters was that all purchases should be known there before the
drawing, and thus swindling by agents of the lottery made impossible. It is said by the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
successful slips were returned with the prizes. If this is correct we do not perceive that it materially affects the case. The
arrangement, whatever it was, was for the convenience and
safety of those who managed this lottery, and was in no way
essential to the interests of the person making the purchase or
bet. The daily report of the result of the drawings to Hoff,
with whom he dealt, and the forwarding of the prize, if drawn,
filled all his needs. It would seem from the evidence, as the
government contended-certainly the contrary does not appear
and was not argued-that Hoff and Edgar, the carrier, were
agents of the lottery company. Thus the slips were at home,
as between the purchaser and the lottery, when put into Hoff's
bands. They had reached their final destination in point of
law, and their later movements were internal circulation within
the sphere of the lottery company's possession. Therefore the
question is suggested whether the carriage of a paper of any
sort by its owner or the owner's servant, properly so-called,
with no view of a later change of possession, can be commerce,
even when the carriage is in aid of some business or traffic.
The case is different from one where, the carriage being done
by an independent carrier, it is commerce merely by reason of
the business of carriage.
The question just put need not be answered in this case.
For on another ground we are of opinion that there was no
evidence of an offence within the meaning of the act of 1895.
The assumption has been that the slips carried from Kentucky
to Ohio were papers purporting to be or represent a ticket or
interest in a lottery. But in our opinion these papers did not
purport to be or do either. A ticket, of course, is a thing which
is the holder's means of making good his rights. The essence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

it is that it is in the hands of the other party to the contract with
the lottery as a document of title. It seems to us quite plain that
the alternative instrument mentioned by the statute, viz., a
paper representing an interest in a lottery, equally is a document of title to the purchaser and holder-the thing by holding
which he makes good his right to a chance in the game. But
the slips transported, as we have pointed out, were not the
purchasers' documents. It is true that they corresponded in
contents, and so in one sense represented or depicted the purchasers' interests. But "represent" in the statute means, as
we already have said in other words, represent to the purchaser.
It means stand as the representative of title to the indicated
thing-and that these slips did not do. The function of the
slips might have been performed by descriptions in a book, or
by memory, if the whole lottery business had been done by one
man. They as little represented the purchasers' chances, as the
stubs in a check book represent the sums coining to the payees
of the checks.
We assume for purposes of decision that the papers kept by
the purchasers were tickets or did represent an interest in a
lottery. But those papers did not leave Kentucky. There was
no conspiracy that they should. We need not consider whether,
if it had been necessary to take them to Ohio in order to secure
the purchasers' rights, the lottery keepers could be said to
conspire to cause them to be carried there, when the carriage
would be in an interest adverse to theirs, and they would be
better off and presumably glad if the papers never were presented. See Commonwealth v. Peeaslee, 177 Massachusetts, 267,
271; Graves v. Johnson, 179 Massachusetts, 53, 58.
Ti judgment of the Circuit C'ourt of Appeals is reversed;
the jtdginent of the District Court is also reversed and
the cause r.emanded to that court with directions to set aside
the verdict and grant a new trial.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

dissenting.

This is a criminal prosecution based upon the first section of
the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 191, entitled "An act

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

for the suppression of lottery traffic through national and interstate commerce and the postal service subject to the jurisdiction and laws of the United States."
That section reads: " ยง 1. That any person who shall cause
to be brought within the United States from abroad, for the purpose of disposing of the same, or deposited in or carried by the
mails of the United States, or carried from one State to another
in the United States, any paper, certificate, or instrument purporting to be or represent a ticket, chance, share, or interest in
or dependent upon the event of a lottery, so-called gift concert,
or similar enterprise, offering prizes dependent upon lot or
chance, or shall cause any advertisement of such lottery, so-called
gift concert, or similar enterprises, offering prizes dependent upon
lot or chance, to be brought into the United States, or deposited
in or carried by the mails of the United States, or transferred from
one State to another in the same, shall be punishable in the first
offence by imprisonment for not more than two years or by a
line of not more than one thousand dollars, or both, and in the
second and after offences by such imprisonment only." 28 Stat.
963.
The indictment charges a conspiracy to commit the offence
denounced by that section.
Judge Severens, delivering the judgment of the Circuit Court
of A ppeals, thus stated, and I think accurately, the result of certain evidence on the part of the Government: "Upon the trial
the Government offered evidence tending to prove that the respondents adopted a scheme of lottery business called by them
' policy,' which they subsequently carried into operation, of the
character following: The principal office for the transaction of
the business was located in a building in Cincinnati, Ohio. The
place wlhere the drawings of numbers from a wheel were made
was located in another building or room adjoining the principal
office and connected with it by a private way. In various places
in that city and elsewhere, in Ohio and other States, one, at least,
being in Newport, Kentucky, they had offices or stations at which
the patrons purchased tickets or chances in the drawings to be
thereafter made in Cincinnati, at the place mentioned. Successive numbers from one to seventy-eight, inclusive, were each day

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

put into the wheel, and at each drawing twelve numbers were
taken out. A list of these twelve numbers was taken into the
principal office and there recorded. Several hours in the day before these drawings respectively took place, the patrons purchased chances at the sub-offices or stations from an agent of the
respondents, or from one of the latter, in charge at that place. In
this instance the purchase was made of the respondent Hoff at
the Newport office. The purchaser (Harrison, in this instance)
chose three of the numbers from one to seventy-eight, inclusive,
and wrote them upon a slip of paper, of which, according to
the method of doing business, he kept a duplicate. He handed
his list of numbers, with figures to denote the sum paid, upon
a slip of paper, and the money to pay for his chance, to the person in charge to be transmitted to the principal office in Cincinnati, by the 'carrier,' who would call to take them up. When
these slips and the moneys were all brought into the principal
office, the drawing above mentioned took place. If the three
numbers on the slip were of the twelve drawn from the wheel,
the purchaser would win the prize, $200, when the game (of
which there were several forms) was played on the basis above
stated. If not, he lost. A report of the drawings was sent
back to the station from which the slip came, and if any purchaser had made a 'hitI his slip would be returned with the
prize to be there delivered to him. Of the respondents, Reilley
was in charge of the principal office, Francis of the drawings,
Hoff of the station in Newport, as already stated, and Edgar
was the carrier. The slip of paper taken by the carrier represented the interest of the purchaser of the chance, and, although
containing figures only, it had a definite meaning and was understood by all the parties concerned. It was the transportation of some of such lists, one being that of Harrison, from Newport, Kentucky, to Cincinnati, Ohio, with knowledge of their
character that constituted the overt act done in pursuance of
the conspiracy." That the counsel for the accused held the same
view of the evidence is shown in an extract from their brief
printed in the margin.1
1 "In the Franciscase, now before the court, it was shown that the principal office of the I policy' concern was located in Cincinnati, Ohio, that the

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

I. The act of March 2, 1895, c. 191, was under examination
by this court in France v. United States, 164 U. S. 676. That
6
was an indictment for a conspiracy to violate its first secti n.
The judgment of conviction in that case was reversed upon the
ground that the evidence showed that the papers and instruments which the defendants caused to be carried from Kentucky
to Ohio (lid not relate to a lottery to be thereafter drawn, but
to one that had previously been drawn. The court said:
"There is no contradiction in the testimony, and the Government admits and assumes that the drawing in regard to which
these papers contained any information had already taken place
in Kentucky, and it was the result of that drawing only that
was on its way in the hands of messengers to the agents of the
lottery in Cincinnati. The statute does not cover the transaction, and however reprehensible the acts of the plaintiffs in
error may be thought to be, we cannot sustain a con viction on
that ground. Although the objection is a narrow one, yet the
statute being highly penal, rendering its violator liable to fine
drawings took place in an adjoining building or room, and that sub-offices
or agencies were maintained in various places in that city and in other cities
in Ohio and other States, at which patrons or players would select numbers
in the drawings to be made in Cincinnati. One desiring to play such a
game would choose three of the numbers from 1 to 78 inclusive, and write
them upon a slip of paper, of which he kept a duplicate. He would hand
his list of numbers, with figures to denote the sum paid, together with the
money to pay for his chance, to the person in charge of the sub-office or
agency to be transmitted to the principal office in Cincinnati. When these
slips and the moneys were brought to the principal office, the drawing took
place. Successive numbers from 1 to 78 inclusive were put into a wheel,
and at each drawing twelve numbers were taken out. If the three numbers
on the slip were of the twelve drawn from the wheel, the purchaser would
win a prize. If not, he lost. A report of the drawings was sent back to
the agency from which the slip came, and, if any purchaser had won a
prize or, as it is termed, made a 'hit,' his slip was returned with the prize
to be there delivered to him. In the instance shown by the testimony, the
selection was made by the witness Harrison at the Newport office. The
defendant Reilley was claimed to be in charge of the principal office in Cincinnati, Francis in charge of the drawings, and Hoff in charge of the station in Newport. Edgar carried the slips from Newport to Cincinnati, and
this carriage of the slips constituted the alleged overt act done in pursuance of a comspiracy in violation of the act of Congress,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

and imprisonment, we are compelled to construe it strictly.
Full effect is given to the statute by holding that the language
applies only to that kind of a paper which depends upon a lottery the drawing of which has not yet taken place, and which
paper purports to be a certificate, etc., as described in the act.
If it be urged that the act of these plaintiffs in error is within
the reason of the statute, the answer must be that it is so far
outside of its language that to include it within the statute
would be to legislate and not to construe legislation."
No such point can be made in this case, because the indictment presents a case within the provisions of the statute as interpreted in Fance v. United States; for it refers to papers
and instruments relating to a lottery thereafter to be drawn.
Besides, there was evidence tending to show that the papers
and instruments which the defendants were charged to have
caused to be carried from Kentucky to Ohio had reference to
a future drawing and not to one that had already occurred.
And the trial judge, after stating the facts, said to the jury:
"Did these papers, or so-called lottery tickets, which it is alleged defendants conspired to carry from Kentucky to Ohio,
purport to represent interests of players in a drawing afterwards
to take place ? It is not necessary, gentlemen, that they should
purport or show upon their face that they were tickets in a lottery giving an interest to the holder, in a drawing afterwards
to take place, but their purport may be shown outside of the
papers. Now, as to the evidence offered by the Government
upon that point, you will recall the evidence of France, who
was introduced as an expert, to tell what they were, and the
evidence of Harrison, that he wrote out his ticket and delivered
one half of it to the agent, paid his money and held the duplicate-one of the duplicates, his evidence of the interest he had
in the drawing that was to come off that day, and the evidence
to which I have before referred as to the fact that the duplicate
left with Ioff was afterwards found in possession of Edgar at
the end of the bridge shortly after the play was made. If, from
these facts you are satisfied that it represented an interest in
the drawings afterwards to take place then, within the meaning of the law, it purported to represent the interest of the

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

player in the drawing, although it did not so state upon its
face."
II. In C'hampionv. Ames, p. 321, ante, this day decided, it has
been held that lottery tickets were subjects of traffic among
those who choose to sell or buy them ; that the carriage of such
tickets by independent carriers from one State to another was
therefore interstate commerce; that under its power to regulate commerce among the several States, Congress-subject to
the limitations imposed by the Constitution upon the powers
granted by it-has plenary authority over such commerce, and
may prohibit the carriage of such tickets from State to State ;
and that legislation to that end and of that character is not
inconsistent with any limitation or restriction imposed by the
Constitution upon the exercise of the powers granted to Congress.
Here, there was no carrying of lottery tickets from Kentucky
to Ohio by an independent carrier engaged in the transportation, for hire, of freight and packages from one State to another.
But the carrying was by an individual acting in pursuance of a
conspiracy between himself and others that had for its object
the carrying from Kentucky to Ohio of certain papers or instruments representing a chance, share or interest in or dependent upon the event of a lottery, thereafter to be drawn, which
offered prizes dependent upon lot or chance. Those who were
parties to the conspiracy were, in effect, partners in committing
the crime denounced by the above act of Congress; and the
act of one of the parties in execution of the objects of such conspiracy was the act of all the conspirators.
The judgment therefore should be affirmed, unless it be that
the carrying of lottery tickets from one State to another by an
individual, acting in coperation with his co-conspirators, is not
interstate "commerce."
But is it true that the "commerce
am6ng the several States," which Congress has the power to
regulate, cannot be carried on by an individual, or by a coibination of individuals? We think not. In Paul v. Virginia, 8
Wall. 168, 183, the court, referring to the grant to Congress of
power to regulate commerce among the several States, said:
"The language of the grant makes no reference to the instru-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICE HARLA-N, dissenting.

mentalities by which commerce may be carried on; it is general, and includes alike commerce by individuals, partnerships,
associations, and corporations." In TFelton v. State of.Misouri,
91 U. S. 275, 280, it was said that the power to regulate commerce embraces "all the instruments by which such commerce
may be conducted." That the commerce clause of the Constitution embraces alike commerce by individuals, partnerships,
associations and corporations was recognized in Pensacolo Tel.
Co. v. TFestern Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, 21. And in Gloucester .Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvaia., 114 U. S. 196, 205, the
court said that commerce among the States "includes commerce
by whomsoever conducted, whether by individuals or by corporations."
In Champion v. Ames the carrying of lottery tickets happened to be by an incorporated express company. But if it
had been by an express company organized as a partnership or
joint stock company the result of the decision could not have
been different. In this case, if the carrying had been by an
ordinary express wagon, owned by a private person, but employed by the accused and other conspirators to carry the lottery papers in question from Kentucky to Ohio, surely the
carrying in that mode would be commerce within the meaning
of the Constitution. It cannot be any less commerce because
the carrying was by an individual who, in conspiracy or cobperation with others, caused the carrying to be done in violation
of the act of Congress. The learned counsel for the accused,
referring to the legislation enacted prior to 1895, which had
for its object to exclude lottery matter from the mails, and to
prohibit the importation of lottery matter from abroad, says:
"In 1895 the act now in question was passed, supplementing
the provisions of the prior acts so as to prohibit the act of
causing lottery tickets to be carried and lottery advertisements

to be transferred from one State to another by any means or
methods."
It seems to me that the evidence made a case within the act
of Congress, and that no error of law was committed by the
trial court. The papers carried from Kentucky to Ohio were
of the class described in the act, "any paper, certificate, or in-

LOUISVILLE &c. FERRY CO. v. KENTUCKY.

385

Syllabus.

strument purporting to be or represent a ticket, chance, share,
or interest in or dependent upon the event of a lottery, so-called
gift concert, or similar enterprise, offering prizes dependent
upon lot or chance." The paper or instrument carried from
Kentucky to Ohio, of which the purchaser had a duplicate,
certainly represented, to all the parties concerned, a chance, or
interest dependent upon an event of a lottery or "similar enterprise," offering prizes dependent upon a lot or chance. To hold
otherwise is to stick in the bark. It informed the policy gambler, if a prize was drawn, that the person who held the duplicate was entitled to the prize, and it was therefore a paper the
carrying of which fiom one State to another made the conspirators causing it to be so carried, guilty of an offence under
the act of Congress. The reasoning by which the case is held
not to be embraced by the act of Congress is too astute and
technical to commend itself to my judgment. It excludes from
the operation of the act a case which, as I think, is clearly
within its provisions.

LOUISVILLE AND JEFFERSONVILLE FERRY COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 17.

Argued December 8, 9, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

A franchise granted by the proper authorities of Indiana, for maintaining
a ferry across the Ohio River from the Indiana shore to the Kentucky
shore, is an Indiana franchise, an incorporeal hereditament derived from,
and having its legal situs for purposes of taxation in, Indiana.
The fact that such franchise was granted to a Kentucky corporation, which
held a Kentucky franchise to carry on the ferry business from the Kentucky shore to the Indiana shore (the jurisdiction of Kentucky extending
only to low water mark on the northern and western side of the Ohio
River) does not bring the Indiana franchise within the jurisdiction of
Kentucky for purposes of taxation. The taxation of the Indiana franchise by Kentucky would amount to a deprivation of property without
2
VOL. CLXXXVIII- 5

