OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

THE MANGROVE PRIZE MO1NEY. 1
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTnERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
ios. 24, 34. Argued January 7, 8, 9, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.
Vessels more than five miles apart held not to be within signal distance so
as to be entitled to share in prize under the circumstances of this case.
Vessels not within signal distance are not "vessels making the capture"
within Rev. Stat. § 4630, although they may have contributed remotely to
this result. They cannot be taken into account in estimating the rclative force of capture and prize. In estimating the relative strength of
the captured and capturing vessels, the means possessed by the captured
vessel, and not the use made of them,must be considered.

TuE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.1r. Assistant Attorney General lloyt for the United States.
.jL'. Williara B. King, with whom M1r. George A. King was
on the brief, for the officers and crew of the Indiana.
i%. Jaines H. hlayden, with whom Xl. Joseph K. 31c Cammon was on the brief, for the officers and crew of the New York.
eiou and Mr. Hilary A. fierbrt, with
Xi. Benjamin
whom Mr. Jelferson B. Browne was on the brief, for the officers and crew of the Mangrove.
MR. JUSTICE H-OLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals from a decree of the United States District Court distributing the proceeds of the Spanish steamer
Panama, condemned by an earlier decree as prize of war. 176
U. S. 535. The District Court awarded the whole net proceeds
to the officers and crew of the United States steamer IMangrove, on the ground that the Mangrove was the sole capturing
1Docket titles-No. 24. United States v. Qficers and Crew of the U. S.
Steamer Milangrove. No. 34. Qficers and Enlisted men of the U. S. Ships
New York, Indianaand Jilmingtoi Y, Oficers and Crew of the U. S. Steamer
Mangrove.

THE MANGROVE PRIZE MONEY.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel, that the prize was of superior or equal force, and that
no other vessel was within signal distance. U. S. Rev. Stat.
, 4630 (repealed by act of March 3, 1889, c. 413, § 13, 30 Stat.
1007), § 4632. The United States appeals, contending that the
Mangrove alone was of force superior to the Panama, and also
that the Indiana, Wilmington and N ew York were within signal
distance, and that the Indiana at least was a joint captor, and
that therefore, by § 4630, one half the proceeds should go to
the United States. The Indiana appeals, taking the ground that
thc Mangrove was the sole captor and of force inferior to the
Panama, but that the Indiana was within signal distance and in
such condition as to be able to render effective aid if required,
and therefore entitled to share in the prize by § 4632. The
New York and the Wilmington appeal on like ground.
The case turns upon findings of fact, and the question is
whether it is clear that the District Court and the experienced
naval prize commissioner were wrong. Tie Grace Girdler,7
Wall. 196, 204. But of course we do not leave out of sight the
fact that much additional evidence has been put in since the trial
below. We take up first the case of the Indiana. Without discussing the details of the contradictory testimony, we will state
the facts that seem to us proved.
At seven minutes after six in the evening of April 25, 1898,
off Havana, the Panama, having been brought to by a shot
across her bow and notice that she would be fired into if she
did not stop, was boarded by Ensign Dayton from. the Mangrove. At this moment the capture was complete. The Grotius, 9 Cranch, 368, 370. The Panama did not attempt or, so
far as appears, intend, resistance or escape. The captain was
told that he was a prize, war having been declared between the
United States and Spain, and he acquiesced. Thereafter the
Panamna proceeded, with Ensign Dayton on board, under orders
from the Mangrove. Her colors were not hauled down, or a
prize creiv put aboard until later, but under the circumstances
these facts seem to us controlled by others which we have mentioned. It may be added that the officers of the Mangrove
seem to have considered it usual for prizes to fly their ensign
until they' were adjudicated by the prize court, which would
vOi.. cixxxviii-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

account for their not ordering the flag lowered.-Thirty-eight
minutes later, at forty-five minutes after six, the Indiana, which
had been approaching from an opposite direction, fired a shot
across the bow of the Panama and sent a prize crew aboard.
(We should remark in passing that this crew was subject, to the
orders of Ensign Dayton, the prize master, and seems to have
been put aboard at the request of the Mangrove, which had not
men enough to spare.) The officer who fired the gun says that
he estimated the range at forty-five hundred yards, and that
the shot being accurate, the distance from the Panama was
about forty-eight hundred yards. This was the estimate formed
by the expert on the spot, at the time, for purposes of immediate action, when it was necessary to be accurate. Whatever
it was, it was verified by the result of the shot, so that really
the only question is whether it is remembered correctly, which
there is no reason to doubt. It seems to us to outweigh all
other estimates formed after the event by witnesses who had
no similar duty. At this time the Mangrove was abreast or a
little astern of the Panama.
The previous situations of the ships were as follows: All the
United States vessels concerned in this cause were on blockade off Havana. At 4.30 P. :i. the Indiana signaled the Mangrove and gave her orders to proceed to Key West after receiving mail. The Mangrove started for Key West before five.
At five or ten minutes after five, and until 5.48, when her speed
slackened, the Indiana went ahead at full speed toward the
flagship New York, in an almost opposite direction from that
taken by the Mangrove. At a quarter past five she sighted a
strange vessel, which turned out to be the Panama, to the northeast. At 5.52 the flagship signaled " What colors does strange
vessel carry?" and was answered at 5.55 "Cannot see." At
about six the Indiana was turned toward the Panama and went
at full speed, and later at best. speed possible until 6.45, when
she fired the shot and stopped. The Indiana when she turned
at six did not attempt to signal the Mangrove, and five minutes
earlier could not see the colors of the Panama, although the
Spanish flag was three times the size of the Mangrove's signal
flag. It appears from the steam log of the Indiana that a few

THE MANGROVE PRIZE MONEY.
Opinion of the Court.

days later she made 10.15 knots per hour for two consecutive
hours. Taking the time (luring which the Indiana and Mangrove had been moving away from each other, and their probable speed, or, again, taking the distance at which the Indiana
was from the Panama and Mangrove when she fired her shot,
and the fact that she had been making for them at full speed
for the greater part of forty-five minutes, while they during a
part of the same time were sailing toward her at a rate of eight
knots, we think it probable, without going into nice calculations,
that at six o'clock she must have been twelve or fifteen miles
away at the least, as was found by the District Court. From
six, when she turned, to seven minutes past six, when the Panama was taken, the Indiana cannot have got to full speed or
gone far. The Panama had been stopped.
There is much testimony that the capture was seen from the
Indiana, while the officers of the Mangrove say that the Indiana
could not be seen by them. We do not attempt to determine
precisely how much could be seen or was seen from the higher
ship. That testimony must reconcile itself as best it may with
the foregoing facts, which we deem not open to dispute. And
on those facts we are of opinion that the Indiana was not within
signal distance of the Mangrove when the capture took place.
We agree with the counsel for the appellees that this view is
confirmed by the log of the Indiana and by her claim as first
filed, which indicates that at that time her rights were supposed
to be founded on the shot fired by her, and the hauling down
of the Panama's colors thereupon. It is unnecessary to advert
to further confirmatory details.
We need not consider whether, in order to bring a claimant
within signal distance, mutual communication must be possible,
or whether it is enough if signals from the vessel making the
capture could be seen by the claimant. Taking it the latter
way, still the words "within signal distance" must be read in
connection with the further words "under such circumstances
and in such condition as to be able to render effective aid, if
required." The whole sentence refers to the actual conditions
of this particular case, not to an abstract objective criterion of
ideal signal distance in general. See T/he Ella and Anna, 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Sprague, 267, 273; S. C., 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4368. The Mangrove
had no signal flags but boat flags, about three feet by four, the
usual signal flags being about eight feet by eleven. Under
such circumstances we think it probably would be safe to assume five miles as an outside limit of signal distance in this instance, if the facts heretofore found by us rendered it necessary
to be so nice. It is argued, to be sure, that gun signals would
have been possible. As to this suggestion we deem it enough
to say that we see no reason to believe that it was a practical
working possibility under the circumstances, and therefore need
not consider whether this statute would be satisfied by anything less than the possibility of reading the ordinary day signals, in the case at bar.
The claims of the New York and the Wilmington fall with
that of the Indiana. If she was not within signal distance
of the Mangrove they were not, and, as we are about to show,
can make no claim on the ground that the Indiana was a joint
captor and that they were within signal distance of her.
A part of the argument for the United States also is disposed
of by what we have said. If none of the other vessels were
within signal distance of the Mangrove none of them were
"vessels making the capture" within the meaning of § 4630.
The phrase must be taken to be used in that section in the
same sense in which it is used in § 4632, where it is opposed
to vessels within signal distance and is defined as meaning
"vessels present at and rendering actual assistance in the capture." It cannot be contended that vessels too far away to
share in the prize as being within signal distance can share
under the more immediate title of vessels making the capture,
on the ground of some more remote contribution to the result.
Vessels within sig-nal distance and able to render effective aid
are let in, it is true, presumably because they are taken to contribute to the result, but a more remote contribution is excluded. See The Ch~erokee, 2 Sprague, 235; The Atlanta,
2 Sprague, 251; S. C., 3 Wall. 425; The Ella and Anna,
2 Sprague, 267; S. U, 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4368 and v.
It follows that these vessels cannot be taken into account in
estimating the relative force of captor and prize. Undoubtedly

THE MANGROVE PRIZE MONEY.
Opinion of the Court.

it is likely that the Panama must have known when it left
New York that war and a blockade of Havana were probable,
and when it was stopped by the Mangrove, whatever it saw
or did not see, it may have conjectured that other vessels were
not far off. But, as we have said, these less immediate influences are laid out of account by the act.
We may admit with regard to the question just discussed
and that to which we now address ourselves, that it is impossible not to feel that the prize law had in mind a different kind
of case from this. To catch a blockade runner or a vessel not
even informed of the blockade, in either case a vessel not expecting to fight and having shrewd ground to believe that to
do so would be to bring down upon herself an overwhelming
force, is not the desperate venture which the statute was framed
to encourage. But some rather weak cases must fall within
any law which is couched in general words. There is no denying that the Pamana was of force superior to the Mangrove.
She was of 1432 tons register, with a crew of seventy-one.
She had substantially what was required by her contract as a
mail steamship with the Spanish government, viz., two liontoria nine centimetre guns with thirty round of shot for each,
one Maxim gun on the bridge, two signal guns, twenty Remington rifles and ten Mauser rifles, all with ammunition, also
bayonets and swords. The Mangrove was a steel screw lighthouse tender of not more than eight hundred tons, with a crew
of thirty men, and with two six-pound guns, and no small arms
or cutlasses. The Panama also was much the faster boat of
the two.
The Panama's armament was taken on board under contract with the Spanish government for her own defence, and
was fit for hostile use. The Panama,176 U. S. 548, 549. We
must assume that if the master had thought that there was a
fair chance of success, he would have shown fight. The fact
that he did not, and that he probably had made up his mind
not to before he saw the Mfangrove, and therefore was not
ready for action at the moment, does not change the result.
If we cannot take the blockading squadron or the battleship
Indiana in account as part of the capturing force, we cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

take them into account as motives. If the master was a timid
man, who would not have dared to fight under any circumstances, there would have been the same certainty of surrender
to one who knew the whole situation, but the law would have
looked only to the force, and would not have gone into psychology. It would not matter that, because of his timidity,
the breech blocks of the guns were left stowed below. If he
had the materials for resistance and the chance to use them,
that is as far as the law would inquire. So here. As was
said by Judge Sprague, we must "consider the means the vessels possessed, and not the use they made of them." The Atlanta, 2 Sprague, 251, 258. The adventure of the Mangrove
may not have been a brilliant event that will live in story, but
it was sufficient to give its officers and crew the profit of the
law. It is decided that the Panama was lawful prize, and the
case does not fall within the class in which the United States
takes half.
.De ree a(//,lmed

HOME LIFE INSURANCE COM[PANY v. FISHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 121.

Submitted December 17, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

The company defended an action on a policy of life insurance on the ground
that statements of the insured as to his use of liquor and spirits in the
application and in the declaration to the medical examiner were false
and amounted to a breach of warranty; but it appeared that the warranty did not extend to the medical declaration; the jury were instructed
that if they found either that before the insured made application he
drank liquors either freely or to excess, or at the time that he made the
application he had a habit of drinking liquor, they were to find for the
company, the declaration and the application thus being put on the
same footing; the jury found for the plaintiff; Ield,that the jury must
he taken to have found categorically that all of the answers were correct,
and the question whether they were warranties or not became immate-

rial, and the verdict could not be reviewed except for improper instructions duly excepted to.

