WILLIAMS v. PARKER.
Statement of the Case.

WILLIAMS v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 116. Argued December 5, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.
So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned a State may authorize the
taking of possession of property for a public use prior to any payment
therefor, or even the determination of the amount of compensation, providing adequate provision is made for such compensation.
The statute of Massachusetts of May 23, 1898, providing that no building
should be erected within certain limits in the city of Boston of over a
certain height, and also providing that any person owning or interested
in any building then in course of construction who was damaged thereby,
might recover damages in an action commenced within two years from
the passage of the act, against the city of Boston for the actual damages
sustained by them in the cost of materials and re-arrangement of the
design or construction of the buildings, provides a direct and appropriate
means of ascertaining and enforcing the amount of such damages, and
for their payment by the city of Boston in regard to the solvency whereof
no question is raised, and such statute is not in conflict with the Federal
Constitution.

ON May 23, 1898, the legislature of Massachusetts passed the
following act:
"SEc. 1. Any building now being built or hereafter to be
built, rebuilt or altered in the city of Boston, upon any land
abutting on St. James avenue, between Clarendon street and
Dartmouth street, or upon land at the corner of Dartmouth
street and Huntington avenue, now occupied by the Pierce
building, so-called, or upon land abutting on Dartmouth street,
now occupied by the Boston Public Library building, or upon
land at the corner of Dartmouth street and Boylston street,
now occupied by the New Old South Church building, may be
completed, built, rebuilt or altered to the height of ninety feet,
and no more; and upon any land or lands abutting on Boylston
street, between Dartmouth street and Clarendon street, may
be completed, built, rebuilt or altered to the height of one hundred feet, and no more: Provided, however, That there may be

OCTOBER TERAT, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

erected on any such building, above the limits hereinbefore prescribed, such steeples, towers, domes, sculptured ornaments and
chimneys as the board of park commissioners of said city may
approve.
"SEC. 2. The provisions of chapter three hundred and thirteen
of the acts of the year eighteen hundred and ninety-six, and of
chapter three hundred and seventy-nine of the acts of the year
eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, so far as they limit the
height of buildings, shall not be construed to apply to the territory specified and restricted in section one of this act.
"SEC. 3. The owner of or any person having an interest in
any building upon anjy land described in section one of this act,
the construction whereof was begun but not completed before
the fourteenth day of Januaiy in the current year, who suffers
damage under the provisions of this act by reason or in consequence of having planned and begun such construction, or
made contracts therefor, for a height exceeding that limited by
section one of this act for the locality where said construction
has been begun, may recover damages from the city of Boston
for material bought or actually contracted for, and the use of
which is prevented by the provisions of this act, for the excess
of cost of material bought or actually contracted for over that
which would be necessary for such building if not exceeding in
height the limit prescribed for that locality by section one of
this act, less the value of such materials as are not required on
account of the limitations resulting from the provisions of this
act, and the actual cost or expense of any rearrangement of the
design or construction of such building made necessary by this
act, by proceedings began within two years of the passage of
this act, and in the manner prescribed by law for obtaining
payment for damages sustained by any person whose land is
taken in the laying out of a highway in said city.
"SEC. 4. Any person sustaining damage or loss in his property by reason of the limit of the height of buildings provided for in this act, may recover such damage or loss from the
city of Boston, by proceedings begun within three years of the
passage of this act, and in the manner prescribed by law for
obtaining payment for damages sustained by any person whose

WILLIAMS v'. PARKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

land is taken in the laying out of a high way in said city." Acts
and Resolves of -Massachusetts, 1898, chap. 452.
The building of plaintiff in error comes within the scope of
this statute, and on September 17, 1898, the attorney general
of Massachusetts filed an information in the Supreme Judicial
Court of that State to enjoin the maintenance of that part of
the building above the ninety-feet line. To this information
the defendants pleaded, among other things, that " the statute,
in its application to the defendants, . . . is in violation of the second clause of section I of the Fourteenth
Amendment and of other provisions of the Constitution of the
United States." Pending this proceeding the defendants commenced actions against the city of Boston for damages, as provided in sections 3 and 4 of the statute. The city filed a general denial. The defendants then moved that the attorney
general be required to join the city as a party defendant, in
order that the question of the city's liability to damages might
be conclusively determined in this proceeding, or, in default of
such joinder, that it be stayed until the city's liability could be
conclusively determined. This motion was denied and the defendants appealed from the denial thereof. The facts were
agreed upon and the case reserved by the presiding justice for
the consideration of the full court. Upon March 13, 1901, a
decree was entered, sustaining the contention of the attorney
general, and directing a removal of those parts of the building
above the height of ninety feet, without prejudice, however, to
the right of defendants under the statute to maintain such
steeples, towers, etc., as the board of park commissioners of the
city of Boston should approve. 174 Massachusetts, 476. To
review such judgment this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury and 3r. Grant Xll. Palmer for
plaintiffs in error.
The Massachusetts court holds the statute to be an exercise
of the power of eminent domain, taking property rights in the
nature of an easement in the estate of the plaintiffs in error.
As the statute purports to provide compensation, and as it has
no relation to the public health, morals, or safety, this is prac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

tically a necessary construction.

Talbot v. Hudson, 16 Gray,

417; Dorgan v. Boston, 12 Allen, 223; Parker v. Ciomnon,wealth, 178 Massachusetts, 199; Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380,
396. This construction will be accepted by this court and the
statute dealt with accordingly. W. TF. Cargill Co. v. 31iJinesota, 180 II. S. 452, 466, and cases cited.
1. It is elementary that due provision for just compensation
for private property taken for public uses is essential to the
validity of an act of eminent domain. Without it, such an
act is a nullity, incapable of warranting any interference with
the property sought to be taken. Declaration of Rights,
art. XXII; Perry v. Wilson, 7 Mfassachusetts, 393; Stevens
v. Proys. of !fiddlevex Canal,121 assachusetts, 466; B rie2 tI
v. Haverhill Aqueduct Co., 142 Mlassachussets, 394; Attorney
General v. Old .0olony R. R., 160 Massachusetts, 62, 90; Bment
v. .nery, 173 Massachusetts, 495. Without such provision the
statute "is unconstitutional and void, and does not justify an
entry upon the land of the owner without his consent." Conn.
River R. R. v. County Comn'rs, 127 Massachussetts, 50, and
cases cited.
2. It is not enough that the statute jtrports to make proThe provision must be certain,
vision for compensation.
without risk of failure in any
it,
of
amounting to assurance
event. It is beyond legislative power to cast upon the property owner any hazard of loss of his property without compensation. Drury v. .Midland Railroad,127 lassachusetts, 571;
Haverhill Bridge v. Essex Con','rs, 103 Massachusetts, 120,
124; Attorney General v. Old Colony P. R., 160 Massachusetts,
62, 90; Conm. River R. P. v. County Corm '¢rs, 127 Mlassachusetts, 50; Brewster v. Rogers Co., 169 N. Y. 73; Bent v.
Emery, 173 Massachusetts, 495; Kennedy v. Indianapolis,103
U. S. 599; C]herokee -ation v. Kansas Railway Co., 135 U. S.
641, 659 ; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 598 ; UTnited States
v. Gettysburg Railway, 160 U. S. 668. Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U.
S. 404, distinguished.
3. Due provision securing just compensation to the owner of
property taken in the exercise of the power of eminent domain
by or under the States is required by the due process clause of

WILLIAMS v. PARKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the Fourteenth Amendment. _Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, 324 et se.; Chicago, Burlington
&c. Rd. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 235, 241; Long Island
lfater Co v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685, 695; Sinyth v. Amres,
169 U. S. 466, 526; Backus v. Fort St. Depot Co., 169 U. S.
557, 565; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, 277.
4. The Federal requirement of due process of law extends
to judicial as well as to legislative action of the States. The
decree of a court may invade the requirement, no less than a
statute. Chicago, B. & Q. Rd. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 241;
Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Exparte Virginia,100 U.
S. 339, 346; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 311; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 290; Scott v. iJfcfeal, 154 U. S. 34,
45; Gibson v. Xississippi, 162 U. S. 565, 581; Williams v.
.ississil)pi, 170 U. S. 213, 220; Blake v. .eClu.ng, 172 U. S.
239, 260.
If it is not consistent with due process of law for the court
to order the actual destruction of the property while the question whether there is any valid taking or provision for compensation remains in dispute and undetermined, the decree
should be reversed, notwithstanding the possibility that in the
other proceeding for damages against the city, the statute may
eventually be held constitutional and the provision for compensation valid. If assurance of just compensation is, as held
by this court, a condition precedent to the exercise of eminent
domain, without which the title does not pass in advance of
payment, a fortiori is it a condition precedent to actual dispossession and destruction of the property.
The case is peculiar, as the statute out of which it arises is
unprecedented. Ordinarily, in the direct taking of property
by the State, the State expressly assumes the damages. If the
power to take is delegated, the agency authorized to make the
taking is expressly made liable. In either case, the act of taking estops the taker to deny its validity or its own liability to
make compensation. Gloucester Water Co. v. Gloucester, 179
Massachusetts, 365, 377, and cases cited; Daniels v. Tierney,
102 U. S. 415, 421; Electric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S. 489.
It is open to the city, in the proceeding for damages, to as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

sail the statute on grounds not open to the plaintiffs in error in
this case. In that case, the court must be governed by other
considerations, and may find itself constrained to hold that the
city is not liable. The State has never undertaken this liability
for damages; and it cannot be held liable for the acts of its
public officers, whether merely tortious or in course of judicial
procedure, under a void statute. Conn. River Rd. v. County
Comm'rs, 127 Massachusetts, 50, 56 ; .2lurdoek Grate Co. v. commonwealth, 152 Massachusetts, 28; Bent v. Enery, 173 Massachusetts, 495, 498.
In fine, in event of the provision for damages being held
non-enforceable as against the city, which is possible in law
and not wholly improbable in fact, the plaintiffs in error are
arbitrarily despoiled of their property.
Unless the legislature has power to compel a city to establish
public parks, it has no power to compel a city to take or pay
for property for improving them when established. In the
States in which the direct question whether the legislature may
compel a city or town to establish public parks has been judicially raised, -under constitutional provisions substantially like
those of Massachusetts, it has uniformly been determined in
the negative. Peo)le v. Hu!rlbut, 2-4 Michigan, 44, 93 ; P'oldec
v. Detroit, 28 MIichigan, 228, 233 et seq.; Pars Contm'ps v.
_Mayor, 29 Michigan, 343 ; Tompson, v. -3roran,44 Michigan,
602; TFebb v. &Jlayor of H/ew TYork, 64 How. Pr. 10; Dillon,
Munic. Corp. (4th ed.) sees. 'i1-74a; At'ins v. Randolphi, 31
Vermont, 226 ; State ex rel. 3c Curdy v. Tapl)an, 29 Wisconsin,
664, 680, 687; Louisville v. University, 15 B. Mon. 642; State
v. Fox, 63 N. E. Rep. 19, 21 (Indiana).
Until the present case, the Massachusetts court bad never
gone so far as to hold that the legislature may compdl a city to
tax its inhabitants for a system of public parks, nor is there believed to be authority for this proposition in any State. It
had gone no farther than to hold that the legislature may authorize taxation for this purpose. HMolt v. Somerville, 127
Massachusetts, 408, 413; Foster v. Park Commissionens, 133
Massachusetts, 321, 326; Props. qf Xft. Hope Cemetery v.
Boston, 158 Massachusetts, 509, 519.

WILLIAMS v. PARKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The city of Boston never had any moneys appropriated, nor
any specific power to appropriate moneys, to meet the liability
cast upon it by the statute of 1898 ; and its power to raise and
appropriate money for any purpose is limited by statute.
It was formerly understood in Massachusetts that the property of the inhabitants is liable to seizure on execution for a
debt of a city or town. Conn. River R. R. v. County Comm'rs,
127 Massachusetts, 50. Apparently this can no longer be regarded as the law. Rees v. IWatertown, 19 Wall. 107, 122;
.Merriwetherv. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472, 501, 519, 526.
It is inconsistent with the inherent substance of due process
of law, as universally understood and applied, to enforce such a
statute against the owner of the property, by actual dispossession and demolition, at least until the validity of the provision
for damages, upon which the validity of the taking depends, is
established as against the party made liable. The statute, construed to authorize such enforcement, is in conflict with the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. If the statute does not authorize it, the decree is itself an invasion of the
Federal right.
The judgment cannot be sustained on the police power.
The current of authority is strongly against legislative power
to declare or deal with such a building as this as a nuisance, or
to apply such legislation under such conditions in the exercise
of the police power, or, upon any ground, to cut down private
rights to such an extent as that here disclosed, without compensation as for a taling of property. A judicial view of the
subject which comes near being universal might well be deemed
conclusive in determining, if it were presented, the question of
what degree of respect and security for property rights in this
regard is essential to the Federal requirement of due process
of law. In addition to cases before cited see Yates v. 3filwaukee, 10 Wall. 497 ; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall.
166, 177 et seq. ; Sweet v. Recliel, 159 U. S. 396 et seq.; Mass.
Decl'n of Rights, XII, XXX; Baker v. Boston, 12 Pick.
184, 194; Commnonwealth v. Alger, 7 Oush. 53, 103-4; .forse
v. Stocker, 1 Allen, 150, 157-8; Watertown v. Mayo, 109
Massachusetts, 315, 319; Lowell v. Boston, 111 Massachusetts,
YOL. CLXXXVIII-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

454; Sawyer v. Davis, 136 Massachusetts, 239; Wilkins v.
Jewett, 139 Massachusetts, 29; Newton v. Belger, 143 Massachusetts, 598; Rideout v. Knox, 148 Massachusetts, 368, 374;
21iller v. Horton, 152 Massachusetts, 540; Commonw ealt/i v.
Parks, 155 M assachusetts, 531; 1angmaid v. Reed, 159 Massachusetts, 409; Bent v. Emeey, 173 Massachusetts, 495 ; QuintUini v. Bay St. Loiis, 64 Mississippi, 483; lFaupen v. .2oore,
34 Wisconsin, 450 ; Jancsville v. Ca)wpenter, '7 Wisconsin, 288 ;
Pvriewe v. 11isconsin & c. Co., 93 Wisconsin, 534; Priewe v.
]Fisconsin &o. Co., 103 Wisconsin, 537; Ex j)arte Wiiwull,
98 California, '73; People v. Elk River Co., 107 California,
221 ; State v. Rtailway Co., 68 Minnesota, 381 ; Plaitv. lTItchrbul'y, '72 Connecticut, 531, 551 ; Rulestr'at v. Peol)le, 185 Illinois, 133, 141; Tiliamson v. Liveiool ns. Co., 105 Fed.
Rep. 31, and cases cited; 3Tayor of Hdson.v. Thorne, 7 Paige,
261 ; Evansville v. .ilhr, 146 Indiana, 613; Des Plaines v.
Poyer, 123 Illinois, 348.
The information and decree stand solely upon the statute of
1898. The construction put by the state court upon that
statute as an act of eminent domain is the necessary construetion. There is no question of the police power in the case.
The statute must be dealt with as an act of eminent domain,
and the decree as an attempt to enforce an act of eminent
domain, subject to all the constitutional restraints which affect
the exercise of that power.
21'. Samuel J. Elder and JXr. Edmund A. Tidtman for defendant in error.
I. The statute provides for ample compensation for any injury to property due to its enactment and also gives a sweeping remedy to any person injured by the passage of the act.
The two provisions together cover every possible element of
loss which has been suffered by these plaintiffs in error, if indeed there is any loss for which they can recover.
II. The act was passed under the police power of the legislature, and compensation was unnecessary. The competency
of the legislature to pass such acts has never been doubled.
ml. v. D'Oench, 111 New York, 359. Such
People ex 'e Henay

WILLIAMS v. PARKER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

enactments are for the safety, comfort and convenience of the
people, and for the benefit of property owners generally.
'nowlton v. Williars et al., 174 Massachusetts, 476; Cominonwealth v. Colton, 8 Gray, 488. It is not essential that such a
regulation should apply to all parts of the community, but the
legislature may, if it sees fit, select a limited portion of some
city or town to which such regulation shall apply. lVatertown
v. Mayo, 109 Massachusetts, 315 ; Scdem v. 3faynes, 123 Massachusetts, 372. Such a legislative limitation is both " wholesome" and "reasonable," which is the only limitation put by
the courts upon the exercise of the police power. Conmonwealth v. Alger, 7 Gush. 53; Sawyer v. Davis, 136 MassachuThe test which has been laid down by this court
setts, 239.
has been the maxim sic utere tuo ut alienunb non lcedas, and the
legislature always has the power to prevent an individual
from doing any act upon his property which will be to the
injury of the public. _lfunn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; -/ugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623 ; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86.
It is clear from the allegations of the information as admitted in the agreed statement of facts, that this case comes
within the limitations expressed in Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.
133. We have here a public square surrounded by public
buildings, in themselves of great value, filled with treasures of
literature and art of practically priceless value. The danger
from fire to these public buildings was an entirely sufficient
basis for passing this statute. Furthermore, the importance of
an adequate supply of light to the Art Museum and Public
Library, as well as to the public square and adjacent streets,
was, in itself, an entirely adequate basis for the passage of this
statute.
It is entirely immaterial that the legislature in its generosity
chose to make compensation to the owners of property injured
by the passage of this act, because the maling of compensation is not incident to the exercise of police power, and the
fact that compensation is given does not, and cannot, change
the particular power under which the legislature acted.
III. The statute regarded as an exercise of the power of taking by eminent domain. It is true that this provision for com-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1902.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

pensation does conform to the constitutional requirement for the
taldng of property by the right of eminent domain, and if the
court looking at all the circumstances should think that it was
the intention of the legislature to take certain rights in light
and air and in the view over adjacent land, above the line to
which buildings may be erected, in the nature of an easement.
annexed to the streets and public squares adjoining, the statute
is in all respects in accordance with the rules regulating the taking of property by right of eminent domain. Copley Square is
clearly a public park within the definitions in the adjudicated
cases. Perrin v. I. Y Central P. RI. Co., 36 N. Y. 12o, 124;
Pricev. inhabitantsof Plaivfeld,40 N. J. L. 608, 613 ; Arc/eur
v. Salina City, 93 California, 43; Fosterv. Park Commission cr,
133 -Massachusetts, 334, 335.
IV. The statute provides fully for due process of law for any
injured party. While this court has never been willing to define with precision the limits of what may be construed to be
due process of law, it has over and over again repeated that
due process means only such process as recognizes the right of
the owner to be compensated if his property be taken from him
and transferred to the public. All that is essential is that a,
proper inquiry should be made as to the amount of compensation, and this constitutes "due process." There can be no question that this statute falls fully within these limitations. C., B.
& Q. II. 1?. v. Ch/icago, 166 U. S. 226; Sweet v. ]?cchld, 159
U. S.380 ; Cass Farma Co. v. Detroit, 181 U. S. 396 ; Siokzno v.
Oraft, 182 U. S. 427; Iowa CentrallRy. v. iowa, 160 U. S. 389;
Holden, v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Backuis v. Fort St. Union
Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557. Due process of law is process according to the law of the land. This process is regulated by
the law of the State. French v. Barber As)halt Co., 181 U. S.
324.
If this statute in question can be construed as an exercise of
the power of taxation, the rule is still the same. David.on v.
NLrew Orleans,96 U. S.97; Afobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S.691;
Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.701 ; Fallbrook irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S.112.
V. The burden of making compensation was legally imposed

WILLIAMS v. DARKER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

on the city of Boston. Nor does it make any difference with
the constitutionality of the statute that the legislature of Massachusetts has imposed the entire burden of this public improvement upon the city of Boston. Sweet v. ]?ec]iel, 159 U. S. 380;
Willard v. Presbury,14 Wall. 676; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.
548; Webster v. Fargo, 181 U. S. 394; Williams v. Eggleston,
170 U. S. 304; Freelandv. Jiastings,10 Allen, 570; Ihinyman,
Petr., 153 Massachusetts, 566; Old Colony Railroad v. Fpramivgiam Co., 153 Massachusetts, 561. It is familiar law, of
course, that the decision of a Supreme Court of a State in construing its own constitution is binding on this court. Iowa
Central R. R. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Orr v. Gilman, 183
U. S.278. This court is bound to give the same meaning to a
state statute as was given it by the Supreme Court of the State.
Stockard v. MYorgan, 185 U. S. 27 ; Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Ivebraska, 164 U. S.403.
Massachusetts has a provision in its constitution in the fourth
article, section 1, chap. 1, conferring upon the general court
full power and authority to make "all manner of wholesome
and reasonable orders, the same to be not repugnant or contrry
to the constitution," and the Supreme Court of Massachusetts
has said that this provision gives the legislature a wide authority, and one more comprehensive than that found in the constitutions of other States. Opiuion of the .Justice.q, 163 Massachusetts, 589; Turnelr v. Aye, 154 Massachusetts, 579; Kin gran,
Pet., supra; N-orwood v. New York ece. R. R., 161 Massa,chusetts, 259; Commissioners v. Ilolyoke Vater Power, 104
Massachusetts, 446.
The legislature, apart from these considerations, had the entire right to promote the beauty and attractiveness of a public
park in the capital of the Commonwealth, and to prevent unreasonable encroachments upon the light and air which it had
previously received. Znowlton v. Williams, 174 Massachusetts,
476.
The legislature of Massachusetts has imposed at various times
a sewerage system, a water system, and a park system upon
the city of Boston and the adjoining cities and towns, constituting what the legislature has called a Metropolitan District,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and the constitutionality of such statutes has been affirmed after
i;ngman, Petr., 153 Massachusetts,
careful consideration.
570 (sewers); Adams, Pet?., 165 Massachusetts, 497 (parks); De
Las Casas, IPetr,., itS Massachusetts, 213 (parks).
MR. JusTIOE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Counsel for plaintiffs in error state in their brief that "the
single question in the case is, substantially, whether it is consistent with due process of law for a court to decree the actual
destruction of property under a statute of eminent domain by
which the State takes certain rights in it, making provision for
compensation only by giving the owners a right of action
against a city for their damages, while the city, which had no
part in the taking, denies the validity of the provision for coipensation, upon which the validity of the taking depends, and
refuses to pay any damages unless and until it is held liable
therefor in another proceeding, which is yet undetermined."
That the statute does not conflict with the constitution of the
State is for this court settled by the decision of the state court.
iJferchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461, and cases
cited; Rasmnssen v. Idaho, 181 U. S.198. The constitutional
provision of the State and that found in the Fifth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution are substantially alike. The M[assachusetts provision reads : "Whenever the public exigencies require that the property of any individual should be appropriated
to public uses, he shall receive a reasonable compensation therefor." Declaration of Rights, Art. X. And the Fifth Amendment says: "Nor shall private property be taken for public use,
without just compensation."
So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, it is settled
by repeated decisions that a State may authorize the talding of
possession prior to any payment, or even final determination or
the amount of compensation. In Backus v. fort Street Union
Dep)ot Company, 169 U. S. 557, 56S, we said:
"Is it beyond the power of a State to authorize in condemnation cases the taking of possession prior to the final deter-

WILLIAIS iv. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

mination of the amount of compensation and payment thereof ?
This question is fully answered by the opinions of this court in
Clerokee N1ration v. Southern Kansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641,
and Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380. There can be no doubt
that if adequate provision for compensation is made authority
the
may be granted for taking possession pending inquiry as to
determination
final
any
before
and
amount which must be paid
thereof."
We pass, therefore, to inquire as to the adequacy of the provision for compensation. No question is made as to the general
solvency of the city of Boston. Although in the agreed facts
it is stated that the city has no" moneys specially appropriated
to any such purpose as that prescribed by the damage clauses
of this statute, nor any express statutory power or authority to
raise, appropriate or pay money for such a purpose," yet as this
statute provides that "any person sustaining damage
may recover such damage . . . in the manner prescribed
by law for obtaining payment for damages by any person whose
land is taken in the laying out of a highway;" and as there is
a general statute making suitable provision for such a recovery,
the question of solvency does not seem to be material.
It is true that the city is not a party to the proceedings, and
therefore not estopped to deny its liability by reason of having
sought and obtained the condemnation. In that respect the
statute differs from ordinary statutes giving to corporations,
municipal or private, the right to condemn. While there is no
technical estoppel by judicial proceeding, yet the state Supreme
Court adjudged the validity of the statute, not merely in respect to the taking, but also in respect to the liability of the
city. In its opinion it said (p. 481):
"It may be contended that if the legislature could take this
right for the use of the public, it could not require the city of
Boston to make compensation for it, but should have provided
for the payment of damages from the treasury of -the Commonwealth. This contention would limit too strictly the power of
the legislature in the distribution of public burdens. Very
wide discretion is left with the lawmaking power in this particular. The legislature may change the political subdivisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Commonwealth by creating, changing, or abolishing
particular cities, towns or counties. It may require any of
them to bear such share of the public burdens as it deems just
and equitable. This right has been exercised in a great variety
of ways. .Kingman, Petitioner, 153 Massachusetts, 566, and
cases and statutes there cited."
And this decision is in harmony with prior adjudications of
that court.
It is also true that the proceeding here taken is in many respects novel. Perhaps no case like it has arisen in this country.
But as the court of last resort of -Massachusetts has treated it
as a condemnation, a taking for the public use, it is a taking
for the use primarily of the citizens of Boston, and comes
within the repeated rulings of the state court in respect to the
competency of the legislature to cast the burden thereof upon
the city. And while, as stated, there may be no technical
estoppel by judgment, yet in view of these rulings it would be
going too far to hold that it is essential that there be a judgment establishing the liability of the city before it can be affirmed that adequate provision for compensation has been
made.
That there may be novel questions in respect to the measure
of damage, the value of the property that is taken, does not
avoid the fact that a solvent debtor, one whose solvency is not
liable to go up or down like that of an individual, but is of substantial permanence, is provided, as well as a direct and appropriate means of ascertaining and enforcing the amount of all
such damage. In view therefore of the prior decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State as well as that in this case, we are
of opinion that it cannot be held that there was a failure to
make adequate provision for the payment of the damages sustained by the taking.
We have not considered any question of purely state cognizance, nor have we stopped to comment on the suggestion
made by the Supreme Court of the State, that this statute
might be sustained as an exercise of the police power, or if it
could be so sustained, that it could be enforced without any
provision for compensation. Considering simply the distinct

REETZ v_- MICHIGAN.
Statement of the Case.

proposition so ably presented by the counsel for plaintiffs in
error, we are of opinion that the statute in question cannot be
adjudged in conflict with the Federal Constitution, and therefore the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts is
Affigmed.

REETZ v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME couwr OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 143.

Argued January 21, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

A State has power to make reasonable provisions for determining the qualifications of those engaged in the practice of medicine and for punishing
those who attempt to engage therein in defiance of such statutory provisions.
Act No. 237 of Michigan of 1889 creating a board of registration in medicine is not in conflict with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
There is no provision in the Federal Constitution forbidding the State from
granting to a tribunal, whether called a court or a board of registration.
the final determination of a legal question. Due process of law is not
necessarily judicial process, nor is the right of appeal essential to due
process of law.
When astatute fixes the time and place of meeting of any board or tribunal
no special notice to parties interested is required to constitute due process of law as the statute itself is sufficient notice.
A state statute requiring the registration of physicians and prohibiting
those who are not so registered from practicing thereafter is not an ex
post facto law as to a physician who had once engaged in practice, but
wlo was held not to be qualified and whose registration was refused by
the board of registration appointed under the statute, such statute not
providing any punishment for his having practiced prior to the enactment thereof.

AcT No. 237 of the public acts of the State of Michigan (1899)
directed the appointment of "a board of registration in medicine," to hold two regular meetings at specified times in each
year at the state capitol, and additional meetings at such times
and places as it might determine; required all persons engaging in the practice of medicine and surgery to obtain from such
board a certificate of registration; prescribed the conditions

