OCTOBER TERT,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

the burden of proving them did the defendant no harm when
the jury found as they did with regard to Mfaclean's drinking.
The alleged warranty that he drank moderately was satisfied
by the lindings, apart from other answers to the point made
with regard to that. We see no reason to assume that the defendant was taken by surprise by the rulings in its favor and
put in less evidence than it would have put in had the demurrers been overruled.
We see n6 ground for reversing the judgment in the other
instructions to the jury. Moreover, the other questions raised
are made immaterial by what we have said.
Judgment aflrmed.

KIDD v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 158. Submitted January 27, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Section 453, cl. 13, of the Code of 1886, and section 3911, cl. 14, of the Code
of 1896 of Alabama taxing stocks of railroads incorporated in other
States held by citizens of Alabama are not unconstitutional under the
Fourteenth Amendment because no similar tax is imposed on the stock

of domestic railroads or of foreign railroads doing business in Alabama;
the property of the former class of railroads being untaxed, and that of
the latter two classes being taxed, by the State.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XA'. TF. A. Gunter for plaintiff in error.
1lAr. Francis G. Cqfey and -M'. John 0. B'eckenridge for
defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for taxes brought by the State of Alabama
against the executrix of the will of a citizen of Alabama. It
appears on the record that the property in dispute is stock in

KIDD v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

railroads incorporated in other States than Alabama, and that
the objection was taken seasonably by plea and by requests for
instructions to the jury that the tax was unconstitutional under
the Fourteenth Amendment, because no similar tax was levied
on the stock of domestic railroads or of foreign railroads doing
business in that State. Demurrers to the pleas were sustained,
there was a verdict for the plaintiff and judgment, which latter
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State without discussion, on the authority of its decision at an earlier stage, State
v. ffidd, 125 Alabama, 413, and the case is brought here by
writ of error.
The statutes levying the tax in question are the Code of 1886,
ยง 453, cl. 13, and the Code of 1896, ยง 3911, c1. 14. They are
general clauses, which need not be set forth, as their effect is
not disputed under the construction given to them by the Supreme Court of the State. The exemption by the Code of 1886
ofstock in domestic railroads, and in others that list substantially all their property for taxation, &t'ges v. Carter, 114
U. S. 511, 522, is not denied, and while it is denied by the defendant in error that there is a similar exemption by the Code
of 1896, for the purposes of decision we shall assume, without
examination, that it is granted. State v. JIidd, 125 Alabama,
413, 422. On this assumption the argument for the plaintiff in
error is that if foreign stock is treated for purposes of taxation
as present by fiction in the domicil, it must be treated as present also for purposes of protection, that the tax is a tax on
values, and that net values of similar articles must be treated
alike. It is said that you cannot look further back.
If the argument went further and denied the right to tax on
fiction at all, and therefore denied the right to tax foreign stocks,
it would seem to us to have more logical force, although we are
far from implying that it would be unanswerable or that it can
be regarded as open. Very likely such taxes can be justified
without the help of fiction. Sturges v. Carter,114 U. S. 511;
Dwight v. Boston, 12 Allen, 316; Dyer v. Osborne. 11 R. I.
321. But the argument does not go to that extent, and, limited
as it is, the proposition that the plaintiff in error is denied the
equal protection of the laws for the reason which we have stated,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

strikes us as wholly without force.

We see nothing to prevent

a State from taxing stock in some domestic corporations and
leaving stock in others untaxed on the ground that it taxes the
property and franchises of the latter to an amount that imposes
indirectly a proportional burden on the stock. When we come
to corporations formed and having their property and business
elsewhere, the State must tax the stock held within the State
if it is to tax anything, and we now are assuming the right to
tax stock in foreign corporations to be conceded. If it does tax
that stock it may take into account that the property and franchise of the corporation are untaxed, on the same ground that
it might do the same thing with a domestic corporation. There
is no rule that the State cannot look behind the present net
values of different stocks. See Ame'icaw !?f ig C. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89.
We say that the State in taxing stock may take into account
the fact that the property and franchises or the corporation Ire
untaxed, whereas in other cases they are taxed; and we say untaxed, because they are not taxed by the State in question. The
real grievance in a case like the present is that, more than probably, they are taxed elsewhere. But with that the State of
Alabama is not concerned. No doubt it would be a great advantage to the country and to the individual States if principles
of taxation could be agreed upon which did not conflict with
each other, and a common scheme could be adopted by which
taxation of substantially the same property in two jurisdictions
could be avoided. But the Constitution of the United States
does not go so far. Coe v. _Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 521; KIiowlton v. _loore, 178 U. S.41 ; _Dyer v. Oorne, 11 R. I. 321, 327;
Cooley, Taxation, 2d ed. 221, n. One aspect of the problem was
touched in the case of Blaekstone v. 3Eiller, at the present term.
188 U. S. 187. The State of Alabama is not bound to make its
laws harmonize in principle with those of other States. If property is untaxed by its laws, then for the purpose of its laws the
property is not taxed at all.
It is said that the State may not tax a man because by fiction
his property is within the jurisdiction, and then discriminate
against him upon the fact that it is without. The State does

KIDD r. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing of the kind. It adheres throughout to the fiction, if it
be one, that the stock, the property of the plaintiff in error, is
within the jurisdiction. There is no inconsistency in the State's
recogni;ing at the same time that the property of the corporation, that which gives the plaintiff's stock its value, is taxed or
untaxed, as the case may be. There is no inconsistency in recogn izi ng that it is untaxed because it cannot be reached. Shares
of stock may be within a State, and the property of the corporation outside it.
We need not repeat the commonplaces as to the large latitude
allowed to the States for classification upon any reasonable
basis. Pacific Exp)ress Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 351, 352;
Gulf, Qolorado & SantaF Railway Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
155; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 521 ; Atchison, Topeka &
Santa F Railroad Co. v. ilfit&thews, 174 U. S. 96; Anericav
Sugar Refiniing Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89. What is reasonable is a question of practical details, into which fiction cannot enter.
Practically the law before us, in the broad aspect in which
alone we are asked to consider it, seems to us to work out substantial justice and equality, if we leave on one side the probable taxation by other States, which does not affect the State of
Alabama's rights.
Judgment afirmed.
JUSTIOES HARLAN and WHITE

dissented.

IKIDD v. ALABAMA, NO. 157.

This case was to abide the re-

sult of the foregoing.
Judgment aflirmed.

