620

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

JAQUITH v. ROWLEY.
APPEAL FROM TILE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 81. Argued and submitted November 10, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.
One who received money to indemnify him for giving bail bonds for a person subsequently and more than four months thereafter adjudicated a
bankrupt, and against whom the judgment creditors in the suits in which
he gave the bonds are seeking to enforce execution, holds such money
as an adverse claimant within the meaning of section 23 a and b of the
bankruptcy act of 1898, and the District Court of the United States does
not have jurisdiction in a summary proceeding on the petition of the
trustee to compel him to turn such money over to the trustee in bankruptcy.
It makes no difference as to this question of jurisdiction whether the judgment creditors have or have not proved their claims before the referee
in bankruptcy. Such creditors have the right to obtain and enforce their
judgments in the state courts.

THE appellant herein was appointed a trustee in bankruptcy
by the United States District Court in Massachusetts on September 18, 1900, and his bond was approved on the 21st of that
month. The bankrupt was duly adjudged such on August 15,
1900, and at the date of that adjudication there were pending
in the Superior Court of Massachusetts, for Mfiddlesex County,
two suits, one of E. W. Thayer against the bankrupt, in which
a bail bond had been taken on November 14, 1899, and the other
a suit of E. F. Flanders against the bankrupt, in which case a
bail bond had also been taken on that day, and in order to protect the surety, Joseph P. Silsby, Jr., on the bail bond in each
of the two cases, the bankrupt on the same day deposited in the
hands of the surety the two sums of $148 in the Thayer suit
and $125 in the Flanders suit. These sums were to be held to
indemnify the surety in each case, respectively, if the bankrupt
avoided the bail bond. After the adjudication in bankruptcy
these suits proceeded to judgment in the state court and the
plaintiffs took out execution, which they are seeking to enforce

JAQUITI

'. ROWLEY.

Statement of the Case.

against the surety on the bail bond, but not against the bankrupt himself.
At the first meeting of the creditors the plaintiff Thayer in the
suit in the state court against the bankrupt appeared in thebankruptoy court and proved her claim for $150. Flanders, the plaintiff in the other suit in the state court, did not appear or prove his
claim. After the appointment of the trustee, and without leave
of the bankruptcy court, and without notice to or the knowledge of the trustee, the plaintiff in each of the two suits took
judgment by default in the state court. Upon learning of the
entry of the judgments the trustee notified the surety not to
pay the money over, and then, in the name of the bankrupt,
petitioned the state court to vacate the judgment and to order
the execution returned, which the state court refused to do,
and thereupon the trustee filed his petition in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Massachusetts against
the plaintiffs in the two suits, their attorney and the surety, setting up that the prosecution of the suits in the state court was
contrary to the provisions of the bankruptcy act and a contempt
of court, and praying that the plaintiffs and their attorney be
enjoined from collecting the judgments, and that the surety be
enjoined from paying the money in his hands, and that the parties, plaintiffs in the judgments and their attorney, be adjudged
in contempt, etc. This motion was denied and the restraining
order refused.
The petition was subsequently amended by leave of the court
so as to ask that the plaintiffs and their attorney in the state
suits be enjoined from collecting the judgments or making any
levy under the execution or taking any further proceedings
thereon pending the further and final determination of the
court in bankruptcy upon the petition of the trustee, and also
that the surety, Joseph P. Silsby, Jr., be ordered to pay over to
the trustee the funds deposited in his hands; also that the several plaintiffs in the state suits be ordered to appear before the
referee in bankruptcy and prove their claims against his estate
and establish their liens, if any, upon the funds paid over to the
trustee by Joseph P. Silsby, Jr. This amended petition omitted
the prayer that the plaintiffs in the suits in the state court might

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

be adjudged guilty of contempt, etc. Upon the petition as
amended a motion for a rehearing was made and granted, and
the appellees appeared and objected that the court had no jurisdiction in the matter of the petition, and after argument the
court so held and denied the petition for want of jurisdiction
only, and allowed an appeal to this court.
In dismissing the petition the district judge certified that
the following questions arose before him, namely:
"1. Do the provisions of the second clause of section 23 of
the act of Congress, known as the bankruptcy act of 1898, control and limit the jurisdiction of the several District Courts of
the United States, so that said courts cannot permanently enjoin
a creditor of the bankrupt who has proved his debt in the bankruptcy court, from collecting a judgment recovered in the state
court and from making levy under an execution taken out on
said judgment; and do they limit the jurisdiction of the said
courts so that these courts may not require said creditor to submit the controversy to their judgment?
"2. Do the provisions of the second clause of section 23 of
the act of Congress, known as the bankruptcy act of 1898, control and limit the jurisdiction of the several District Courts of
the United States, so that said courts cannot permanently enjoin a creditor of the bankrupt who has not proved his debt in
the bankruptcy court, from collecting a judgment recovered in
the state court, and from making levy under execution taken
out on said judgment; and do they limit the jurisdiction of the
said courts so that these courts may not require said creditor to
submit the controversy to their judgment?
"3. Do the provisions of the second clause of section 23 of
the act of Congress, known as the bankruptcy act of 1898, control and limit the jurisdiction of the several District Courts of
the United States over controversies between the trustee and a
third person in the possession of property alleged to belong to
the bankrupt, it being also alleged that said third person has
no beneficial interest in the said property, but has the sole duty
of paying or delivering it over in settlement of the debts of the
bankrupt?
"14. Can the District Court of the United States entertain

JAQUITH v,. ROWLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of proceedin's on petition by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover property alleged to belong to the bankrupt,
but held under a claim or lien or security by the bankrupt's
creditor, or by third parties for the benefit of said creditors
"5. Can the District Court for the District of Massachusetts
take jurisdiction over this suit as it now stands on record ?"
Submitted by .lbr. Ilarry J. Jaquith,in person, for appellant.
Argued by ff)r. Clarence V. Rowley, in person, for appellees.
making the foregoing statement
of
the court.
opinion
the
delivered
of facts,
AIR. JUSTICE PECKIIAM, after

This proceeding is governed by the principles decided in
Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524; Bryan v. Bernhimer, 181 U. S. 188, and _1ueller v. ATugent, 184 U. S. 1.
The objection that it is not a suit within the meaning of the
twenty-third section of the bankruptcy law is without force.
The proceeding was a summary application to the court in bankruptcy to grant an order in a matter, the result of the granting
of which would be to immediately take from the surety moneys
which had been deposited with him before the commencement
of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and thus compel him to come
into the bankruptcy court for the litigation of questions as to
his right to retain the money claimed by him. It would also
enjoin the plaintiffs in the state suits from proceeding to collect
theiv judgments from the surety in the bail bonds. To extend
such a jurisdiction over an adverse claimant would be within
the prohibition of section 23, a and b, yhether such jurisdiction
were exerted by an action strictly so-called or by a summary
application to the court in bankruptcy. It is the exercise of
jurisdiction which the section prohibits, and the particular
method of procedure in the court is immaterial. The surety
in whose hands the money was deposited to indemnify him for
his liability on the bail bond was an adverse claimant within
the meaning of that section of the act, and could not be pro-

624

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ceeded against in the bankruptcy court unless by his consent,
as provided for therein. It is not necessary in order to be an
adverse claimant that the surety should claim to be the absolute
owner of the property in his possession. It is sufficient if, as
in the present case, the money was deposited with him to ideinnify him for his liability upon the bail bond and that liability
had not been determined and satisfied. If the trustee desire to
test the question of the right of the surety to retain the money
he must do so in accordance with the provisions of the section
of the bankrupt law above referred to.
Biyan v. Berneimer, 181 U. S. supra, does not, so far as
the question here involved is concerned, touch or limit the decision in Bardes v. laYwarden, Bank, 1iS U. S. supra.

In NLueller v. .'ugent, 184 U. S. 1, it was claimed that where
property of a bankrupt came into the hands of a third party
before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, as the agent of
the bankrupt, and to which the agent asserted no adverse claim,
the bankruptcy court, nevertheless, bad no power by summary
proceedings to compel the surrender of the property to the
trustee in bankruptcy duly appointed. In regard to this claim
it was said by the court, through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, as
follows:
"In other words, the question reduces itself to this: Has the
bankruptcy court the power to compel the bankrupt, or his
agent, to deliver up money or other assets of the bankrupt, in
his possession or that of some one for him, on petition and rule
to show cause ? Does a mere refusal by the bankrupt or his
agent so to deliver up oblige the trustee to resort to a plenary
suit in the Circuit Court or a state court, as the case may. be?
If it be so, the grant of jurisdiction to cause the estates of bankrupts to be collected, anl to determine controversies relating
thereto, would be seriously impaired, and, in many respects,
rendered practically inefficient. The bankruptcy court would
be helpless indeed if the bare refusal to turn over could conclusively operate to drive the trustee to an action to recover as
for an indebtedness, or a conversion, or to proceedings in chancery, at the risk of the accompaniments of delay, complication,

JAQUFITH'v.

ROWLEY.

Opinion of the Court.

and expense, intended to be avoided by the simpler methods
of the bankrupt law.
"The position now taken amounts to no more than to assert
that a mere refusal to surrender constitutes an adverse holding
in fact and therefore an adverse claim when the petition was
filed, and to that we cannot give our assent.
"In this case, however, respondent asserted no right or title
to the property before the referee, and the circumstances under
which he held possession must be accepted as found by the referee and the District Court.
"In the case before us, William T. Nugent held this money
as the agent of his father, the bankrupt, and without any claim
of adverse interest in himself. If it was competent to deal with
Davidson, the assignee in the case of Bryan v. Bernheimer, by
summary proceedings, William T. Nugent could be dealt with
in the same way."
In other words, NYagent's case simply holds that, where the
agent held money belonging to the bankrupt, to which he made
no claim, but simply refused to give up the property, which he
acknowledged belonged to the bankrupt, the bankruptcy court
had power, by summary proceedings, to order him to deliver
such property to the trustee in bankruptcy.
The case before us is wholly different. The surety claims
the right to hold the money as against everybody until his liability on the bail bond is satisfied, and that claim is adverse to
any claim that the trustee may make upon him for the money
which is to indemnify him as stated.
There is no difference between the two plaintiffs in the state
court on account of one having proved her claim in bankruptcy
and the other having failed so to do. She did not waive her
claim against the surety in the bail bond even by implication,
but, on the contrary, stated that she intended to retain the same.
If the trustee has the right to obtain possession of the money
from the surety, he must assert it in accordance with the proVOL. cLXXXII-40

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

visions of section 23 of the bankruptcy act and not by this summary proceeding in bankruptcy.
The plaintiffs in the suits in the state court had the right to
proceed to judgment in that court and to collect their judgments
against the surety on the bail bond, and the court in bankruptcy
had no power to prevent such proceedings in suits over which
the state court had full cognizance. Fyster v. Gaf 91 U. S.
521, cited in Bardes V. Iawarden Bank, sitpra.
Our conclusion is that the District Court was without jurisdiction in the matter submitted to it in the petition of the trustee, and its decree dismissing such petition for want of jurisdiction is, therefore,

Ajfrmed..

AMERICAN ICE COMPANY v. EASTERN TRUST AND
BANKING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 95. Argued December 2, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Although, as held in Farmers' Loan & Trust Company v. Penn Plate Glass
Company, 186 U. S. 434, a covenant in a mortgage to keep the property
insured does not run with the land so that an actual grantee taking subject to the mortgage comes under a primary obligation to insure, the case
is different, under the peculiar language of the covenant contained in the
mortgage herein, and where the mortgagor after failing to insure in accordance with the covenant transfers the property to a voluntary assignee.
the
In such case the insurance taken out by the assignee, who stands in
of
fulfillment
in
out
taken
be
to
assumed
be
must
assignor,
shoes of the
collected
the mortgagor's covenant, and in the event of loss the amount
cannot be
under the policies inures to the benefit of the mortgagee, and
general
of
that
or
interest,
his
retained by the assignee as representing
property.
the
of
equity
the
in
creditors,
unsecured

TIE appellee herein was the complainant in the court of
original jurisdiction and commenced its suit in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to foreclose a mortgage ex-

