REETZ v_- MICHIGAN.
Statement of the Case.

proposition so ably presented by the counsel for plaintiffs in
error, we are of opinion that the statute in question cannot be
adjudged in conflict with the Federal Constitution, and therefore the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts is
Affigmed.

REETZ v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME couwr OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 143.

Argued January 21, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

A State has power to make reasonable provisions for determining the qualifications of those engaged in the practice of medicine and for punishing
those who attempt to engage therein in defiance of such statutory provisions.
Act No. 237 of Michigan of 1889 creating a board of registration in medicine is not in conflict with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
There is no provision in the Federal Constitution forbidding the State from
granting to a tribunal, whether called a court or a board of registration.
the final determination of a legal question. Due process of law is not
necessarily judicial process, nor is the right of appeal essential to due
process of law.
When astatute fixes the time and place of meeting of any board or tribunal
no special notice to parties interested is required to constitute due process of law as the statute itself is sufficient notice.
A state statute requiring the registration of physicians and prohibiting
those who are not so registered from practicing thereafter is not an ex
post facto law as to a physician who had once engaged in practice, but
wlo was held not to be qualified and whose registration was refused by
the board of registration appointed under the statute, such statute not
providing any punishment for his having practiced prior to the enactment thereof.

AcT No. 237 of the public acts of the State of Michigan (1899)
directed the appointment of "a board of registration in medicine," to hold two regular meetings at specified times in each
year at the state capitol, and additional meetings at such times
and places as it might determine; required all persons engaging in the practice of medicine and surgery to obtain from such
board a certificate of registration; prescribed the conditions

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

upon which such certificate should be granted, and forbade,
under penalty, the practice of medicine or surgery without such
certificate. The conditions above referred to were either a
satisfactory examination, or the possession of "a, diploma from
any legally incorporated, regularly established and reputable
college of medicine,

.

.

having at least a three years'

.

course of eight months in each year, or a course of four years
of six months in each year,

.

.

as shall be approved and

designated by the board of registration," with a proviso that
"the board of registration shall not register any person by reason of a diploma from any college which sells, or advertises to
sell, diplomas ' without attendance,' nor from any other than a
regularly established and reputable college." Another provision was that an applicant should be given a certificate of registration if he should "present sufficient proof within six months
after the passage of this act of his having already been legally
registered under Act No. 16'1 of 1883, as amended in 1887, entitled ' An act to promote public health.'" The plaintiff in error
was prosecuted and convicted in the Circuit Court for the county
of Muskegon of a violation of this statute, which conviction
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 127 Michigan,
87, to reverse which ruling this writ of error was sued out.
J119. William B. Belden for plaintiff in error. AYr. dwin
-A. Burlingame and Xi-. Jesse F. Orton were on the brief.
Xr. Charl7es B. Cross and Ji&. Clales A. Blair for defendir. florace A. Oren and Air. George S. loveant in error.
lace were on the brief.
MR. JUsTIoE BRErE1vR,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The power of a State to make reasonable provisions for determining the qualifications of those engaging in the practice
of medicine and punishing those who attempt to engage therein
in defiance of such statutory provisions, is not open to question.
Dent v. ]Vest ginia, 129 U. S. 11-4; lawker v. New York,
170 U. S. 189, and cases cited in the opinion; Tie State ex rel.
Burroughs v. Webster, 150 Indiana, 607, and cases cited.

REETZ v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

It is objected in the present case that the board of registration is given authority to exercise judicial powers without any
appeal from its decision, inasmuch as it may refuse a certificate
of registration if it shall find that no sufficient proof is presented
that the applicant had been "legally registered under act No. 167
of 1883." That, it is contended, is the determination of a legal
question which no tribunal other than a regularly organized
court can be empowered to decide. The decision of the state
Supreme Court is conclusive that the act does not conflict with
the state constitution, and we know of no provision in the
Federal Constitution which forbids a State from granting to a
tribunal, whether called a court or a board of registration, the
final determination of a legal question. Indeed, it not infrequeitly happens that a full discharge of their duties compels
boards, or officers of a purely ministerial character, to consider
and determine questions of a legal nature. Due process is not
necessarily judicial process. il[u ray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land
& impirovement Company, 18 How. 272; Davidson v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Em parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265, 289;
D2reyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 71, 83; People v. Hasbrouek, 11
Utah, 291. In the last case this very question was presented,
and in the opinion, on page 305, it was said:
"The objection that the statute attempts to confer judicial
power on the board is not well founded. Many executive officers, even those who are spoken of as purely ministerial officers,
act judicially in the determination of facts in the performance
of their official duties; and in so doing they do not exercise
'judicial power,' as that phrase is commonly used, and as it is used
in the organic act, in conferring judicial power upon specified
courts. The powers conferred on the board of medical examiners are nowise different in character in this respect from those
exercised by the examiners of candidates to teach in our public
schools, or by tax assessors or boards of equalization in determining, for purposes of taxation, the value of property. The
ascertainment and determination of qualifications to practice
medicine by a board of competent experts, appointed for that
purpose, is not the exercise of a power which appropriately belongs to the judicial department of the government."

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

In Yurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, Mr. Tustice latthews,
speaking for the court, discussed at some length and with citation of many authorities the essential elements of due process
of law, and summed up the conclusions in these words (p. 537):
"It follows that any legal proceeding enforced by public
authority, whether sanctioned by age and custom, or newly devised in the discretion of the legislative power, in furtherance
of the general public good, which regards and preserves these
principles of liberty and justice, must be held to be due process
of law."
Neither is the right of appeal essential to due process of law.
In nearly every State are statutes giving, in criminal cases of a
minor nature, a single trial, without any right of review. For
nearly a century trials under the Federal practice for even the
gravest offences ended in the trial court, except in cases where
two judges were present and certified a question of law to this
court. In civil cases a common rule is that the amount in
controversy limits the entire litigation to one court, yet there
was never any serious question that in these cases due process
of law was granted.
In Pits.ne'fgA &c. Railway Company v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421,
upon the question whether the right of appeal was essential to
the validity of a taxing"statute, we said (p. 427) :
"Equally fallacious is the contention that, because to the ordinary taxpayer there is allowed not merely one hearing before
the county officials, but also a right of appeal with a second
hearing before the state board, while only the one hearing before the latter board is given to railroad companies in respect
to their property, therefore the latter are denied the equal protection of the laws. I f a single hearing is not due process, doubling it will not make it so."

In lfcKanc v. Durston,, 153 U. S. 68-I, 687, this court declared

that "a review by an appellate court of the final judigment in a

criminal c,se, however gTave the offence of which the accused
is convicted, was not at common law and is not now a necessary
element of due process of law."

See also Andrews v. Swatz-,

156 U. S.272.
But while the statute makes in terms no provision for a re-

REETZ v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

view of the proceedings of the board, yet it is not true that such
proceedings are beyond investigation in the courts. In illetcalfe
v. State Boar'd of Registration., 123 Michigan, 661, an application for mandamus to compel this board to register the petitioner was entertained, and although the application was denied,
yet the denial was based not upon a want of jurisdiction in the
court but upon the merits.
It is further insisted that it is essential to a judicial or quasijudicial proceeding that it should give a person accused or interested the benefit of a hearing, and that there is in this statute
no special provision for notice, or hearing, or authority to summon witnesses or to compel them to testify. The statute provides for semi-annual meetings at specified times at the state
capital, but the plaintiff in error did not appear at any of these
meetings or there present an application for registration or show
ing of his right thereto; he simply sent to the secretary of the
board a certified copy of his registration under the prior statute,
and his diploma from the Independent M edical College of Chicago, Illinois. The latter was returned with a notice from the
board that it had denied the application for registration. When
a statute fixes the time and place of meeting of any board or
tribunal, no special notice to parties interested is required. The
statute is itself sufficient notice. If plaintiff in error had applied
at any meeting for a hearing the board would have been compelled to grant it, and if on such hearing his offer of or demand
for testimony had been refused, the question might have been
fairly presented to the state courts to what extent the action of
the board had deprived him of his rights.
Ile seems to assume that the proceedings before the board
were in themselves of a criminal nature, and that the State by
such proceedings was endeavoring to convict him of an offence
in the practice of his profession. But this is a mistake. The
State was simply seeking to ascertain who ought to be permitted
to practice medicine or surgery, and criminality arises only when
one assumes to practice without having his right so to do established by the action of the board. The proceedings of the board
to determine his qualifications are no more criminal than examinations of applicants to teach or practice law, and if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

provisions for testing such qualifications are reasonable in their

nature, a party must comply with them, and has no right to
practice his profession in defiance thereof.
It is further insisted that having once engaged in the practice
and having been licensed so to do, he had a right to continue in
such practice, and that this statute was in the nature of an t,
postfacto law. The case of .Hawkerv. N3few Yoek, suj'a, is decisive upon this question. This statute does not attempt to punish him for any past offence, and in the most extreme view can
only be considered as requiring continuing evidence of his qualifications as a physician or surgeon. As shown in Dent v. ]Vest
Virgin ia, szTra, there is no similarity between statutes like this
and the proceedings which were adjudged void in Cumiwings v.
.issouri, 4 Wall. 277, and Ex parte Gailand,4 Wall. 333.
We fail to see anything in the statute which brings it Nithin
the inhibitions of the Federal Constitution, and therefore the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan is
4/firmed.

MIR.

JusTICE HARLAN

concurs in the result.

LEACH v. BURR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 145.

Argued January 27, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Where an order is made on Friday by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia in pursuance of the act of June 8, 1898, 30 Stat. 434, which requires publication of a notice at least twice a week for a period of not
less than four weeks, two publications in each successive seven days,
commencing on the day of the entry of the order, is sufficient. Such an
order does not require two publications for four weeks, each of which
commences Sunday and ends Saturday.
A party who in response to a published notice appears and goes to trial
without objection or seeking further time cannot thereafter b heard to
question the sufficiency of the notice,

