OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

provisions for testing such qualifications are reasonable in their

nature, a party must comply with them, and has no right to
practice his profession in defiance thereof.
It is further insisted that having once engaged in the practice
and having been licensed so to do, he had a right to continue in
such practice, and that this statute was in the nature of an t,
postfacto law. The case of .Hawkerv. N3few Yoek, suj'a, is decisive upon this question. This statute does not attempt to punish him for any past offence, and in the most extreme view can
only be considered as requiring continuing evidence of his qualifications as a physician or surgeon. As shown in Dent v. ]Vest
Virgin ia, szTra, there is no similarity between statutes like this
and the proceedings which were adjudged void in Cumiwings v.
.issouri, 4 Wall. 277, and Ex parte Gailand,4 Wall. 333.
We fail to see anything in the statute which brings it Nithin
the inhibitions of the Federal Constitution, and therefore the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan is
4/firmed.

MIR.

JusTICE HARLAN

concurs in the result.

LEACH v. BURR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 145.

Argued January 27, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Where an order is made on Friday by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia in pursuance of the act of June 8, 1898, 30 Stat. 434, which requires publication of a notice at least twice a week for a period of not
less than four weeks, two publications in each successive seven days,
commencing on the day of the entry of the order, is sufficient. Such an
order does not require two publications for four weeks, each of which
commences Sunday and ends Saturday.
A party who in response to a published notice appears and goes to trial
without objection or seeking further time cannot thereafter b heard to
question the sufficiency of the notice,

LEACH e. BURR.
Opinion of the Court.
On a proceeding to probate a will in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia the burden of proof is on the caveators and if they fail to sustain this burden and butone conclusion can be drawn from the testimony,
the trial court has power to direct a verdict. When that court has (lone
so and its action has been approved by the unanimous judgment of the
Court of Appeals, this court will rightfully pay deference to such action
and opinion.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-M'. George F. Hoar and Mr. MiVlliam A. .Meloy for plaintiffs in error.
X r. J. J. Darlington, for defendant in error.

Mir. I.

B.

Behrend was on the brief.
-MR. JUsTicE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error, caveators in the trial court, seek a review
of the order of the Supreme Court of the District, holding a
special term for orphans' court business, in admitting to probate
the will of Ezra W. Leach. The order was entered March 17,
1900, and on appeal was sustained by the Court of Appeals of
the District, November 6, 1900. 17 D. C. App. 128. Thereupon this writ of error was sued out.
Whatever may have been the fact theretofore, it is not
seriously questioned that by the act of June 8, 1898, 30
Stat. 434, the trial court had jurisdiction to entertain the application for probate, for by section 2 of that act it is provided
that "plenary jurisdiction is hereby given to the said court
holding the said special term to hear and determine all questions relating to the execution and to the validity of any and
all wills devising any real estate within the District of Columbia and of any and all wills and testaments properly presented
for probate therein, and to admit the same to probate and record in said special term." The specific objection to its action
is an alleged defect in the publication required in case any
party in interest is not found, the statute (see. 6) providing that
the court "shall order publication at least twice a week for a
period of not less than four weeks of a copy of the issues and
notification of trial in some newspaper of general circulation in

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the District of Columbia, and may order such other publication
as the case may require." The order was made on January 26,
1900, setting the hearing for February 26, 1900, and was "that
this order and a copy of said issues heretofore framed shall be
published twice a week for four weeks in The Evening Star."
Publication was made January 26 and 30, February 2, 6, 9, 13,
16 and 20. There were, therefore, two publications in each
successive seven days from the date of the order. January 26
was on Friday. The contention is that the work "week"
means that series of days called a week commencing Sunday
and ending Saturday, and that under this construction there
was only one publication in the last week. Ronkendo;/f v.
Taylor's Lessee, 4 Pet. 349, is cited as authority. In that case
notice of a tax sale was required "by advertising, once a week,
in some newspaper printed in the city of Washington, for three
months," and it was held that this did not require a publication on the same day in each week, the court saying (p. 361):
"A week is a definite period of time, commencing on Sunday
and ending on Saturday. By this construction, the notice in
this case must be held sufficient. It was published Monday,
January the 6th, and omitted until Saturday, January the 18th,
leaving an interval of eleven days; still, the publication on
Saturday was withinthe week succeeding the notice of the 6th."
But the language of this statute is not " for four weeks," but
"for a period of not less than four weeks," and the words of
the order must be construed in the light of the statute. A like
difference was called to the attention of the court in Early v.
ifomans, 16 How. 610, where the publication was to be "once
in each week, for at least twelve successive weeks," and commenting thereon it was said (p. 617):
"The preposition, for, means of itself duration when it is put
in connection with time, and as all of us use it in that way, in
our everyday conversation, it cannot be presumed that the legislator, in making this statute, did not mean to use it in the same
way. Twelve successive weeks is as definite a designation of
time, according to our division of it, as can be made. When
we say that anything may be done in twelve weeks, or that it
shall not be done for twelve weeks, after the happening of a

LEACH c. BURR.
Opinion of the Court.

fact which is to precede it, we mean that it may be done in
twelve weeks or eighty-four days, or, as the case may be, that
it shall not be done before."
Further, the object of a notice is to enable the parties affected
thereby to be present and obtain a hearing. The caveators appeared and without seeking further time, for the purpose of securing additional testimony or preparing for the hearing, went
to trial on the issues submitted to the jury. They at least cannot claim to be prejudiced by any defect in the notice.
But the substantial question is whether the court erred in taking the case from the jury and directing a verdict sustaining the
will. The questions submitted for consideration were whether
the testator was at the time of executing the will "of sound
mind, capable of executing a valid deed or contract;" whether
the will was "procured by the threats, menaces and duress exercised over him (the testator) by Samuel I. Lucas or any other
person or persons," and whether it was "procured by the fraud
of Samuel H. Lucas or any other person or persons."
Although jurors are the recognized triers of questions of fact,
the power of a court to direct a verdict for one party or the
other is undoubted, and when a court has done so and its action
has been approved by the unanimous judgment of the direct
appellate court, we rightfully pay deference to their concurring
opinions. Patton,v. Texas d Pacific Railway Company, 179
U. S. 658, and cases cited. An examination of the testimony
satisfies us that there was no error in directing the verdict. The
testator was seventy-three years old, white, childless, unmarried,
his nearest relatives being cousins, the plaintiffs in error. He
had lived in this District for at least twenty years. He was a
man positive in his opinions, not easily influenced, of strong religious convictions and much attached to his church. His business was that of a florist. He owned two or three parcels of
real estate of the value of about $8000, and also a little personal
property worth something like $300. The devisee was Samuel
H. Lucas, a young colored man, with whom alone be had kept
house for ten or a dozen years, such relation commencing at his
invitation and continuing by his wish. For some years Lucas
had the general management of the business. Testator's illness
VOL. CLXXxvIIi-33

OCTOBER "TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

was brief, lasting only eight days. Ie died on December 21,
1896, between 12 and 1 o'clock. Early in the morning of that
day, between 9 and 10 o'clock, the pastor of the church to which
he belonged called, and to him he said:
"Pastor, I did not expect to go so early; there are some
things which I wanted to perform and have neglected. I
wanted to give the church a parsonage. I cannot do it now;
it is too late. I will be unable on account of the laws of Maryland, which apply to the District of Columbia, to do anything
of that sort, for they will not allow a man to do anything of
that sort within thirty days of the time of his death. I want
you to prepare the papers and turn everything over to Sam."
Thereupon the pastor sent for a notary and prepared a deed
conveying the real estate to Lucas. After that had been executed the pastor, who had never before prepared a deed, suggested that possibly he had not got everything in just right,

and that if the testator wanted to make sure he could make a
will. The testator then asked the notary to draw up a will,
and it was drawn up and executed. At the time he directed
the preparation of the deed he told Lucas what he would like
to have done in reference to the parsonage, and Lucas replied
that he would carry out his wishes. There was not a syllable
of testimony, not a hint, that Lucas, or any other person, requested or suggested any disposition of the property. All that
was done was done at the instance and upon the request of the
testator. The caveators called four witnesses as to his mental
condition, only one of whom was present at any time during

his sickness, and that the pastor above referred to. So far
from their testimony tending to show mental weakness, it was
abundant and emphatic that he was a man of positive convictions, clear-headed, though perhaps eccentric in some views, but
at all times fully capable of making his own contracts and attending to his own affairs. The testimony of the pastor who,
as stated, was present on the morning of his death and detailed
the circumstances of that interview, shows that his mind was
then clear, that he knew what he was doing, and was simply
attempting to carry out by the deed and the will that which
had been for a long time his intention. Neither his attending

LEACH v. BURR.
Opinion of the Court.

physician, the notary, the executor, nor Lucas were called as
witnesses, although all were present that morning. Evidently
the caveators were content to rest their case in this respect upon the evidence of the pastor. Seven physicians were called
who, upon a hypothetical question, substantially concurred
that it was contrary to their experience and reading that a
man seventy-three years of age, dying of acute pneumonia,
should have testamentary capacity between three and four
hours before death. The only evidence of the cause of his
death was the certificate from the health department, which
named as such cause broncho-pneumonia. One of these seven
physicians testified (and he alone gave evidence in that respect)
that the unconsciousness preceding death from acute pneumonia
was not characteristic of death from bronchial pneumonia, and
that the circumstances disclosed by the pastor would tend to
show that there was not mental inability to make a valid deed
or contract. That acute pneumonia, especially in one of his
age, would ordinarily cloud the intellect for hours before death
would be irrelevant to the question of his mental condition
that morning, unless it was shown that he was suffering from
such disease, and that does not appear.
From this direct testimony but one conclusion could be
drawn, and that in favor of the mental soundness of the testator at the time he made the will. Nor is the caveators' case
strengthened by that which counsel so forcibly presented to
our attention, to wit, the right of a jury to take into consideration that which is common knowledge and springs from the
ordinary experiences and relations of life. The testator was a
white man, the devisee colored, and race prejudice we all know
exists. But this testator, eccentric in his views and of positive convictions, is shown to have made this colored man his
business and household companion for years. Such continued
intimacy, excluding other parties therefrom, is satisfactory evidence that he at least was not moved by such prejudice. The
potency of blood relationship is also appealed to, but affection
between cousins is often not very strong. The testator lived
in this District while the caveators lived in New England, and
the testimony fails to show that he visited them or they him;

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

that they ever even corresponded, or that the caveators ever
manifested any interest in him or his until after his death, when

they asserted a right to inherit his property.
Upon questions of this kind submitted to a jury the burden
of proof, in this District at least, is on the caveators. Dunlop
v. Peter, 1 Cranch C. C. 403. See also iliggins v. Carlton, 28
Maryland, 115, 143 ; Tyson v. Tyson's .Er'ecwtors, 37 Maryland,
567. The caveators in the present case failed to sustain this
burden, and we are of the opinion that the trial court did not
err in directing a verdict against them.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

SCHAEFER v. WERLING.
ERROR TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF TIE ST&ATE .OF INDIANA.
No. 151.

Argued January 27, 28, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

The construction placed by the highest courts of the State upon a statute
providing for paving streets and distributing the assessment therefor is
conclusive upon this court.
Where a person attacking the validity of an assessment claims that the city
is estopped from proceeding to collect the benefits assessed upon lots,
the owner whereof objected in writing, and which objections were placed
on file by the common council, the question, so far as such estoppel is
concerned, is purely state, and not Federal.
Within repeated decisions of this court the statute in question in this
case is not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.r'.

S. ff. Sayler and _l'. IF I. Dudley for plaintiff in error.

.ir. John C. Chaney for defendant in error. Air. A1)phonso
fHart, -i%. TFilliam H. Bahrt, .-r.John G. Cline and .r. Clifford F. Jackman were on the brief.
IR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

In September, 1892, the plaintiff in error, the owner of five

