CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. PORTER.
210 U. S.

177

Syllabus.

essary to cite them. The statutes differ, and the reasoning
of the courts also.
The question of the construction of this particular act has
heretofore been before the Court of Claims in Bellocq v. United States, 13 C. Cl. 195. The court there held that the limi-

tation referred to the time of making the motion, and not to
the time of its decision. We think the reasoning of Chief Jusiice Drake in that case is sound. See, also, Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S. 62; McCollum v. United States, 33 C. Cl. 469.

Having two years in which to file its motion for a new trial
the Government was in time in this case when it filed its motion with the clerk of the court, the court itself being then in

recess, and it could thereafter hear and decide the case at its
convenience.

The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition
is
Affirmed.
CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND ST. LOUIS

RAILWAY COMPANY v. PORTER.
ERROR TO DIVISION NUMBER TWO OF THE APPELLATE COURT OF
THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 213.

Argued April 27, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

It is within the legislative power of a State to create special taxing districts
and to charge the cost of local improvements, in whole or in part, upon the
property in said district either according to valuation or area, and the
legislature may also classify the owners of property abutting on the improvement made and those whose property lies a certain distance back of
it, and if all property owners have an equal opportunity to be heard when
the assessment is made the owners of the "back lying" property are not
deprived of their property without due process of law or denied the equal
protection of the laws.
The Barrett paving law of Indiana, the constitutionality of which was sustained by this court as to abutting property owners in Shaffer v. Werling,
188 U. S. 516; Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310, sustained also as '? back
lying property owners following Voris v. Pittsburg Plate Glass Co., 163.
Indiana, 599.
38 Ind. App. 226, affirmed.

VOL. ccx-12

.178

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

THis case involves the legality of a tax for street improvements imposed on the property of plaintiff in error, herein
called the railway company.
The tax was imposed under a law of the State called the
Barrett law. The law makes the amount of the assessment
a lien upon the property improved and gives to the contractor
or his assignees the right to "foreclose such assessment as a
mortgage is foreclosed." Successive suits may be brought if
the judgment in the first suit fails to satisfy the assessment
and costs.
The defendants in error were the contractors for the improvement and brought this suit in the*Circuit Court of Boon
County, Indiana, and alleged in their complaint the adoption
under the law by the common council of the city of Lebanon,
where the property proceeded against is situated, of a declaratory resolution providing for the grading and paving of Main
street and constructing sidewalks and lawns thereon. The
complaint alleged the steps taken by the council of the city as
prescribed by the law; the assessment against the several lots
and parcels of ground abutting on the street; that one Mary
Kelly was the owner of a tract of unplatted land abutting on
the street, which was assessed the sum of $588.56; her refusal
to pay the assessment, and that suit was brought against her
and her husband to foreclose the lien of the assessment. And
it is alleged that after proceedings had a decree was entered
for the sum of $650, being the amount of the assessment and
costs. That sale of the property was made under the decree
for the sum of $75, which was its fair cash value, and that there
is still due thereon $581.32, with interest. That the railway
company was the owner of a tract of land immediately back
of the real estate of Mary Kelly, "from the street so improved,"
that is, that her real estate was situate immediately between
the street so improved and the real estate of the railway company, which real estate was within one hundred and fifty feet
of the line of the street. A demand for the amount of the
balance due on the assessment was alleged. Judgment was

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. PORTER.
210 U. S.

179

Statement of the Case.

demanded for that sum and the foreclosure of the lien of the
assessment against the real estate of the company and for an
order of sale.
A second paragraph of the complaint alleged a like assessment against the property of one John T. Walton, the foreclosure of the lien thereon and the sale of the property, the
balance due, and that the property of the railway was situated
immediately back of it. The like judgment was prayed as
in the first paragraph.
The only parts of the answer with which we are concerned
are the allegations that the land of the railway company did
not abut upon the street improvement, but lay back of lands
owned by others which abutted upon the street, and "that in
the proceedings of the common council of the city of Lebanon,
in any action taken by the civil engineers of said city, in any
notice to property owners, in any assessment of property had,
given or'done with reference to said improvement, this defendant's tracts were not named, described nor referred to, nor
was either of them; that neither of said tracts was assessed
for said improvement, neither of said tracts was considered
with reference to any assessment for said improvement, neither
of said tracts was benefited by said improvement; that the
defendant did not appear before said council or any committee
of said council, either actually or constructively, with reference
to either of its said tracts, and the records of the proceedings
of the city of Lebanon as to said improvements do not disclose
any such appearance by or notice to this defendant, or the consideration or assessment of either of said tracts for such improvement."
The third paragraph of the answer is as follows:
"For third and further answer to the amended complaint
and each of the paragraphs thereof separately the defendant
says that the acts of the general assembly of the State of Indiana under and by virtue of which it is claimed and assumed
that the liens respectively sued upon have accrued and attach
to the respective tracts of the defendant is unconstitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S.

and. void, in that it makes no 'provision for .a notice to or a
hearing from the property owner whose property does nQt
abut upon the street to be improved; it denies due process of
law, denies the equal protection of the laws, and takes private
property for public use without compensation."
Judgment was rendered against the company, which was
affirmed by the Appellate Court on the authority of Voris v.
Pittsburg Plate Glass Co., 163 Indiana, 599.
Mr. Frank L. Littleton, with whom Mr. Leonard J. Hackney was ,on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The statute of Indiana, Burns' Rev. Stat., 1894, §§ 42884299, both inclusive, under and pursuant to which the alleged
assessment involved in this case was made, is unconstitutional
because it does not give, or purport to give, a property owner
whose lands are located back of property abutting upon the
street improved any hearing or opportunity to be heard upon
the amount of the assessment levied against such owner's
property. There is no hearing as to the special benefits at any
stage of the proceedings, and the amount of the assessment
against the back-lying property is arbitrarily determined by
subtracting from the original assessment against the abutting
owner the amount his property sells for on foreclosure. This
is clearly a denial of due process of law. Centra of Georgia Ry.
Co. v. Wright, 207 -U. S. 27; Security Trust Company v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616;
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 581; Village of
Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269; Wright v. Davidson, 181
U. S. 371; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548; Spencer v. Merchant, 425 U. S. 345; Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578; Hibben
v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310; Schawffer v. Werling, 188 U. S. 516:
Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 541; Beebe
v. Magoun (Iowa), 97 N. W. Rep. 986; Lathrop v. City of
Racine, 97 N. W. Rep. 192; State v. Pillsbury (Minn.), 85 N. W.
Rep. 175; McKee v. Town of Pendleton, 154 Indiana, 652;
Dexter v. City of Boston, 176 Massachusetts, 247; Charles

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. PORTER.
210 U. S.

181

Argument for Defendants in Error.

v. City of Marion, 100 Fed. Rep. 538; Kuntz v. Sumption, 117
Indiana, 1.
The statute of Indiana, Burns' Rev. Stat. 1894, §§ 42884299, under and pursuant to which the alleged assessment involved in this case was made, is unconstitutional and denies
the back-lying property owner the equal protection of the laws
because it gives the abutting property owner a hearing, or
opportunity to be heard, on the question as to whether the
proposed assessment exceeds the special benefits to his property,
and denies such hearing or opportunity to the property owner
whose property does not abut upon the street improved. Ex
parle Drayton, 153 Fed. Rep. 986; Gulf &c. R. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Raymond v.
Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 541; Beebe v. Magoun
(Iowa), 97 N. W. Rep. 986; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Swanger, 157
Fed. Rep. 783.
Mr. George H. Gifford, with whom Mr. Glen J. Gifford was
on the brief, for defendants in error:
The statute of Indiana, Burns' Rev. Stat. 1894, §§ 42884299, in pursuance to which the assessments herein were made
is in harmony with § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment for the
reason that said law furnished the plaintiff in error due process
of law and equal protection of law guaranteed by said § 1
of that Amendment. Shauffer v. Werling, 188 U. S. 516; Fall
Brook IrrigatingCo. v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 168; Hibben v. Smith,
191 U. S. 321; Voris v. Pittsburg &c. Co., 163 Indiana, 599.
Assessments made for the construction of public improvements are in the nature of a tax and are subject to summary
procedures the same as state, county and municipal taxation,
and the law does not contemplate that there should be a decree or order of court to make such assessment valid, but it is
sufficient if there is a tribunal or committee created by the
statute to hear and determine the correctness of such assessment and a provision for due notice to the parties of such hearing, it is a full and complete compliance with the constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U.S.

provision of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Cass Farm
Co. v. Detroit, 181 U. S. 396; Detroit v. Parker, 181 U. S. 399;.
Webster v. Fargo, 181 U. S. 394; French v. Barber Asphalt Co.,
181 U. S. 324.
In matters of taxation and assessment for local improve-.
ments where there is a taxing district established by the statute under which such proceedings are being prosecuted, a notice to all interested without setting out the name of the party
owning -ane real estate and without setting out the description
of the property taxed is a sufficient notice. Lent v. Tilson,
72 California, 404; Ottawa v. Macy, 20 Illinois, 412; Voris v.
Pittsburg &c. Co., 163 Indiana, 599.
It is the province of the legislature to fix the notice to be
given in matters of public improvements. Hiland, Aud., v.
Brazil B. Co., 128 Indiana, 340; Ottawa v. Macy, 20 Illinois,
413; Schceffer v. Werling, 188 U. S. 516.
after, making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JusTICE MCKENNA,

There is no question of the regularity of the proceedings.
The controversy, therefore, is over the statute. Does it afford
due process of law? A review of it is necessary to the determination of the question. It provides that upon the petition to
the common council of two-thirds of the whole line of lots
bordering on any street or alley, consisting of a square between
two streets, and if the council deem the. improvement necessary, it shall declare by resolution the necessity therefor,
describing the work, and shall give two weeks' notice thereof
to the property owners in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the city, stating the time and place when and
where the property owners can make objections to the necessity
of the improvement.
If the improvement be ordered notice is to be given for the
reception of bids. When the improvement has been made and
completed according to the terms of .the contract therefor

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. PORTER. , 183
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made the common council shall cause a final estimate to be
made of the total cost thereof by the city engineer, and shall
require him to report the full facts, the total cost of the improvements, the average cost per running foot of the whole
length of the part of the street improved, the name of each
property owner and the number of front feet owned by him,
with full description of each lot or parcel of ground bordering
on the street improved, the amount due upon each lot, which
shall be ascertained and fixed by multiplying the average cost
price per running foot by the number of running front feet of
the several lots or parcels of ground respectively.
Upon the filing of this report the council is required to give
notice of two weeks in a newspaper of the time and place,
when and where, a hearing can be had before a committee
appointed by the council to consider such reports. The committee is required to report to the council recommending the
adoption or alteration of the report, and the council may
adopt, alter or amend it and the assessments therein. Any
person feeling aggrieved by the report shall have the right to
appear before the council and shall be accorded a hearing.
The council assesses against the several lots or parcels of land
the several amounts which shall be assessed for and on account
of the improvement.
It is provided that the owner of lots bordering on the street,
or the part thereof to be improved, shall be liable to the city
for their proportion of the costs in the ratio of the front line
of their lots to the whole improved line of'the improvement,
and that the assessment shall be upon the ground fronting or
immediately abutting on such improvement, back to the distance of one hundred and fifty feet fron such front line, and
the city and contractor shall have a tlen thereon for the value
of such improvements.
It is further provided that where the "land is subdivided
or platted the land lying immediately upon and adjacent to
the line of the street and extending back fifty feet shall be
primarily liable to and for the whole cost of the improvement,

- 184

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

and should that prove insufficient to pay such cost then the
second parcel and other parcels, in their order, to the rear parcel
of said one hundred and fifty feet, shall be liable in their order."
This statute, as to abutting property owners, was sustained
by this court, following the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Indiana. Scheffer v. Werling, 188 U. S. 516; Hibben v. Smith,
191 U. S. 310. It was sustained as to "back-lying" property
owners in Voris v. Pittsburg Plate Glass Co., 163 Indiana, 599,
and upon that case, as we have seen, the judgment in the case
at bar is based.
It will be observed by referring to the statute that property
owners are given notice of the proposed improvement and opportunity to object to its necessity, and when the improvement is completed they are also given notice of the filing of
the report of the engineer and an opportunity to be heard
upon it before a committee, which the statute requires shall
be appointed to consider it. The latter notice, the Supreme
Court in Voris v. Pittsburg Glass Company, decided, gives the
common council complete jurisdiction over the person of every
landowner in the taxing district of the improvement, whether
the same abuts on the improvement or not, and that they are
required to take notice that their real estate in the taxing district will be subject to the lien of special benefits assessed
against it. And the court further decided that all such owners
of real estate within the taxing district, "whether back lying
or abutting," have the right "to a hearing on the question of
special benefits, which the law requires said common council
or board of trustees to adjust so as to conform to the special
benefits accruing to said abutting real estate." The contention,
however, of the railway company is that in no stage of the proceeding has the back-lying owner a hearing, or an opportunity
to be heard, as to the amount to be assessed against his property. As we have seen, the opportunity to be heard is given
to back-lying owners as to other owners, and the amount of
the assessment against the latter is the amount of the assessment against the former. This amount is definitely fixed, and

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. PORTER.
210 U. S.

185

Opinion of the Court.

measures the lien upon the back-lying real estate and the burden to which it may be subjected if the abutting property
fails to satisfy the assessment.
It may be, however, that the railway cornpany means by
its contention that the back-lying owner is given no opportunity to be heard by the statute on the amount of the assessment against him, that he is given no opportunity to be heard
on special benefits to him from the improvement. This was
one of the questions presented in Voris v. Pittsburg Glass Company. Certain cases were cited as sustaining an affirmative
answer. The court, however, replied that the question was
not involved in those cases, and what was said in one of them
(Adams v. City of Shelbyville, 154 Indiana, 467), to the effect
that a law which makes no provision for a hearing on the
question of special benefits was in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, was
clearly obiter dicta. And the court decided, following French v.
Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, and the cases immediately succeeding it, and, quoting from Tonawandav. Lyon,
181 U. S. 389, " ' That it is within the power of the legislature
of the State to create special taxing districts, and to charge
the cost of local improvement, in whole or in part, upon the
property in said district, either according to valuation or
superficial area or average. . . .' " Other cases were also
cited sustaining the conclusion.
It will be observed, therefore, that the Supreme Court of
the State decided that a taxing district is created by the legislature of the property along the line of the improvement and
extending back therefrom one hundred and fifty feet, and that
back-lying property-that is, property fifty. feet distant from
the street and within one hundred and fifty feet-is so far
benefited that it shall be made liable if the abutting fifty feet
"prove insufficient" to pay the cost of the improvement. In
other words, that lands within one hundred and fifty feet of
the improvement are so far benefited by the improvement that
they may be made a taxing district, and subject to the cost of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S

the improvement. We think, under the cited cases, this was
within the power of the legislature to provide.
The railway company also contends that the statute is unconstitutional, for the reason that it does not give the backlying property owner the equal protection of the laws. The
ground of this contention is as the one just disposed of, that
the abutting owner is, and the back-lying owner is not, given
an opportunity to be heard. To express it differeiltly, and as
the counsel express it, that a specific assessment is made against
the abutting owner, and he is given an opportunity to challenge
the assessment, but the back-lying owner has an assessment
made against him years afterwards, and is given no opportunity
whatevei to challenge it. This, as we have seen, is a misapprehension of the statute. The amount of the assessment is
fixed for both owners at the same time. The abutting owner
is made primarily liable for it; the back-lying owner contingently so. He may never be called upon to pay. Implied in
this contention, however, though not expressed, there may be
the element of a hearing upon benefits, but, if so, it is disposed
of by what has been said. If it was in the power of the legislature to make the taxing district, as we have decided that it
was, it was within its power to classify the property owners, and
there is certainly no discrimination between the members of
the classes.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

took no part in the decision.

