OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

property rights solemnly safeguarded. In so doing the treaty
has merely followed the recognized rule of international law
which would have protected the property of the church in
Porto Rico subsequent to the cession. This juristic personality
and the church's ownership of property had been recognized in
the most formal way by the concordats between Spain and the
papacy and by the Spanish laws from the beginning of settlements in the Indies. Such recognition has also been accorded
the church by all systems of European law from the fourth
century of the Chrisian era.
"Third. The fact that the municipality may have furnished
some of the funds for building or repairing the churches cannot
affect the title of the Roman Catholic Church, to whom such
funds were thus irrevocably donated and by whom these
temples were erected and dedicated to religious uses."

Decree affirmed.

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 219. Argued April 29, 30, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

Even if the state court erred in a proceeding over which it has exclusive
jurisdiction such error would not afford a basis for reviewing its judgment
in this court.
The mere assertion by plaintiff in error that the judgment of the state
court deprived him of his property by unequal enforcement of the law in
violation of Federal immunities specially set up does not create a Federal
question where there is no ground for such a contention, and the state
court followed its conception of the rules of pleading as expounded in its
previous decisions.
Where the asserted Federal questions are so plainly devoid of merit as not
to constitute a basis for the writ of error the writ will be dismissed.
Whether a Missouri corporation has forfeited its charter by nonuser and
misuser under the law of the State does not involve a Federal question,
and a proceeding regularly brought by the Attorney General in the

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Can.

nature of qo warranto constitutes due proces

of law. Ne

Oreans

Watroorks v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336.

Writ of error to review, 200 Missouri, 34, dismissed.
THE plaintiff in error was organized as a corporation under
the laws of the State of Missouri on January 18, 1901, for the
following purposes stated in its articles of association:
"The purposes for which this corporation is formed are to,
encourage and promote agriculture and the improvement of
stock, particularly running, trotting and pacing horses, by
giving exhibitions of agricultural products and exhibitions of
contests of speed and races between horses, for premiums,,
purses and other awards and otherwise; to establish and maintain suitable fair grounds and a race track in the city and,
county of St. Louis, with necessary buildings, erections and
improvements, and to give or conduct on said grounds and
race track public exhibitions of agricultural products and stock
and of speed or races between horses, for premiums, purses or
other awards, made up from fees or otherwise, and to charge
the public for admission thereto and to said grounds and
track; to engage in poolselling, bookmaking and registering
bets on exhibition of speed or races at the said race track and
premises, as provided by law, and to let the right to others
to do the same; to conduct restaurants, cafes, and other stands.
for the sale of food and other refreshments to persons on
said premises; and to do and perform all other acts necessary
for fully accomplishing the purposes hereinbefore specifically
enumerated."
In 1905 the attorney general of Missouri, ex officio, filed in
the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri an information,
in the nature of quo warranto, seeking to annul the charter of
the company and forfeit all of its franchises and property, for
the following alleged acts of abuse and nonuse of its corporate
powers and franchises: First, engaging in bookmaking, poolselling and the registration of bets upon horse races from the
date of its incorporation up to June 16, 1905; second, during
the same period selling pools and accepting and registering

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cas.

210 U. S.

bets from. minors upon the result of horse races run on the
track of the corporation; third, engaging in bookmaking, poolselling and the registration of bets upon horse races after
June 16, 1905, in violation of an act of the legislature of Missouri approved March 21, 1905; and fourth, failure to give any
exhibition of agricultural products or to give any exhibition
of speed in races between horses for the purpose of improving
the stock of trotting and pacing horses, or to establish or maintain any fair grounds in the city or county of St. Louis, or any
other place.
The corporation demurred to the information upon nine
grounds. In the first it was recited that as the information
did not charge that the defendant was not licensed to engage
in the business of bookmaking, etc., alleged to have been
carried on prior to June 16, 1905, no violation of law was
stated. The remaining grounds set forth reasons why it was
asserted that the information in the second and third grounds,
heretofore stated, did not charge violations of law or state
facts upon which a judgment of ouster for such alleged acts
could lawfully be based. After hearing argument the Supreme
Court of Missouri sustained the first ground of demurrer and
overruled all the others, and granted defendant fifteen days in
which to answer the remaining allegations contained in the
information, viz., the second, third and fourth grounds of alleged misuse and nonuse of the corporate franchises heretofore referred to. 200 Missouri, 34. Subsequently an answer
was filed, of which (omitting title) a copy is in the. margin. 1
Respondent, Delmar Jockey Club, comes by its attorneys and for its
answer to the information of the Attorney General herein, admits that it is
a corporation duly organized and incorporated under the laws of the State
of Missouri, and denies each and every other allegation in said information
alleged or contained.
Wherefore,. respondent prays that it be hence discharged with its costs.
II. For its further answer to that portion of the information of the Attorney General herein, wherein it is alleged that respondent has failed to
exercise certain franchises claimed to be possessed by it, this respondent
states that it has fully carried out and exercised all those provisions in its

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Cue.

Thereupon a motion for a final judgment of ouster, etc., on
the pleadings was filed, for the following reasons:
"First. That said return and answer fails to state facts
showing any sufficient cause or excuse for, or any legal defense
to, the nonuser of respondent's franchises authorizing it to
give exhibitions of agricultural products and exhibition of
contests of speed or races between horses for the purpose of'
encouraging and promoting agriculture and the improvement
of stock, and for the establishing and maintaining of suitable
fair grounds in the city and county of St. Louis, as set forth,
and charged in the information herein.
"Second. It appears from the facts stated in said return
and answer, and the second count thereof, that respondent is
guilty of the acts of misuser and abuser of its franchises charged
in the information herein filed, in this, to wit, that respondent
engaged in the business of bookmaking and poolselling, registration of bets, and the acceptance of bets in violation of the
laws of this State:
"Wherefore, informant prays that final judgment of ouster
be rendered against the respondent as prayed for in the information in the case."
A motion to strike from the files having been overruled, the
motion was heard and granted, and judgment of ouster was.
entered,. a fine of five thousand dollars was imposed upon the
corporation because of nonuse, misuse, and violation of its
franchises, and provision was made for the winding up of
the affairs of the corporation. A motion for a rehearing was
charter authorizing it to give exhibitions of agricultural products and exhibitions of contests of speed and races between horses for the purpose of
encouraging and promoting agriculture and the improvement of stock, and
has provided suitable fair grounds for the same, in this that between the
eighteenth day of January, 1901, and the sixteenth day of June, 1905, in
pursuance of the provisions and requirements of §§ 7419 to 7424, inclusive,
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1899, respondent duly paid large sums of
money into the treasury of the State of Missouri, which were placed by the
treasurer of the State of Missouri to the credit of the State fair fund, the
same being a fund created by § 7424, Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1899,

OCTOIBlR TEAM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

210 U. S.

made, in which the protection of various clauses of the Constitution of the United States was invoked, the following only
being material to the controversy arising on this record:
"Third. Respondent is charged with nonuse of its corporate franchise as to the right to hold fairs. The general denial of respondent applies to this charge, and there has been
no trial as to that fact. Yet the judgment adjudges the respondent guilty without a hearing, thereby also violating the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
"But without this, the plea of estoppel interposed by the,
respondent to the charge of nonuse does not deprive respondent of the benefit of its general denial of that charge. Even
at common law, and certainly since the statute of Anne, a plea
of estoppel may be united with a general denial in a quo warranto proceeding.
"Fifth. The judgment of ouster ought not to be entered
in this case in the present state of the pleadings, for the reason
that even though the power conferred by the charter of the
respondent to engage in bookmaking and poolselling be regarded as taken away by,'the repeal of the breeder's law, and
even though respondent has lost its charter privileges to confor the development and advancement of the industrial interests of this
State under the direction of the state board of agriculture, and that all of
said money so paid into said fund was received, used and appropriated by
the State of Missouri for the purpose of holding and giving annual exhibitions of agricultural products and stock of every kind and description at
the city of Sedalia, State of, Missouri, and that the said sums of money paid
by respondent into the treasury of the State of Missouri under the terms of
§ 7419 to 7424, inclusive, were used and appropriated by the said State of
Missouri and its said state board of agriculture solely for the maintenance
and support of said Missouri State fair held annually at Sedalia, Missouri,
and for the further purpose of providing, constructing, improving and
equipping all grounds, stands and buildings necessary for the holding and
giving of said fair.
Respondent further states that by exacting and receiving the said sums
of money for the above-mentioned purposes the said State of Missouri intended to and did accept the same as full and complete performance and
use by respondent of its franchise to give exhibitions of agricultural products

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

duct fairs by failure to exercise those privileges, nevertheless
respondent has other privileges conferred by its charter which
are not contrary to any law of this State or to the policy of the
State, and which have not been lost by nonuser, among which
privileges is the right to conduct horse races for prizes or purses
or at pleasure, and which the judgment of this court deprives
respondent of without respondent having in any manner lost
the right so to do, and in this respect also the judgment deprives
the respondent of its property without due process of law, contrary to the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, which respondent here invokes."
The motion for a rehearing was granted, and upon a reconsideration of the cause the motion for judgment on the pleadings
was again sustained upon the ground of nonuser of the corporation franchises, and judgment was entered ousting the corporation of all of its franchises and charter rights, and adjudging that
the same be forfeited to the State and the corporation dissolved.
200 Missouri, 34. A motion for a rehearing having been filed
and overruled, the cause was brought here by writ of error.
and stock, and the said State of Missouri thereby intended to and did waive
any other or further exercise of such franchise on the part of respondent.
Further answering the allegations of non-user from June 16, 1905, to the
date of the filing of this information, to wit, July 28, 1905, respondent states
that the franchise of giving exhibitions of agricultural products and stock
is not one which can be exercised continuously and at all times from the beginning to the end of the year, but is one, owing to its peculiar character,
which can only be exercised during the harvest, season of each year. For
these reasons respondent was not required to exercise such franchise between the above specified dates, but respondent further avers that it has
in good faith endeavored at all times to exercise the franchises granted to
it by its articles of incorporation in the manner and for the purposes intended by such grants, and that such is its purpose in the future, and respondent intends in every way to comply with and perform according to
law all the obligations which it assumed upon the grant of the aforesaid
franchises to it by the State of Missouri, and respondent again specifically
denies each and every charge, allegation or assertion of a contrary purpose
on its part, contained in the information filed herein.
Wherefore. respondent prays that it be hence discharged with its costs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S.

Mr. Thomas Bond, with whom Mr. Henry W. Bond was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Where a Federal question appears in the record and was
decided, or where a decision of such a question was necessarily
involved in the case, it is not necessary that the particular
section of the Federal Constitution violated be specifically
pointed out in the state court, in order to confer jurisdiction
upon this court. Murray v. Charleston, 96 U. S. 432; Columbia
Water & Power Co. v. Columbia Electric Co., 172 U. S. 475, 488;
Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken L. & I. Co., 1 Wall. 116; Furman
v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345;
F. G. Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, 657.
Where jurisdiction is predicated upon the third class of controversies mentioned in § 709, Rev. Stat., it is not necessary
that the Federal right, title, privilege or immunity claimed to
be denied by the state court be raised in the state court by
pointing out the particular section of the Constitution claimed
to be violated, or that it be set up by any particular form of
words, but the requirement of the statute is complied with if
the record shows that the attention of the state court was called
to the right, title, privilege or immunity claimed. Green Bay
Canal Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58, 68; Dewey v. Des
Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 199; San Jose Land & Water Co. v. Ranch
Co., 189 U.S. 175; 180; Williams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176; Harris
v. Dennie, 3 Pet. 292; Eureka Canal Co. v. Yuba Co., 116 U. S.
410.
. The Federal rights, titles, privileges and immunitie claimed
by plaintiff in error herein and denied by the judgment of the
Supreme Curt of Missouri ousting it of all of its franchises
for alleged nonuse, were specially and specifically set up,
claimed, and called to the attention of the state court on the
motion for rehearing, and it was on the points raised on such
motion that this cause was last submitted and was finally
considered and decided by the court.
Federal questions raised in a motion for rehearing are not
raised too late if the state court sustains said motion, or con-

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
210 U.S.

.331

Argumnent for Defendant in Error.

siders the Federal questions therein presented. Mallett v.
North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589, 592; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, 308.
The constitutional rights, priN;ileges and immunities set up
by plaintiff in error in its motion for a rehearing filed after the
entry of the first judgment of ouster were necessarily denied
by the Supreme Court of.Missouri in its final judgment ousting
plaintiff in error of its corporate existence because of an alleged
nonuser of certain of its corporate franchises. Detroit &c. Ry.
Co. v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383; Kaukauna W. P. Co. v. Green Bay
& Miss. Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254.
Mr. John Kennish, with whom Mr. Herbert S. Hadley, Attorney General of the State of Missouri, was on the brief, for
defendant in error:
Questions relating to matters of pleading and practice under
the laws of the State involve no Federal question. Taylor on
Juris. & Proc. of the U. S. Supreme Court, p. 393; Vista County
v. Iowa Falls & S. C. R. Co., 112 U. S. 177; IowaC. R. Co. v.
Iowa, 160 U. S. 394; Nat. F'dry Co. v. Oconto Water Supply Co.,
183 U. S. 216.
The Supreme Court cannot review the decision of the state
court resting upon the defense of estoppel. Taylor, supra, 404;
Michigan v. Flint & Pere Marquetie R. R. Co., 152 U. S. 363;
Sherman v. Grinell, 144 U. S. 198; Israel v. Arthur, 152 U. S.
355; Weyerhaueser v. Minn., 176 U. S. 550.
In the first motion for a rehearing but two of
the grounds
thereof sought to raise a Federal question as to the charge of
nonuser of franchises. In the first ground it was claimed that
the judgment of the court was cruel and unusual punishment
and violative of the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States; and in. the third ground of said motion
it was claimed that the judgment adjudges the respondent
guilty without a hearing, thereby also violating the Fourteenth
Amendment'
The first ten Amendments to the Federal Constitution con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

tained no restrictions of the powers of the State, but were
intended to operate solely on the Federal Government. Brown
v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243;
Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410; Twitchell v. Commonwealth, 7 Wall,
321; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552; Spies v.
Illinois, 123 U. S. 131; Davis v. Texas, 139 U. S. 651.

Parties having been fully heard in the regular course of
judicial proceedings, an erroneous decision of the state court
does not deprive the unsuccessful party of his property without
due process of law. Taylor, supra, 412; Central Land Co. v.
Laidley, 150 U. S. 112; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Head
v. Amoskeag Co., 113 U. S. 9; Morley v. Lake Shore R. R., 146
U. S. 162; Bergman v. Becker, 157 U. S. 655.
When a constitutional right is asserted in a state court without stating whether such right is claimed under the state or
Federal Constitution, and which could have been claimed under
either, the presumption is that the right was asserted under
the state constitution. Porter v. Foeley, 24 How. 420; Jacobi
v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 133; Miller v. Cornwall R. R. Co., 168
U. S. 131; Kansas Association v. Kansas, 120 U. S. 103; Kipley
v. Illinois, 170 U. S. 182; New York Central R. R. Co. v. New
York, 186 U. S. 269.
A Federal question is raised too late when suggested for the
first time in the petition for rehearing after judgment in the
highest court of the State where such petition is denied without
opinion. Taylor, supra, 448; Bushnell v. Crooke Mining &
Smelting Co., 148 U. S. 273; Turner v. Richardson, 180 U. S. 87;
Scudder v. Coler, 175 U. S. 33.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Soon after the filing of the record in this court the Attorney
General of Missouri submitted a motion to dismiss the writ of
error or to affirm, and the determination of the motion was postponed until the hearing on the merits. The cause having been

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
210 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

argued, the motion to dismiss or affirm must now be disposed
of.
We are of opinion that the record does not present any
Federal question and that the motion to dismiss must be
granted.
The Supreme Court of Missouri, in the opinion delivered by
it on the rehearing, considered three propositions: First, the
effect of the general denial contained in the first paragraph and
the plea embodied in the second numbered paragraph of the
answer; second, upon what grounds a forfeiture of a corporate
franchise might be declared; and, third, whether or not, in addition to ousting the corporation from its franchises, the court
could and should "appropriate a part of its substance to the
use and benefit of the State." These propositions were determined after an elaborate consideration of the subject and a
review of many authorities. It was decided that the plea following the general denial in the answer amounted to a plea of
confession and avoidance; that in consequence the general
denial first pleaded raised no issue, and hence "the motion for
judgment upon the ground of nonuser should be sustained."
It was next determined, after declaring that it was the duty of
the court to act with great cautio a in decreeing a forfeiture,
that forfeiture of the corporate franchises might be declared
"where there is either willful misuse or willful nonuse of the
franchise and franchises, which are of the essence of the contract with the State, and those in which the State or public is
most interested, then a forfeiture of the whole charter should
be and will be declared. When a corporation receives from
the State a charter granting certain franchises or rights, there
is at least an implied or tacit agreement that it will use the
franchises thus granted; that it will use no others, and that it
will not misuse those granted. A failure in any substantial
particular entitled the State to come in and claim her own,
/ the rights theretofore granted, and this through a judgment of
forfeiture in a proceeding like the one at bar." On this branch
of the case the court concluded as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

"The right to construct and maintain suitable fair grounds
in the city and county of St. Louis, and to give exhibitions of
agricultural products thereat, is one of the essence of this
contract between the State and the respondent. It was and
is the franchises in the exercise of which the State and general
public have the most interest and concern. A failure to exercise
this franchise was a failure to perform the very thing which was
of the essence of the contract. That this failure was willful is
shown by the length of time of the admitted nonuser as well as
by other things made apparent by the pleadings. So far as the
State and general public are concerned this right or franchise,
so long neglected, was leading and uppermost in interest.
No legal excuse is offered for respondent's failure. It would
appear, at least by inferences deducible from the pleadings,
that respondent was alert in promoting that incidental feature
of its charter, gambling upon horse races, and furnishing its
gamblers with refreshments, both liquid and solid, but extremely indifferent as to doing the things, moral in character,
which it had, by receiving its charter, tacitly agreed to do, and
the only things in which the State and the public had any
special interest.
"Such a flagrant and willful nonuser of franchises, which are
of the very essence of the grant, demand, in our judgment, the
forfeiture of all the rights and franchises granted, and we
therefore hold that there shall be a judgment decreeing a forfeiture of all the rights and franchises granted to respondent
by its charter and a dissolution of said corporation."
As to the third proposition, the court was of opinion that no
further fine or punishment than that of ouster should be inflicted.
In substance the contention of plaintiff in error is that the
plea, contained in the second paragraph of the answer, merely
presented a question of estoppel, which did not waive the prior
general denial, and that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Missouri destroyed, "without a trial or a hearing and by an
unequal and ,uinjust enforcement of the law, vested property.

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
210 U. S.-

Opinion of the Court.

rights both of plaintiff in error and its stockholders, in the face
of Federal immunities, which the record shows to have been
specially set up and claimed." In effect this is but asserting
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri was so
plainly arbitrary and contrary to law as to be an act of mere
spoliation. But we fail to perceive the slightest semblance of
ground for such a contention. In determining the scope and
effect of the allegations of the answer and in reaching the conclusion that the charges of nonuser contained in the information stood as confessed under the pleadings, the Supreme Court
of Missouri followed its conception of the rules of pleading, as
expounded in many of the previous decisions of that court, and
the question of the extent of the power to take from the corporation its charter grant of franchises was determined as a question
of general law. The determination of those matters did not
involve a Federal question. San Franciscov. Itsell, 133 U. S.
65. Manifestly, the proceeding constituted due process. Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692 ;.New Orleans Waterworks v. Louisiana (where the subject of the power of a State to forfeit corporate franchises is considered), 185 U. S. 336, 344. And if
the fact was, which we do not intimate is the case, that the court
below erred in the conclusions reached by it in respect to the
propositions which it determined, the error would not afford a
basis for reviewing its judgments in this court. Central Land
Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 112, and cases cited; Ballard v.
Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, 259; Patterson v. Colorado, 205 U. S. 460.
The asserted Federal questions were so plainly devoid of merit
as not to constitute a basis for the writ of error (Wilson v. North
Carolina,169 U. S. 586, 595), and the writ of error is, therefore,
Dismissed.

