ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 21
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

of the carrier, in case of necessity, especially in order that it
might carry on the operations of its road, to resort to such other
reasonably direct route as was available under existing conditions to carry freight of this character to destination. By
the admiralty law, a departure from the regular course of a
shipment when done under the usage of trade is no deviation.
Hostetter v. Park, 137 U. S. 31, 40. So, also, in Constable v.
National S. S. Co., 154 U. S. 52, it was said: "In the law maritime a deviation is defined as a 'voluntary departure without
necessity or any reasonable cause, from the regular and usual
course of the ship insured.' " As we think the undisputed
proof to which we have referred not only established the existence of the necessity for the change' of route, but also, beyond dispute, demonstrated that there was an entire absence
of all negligence in selecting that route, we are clearly of opinion
that no liability was entailed simply by reason of the change,
even if that change could in law be treated as a concurring and
proximate cause of the damages which subsequently resulted.
Affirmed.

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS & MANITOBA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. DONOHUE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 440.

Submitted January 10, 1908.-Decided May 4, 1908.

A homesteader who initiates a right to either surveyed or unsurveyed land
and complies with the legal-requirements may, when he enters the land,
embrace in his claim land in contiguous quarter-sections if he does not
exceed the quantity allowed by law and provided that his'improvements
are upon some portion of the tract, and that he does such acts as put the
public upon notice as to the extent of his claim. Ferguson v. McLaughlin,
96 U. S. 174, distinguished.
Under the land grant act of August 5, 1892, 27 Stat. 390, chap. 382, the
right of the railway company to select indemnity lands, non-mineral and
not reserved and to which no adverse right or claim had attached or been
initiated, does not include land which had been entered in good faith by
a homesteader at the time of the supplementary selection, and on a re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S.

linquishment being properly filed by the homesteader the land becomes
open to settlement and the railway company is not entitled to the land
under a selection filed prior to such relinquishment.
101 Minnesota, 239, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas R. Benton for plaintiff in error:
The right of Hickey under the homestead laws had not attached or been initiated to the land in controversy prior to
and at the time of the selection of the land by the railway
company under the act of August 5, 1892.
Hickey never in fact settled or resided upon, occupied or
improved, or in any manner indicated an intention to claim
the land in controversy under the homestead law, or otherwise,
prior to the selection thereof by the railway company.
Hickey's settlement, improvement and occupation of lot 15
of section 4, was not a settlement, improvement or occupation
of the land in dispute and was not a bar to the railway company's selection of the latter.
A settlement upon any part of a quarter-section is in legal
effect a settlement upon that entire quarter section, Quinby v.
Conlan, 104 U. S. 420, but a settlement on part of one quarter
section is not in legal effect a settlement upon another quarter
section or another section. Ferguson v. McLaughlin, 96 U. S:
174; Reynolds v. Cole, 5 L. D. 556; Brown v. Cent. Pac. R. R.
Co., 6 L. D. 151; U. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Simmons, 6 L. D. 172;
Hernsworth v. Holland, 7 L. D. 76; Pooler v. Johnson, 13 L. D.
134; Staples v. Richardson, 16 L. D. 248; Peasley v. Whitney,
18 L. D. 356; Perryv. Haskins, 23 L. D. 50; Kenny v. Johnson,
25 L. D. 394.
Hickey's homestead claim was not presented to the district
land officers until after the allowance of the railway selection.
It was subsequently relinquished and canceled and was not,
therefore, a bar to the railway selection. NorthernPacific R. R.
Co. v. Dean, 27 L. D. 462; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Fly, 27
L. D. 464; Oregon &c. R. R. Co. v. United States, 190 U. S. 186;
Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 23
210 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The entry of the land in controversy by Hickey's heirs was
never completed and did not operate to cancel the railway
company's selection. Whitney V. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85; Norton
v. Evans, 82 Fed. Rep. 804; Wagstaff v. Collins, 97 Fed. Rep. 5.
The allowance of the Hickey homestead entry by the district
land officers did not operate to cancel the railway company's
selection which was still pending. Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Reed, 27 L. D. 651, cited by the court below, discussed and
distinguished.
The abandonment and relinquishment of the Hickey homestead entry did not restore the land in controversy to the public domain and open it to entry by defendant in error under
the timber and stone land law. The railway selection was
pending and undetermined at the time of the relinquishment
and cancellation of the Hickey entry. The land was not, therefore, open to entry by the defendant in error. New Orleans v.
Payne, 147 U. S. 261, 266.
Mr. John R. Donohue, defendant in error, pro se:
The right of Hickey under the homestead laws of the United
States had attached and was initiated to the land in controversy prior to and at the time of the attempted selection of said
land by the railway company under the act of August 5, 1892.
The question of Hickey's settlement and occupation was at
issue in the Land Department, and was by it found in favor
of Hickey; giving to this the most favorable construction possible for the railway company, it was at best a mixed finding of
fact and law, and as such was conclusive and controlling upon
the court. Gertgens v. O'Connor, 191 U. S. 237; Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Carr v.
File, 156 U. S. 494; Stewart v. McHarry, 159 U. S. 643; Aurora
Hill Con. Co. v. Mining Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 515; Jefferson v.
Hun, 11 Pac. Rep. 351; Calhounv. Violet, 47 Pac. Rep. 179.
By reason of Hickey's settlement and the completion of
entry by him and his heirs, the land in controversy was segregated from the mass of public land, and was not open for selec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

tion by the railway company, and upon subsequent relinquishment filed, did not inure to the benefit of the railway company,
but reverted to the government as public lands open for entry.
Kansas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; H. & D.
Ry. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357; Wilcox v. Jackson, 3 Peters,
498; Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4
Wall. 210; United States v. Turner, 54 Fed. Rep. 228; Fish v.
N. P. Ry. Co., 23 L. D. 15.
The doctrine that a"tract of land lawfully appropriated becomes thereafter severed from the mass of public lands, and if
relinquished or abandoned reverts to the government, applies
as well to indemnity lands as it does to granted lands. See
Nelson v. Nor. Pac. Ry., 188 U. S. 108; Oregon Ry. v. United
States, 189 U. S. 103; DeLacy v. Nor. Pac. Ry., 72 Fed. Rep. 726;
Fish v. Nor. Pac. Ry., 23 L. D. 15; Northern Pacific Ry. v.
Loomis, 21 L. D. 398; St. P. & Omaha Case, 21 L. D. 423; I. &
D. Ry. v. Christianson, 22 L. D. 257; State of California v. So.
Pac. Ry., 27 L. D. 542; Prince Inv. Co. v. Eheim, 55 Minnesot,,
36; St. Paul & Sioux CiblI R. Co. v. ; 7ard, 47 Minnesota, 40.
The status of the railway company having been fixed and
established at the time of its attempted selection, the lands
were not affected by such selections because having been previously segregated, the effect of the relinquishment was not
to revive or make valid any claim under the original attempted selection, but upon such relinquishment being filed
the land became restored to the great mass of public land and
was subject to entry from that time, unaffected by the previous
attempted selection by the railway company. H. & D. Ry. v.
Whitney, 132 U. S. 357; Kansas Pac. Ry. v. Dunmeyer, 113
U. S. 629; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wallace, 72; United States
v. Turner, 54 Fed. Rep. 328; Perkins v. Cent. Pac. Ry., 11 L. D.
357; 31., K. & T. Ry. v. Troxei, 17 L. D. 122.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Jerry iickey, having the legal qualifications, in March, 1893,

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY CO. v. DONOHUE.
210 U. S.

25

Opinion of the Court.

settled upon unsurveyed public land of the United States,
situated in the Duluth land district, Minnesota, The land was
within the territory in which plaintiff in error, hereafter called
the railway company, was entitled to make indemnity selections. This right, however, was limited to land as to which, at
the time, "no right or claim had attached or been initiated"
in favor of another. Act of August 5, 1892, c.382, 27 Stat. 390.
In the land office of the district aforesaid, two years and eight
months after the settlement by Hickey, that is, in December,
1895, the railway company made indemnity selections, embracing not only the land upon which Hickey- had built his
residence, but all the unsurveyed land contiguous thereto,
which under any contingency could have been acquired by
Hickey in virtue of his settlement. Seven months after-on
July 22, 1896-thc official plat of survey of the township in
which the lands were situated was filed. On that day Hickey
made application to enter the tract, under the homestead laws.
This application embraced five contiguous lots, located, however, in different quarter-sections, viz., one lot (No. 12) in section 3, and four lots (Nos. 9, 10, 14 and 15) in section 4. The
whole five lots contained in all about one hundred and sixty
acres, because lots 14 and 15 were fractional. The improvements made by Hickey were on lot 15.
On the day Hickey filed his application the railway company
presented a supplementary list of its selections, conforming
them to the survey of the township. Because of the conflict
between the claim of Hickey and that of the railway company,
a contest ensued. It is unnecessary to recite the vicissitudes
of the controversy, the death of Hickey pending the contest,
the substitution of his mother as " sole heir, and the proceedings by which the claim of the railway company came to be
limited to the lots outside of the fractional quarter-section on
which the improvements of Hickey had been made. Suffice
it to say that ultimately the Secretary bf the Interior decided
in favor of the Hickey claim. It was held that the effect of
the settlement was to initiate a homestead r'ight as to all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

land claimed in the application to enter, and therefore under
the terms of its grant the railway company was precluded from
making a selection of the lands in dispute. In reaching this
conclusion the Secretary found as a fact that in making his
homestead settlement Hickey had plainly manifested. his intention to embrace within his homestead the land which he
subsequently sought to enter, in such manner as to cause it to
be well known to all in the community, as early as 1893, the
year of the settlement, what were the boundaries of the tract
for which he intended to obtain a patent. 32 Land Dec. 8.
In consequence of this final decision the mother of Hickey
made a homestead entry for the five lots. Subsequently, in
the Cass Lake land district, Minnesota, to which the land had
been transferred, the mother of Hickey filed in the local land
office a relinquishment of her claim to the entire tract. Simultaneously, Donohue, the defendant in error, filed an application
to enter the land under the timber and stone act, and his claim
was allowed. The railway company, however, contested, as
to the lots other than 14 and 15 in section 4, on the ground that
the effect of the relinquishment by the heir of Hickey was to
cause the selections which had formerly been rejected to become
operative- as against the entry of Donohue as to the land outside of the quarter-section on which the improvements of
Hickey had been constructed. The contest thus created was
finally decided by the Secretary of the Interior in favor of the
railway company, and a patent issued to it for the lots in dispute. This proceeding was then commenced in the courts of
Minnesota by Donohue to hold the railway company liable
as his trustee, upon the ground of error in law committed by
the Secretary of the Interior in refusing to sustain his entry.
The court below decided in favor of Donohue. 101 Minnesota,
239. Upon this writ of error the correctness of its action is the
question for decision.
The errors assigned and the arguments at bar rest upon two
contentions: First. That the original decision of the Secretary
of the Interior in favor of the Hickey homestead entry was

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 27
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wrong as a matter of law, because Hickey by his settlement had
power to initiate a claim to land only in the fractional quartersection within which his improvements had been placed, and,
therefore, that all the other lands outside of such quarter-section, although embraced in the application for entry, were sub ject to selection by the railway company, because unappropriated public land of the United States, against which no claim
had been initiated. Second. Because even if the decision of
the Land Department in favor of the Hickey application was
not erroneous as a matter of law the court below erred in not
giving effect to the ruling of the department in favor of the railroad company and against the Donohue entry.
To dispose of the first contention requires us to take into view
the legislation concerning the right to acquire public lands by
pre mptors and homesteaders.
The act of September 4, 1841, c. 25, 5 Stat. 455, together
with the supplemental act of March 3, 1843, c. 85, 5 Stat. 619,
superseded all earlier statutes, and were the basis of the preemption laws in force on the repeal of those laws in 1891. The act
of September 4, 1841, was entitled "An act to appropriate the
proceeds of the sale of the public lands, and to grant preemption
rights," and §§ 10-15 dealt with the subject of preemption.
By § 10 it was provided that one wh6 possessed certain qualifiations and made settlement in person upon surveyed public
lands subject to be so settled, and who should inhabit and improve the same, and who had or should erect a dwelling thereon,
might enter with the register of the land office for the district
in which such land might lie, "by legal subdivisions, any number of acres not exceeding one hundred' and sixty, or a quarter
section of land, to include the residence of such claimant, upon
paying to the United States the minimum price of such land,
. . ." This provision of the statute of 1841 was substantially
reenacted in § 2259 of the Revised Statutes. Under the law
of 1841 claims to public land might be initiated, prior to record
notice, by settlement upon surveyed land subject to private
entry, thirty days being allowed the settler within which to

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

file his declaratory statement with the register of the proper
district. Act of September 4, 1S41, c. 16, s. 15, 5 St. 457, Rev.
Stat. §2264. Subsequently, where the land settled upon had
not been proclaimed for sale the settler was allowed three
months in which to file his claim. Act of March 3, 1843, c. 86,
s. 5, 5 Stat. 620, Rev. Stat. 2265.
It was not, however, until 1862, that premptions were
allowed, under proper restrictions, on the unsurveyed public
lands generally. Act of June 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 418. By § 7
of that act the settler on unsurveyed lands was not required to
make his declaratory statement until three months from the
date of the receipt at the district land office of the approved
plat of the township embracing his premption settlement.
From the beginning the Land Department has construed the
preemption laws as conferring an alternative right either to
select a regular quarter-section of 160 acres or the same quantity of land embraced in two.or more contiguous legal subdivisions, although in different quarter sections. See circular of
September 15, 1841 (1 Lester Land Laws, p. 362). The practice of the Land Office is illustrated in a case passed upon by
the Attorney General in 1871. Copp, Land Laws, p. 309.
One Shaw filed a declaratory statement embracing tracts
situated not alone in different quarter-sections, but in different
townships, and aggregating more than 195 acres. From a
ruling of the commissioner requiring the preemptor to select
which of the legal subdivisions he would omit from his entry
so as to include his principal improvements, preserve the contiguity of the land remaining and approximate to 160 acres,
Shaw appealed, and the Secretary of the Interior requested the
advice of the Attorney General. In recommending that the
decision of the commissioner be affirmed, after calling attention
to the fact that the technical quarter-section, through the unavoidable inaccuracy of surveys in adjusting meridians, etc.,
often exceeded or fell below 160 acres, it was said:
"The premption settler has the right under the act of 1841
to enter either one hundred and sixty acres in legal subdivisions

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 29
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lying contiguous to each other without reference to the quartersection lines, or he has the right to enter a quarter-section as
such, in which case he can take the amount of land contained
therein as shown by the official survey. In entering a 'quartersection,' he cannot, of course, depart from the ascertained
lines, but must take one hundred and sixty acres or less, as the
case may be.
"In the case under consideration, Shaw claims by legal subdivision, but not according to the lines of a quarter-section.
Part of the land is in one township, in sec. 2, and part in another township, in sec. 35. He should be allowed to enter any
number of the legal subdivisions contiguous to each other and
including his dwelling so that the whole shall not in amount
exceed one hundred and sixty acres, but he cannot under the
act take more than that amount because the land claimed does
not constitute what is legally known as a 'quarter section.' "
On May 15, 1874, the right of a qualified preemptor to locate a preemption claim upon land lying in two adjoining townships was expressly recognized in Preemption claim of William
McHenry, Copp, Land Laws, p. 295. And these principles, as
will hereafter be seen, governed equally as to settlements on
unsurveyed as on surveyed land.
The homestead law was enacted on May 20, 1862, c. 75, 12
Stat. 392. By that act, differing from the preemption law, the
rights of the settler only attached to the land from the date of
the entry in the proper land office. Maddox v. Burnham, 156
U. S. 544, 546. The text of that act, afterwards embodied in
Rev. Stat. §§ 2289 et seq., makes it obvious that it was contemplated that as under the settled rule applied in the enforcement
of the preemption laws the homesteader was not to be confined
to a particular regular quarter-section tract in order that he
might receive 160 acres, but was authorized to make up the
allotted quantity by joining contiguous legal subdivisions.
This is further illustrated by the text of § 2306, Rev. Stat.,
which provides that every person entitled to .enter a soldier's
and sailor's homestead, who had previously entered, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

homestead laws, a quantity of land less than one hundred and
sixty acres, was authorized "to enter so much land as, when
added to the quantity previously entered, should not exceed
one hundred and sixty acres."
It was not until May 14, 1880 (e. 89, 21 Stat. 141), that a
homestead entry was permitted to be made upon unsurveyed
public land. The statute which operated this important change
moreover modified the homestead law in an important particular. Thus, for the first time, both as to the surveyed and unsurveyed public lands, the right of the homestead settler was
allowed to be initiated by and to arise from the act of settlement, and not from the record of the claim made in the Land
Office. These results arose from § 3 of the act, reading as follows:
"SEc. 3. That any settler who has settled, or who shall hereafter settle, on any of the public lands of the United States,
whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with the intention of claiming
the same under the homestead laws, shall be allowed the same
time to file his homestead application and perfect his original
entry in the United States land office as is now allowed to settlers under the preemption laws to put their claims on record,
and his right shall relate back to the date of settlement the same
as if he settled under the preemption laws."
See Maddox v. Burnham, supra
It cannot be doubted that at the inception the Land Office
considered that under the homestead law a settler was entitled
to take his 160 acres not alone from a regular quarter-section,
but to make up, as was the case under the preemption law,
the quantity allowed by law, by taking adjoining and contiguous legal subdivisions, and that such has continued to be the
rule by which the statute has been enforced to this time, both
as respects settlements upon unsurveyed as well as surveyed
lands. See circular October 30, 1862 (2 Lester, p. 248); departmental instructions as to entries on public lands, contained in
bound volumes published in 1899 and 1904; circular August 4,
1906, 35 L. D. pp. 187-200.

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 31
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Both under the preemption law and under the homestead
law, after the act of 1880, the rights of the settler were initiated
by settlement. In general terms it may be said that the preemption laws (Rev. Stat. §§ 2257-2288), as a condition to an
entry of public lands, merely required that the appropriation
should have been for the exclusive use of the settler, that he
should erect a dwelling house on the land, reside upon the tract,
and improve the same. By the homestead law residence upon
and cultivation of the land was required. Under neither law
was there a specific requirement as to when the improvement
of the land should be commenced or as to the nature and extent
of such improvement, nor was there any requirement that the
land selected should be inclosed.
As under both the pre~mption and homestead laws, whether
the settlement was made upon surveyed or unsurveyed land,
the law did not make it necessary to file or record a claim in respect to the land until a considerable period of time had elapsed
after the initiation of the right by settlement, it necessarily
came to pass that controversies arose, from rights asserted by
others to land upon which a settlement had been made, but as
to which no exact specification appeared upon the records
of the Land Office of the location and extent of the land claimed.
In the administration of the land laws, in the endeavor to protect the rights of third parties acting in good faith, and at the
same time to give effect to the rights arising from a settlement
and the relation back of the claim when filed to its initiation
by settlement, the decisions of the Land Office, while consistent
in the interpretation of the statutes, perhaps present, from
the nature of the subject, some lack of precision in the appreciation of the facts involved in particular cases. It is certain,
however, that, viewing comprehensiyely the rulings of the Land
Department, the subject has been considered in two aspectsfirst, the sufficiency of acts done by a settler upon or after
initiating a claim to give notice of the extent of his claim to
another settler; and, second; the sufficiency of like acts to entitle
to a patent for the land as against the Government. In both

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U.S.

of the classes it is undoubted that the administrative rule has
been, as to surveyed and unsurveyed lands, that the notice
effected solely by improvements upon the land is confined to
land within the particular quarter-section on which the improvements are situated. 5 L. D. 141. And this ruling was
predicated upon the assumed import of the decision in Quinby
v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420.
In the first class of cases, however, that is, in contests between settlers, where the claim of the first settler embraced
not only land within the legal subdivision on which the improvements had been placed, but contiguous land lying in
another quarter-section, the ruling has ever been that any conduct of the first settler adequate to convey actual or constructive notice to a subsequent settler that the claim had been
initiated not only to the land upon which the improvements
were situated but as to contiguous land, even though in another
quarter-section, sufficed to preserve the rights of the first settler.
The scope of the rulings on this subject is illustrated by a decision of the Secretary of the Interior made in 1893, in Sweet v.
Doyle, 17 L. D. 197. In that case the Secretary maintained the
homestead right of Sweet to land lying in different sections.
In doing so, reviewing previous decisions, attention was called
to the fact that it had been ruled that the original settler might
defeat an attempted settlement by another before the time
when record notice was required, in any of the following modes:
1, as to a technical quarter-section by the settlement upon and
placing of improvements thereon; 2, as to all of a tract, although
lying in different quarter-sections, by improvements on each
subdivision of the land outside of the quarter-section on which
he had settled; 3, by actual notice to an intruder of the extent
of the settlement claim. Two cases decided in 1887 (Brown v.
Central Pacific R. R.Co., 6 L. D. 151, and Union Pacific R. R.
Co. v. Simmons, 6 L. D. 172) illustrate the recognition by the
Land Department of a right in a qualified preemptor to settle
upon unsurveyed land, although lying in more than one quartersection.

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 33
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As to the second aspect, that is, the nature and character of
the acts of the settler essential to initiate and preserve a claim
to land as against the Government, the rulings of the Land
Department have been liberal towards the settler, and his good
faith and honest purpose to comply with the demands of -the
statute have primarily been considered, thus carrying out the
injunction, of this court in Tarpey v. Madsen, 178 U. S. 220,
and cases there cited, to the effect that regard should be had
in passing on the rights of settlers to the fact that "the law
deals tenderly with one who, in good faith, goes, upon the public
lands with the view of making a home thereon." The general
course of the Land Department on the subject is illustrated by
two decisions, Findley v. Ford, 11 L. D. 173, and Holman v.
Hickerson, 17 L D. 200.
As a result of this review of the legislation concerning preemptions and homesteads and of the settled interpretation
continuously given to the same, we think there is no merit
in the proposition that a homesteader who initiates a right as
to either surveyed or unsurveyed land, and complies with the
legal regulations, may not, when he enters the land, embrace
in his claim land in contiguous quarter-sections, if he does not
exceed the quantity allowed by law, and provided that his
improvements are upon some portion of the tract and that he
does such acts as put the public upon notice of the extent of
his claim
Conclusive as is the text of the statutes and the long-continued administrative construction which has enforced them,
it is nevertheless insisted that a contrary rule must be applied
because of the decision in Ferguson v. McLaughlin, 96 U. S.
174. That case concerned a special act applicable alone to
California, giving a right to preempt unsurveyed lands, and
the special act governed the rights of the settler by the general
rules controlling under the preemption law -of 1841, which,
it is insisted, by the act of 1880 is made determinative of the
right of a homesteader in respect to a settlement on unsurveyed
land. The argument rests upon a misconception of the effect
VOL. CcX-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

of the decision in the cited case, or in any event assumes that
expressions found in the opinion must be now held to govern
a question not arising on the record in that case.
Without going into great detail, the material facts of the case,
as shown by the file record and the statement of facts contained
in the opinion, were these: Two persons settled on two distinct
and separate but contiguous parcels of unsurveyed public land.
Ferguson bought the rights of both these parties. On one of
the tracts there was a dwelling and other valuable improvements, and Ferguson resided on that tract and cultivated and
pastured both tracts. In March, 1866, by virtue of an act of
the legislature of California, extending the limits of the town
of Santa Clara, the parcel upon which was situated the residence of Ferguson, the po.ssessory right to which had been acquired by him, came to be included within the limits of the town
of Santa Clara. By a plat of the United States survey, filed on
May 19, 1866, it was shown that the tract, the possessory right
to which had been acquired by Ferguson, and which was outside of the corporation limits of the town referred to, lay in
township 6. Thereafter Ferguson filed his declaratory statement, claiming the right to enter this parcel under the. preemption laws. Subsequently, in October, 1866, the United
States plat of survey of township 7, which embraced the town
of Santa Clara, and therefore the residence tract of Ferguson,
was filed. Ferguson then sought to amend his former declaratory statement so as to embrace the parcel of land situated
in the town of Santa Clara, in township 7, upon which his
residence and other improvements stood. The register and
receiver, however, refused to allow this to be done, and required
Ferguson to make a separate declaratory statement for that
parcel. Subsequently, in virtue of a provision of an act of
Congress, Ferguson, as the possessor of the lot and improvements referred to as situated in township 7, became the owner
of that parcel by deed from the town. A contest ensued in the
Land Office between Ferguson and a railway company claiming
by statutory grant, which contest related solely to a portion

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE.
210 U.S.

35

Opinion of the Court.

of the land in township 6 and upon which he filed his first declaratory statement. No controversy was had as to the land
included in the second declaratory statement, which related
to the land in the town of Santa Clara, because Ferguson had
acquired that land from the town in conformity to the act of
Congress. The local land officers decided that Ferguson was
not entitled to the land in township 6, which he claimed as a
preemptor, "upon the sole and exclusive ground" that his
dwelling was not upon the land so claimed. This action was
affirmed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office and
the Secretary of the Interior, it being further found that by
reason of sales of portions of the land after filing Ferguson
could not be regarded as a bona fide settler. A patent issued to
the railway company for the land which it claimed, and a
transferee of the company brought ejectment against Fergueon in a state court of California to obtain possession of the
land, and Ferguson, under the practice in California, by way of
cross complaint, challenged the legal correctness of the ruling of
the Land Department, and asserted that the railroad and its
transferee held the land as his trustee. The trial court, as did
the Supreme Court of California, sustained the correctness of
the ruling of the Land Department, and the case came to this
court. Here the action of the court below was affirmed, the
court, in its opinion, declaring that the ruling of the Land
Department, rejecting the claim because the residence of Ferguson was not on any part of the Congressional subdivision "to
which the land belonged," was not only correct, but was also
an expression of the well-established rule of the Land Department. True it is that in the course of the opinion expressions
were used which permit of the construction that it was in-bended
to be decided that a homestead settler could only acquire land
within a regular quarter-section, on which must be his improvements. But the decision must be confined to the question before the court, which was the right of a settler to claim a tract
of 160 acres of land under the homestead law, when on no part
of the land for which the patent was claimed had the improve-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

ments required by the statute been made. Not only the issues
in the case make this clear, but this also results from the statement of the court, that its conclusion was in accord with and
was intended to uphold and apply the rulings of the Land Department from the beginning. This must follow, because if
the language of the opinion relied upon in the argument were to
be given the meaning now attributed to it it would result that
the opinion, instead of giving sanction to and maintaining the
rulings of the Land Department, would have overthrown the
entire administrative' construction of the act enforced from
the beginning. For whilst it is true, as has been shown, that
the Land Department had always held that there must be compliance with the statutory requirements as to a dwelling and
improvements on the tract settled upon and claimed, those
rulings went pari passu with the consistent and settled rule by
which a settler was allowed to take the land which he claimed
from different quarter-sections if he had given adequate notice
of the extent of his claim both within and without the legal
subdivision in which his improvements were situated. And
this view of the true meaning of the decision in the Ferguson
case, irrespective of general expressions found in the opinion,
is fortified by the fact that, since that case was decided, in not
one of the rulings of the Land Department has the case been
referred to'as changing the settled rule then prevailing, and
which has been continued without interruption. Indeed, when
the settled construction of the Land Department is taken into
view and the unbroken application of that rule by it is borne
in mind, the conclusion necessarily follows that Congress in
enacting th6 act of 1880 clearly must have had in mind the settled rule of the Land Department which the Ferguson case declared the court affirmed.
If we could bring ourselves to disregard the settled administrative construction prevailing for so many years, impliedly,
if not expressly, recognized by Congress, and should look at
the subject as an original question, it cannot be doubted that
even upon the hypothesis that statements in the opinion in

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 37
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ferguson v. McLaughlin justify the assumption now based
upon them, such assumption would cause the decision in that
case, if applied to the issue here presented, to be destructive
of the rights of settlers to initiate claims, both as to surveyed
and unsurveyed land, prior to the time of making formal application to enter the land. This is said, because it is apparent
that the right given by the statute would be destroyed if it be
that a homesteader who settles upon surveyed land, and locates
his residence in an eligible situation upon a quarter-quartersection, relying upon fertile land, in other quarter-sections to
enable him to make his settlement fruitful, can, after having
given public manifestation of his intention as to the boundaries
of his claim, have all the land, except only the quarter-quartersection on which he resides, taken away from him by some one
else before the time arrives when by law the homesteader is
required to make application to enter. And the same thing is
more cogently true of unsurveyed land. No more apt illustration of the unjust result referred to could be given than is disclosed by this very case, for as we have said, the claim of Hickey
embraced among other land two lots forming a fractional quarter-section. This was occasioned by the existence of a body
of water which controlled the survey and caused the fractional
quarter-section, consisting solely of the two lots referred to.
It was upon this quarter-section, bordering upon the water,
that Hickey erected his dwelling. It is apparent that the right
given by statute would be unavailing if it were to be held that
Hickey had not the legal power to initiate any claim to the contiguous land, thus confining him to the fractional lots bounded
by the water, in effect cutting off the only land which could
possibly have made the settlement beneficial, although immediately on such settlement, as found by the Land Department,
Hickey had manifested to the whole community his purpose
to claim the land which he afterwards applied to enter, in order
to make up his 160 acres.
Concluding from the foregoing that the Land Department
was right in its original decision as to the right of Hickey to

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

enter the land as a homestead, we are brought to consider the
second proposition, that is, whether the department was right
in rejecting the timber entry of Donohue and awarding the
land to the railroad company. When that question is considered in its ultimate aspect it will be apparent not only that it
is related to the question of the validity of the settlement of
Hickey, but it necessarily follows that the validity of that
settlement in effect demonstrates the error of law committed
by the department in its ruling as to the Donohue entry.
The decision of the' Secretary of the Interior, which finally
sustained the application of Hickey, and directed that upon
the completion of the entry the selection of the railway company should be cancelled, was made on February 11, 1903.
Mrs. Hickey, as the heir of her son, completed the entry in June
following. About a month afterwards, however, she filed a
written relinquishment of the entry in the local land office, and
on the same day Donohue made a timber and stone application for the land and was allowed to enter the same. On report by the local land office of the relinquishment of Mrs.
Hickey, the General Land Office in February, 1904, accepted
the relinquishment and cancelled the homestead entry. At
the same time, however, the Commissioner instructed the local
land officers as follows:
"This releases from suspension the selection by the St. Paul,
Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway Company under act of
August 5, 1892, of lot 12, sec. 3, and lots 9 and 10, sec. 4lots 14 and 15 not appearing to be within the company's original
selection.
"You will inform Mrs. Hickey of the above action, and also
advise the company thereof, and that thirty days' preference
right will be allowed it in which to perfect its selection of said
lot 12, sec. 3, and lots 9 and 10, sec. 4, in accordance with its
Duluth list 7 (supplemental to list 5) filed July 22, 1896."
In March, 1904, the Commissioner, writing to the local land
officers in regard to a report by them of the allowance of Donohue's timber culture entry, said:

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 39
210 U. S.

.

Opinion of the Court.

"This entry should not have been allowed; the contest for
this land was between the railway company and the heirs of
Jerry Hickey; but before the final action on the case, and the
rejection of the company's application to select, the claim of
the heirs of Hickey was relinquished and their homestead
cancelled, which left the land subject to the application of
the company.
"You will, therefore, notify the company in accordance with
instructions of February 18, allowing it thirty days from notice
in which to perfect its selection.
"The entry of Donohue will be held suspended, subject to
the action of the company; and should it perfect the selection,
the entry will be held for cancellation."
The railway company perfected its selection of the lands in
controversy, and the "entry of Donohue was held for cancellation, subject to appeal." Donohue appealed; but in an opinion
dated December 16, 1904, the action of the Commissioner was
approved, and this decision was reaffirmed in an opinion dated
March 17, 1905, ruling adversely upon a motion to review. The
selection made by the railway company was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior, and a patent was issued for the land.
The Secretary of the Interior, in ruling upon the effect of
the relinquishment of Mrs. Hickey and in passing upon the
claim of Donohue proceeded upon the hypothesis that the controversy presented by the appeal of Donohue was really a prolongation or extension of the original contest, and that the relinquishment of Mrs. Hickey constituted an abandonment of
the homestead application, and, being made during the contest,
conclusively established that the settlement of Hickey was not
made in "good faith," and that such relinquishment operated
to make the settlement of Hickey inefficacious to initiate a claim
to the land, thereby validating the selection made by the railway company.
But the assumptions upon which these conclusions were
based clearly disregarded the fact of the long possession by
Hickey and his heir of the land during the pendency of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

contest and disregarded the previous and final ruling of the
Secretary, made in February, 1903, which maintained the
validity of the settlement of Hickey and decided that by such
settlement he had validly initiated a claim to the land. When
this is borne in mind it is clear that the ruling rejecting the
Donohue claim and maintaining the selection of the railway
company was erroneous as a matter of law, since by the terms of
the act of August 5, 1892, c. 382, 27 Stat. 390, the railway company was confined in its selection of indemnity lands to lands
non-mineral and not r'eserved, "and, to which no adverse right
or claim shall have attached or have been initiated at the time
of the making of such selection.

.

.

."

When the selection

and supplementary selection of the railway company was made
the land was segregated from the public domain and was not
subject to entry by the railroad company. Hastings & Dakota
Ry. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357; Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S.
85; Oregon & CaliforniaR. R. Co. v. United States, 190 U. S. 186.
Further, the decis.on refusing recognition to the Donohue
entry, and awarding the land to the railway company, disregarded the statutory right of Mrs. Hickey to relinquish and of
Donohue to make application for the land conferred by the

first section of the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat. 140,
reading as follows:
9
when a preLmption, homestead, or timber-culture
claimant shall file a written relinquishment of his claim in the
local land office, the land covered by such claim shall be held
as open to settlement and entry without further action on the
part of the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BREWER

MOODY

dissent.

and

MR. JUSTICE

