GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 217
210 U. S.

Syllabus.

The shares, with perhaps one exception, all were taken by subscribers ignorant of the facts, 5 Ch. D. 113, and the contract
seems to have reached forward to the moment when they
subscribed. As it is put in 2 Morawetz, Corp. (2d ed.) § 292,
there was really no company till the shares were issued. Here
thirteen-fifteenths of the stock had been taken by the syndicate, the corporation was in full life and had assented to the
sale with knowledge of the facts before an outsider joined.
There most of the syndicate were strangers to the corporation,
yet all were joined as defendants (p. 1222). Here the members of the syndicate, although members of the corporation,
are not joined, and it is sought to throw the burden of their
act upon a single one. Gluckstein v. Barnes [1900], A. C. 240,
certainly is no stronger for the plaintiff, and in Yeiser v. United
States Board & PaperCo., 107 Fed. Rep. 340, another case that
was relied upon, the transaction equally was carried through
after innocent subscribers had paid for stock.
Decree affirmed.

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUR'T OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 207.

Argued April 21. 22. 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The statute of Texas of April 17, 1905, c. 141, imposing a tax upon railroad
companies equal to one per cent of their gross receipts is, as to those companies whose receipts include 'receipts from interstate business, a burden
on interstate commerce and as such violative of the commerce clause of

the Federal Constitution. Philadelphia & Southern Mail S. S. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326 followed; Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway Co.,
142 U. S. 217, distinguished, and held that the latter case did not overrule
the former.
Neither the state courts nor the legislatures, by giving a tax a particular
name, or by the use of some form of words, can take away the duty of this
court to consider the nature and effect of a tax, and if it bears upon in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

210 U.S.

terstate commerce so directly as to amount to a regulaticn it cannot be
saved by name or form.
97 S. W. Rep. 71, reversed:

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts and Mr. Hiram M. Garwood, with whom
Mr. Robert S. Lovett was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The tax to be levied directly upon the receipts from interstate and foreign transportation is a regulation of interstate
and foreign commerce, contrary to the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution.
It cannot avail that the tax is arbitrarily declared an occupation tax. Constitutional limitations cannot be broken down
or circumvented by the form in which a thing is done or attempted. The judiciary will look through the form to the
substance and will invalidate any legislative act which in its
substance is a breach of constitutional right.
To tax the occupation of an importer is to tax the import.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419. To tax the income of
United States securities is to tax the securities themselves.
Western v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449. To tax an income from an
official position is to tax the office itself. Dobbins v. Erie
County Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435. To tax a bill of lading is
to tax the thing transported and the receipts therefrom.
Almy v. California, 24 How. 169. A tax upon interest is a
tax upon the bond. Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262. A
tax upon the auctioneer is a tax upon the goods sold. Cook v.
Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566. To tax the income of personal
property and the rental of lands is to tax the property from
which the income is derived. Pollock v. Farmers' Trust Co.,
157 U. S. 429. To compel the carrier to give information relative to an interstate transit is to burden and regulate interstate commerce. Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Murphey, 196
U. S. 194. In like manner to tax the receipts from interstate
commerce is to regulate that commerce itself. While at an
early stage of the decisions of this court it was thought that

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 219.
210 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States:
was concurrent with that of the State, it has become univer-sally accepted doctrine that the power of Congress to regulate
commerce among the States is exclusive. PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Telegraph Co. v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Pickard v. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34;
Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. S. 39; Ratterman v. W. U. Tel. Co., 127 U. S.
411; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; Postal
Tel. Co. v. Adams; 155 U. S. 698.
It is contended that the Steamship case is not strictly applicable becaase in that case all of the receipts were interstate
and foreign, while here, part of the receipts are domestic.
This variance in the facts does not affect the principle or the
result as a tax on interstate receipts cannot be sustained because the same tax is levied at the same time upon state receipts. State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wallace, 232; W. U. Tel.
Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Pickardv. Pullman Co., 117 U. S.
34; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S.. 477; Allen v. Pullman Co., 1.91 U. S. 171; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. .648;
Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Brenan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 132; Robbins v.Shelby
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v.
Sims, 191 U. S. 441; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 37.
If it should be held, however, that the tax here involved is
an occupation tax, there remain four propositions, three of
which at least must be decided against the contention of plaintiffs in error before this tax can be sustained.
1. An occupation, license, or privilege tax cannot be laid
on the occupation or business of engaging in interstate commerce, although at the same time such a tax be laid on the
same party engaged in intrastate commerce.
. 2. Assuming that the tax is imposed only on the intrastate
occupation, the same is invalid, because:
The State in levying a tax on a state occupation cannot base

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

210 U. S.

the same in whole or in part on the earnings of an interstate
occupation, as the State cannot, in arriving at the amount of
the tax, take as a basis those things which the State has no
power to tax, for this would accomplish indirectly what the
State may not do directly.
The assessment of the tax at a sum equal to one per cent of
the gross interstate earnings in effect is an impediment and
serious obstruction to, and therefore a burden upon interstate
commerce, as the carrier, in fixing his interstate rate, will
necessarily consider that from the earnings of every pound
earried, he must give to the State one per cent. If it be admitted that the State can so demand one per cent, it may demand any larger percentage, and under this form of taxation
the State may without practical limit, regulate the interstate
commerce even to the extent of suppressing the same.
3. Though a tax be levied on the state occupation, where
the, burden of the same will necessarily fall on the interstate
occupation and the party is not at liberty to decline the state
occupation, such a tax cannot stand.
4. The tax is laid on both the occupation of doing a state and
interstate business. There is no room left for construction
upon this proposition. Steamship Co. v. Port Wardens, 6 Wall.
31; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S& 281; Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 346; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27, 37;
Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 496; Corson v.
Maryland, 120 U. S. 502; Ratterman v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 127 U. S. 411; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S. 27;
Wabash Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557. Cases cited by defendant. in error, viz., Gross Receipts Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206;
Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217, discussed and
distinguished.
Mr. Robert Vance Davidson, Attorney General of the State
of Texas, and Mr. William Edward Hawkins, for defendant 'in
error:
The tax prescribed by chap. 141 of the acts of the twenty-

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 221
210 U.S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ninth legislature of Texas is an occupation tax. Maine v.
Grand Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217; State Railroad Tax Cases,
92 U. S. 603; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284; Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; Nathan v. Louisiana,
8 How. 73; Constitution of Texas, Art. 8, §§ 1, 2, 9 and 17;
State of Texas v. G., H.'& S. A. Ry. Co., 97 S. W. Rep. 71;
Albrecht v, State, 8 Texas App. 217; Languille v. State, 4 Texas
App. 322, and cases cited; State v. Stevens, 4 Texas, 137;
Aulanier v. Governor, 1 Texas, 664; State v. Bock, 9 Texas, 369;
Thompson v. State, 17 Texas App. 258; Texas Banking and
Ins. Co. v. State, 42 Texas, 637; Galveston County v. Gorham,
49 Texas, 289; Blessing v. Galveston, 42 Texas, .660; Fahey v.
State, 27 Texas App.. 161; Higgins. v. Rinker, 47 Texas, 396;
Pullman Co. v. State, 64 Texas, 274; Cumberland R. R. Co. v.
State, 52 L. R. A. 756; Capital City Water Co. v. Board of
Revenue, 107 Alabama, 303; Cooley on Taxation (3d od.), 1094
et seq.
An occupation tax is peculiar in its character. It is not a
tax upon property, but upon the pursuit which a man follows in
order to acquire property. Appeal of.Bangor, 109 Pa. St. 89.
A franchise is a particular privilege conferred by law, emanating from the sovereign power and vested in individuals, or a
corporation. Webster's International Dictionary; 3 Words
and Phrases, pp. 2929-2937.
A franchise to be a corporation is distinct from a franchise
acquired and exercised by a corporation, to ,own, maintain
and operate a railway. People v. Commissioners, 174 N. Y.
417.
Individuals, whether alone or when associated with others,
have an inherent right to pursue some lawful occupation, subject, however, to such taxes as the State may impose. But a
corporation is wholly a creature of the law in so far as its right
to exist is concerned. Such right of a mere existence is a
-primary franchise, vesting, as we have seen, in the individuals
who organize the corporation.
To the corporate entity so created the State grants the right

222"

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

210 U. S.,

which the individual, or the association of individuals, inherently enjoy;viz., the right to do business within the State,
or, in other words, to pursue a given occupation. Memphis &
Little Rock R. R. Co. v. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 609; Horn
Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 313; People v. State
Board, 174 N. Y. 417; Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Cowie, 31
Colorado, 450; 3 Words and Phrases, 2929-2937.
The legislature of Texas has a perfect right to require those
owning, operating, managing or controlling a railroad lying
in whole or in part, within this State, to pay, not only an ad
valorem tax, but also a tax for the privilege of the continued
exercise of their franchises to do business within this State.
The mileage basis of apportionment, as applied by the Texas
statuto to the gross receipts of lines of railroad lying partly
within and partly without the State of Texas, is constitutional,
valid and fair, and correctly and justly determines what proportion of the entire receipts of such line of railroad results
from business done within the State of Texas. Michigan Central Ry. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 288; Adams Express Co. v.
Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171, 180; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163
U. S. 1; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 552; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439; Central Pacific Ry.
Co. v. California, 162 U. S. 91; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry.,
142 U. S. 217; Pittsburg &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421;
Cooley on Taxation (3d cd.), 163, 164.
A statute may affect interstate commerce without amounting to a regulation thereof. McLean v. Denver & Rio Grande
R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 50; Ficklen v. Shelby Co., 145 U. S. 21;
Ouichita Packet Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S. 444; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 293; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99;
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
James, 162 U. S. 656.
The tax prescribed is not, in substance or effect, a tax, or
a
burden upon, or a regulation of interstate commerce. It is
not upon articles of or receipts from interstate commerce, and
such receipts are immaterial except in so far as they enter into

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 223
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and become a part of the measure by which the amount of the
tax is determined. Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.
217; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 387; Delaware
Ry. Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206; Erie Ry. Co. v. Pennslyvania, 21
Wall. 492; New York, Lake Erie & Western Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431; McHenry v. Alford, 168 U. S. 651;
State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575; Nathan v. Louisiana,
8 How. 73; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1; Horn Silver Mining
Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 315; New York State v. Roberts,
171 U. S. 664, and cases cited; Pacific Express Co. v. Siebert,
142 U. S. 350; Lacy v. Packing Co., 200 U. S. 226; Cumberland
Railroad Co. v. State, 52 L. R. A. 764.
The tax here levied is not "on" gross receipts, but "equal
to" a given percentage "calculated on the gross receipts."
Lord Eldon held: Where the salesman has an -amount of
money equal to one-tenth of the profits this gives him no action of account, and, therefore, he is not a partner; but where
he is to receive one-tenth of the profits, this gives him an action of account, and, therefore, makes him a partner. Parsons
on Contracts (8th ed.), 160, citing Lord Eldon.
The word "equal," as used in the statute, means "having
the same magnitude, the same value." Webster's International Dictionary.
"Equal" implies, not identity, but duality; the use of one
thing as the measure of another. It is so understood in the
plain language of the people. Little Rock & M. R. Co. v. St.
Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 59 Fed. Rep. 400; Kentucky & L
Bridgfe Co. v. Louisville & N. R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 624;
Little Rock & M. R. Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 63
Fed. Rep. 775.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action against certain railroads to recover taxes
and penalties. The Supreme Court of the State held the penal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

ties to be void under the state constitution, but upheld the tax.
97 S. W. Rep. 71. The railroads bring the case here mainly
on the ground that the law upon which the action is based is an
attempt to regulate commerce among the States.
The act in question is entitled "An Act imposing a tax upon
railroad corporations . . . and other
owning . . . or controlling any line of
State .
.
equal to one per cent. of
ceipts . . . and repealing the existing tax

persons
railroad in this
their gross reon the gross pas-

senger earnings of railroads." It proceeds in § 1 to impose upon
such railroads "an annual tax for the year 1905, and for each
calendar year thereafter, equal to one per centum of its gross receipts, if such line of railroad lies wholly within the State." In
§ 2 a report, under oath, of "the gross receipts of such line of
railroad, from every source whatever, for the year ending on
the thirtieth day of June last preceding," and immediate payment of the tax "calculated on the gross receipts so reported,"
are required. The comptroller is given power to call for other
reports, and is to "estimate such tax on the true gross receipts
thereby disclosed," -etc. The lines of the railroads concerned
are wholly within the State, but they connect with other lines,
and a part, in some instances much the larger part, of their
gross receipts is derived from the carriage of passengers and
freight coming from, or destined to, points without the State.
In view of this portion of their business, the railroads contend
that the case is governed by Philadelphia & Southern Mail
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326. The counsel for
the State rely upon Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.
217, and maintain, if necessary, that the later overrules the
earlier case.
In Philadelphia& Southern Mail S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S.326, it was decided that a tax upon the gross receipts
of a steamship corporation of the State, when such receipts
were derived from commerce between the'States and with
foreign countries, was unconstitutional. We regard this depipion ap unshaken and as stating established law. It cites

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 225
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the earlier cases to the same effect. Later ones are Ratterman
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. S. 39; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Seay, 132 U. S. 472. See also Pullman's Palace
Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 25; Ficklen v. Taxing
District of Shelby County, 145 U. S. 1, 22; New York, Lake
Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,158 U. S. 431, 438;
McHenry v. Alford, 168 U. S.651, 670, 671; Atlantic & Pacific
Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160, 162. In Maine
v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217, the authority of the
Philadelphia Steamship Company case was accepted without
question, and the decision was justified by the majority as not
in any way qualifying or impairing it. The validity of the distinction was what divided the court.
It being once admitted, as of course it must be, that not
every law that affects commerce among -the States is a regulation of it in a constitutional sense, nice distinctions are to be
expected. - Regulation and commerce among the States both
are practical rather than technical conceptions, and, naturally,
their limits must be fixed by practical lines. As the property
of companies engaged in such commerce may be taxed, Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, and may
be taxed at its value as it is, in its organic relations, and not
merely as a congeries of unrelated items, taxes on such property have been- sustained that took account of the augmentation of value from the commerce in which it was engaged;.
Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S.194; S. C.,
166 U. S. 171; Fargo v. Hat, 193 U. S. 490, 499. So it has been
held that a tax on the property and bhisiness of a railroad
operated within the State might be estimated prima facie by
gros.s income, computed by adding to the income derived from
business within the State the proportion of interstate business
equal to the proportion between the road over which the business was carried within the State to the total length of the road
over which it was carried. Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v.
Powers, 191 U.' S.379.
voL. ccx-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

Since the commercial value of property consists in the expectation of income from it, and since taxes ultimately, at least
in the long run, come out of income, obviously taxes called
taxes on property and those called taxes on income or receipts
tend to run into each other somewhat as fair value and anticipated profits run into each other in the law of damages. The
difficulty of distinguishing them became greater when it was
decided, not without much debate and difference of opinion,
that interstate carriers' property might be taxed as a going
concern. In Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, supra,
the measure of property by income purported only to be prima
facie valid. But the extreme case came earlier. In Maine v.
Grand.Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217, "an annual excise tax for
the privilege of exercising its franchise," was levied upon every
one operating a railroad in the State, fixed by percentages,
varying up to a certain limit, upon the average gross receipts
per mile multiplied by the number of miles within the State
when the road extended outside. This seems at first sight like
a reaction from the Philadelphia& Southern Mail Steamship
Company case. But it may not have been. The estimated
gross receipts per mile may be said to have been made a measure
of the value of the property per mile. That the effort of the
State was to reach that value and not to fasten on the receipts
from transportation as such was shown by the fact that the
scheme of the statute was to establish a system. The buildings
of the railroad and its lands and fixtures outside of its right of
way were t'o be taxed locally, as other property was taxed, and
this excise with the local tax were to be in lieu of all taxes.
The language shows that the local tax was not expected to include the additional value gained by the property being part of
a going concern. That idea came in later. The excise was an
attempt to reach that additional value. The two taxes together
fairly may be called a commutation tax. See Ficklen v. Taxing District of Shelby County, 145 U. S. 1, 23; Postal Telegraph
CableCo. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 697; McHenry v. Alford, 168
U. S. 651, 670, 671.

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 227
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"By whatever name the exaction may be called, if it amounts
to no more than the ordinary tax upon property or a just equivalent therefor, ascertained by reference thereto, it is not open
to attack as inconsistent with the Constitution." Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 697. See New York,
Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431,
438, 439. The question is whether this is such a tax. It appears
sufficiently, perhaps from what has been said, that we are to
look for a practical rather than a logical or philosophical distinction. The State must be allowed to tax the property and
to tax it at its actual value as a going concern. On the other
hand the State cannot tax the interstate business. The two
necessities hardly admit of an absolute logical reconciliation.
Yet the distinction is not without sense. When a legislature is
trying simply to value property, it is less likely to attempt to or
effect injurious regulation than when it i aiming directly at
the receipts from interstate commerce. A practical line can
be drawn by taking the whole scheme of taxation into account.
That must be done by this court as best it can. Neither the
state courts nor the legislatures, by giving the tax a particular
name or by the use of some form of words, can take away our
duty to consider its nature and effect. If it bears upon commerce among the States so directly as to amount to a regulation
in a relatively immediate way, it will not be saved by name or
form. Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27, 37; Asbell v. Kansas,
209 U. S. 251, 254, 256.
We are of opinion that the statute levying this tax does
amount to an attempt to regulate commerce among the States.
The distinction between a tax "equal to" one per cent of gross
receipts and a tax of one per cent of the same, seems to us nothing, except where the former phrase is the index of an actual
attempt to reach the property and to let the interstate traffic
and the receipts from it alone. We find no such attempt or
anything to qualify the plain inference from the statute taken
by itself. On the contrary, we rather infer from the judgment
of the state court and from the argument on behalf of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN, J., FULLER, CH. J., WHITE and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting. 210 U. S.

that another tax on the property of the railroad is upon a
valuation of that property taken as a going concern. This is
merely an effort to reach the gross receipts, not even disguised
by the name of an occupation tax, and in no way helped by
the words "equal to."
Of course, it does not matter that the plaintiffs in error are
domestic corporations or that the tax embraces indiscriminately
gross receipts from commerce within as well as outside of the
State. We are of opinion that the judgment Should be reversed.
Judgment reversed,
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,
JUSTICE WHITE

with whom

and MR.

JUSTICE

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR,

MCKENNA concurred, dis,

senting.
In my opinion the court ought to accept the interpretation
which the Supreme Court of Texas places upon the statute in
question. In other words, it should be assumed that, by imposing upon railroads and corporations owning, operating,
managing or controlling any line of railroad in the State, for
the transportation of passengers, freight or baggage, an annual
tax "equal to one per centum of its gross receipts if such line
of railroad lies wholly within the State, and if such line of railroad lies partly within and partly without the State, it shall
pay a tax equal to such proportion of the said one per centum
of its gross receipts as the length of the portion of such line
within the State bears to the whole length of such line," the
State intended to impose only an occupation tax. Such is the
constructiol which the state court places on the statute and that
construction is justified by the words used. We have the authority of the Supreme Court of Texas for saying that the constitution of that State authorizes the imposition of occupation
taxes upon natural persons and upon corporations, other than
municipal, doing business in that State. The plaintiff in error
is a Texas corporation, and it cannot be doubted that the State
may impose an occupation tax on one of its own corporations,

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. t6. v. TEXAS. 229
210 U. S. HARLAN, J., FULLER, CH.J., WHIm and MCKXNNA, JJ., dissenting.
provided such tax does not interfere with the exercise of some
power belonging to the United States.
But it is said that the tax in question, even if regarded as an
occupation tax, is invalid, as constituting a direct burden on
interstate commerce, the regulation of which belongs to Congress. It is not, in my opinion, to be taken as a tax on interstate commerce in the sense of the Constitution; for its operation
on interstate "cormerce is only incidental, not direct. A State;
in the regulation of its internal affairs, often prescribes rules
whichin their operation, remotely or incidentally, affect interstate commerce. But such rules have never been held as in
themselves imposing direct burdens upon such commerce, and
on that ground invalid. The State in the present case ascertains the extent of business done by the corporation in the
State, and requires an annual occupation tax "equal" to a
named per centum of the amount of such business. It does not
lay any tax directly upon the gross receipts as such, as was the
case in Philadelphia & Southern Mail Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326. In that case the court said: "The tax
was levied directly upon the receipts derived by the company
from its fares and freights, for the transportation of persons and
goods between different States, and between the States and
,foreign countries, and from the charter of its vessels, which was
for the same purpose. This transportation was an act of interstate and foreign commerce. It was the carrying on of such
commerce. Here there is no levying upon receipts as such from
interstate commerce. The State only measures the occupation
tax by looking at the entire amount of the business done within
its limits without reference to the source from which the business comes. It does not tax any part of the business because of
its being interstate. It has reference equally to all kinds of
business done by the corporation in the State. Suppose the
State as, under its constitution it might do, should impose an
income tax upon railroad corporations of its own creation,
doing business within the State, equal to a given per cent of all
income received by the corporation from its business, would

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

the corporation be entitled to have excluded from computation
such of its income as was derived from interstate commerce?
Such would be its right under the principles announced in the
present case. In the case supposed the income tax would, under
the principles or rules now announced, be regarded as a direct
burden upon interstate commerce. I cannot assent to this view.
If it did not delay an announcement of the court's decision
longer, perhaps, than is desirable, I should be glad to go into
this subject at large and present such a review of the adjudged
cases as would show 'that the views expressed by me are in
harmony with previous cases in this court. The present ded
cision, I fear, will seriously affect the taxing laws of many
States, and so impair the powers of the several States, in matters of taxation, that they cannot compel its own corporations
to bear their just proportion of such public burdens as can be
met only by taxation. I dissent4rom the opinion and judgment
of the court.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE WHITE

JUSTICE MCKENNA

and MR.

concur in this dissent.

FAUNTLEROY v. LUM..
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 215.

Argued April 27, 28. 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

A judgment is conclusive as to all the media concludendi, and it cannot be
impeached either in or out of the State,. by showing that it was based on
a mistake of law.
A judgment of a court of a State in which the cause of action did not arise,
but based on an award of arbitration had in the State in which the cause
did arise, is conclusive, and, under the full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution, must be given effect in the latter State, notwithstanding the award was for a claim which could not, under the laws of
that State, have been enforced in any of its courts.
80 Mississippi, 757, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

