OCTOBER TERM, 1907.Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

FARRELL v. LOCKHART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE S TATE OF UTAH.
No. 170.

Submitted March 9, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

Ground embraced in a mining location may become part of the public domain so as to be subject to another location before the expiration of the
statutory period for performing annual labor if, at the time when the second location is made, there has been an actual abandonment of the claim
by the first locator.
Lavignino v. Uhlig, 198 U. S. 443, qualified so as'not to exclude the right of
a subsequent locator on an adverse claim to test the lawfulness of a prior
location of the same ground upon the contention that at the time such prior
location was made the ground embraced therein was covered by a valid
and subsisting mining claim.
Where three mining locations cover the same ground and the senior locator
after forfeiture does not adverse, the burden of proof is on the third locator
to establish the invalidity of the second location.
31 Utah, 155, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles C. Dey and Mr. A. L. Hoppaugh for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Wilson I. Snyder, Mr. George Sutherland and Mr. Bismarck Snyder for defendant in error..
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the month of February, 1905, James Farrell, plaintiff
in error, as owner of the Cliff lode mining claim, situated in the
Uintah mining district, Summit County, Utah, made application in the United States land office at Salt Lake City for a
patent, and published the notice required by law. The defendant in error, as the administrator of the estate of John G.
Rhodin, filed an adverse claim based upon the location by
Rhodin of the ground as the Divide lode mining claim. There-

FARRELL v. LOCKHART.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after, pursuant to Rev. Stat., ยง 2326, this action was brought
in a court of the State of Utah by the administrator of Rhodin
in support of said adverse claim.
In the complaint filed by the administrator the right of
Rhodin to the Divide was asserted to have been initiated by
a location duly made on January 2, 1903. Farrell in his answer
asserted a paramount right by reason of his ownership of the
Cliff claim, averring that it had been initiated by a location
made on August 1, 1901, seventeen months prior to the location of the Divide by Rhodin. To the affirmative matter
pleaded in the answer of Farrell a general denial was interposed, and it was also averred as follows: Plaintiff "alleges
that at the time and date of the attempted location of the
said Cliff patented mining claim the ground therein contained
was not any part of the open and unclaimed mineral land of
the United States, but, on the contrary, the whole thereof,
including the point and place of discovery of said alleged
Cliff mining claim, was then embraced and included and contained in a valid and subsisting mining claim, called the South
Mountain, then and there the property and in the possession
of the predecessors of this plaintiff's intestate; and for the
reason that the discovery of said alleged Cliff mining claim
was not placed upon. unoccupied and unclaimed. land of the
United States, the alleged location based thereon became
absolutely void."
The case was 'tried by the court, and it was specifically found
that the Cliff, the Divide and the South Mountain claims, as
located, covered substantially the same ground, and that the
place of discovery of the Cliff was within the boundaries of the
alleged South Mountain mining claim. It was further specifically found, by the court that upon the trial of the action
"plaintiff offered evidence (subject to the objection of the defendant that the same was incompetent, immaterial and irrelevant, and that no adverse claim was filed on behalf of the
South M6untain lode claim) tending to show that during the
month of August, 1900, 'the ground in controversy herein was

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

located by W. I. Snyder and Thomas Roscamp, respectively,
citizens of the United States, under the name of the South
Mountain lode mining claim. That a discovery of a vein was
made and notice of location posted, and the boundaries of
said claim marked so that the same could be readily traced,
and that said notice was in due form, and was duly recorded
in the office of the county recorder of Summit County, State
of Utah. That no work was ever done on said South Mountain
claim, and that said South Mountain claim lapsed and became
forfeited for want of work thereon, on December 21, 1901.
That no adverse claim was filed on behalf of said South Mountain lode against the application for patent for said Cliff lode
mining claim. That on or about the thirteenth day of October,
1902, said Snyder and Roscamp made a deed purporting to
convey said alleged South Mountain lode mining claim to said
John G. Rhodin."
When it decided the case, the court found that Farrell
initiated his ownership of the Cliff claim on August 1, 1901,
and performed all the acts required by law in addition to the
annual labor required by statute, and that Rhodin initiated
on January 2, 1903, his Divide claim. The court decided in
favor of the defendant Farrell, and entered a decree adjudging
that he was the owner, in possession of the premises in controversy, and entitled to the possession, except as against the
paramount title of the United States. The court treated the
proof offered on behalf of the plaintiff as to the location of
the South Mountain claim for the same ground embraced in
the Cliff, made a year prior to the location of the latter claim,
as immaterial and irrelevant. Plaintiff duly excepted and appealed to the Supreme Court of the State. That court, in
disposing of the appeal, considered solely what it termed the
"decisive question" presented by the record, viz., "whether
the appellant, as owner of the Divide claim, who, as such,
adversed the application for patent, is in position to show and
assert that at the time of the location of the Cliff claim the
ground located was covered by the South Mountain, a then

FARRELL v. LOCKHART.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

valid and subsisting claim; that the discovery point of the
Cliff was within the boundaries of the South Mountain; and
that, therefore, the locator of the Cliff did not discover a vein
or lode on, or make a valid location of, unappropriated and
unoccupied mineral lands of the United States, and because
thereof his location is and was void, not only against the locators of the South Mountain, but all the world." In deciding
this question the court deemed that it was called upon to consider and apply the ruling in Lavignino v. Uhlig, 198 U. S.
443. Doing so it was recognized that the reasoning in the
opinion in that case was- broad enough to maintain where on
an adverse claim the first or senior locator did not appear to
oppose the application for a patent made by a second locator,
whose rights in the same ground had been initiated prior to
the forfeiture of the senior location, for failure to perform the
annual labor required by the statute, a third locator could not
be heard to complain that the second locator had inititated
his claim upon mining ground which was not at the time open
to location. While thus conceding the court considered that
the reasoning in question ought to be restricted, because not
to do so would cause Lavignino v. Uhlig to be in conflict with
cases decided prior to the decision in that case, and, moreover,
would establish a rule in conflict with the practice which had
long prevailed in the mining districts, and would therefore
create great confusion and uncertainty in respect to mining
claims and unsettle rights of property of great value. The
court did not at all doubt that Lavignino v. Uhlig had been
correctly decided in view of the issues in that case; but, for the
reasons which we have just stated, it held that the ruling in
Lavignino v. Uhlig must be considered as narrowed, so as to
apply only to a case where the second location did not embrace
the discovery point of the first, but was a mere overlap. Thus
applying the ruling in Lavignino v. Uhlig, the court held that
as the location, by Farrell of the Cliff claim was made upon
substantikiy the same ground embraced by the South Mounain, and the statutory period for the forfeiture of the South
yOL, CcX-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
OyWinon of the Court.

210 U. S.

Mountain claim had not expired, the Cliff claim was not located on ground subject to location, and was void; that as the
Divide had been located or relocated after the lapsing of the
South Mountain claim, the Divide claim was located on land
subject to be appropriated, and was therefore paramount to
the second or Farrell location. The judgment of the trial
court was therefore reversed and a decree was made in favor
of the administrator of Rhodin.* 31 Utah, 155. Farrell thereupon sued out this writ of error.
In the argument at bar our attention has been directed to
several decisions of the highest courts in some of the mining
States or in Territories of the United States where mining prevails-Nash v. McNamara (Nevada), 93 Pac. Rep. 405, and
cases cited-which, in considering the reasoning of Lavignino
v. Uhlig, also attributed to that reasoning, broadly construed,
the serious and unfavorable consequences on rights of property
suggested by the court below in its opinion. It may not be
doubted, unless the reasoning in the Lavignino case is to be restricted or qualified, that the grounds upon which the court
below rested its conclusions were erroneous. Not doubting at
all the correctness of the decision in the Lavignino case, especially in view of the issue as to long possession and the operation of -the bar of the statute of the State of Utah, which was
applied by the court below in that case, and whose judgment
was affirmed, we do not pause to particularly reexamine the
reasoning expressed in the opinion in Lavignino v. Uhlig as
an original proposition. We say this, because whatever may
be the inherent cogency of that reasoning, in view of the experience of the courts referred to concerning the practice which
it was declared had prevailed, in reliance upon what was
deemed to be the result of previous decisions of this court, and
the effect on vested rights which it was said woull arise from
a change of such practice, and taking into view the prior decisions referred to, especially Belk v. Meagher, 104 U. S. 279,
as also the more recent case of Brown v. Gurney, 201 U. S. 184,
we think the opinion in the Lavignino case should be qualified

FARRELL v. LOCKHART.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so as to not to exclude the right of a subsequent locator on
an adverse claim to test the lawfulness of a prior location of
the same mining ground upon the contention that at the time
such prior location was made the ground embraced therein was
covered by a valid and subsisting mining claim. It is to be
observed that this qualification but permits a third locator
to offer proof tending to establish the existence of a valid and
subsisting location anterior to that of the location which is
being adversed. It does not, therefore, include the conception
that the mere fact that a senior location had been made, and
that the statutory period for performing the annual labor
had not expired when the second location was made, would
conclusively establish that the. location was a valid and subsisting location, preventing the initiation of rights in the
ground by another claimant, if at the time of such second
location there had been an actual abandonment of the original
senior location. We say this because-taking into view Belk v.
Meagher, Lavignino v. Uhlig, and Brown v. Gurney-we are
of the opinion, and so hold, that ground embraced in a mining
location may become a part of the public domain so as to be
subject to another location before the expiration of the statutory period for performing annual labor, if, at the time when
the second location was made, there had been an actual abandonment of the claim by the first locator. ,
In Black v. Elkhorn Mining Company, 163 U. S. 445, summing up as to the character of the right which is granted by the
United States to a mining locator, after observing that no
written instrument is necessary to create the right, and that
it may be forfeited by the failure of the locator to do the necessary amount of work, it was said (p. 450):.
"(3) His interest in the claim may also be forfeited by his
abandonment, with an intention to renounce his right of
possession. It cannot be doubted that an actual abandonment
of possession by a locator of a mining claim, Such as would
work an abandonment of any other easement, would terminate
all the right of possession which the locator then had.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

"An easement in real estate may be abandoned without any
writing to that effect, and by any act evincing an intention
to give up and renounce the same. Snell v. Levitt, 110 N. Y.
595, and cases cited at p. 603 of the opinion of Earl, J.; White v.
Manhattan Railway Co., 139 N. Y. 19. If the locator remained
in possession and failed to do the work provided for by statute, his interest would terminate, and it appears to be equally
plain that if he actually abandoned the possession, giving up all
claim to it, and left the land, that all the right provided by the
statute would terminate under such circumstances.
It remains only to test the correctness of the conclusions of
the court below in the light of the principles just announced.
Now, it was found by the trial court that the evidence offered
tended to show that the South Mountain lode claim was located in August, 1900, and that no work was ever done on said
claim, and that it became forfeited for want of the annual
labor required by the statute on December 31, 1901. Farrell
made his location in August, 1901, a year after the South
Mountain was located and five months before the expiration
of the period when a statutory forfeiture of the South Mountain would have resulted. The offer of proof, therefore, made
by the administrator of Rhodin, to show that the South Mountain was a valid and subsisting location when Farrell made
the location of the Cliff, tended to show that during the year
that had intervened between the location of the South Mountain and the location by Farrell of the Cliff no work of any
character whatever was done by the locators of the South
Mountain, and that this was also true from the time the Cliff
was located to the expiration of the period when a statutory
forfeiture would have been occasioned. As all rights oi the
locators of the South Mountain were, in any aspect, at an end
by their failure to adverse, and as the Cliff was prior in time
to the Divide, and therefore the burden of proof was on the
Divide to establish that the Cliff location was not a valid one,
we think that the burden would not have been sustained by
the proof offered, To the contrary, we are of opinion that

KEALOHA v. CASTLE.
210 U. S.

Syllabus.

the proof which was so offered on behalf of the Divide tended,
when unexplained, to show that the location of the South
Mountain was not made in good faith, and that the claim had
actually been abandoned when Farrell made his location. The
Supreme Court of Utah should therefore have remanded the
cause, so that it might be determined whether or not the
South Mountain had been abandoned by the locators of that
claim when Farrell made his location; and error was therefore
committed in entering judgment in favor of Lockhart, the administrator of Rhodin, decreeing to him possession of the
ground in controversy.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah must therefore
be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

KEALOHA v. CASTLE.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 230. Submitted April 28, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The courts of Hawaii having prior to the annexation construed the statute
of May 24, 1866, legitimatizing children born out of wedlock by the subsequent marriage of the parents as not applicable to the offspring of
adulterous intercourse, and the organizing act of the Hawaii territory
having continued the laws of Hawaii not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United States, this court adopts the construction of
the Hawaiian statute given by the courts of that country.
While in different jurisdictions statutes legitimatizing children born out of
wedlock by the subsequent marriage of the parents have been differently
construed as to the application thereof to the offspring of adulterous
intercourse, in construing such a statute of a Territory this court will
lean towards the interpretation of the local court.
The construction of a statute affixed thereto for many years before territory
is acquired by the United States should be considered as written into the
law itself. ,

