OUTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

KANSAS CITY NORTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. ZIMMERMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 231.

Submitted April 28. 1908.-Decided June 1. 1908.

Where the ground on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was denied
did not go to its jurisdiction as a Federal court as such, but its jurisdiction was denied on the ground that the state court where the proceedings
started had no jurisdiction, a direct appeal on the jurisdictional question
will not lie to this court under ยง 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
It is not open to a defendant who has secured a removal and successfully
resisted a motion to remand to raise the question that the removal was
improper on a certificate of jurisdiction to this court under 5 5 of the
Judiciary Act of 1891.
Appeal from 144 Fed. Rep. 522, dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Balie PeytoA Waggener for appellant.
Mr. John H. Atwood and Mr. W. W. Hooper for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity to enjoin the Sppellant, hereafter called
the defendant, from operating its railroad, over certain land in
Leavenworth, formerly belonging to the plaintiff's intestate,
until a judgment against the defendant's predecessor in title
for the damages caused by the appropriation of the land should
be paid. It appears from the bill, among other things, that
the defendant's predecessor appropriated the land without
regular proceedings, and in 1889 the plaintiff's intestate began
an action on which he recovered a judgment on May 15, 1897;

KANSAS CITY N. W. R. R. CO. v. ZIMMERMAN. 337
210 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

that the defendant's predecessor had mortgaged its road in
1888; that on March, 1890, a suit to foreclose the mortgage was
begun, and in 1893 there was a decree of foreclosure; and that
this decree was followed (in 1894) by a sale to the defendant.,
It is alleged that the defendant became the successor in interest
to all the rights " and as part of the consideration assumed
and was subject to all the liabilities" of its predecessor, " under
and by virtue of said decree and purchase "; and again, "that
under and by virtue of said decree and the ordinances of said
city, said defendant assumed and agreed to pay off any and
all obligations" of the earlier road.
The present suit was begun in a state court in May, 1899.
In June the defendant removed it to the Circuit Court of the
United States, on the ground that the -determination of the
cause involved the construction of the foreclosure decree and
of the Constitution and of the laws of the United States. The
bill was reformed, and the defendant demurred to the merits,
and also on the ground that the state court had no jurisdiction,
and .that therefore the United States court had none. The
demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court on the ground of
want of jurisdiction in the state court, but on appeal by the
plaintiff the decree was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
and a decision rendered for the plaintiff on the merits. 144
Fed. Rep. 622. Thereupon on November 27, 1906, a decree
was entered for the plaintiff. On January 17, 1907, an appeal
to this court was taken by the defendant and allowed, and on
October 23 of the same year a certificate was made that the
question involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was in
issue and decided against the defendant, and thus the case now
stands.
We do not deem it necessary to discuss all the difficulties th#t
the appellant would have to overcome in order to maintain its
case. It seems from the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
not to have insisted on the objection to the jurisdiction there,
but to have taken its chances on the merits, 144 Fed. Rep. 624,
as also by its demurrer it relied mainly on the want of equity
YOL, ccx-2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U.S.

in the bill. See St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v. McBride,
141 U. S. 127. It comes here on the purely technical proposition that, although the plaintiff is in the right court, and although the case has been heard on the merits at the defendant's
invitation, the plaintiff must begin over again because he did
not come into court, by the right way.
If the defendant had confined its defense to a denial of jurisdiction, there would be force in the consideration that the
plaintiff, not it, took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
But in the circumstances of this case the defendant seems to
us to stand no better than it would. if it had taken the appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. Carter v. Roberts, 177 U. S. 496,
500. Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359. It is suggested that
the Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction, citing American Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277. But
although the defendant in its petition for removal set up that
the construction of the Constitution of the United States was
involved, such was not the fact, and the language of the case
cited does not apply.
It is enough, however, that the ground on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was denied did not go to its jurisdiction as a Federal court. Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191
U. S. 225. The certificate does not purport to enlarge the
record, but simply to state what was in issue. The record shows
that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was denied on the
single ground that the state court where the proceedings started
had none. Whether that contention was correct 'or not under
Wabash Railroad Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, it had
nothing to do with the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such,
or indeed, at all, except for the reason that the power of a
secondary tribunal can go no higher than its source. We may
add that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, if it existed, was
ancillary to its possession of the res, if it had it, that the principles to be applied are of general application, 208 U. S. 54, and
again these do not concern the jurisdiction of the Federal court
as such.

BOBBS-MERRILL CO. v. STRAUS.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The defendant now, after having secured a removal and after
having successfully resisted a motion to remand, attempts to
deny the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the ground that
the removal was improper. It is enough to say that that question is not open under the certificate.
Appeal dismissed.

BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY, v. STRAUS et al.,
BUSINESS AS

DOING

R. H. MACY & COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 176. Argued March 12, 13, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.
There are differences between the patent, and the copyright, statutes in the
extent of the protection granted by them, and the rights of a patentee are
not necessarily to be applied by analogy to those claiming under copyright.
At common law an author had a property in his manuscript and might have
redress against any one undertaking to publish it without his authority.
Copyright property under the Federal law is wholly statutory and depends
upon the rights created under acts of Congress passed in pursuance of
authority conferred by ยง 8 of Art. I of the Federal Constitution.
The copyright statutes are to be reasonably construed. They will not by
judicial construction either be unduly extended to include privileges not
intended to be conferred, nor so narrowed as to exclude those benefits
that Congress did intend to confer.
The sole right to vend granted by ยง 4952, Rev. Stat., does not secure to the
owner of the copyright the right to qualify future sales by his vendee or
to limit or restrict such future sales at a specified price, and a notice in the
book that a sale at a different price will be treated as an infringement is.
ineffectual as against one not bound by contract or license agreement.
147 Fed. Rep. 15, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. H. H. Miller, with whom Mr. C. C. Shirley and Mr.
Samuel D. Miller were on the brief, for appellant:
The matter here involved is of statutory copyright alone;
no question of common-law rights or property of either the

