MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 187
210 U..S.

Statement of the Case.

MOBILE, JACKSON AND KANSAS CITY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 218.

Argued April 29, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The creation of a board of railroad commissioners and the extent of its
powers; what the route of railroad companies created by the State may be;
and whether parallel and competing lines may consolidate, are all matters
which a State may regulate by its statutes and the state courts are the
absolute interpreters of such statutes.
Where the contention of plaintiff in error that a charter right has been,
impaired by subsequent state action was disposed of by the state court on
the non-Federal ground that if any such right ever existed plaintiff in error
was estopped by its own conduct from asserting it, this court cannot'
review the judgment on the alleged Federal ground of impairment of the
contract.
A decree of a state court requiring a railroad company which does an
interstate business to construct its lines within .he State in accordance
with the provisions of its charter and the directions of the state railroad
commission is not an interference with interstate commerce because
compliance therewith entails expense or requires the exercise of eminent
domain.
How a state statute should be construed, whether a contract is created.
thereby, and whether the statute is constitutional under the state constitution, are not, in the absence of any claim that the contract, if any, has,
been- impaired by subsequent state action, Federal questions.

89 Mississippi, 724, affirmed.

THIS is a bill in equity, brought by the State of Mississippi
and the Railroad Commission of that State, to require the railroad companies to construct their railroad through the county
seat of Pontotoc County, State of Mississippi, and to restrain
them from abandoning a p6rtion of the narrow gauge railroad
formerly operated by the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company, which ran to the town of Pontotoc.
The following is a summary of the bill: The Railroad Commission exists under the laws of the State of Mississippi, and
is, under the laws, charged with the duty of supervising railroads and other common carriers, and also with the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

enforcing the observance of the laws by such companies and
other carriers. The Gulf and Chicago Railway Company was
organized in 1903, under the laws of Mississippi, with authority
to construct a railroad from the town of Decatur, Miss., in a
general northerly direction, through the county of Pontotoc.
and through the State of Mississippi to the Tennessee line.
At the time of the organization of such railway company there
was in existence from the town of Pontotoc, Miss., to the town
of Middleton, Tenn., a narrow gauge road, which was operated
by the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company, a corporation
under the laws of Mississippi. The railroad company was
bound to continue and preserve intact throughout its entire
length the narrow gauge road, and the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company and its lessee, the Mobile, Jackson and Kansas
City Railroad Company, hereafter called the Mobile Company,
were in turn bound to so continue and preserve intact the said
line, "broadened and standardized as was stipulated in the
articles of consolidation hereinafter set forth." Prior to the
sixth of July, 1903, the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company
and the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company, with other railroad companies, were consolidated under the name of the Gulf
and Chicago Railway Company, and on that day a petition
was presented to the Railroad Commission, praying the approval of the consolidation. It was stipulated in the petition,
and by the granting of it by the Commission it was agreed, that
the consolidated corporation should broaden and standardize
the narrow gauge road running from the town of Pontotoc,
"as it then existed and was being operated," and that when
broadened and standardized it should be a part of the main
line of the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company extending from
Decatur, Miss., to Jackson, Tenn. The petition and order were
made part of the bill. On or about the time of the consolidation, approved as aforesaid, the Gulf and Chicago Railway
Company leased to the Mobile Company all of its railroad
property then constructed and operated, and that thereafter
to be constructed, including the narrow gauge road from-Pon-

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 189
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

totoc to Middleton, and including its entire proposed line from
Decatur to Jackson, and since the execution of the lease the
Mobile Company has been in control and operation of the narrow gauge road. The Gulf and Chicago Railway Company, in
violation of the terms and in disregard of the representations
contained in its petition to the Commission, has broadened and
standardized the narrow gauge road to a point one mile and a
half from the end of the line in Pontotoc County and is operating the same. The remaining part, which is the most important part of the road, extending through a thickly populated
district in the principal portion of Pontotoc, has been abandoned. It was a material consideration, in passing on the petition for consolidation, and the consolidation would not have
been approved but for the representation that the company
would standardize and broaden the line extending into the
town.
The narrow gauge road was constructed in 1887 by the Gulf
and Ship Island Railroad Company. When it was extended
into :Pontotoc a right of way was obtained by purchase, by the
exercise of the right of eminent domain and by donations by
the community, and when the right of way was selected it was
with the view of extending the road south through the town.
The town was built and established, and the town has been
building for the last twenty years with reference to the line of
railroad then so located. The interests of the public are involved in the change of road; the convenience and comfort of
more than 1,000 people are involved; the change of road would
disturb established conditions, and practically break up a prosperous community for the benefit of the defendants and a few
property owners in another part of the town, recently added
thereto, and through which it is proposed to run the new line of
railroad. The original town of Pontotoc is the county seat of
Pontotoc County, as fixed by the legislature of the State, and
§ 187 of the constitution of the State provides that no railroad
thereafter constructed in the State "shall pass within three miles
of any county seat without passing through the same and estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

lishing and maintaining a depot therein, unless prevented by
natural obstacles; provided such town or its citizens shall
grant the right of way through its limits and sufficient grounds
for ordinary depot purposes." The Gulf and Chicago Railway
Company is constructing its new line within three miles of
Pontotoc without passing through the same. There are no natural obstacles in the way. The citizens stand ready to grant
the right of way through the limits of the town and sufficient
grounds for depot purposes. In fact, the company owns a
right of way through a large part of the town and sufficient
ground for depot purposes. The conduct of the company is in
violation of the constitution, and in willful disregard of the law
and of the order of the Commission and the rights of the public.
The inadequacy of the remedy at law is alleged.
The injunction prayed was against the construction of the
line of road proposed and to command the defendant to
broaden and standardize the line of road extending through
the town of Pontotoc, and to compel its operation into the said
county seat as a part of the line built and to be built from Decatur, Mississippi, to Jackson, Tennessee, and to extend the
said line on through to the said county seat; as required by
said § 187 of the constitution of the State of Mississippi,
and as required by law and by the order of the complainant,
the Mississippi Railroad Commission. General relief was also
prayed.
The answer of the defendant companies, in addition to traversing the allegations of fact of the bill, alleges the following:
Prior to the filing of the petition, seeking the approval of the
Railroad Commission of the State to the consolidation of the
railroads, the officers of the companies had caused surveys to
be made through the town of Pontotoc, with the view to best
serve the interest of the people of that community in the location of the line of railroad and the establishing of its depot in
the town, and it became apparent that it would be impossible
to utilize that portion of the narrow gauge line extending north
about one mile from the depot. This was submitted to the

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 191
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case

people of the town prior to the application for consolidation,
in a meeting called for that.purpose, and, by an overwhelming
majority, the position taken by the officers of the companies
was acquiesced in and approved. Before the filing of the bill
the companies had located and constructed their line as pro
posed at such public meeting, had purchased a depot site and
erected a -handsome and commodious depot on the site, into
which it is now operating a standard gauge road. And all of
this done before the filing of the bill.
The Railroad Commission made an order in the month of
June, 1904, requiring the companies to build a depot on that
part of the line of the narrow gauge road since abandoned, and
upon the old site of the depot used by that road, and outside
of the original town of Pontotoc, the enforcement of which was
enjoined by the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Mississippi, which suit is now pending. The Commission is still insisting upon the order and resisting the efforts
of the companies to enjoin its enforcement. Such order, it is
alleged, is inconsistent with the bill in this case.
The line of road now being constructed by the Gulf and
Chicago Railway Company from Decatur to Jackson is being
constructed upon a different scheme of grades from that upon
which the narrow gauge line was constructed, and necessarily
adopted to enable the company to transact its business with
the least expense and with the view of enabling it to successfully meet the competition of other lines. If the grades of the
narrow gauge road had been adopted it would have been practically impossible for the railway company to operate successfully, because of the heavy grades, and would have caused an
additional cost of construction of $90,000; would have lengthened the road, increased the fixed charges of maintaining the
property, increased the cost of operation, and the cost to the
company of transacting all interstate commerce business from
Mobile, Ala., to Tennessee.
By amendments subsequently made to the answer it was
alleged that when the consolidation of the companies was had

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

it was the purpose (which was well known to the Railroad
Commission) of making the consolidated company a through
trunk line of railroad for interstate commerce and the transmission of the mails, and that one of the vital objects to be
attained was to shorten the line in every way possible. it
is further alleged that a refusal to permit the execution of such
purpose "will impose unnecessary and unreasonable burdens
upon the interstate commerce and will violate in letter
and spirit §8, Article I, of the Constitution of the United
States. And, it is alleged, that the southern end of the old
narrow gauge road line runs into deep hollows and ends in a
cluster of big hills, which, to cut through, would cause great
expense and entail long delay; that the line would thereby be
lengthened, and it would be hampered and prevented from doing an interstate business in successful competition with other
lines."
The case, on petition of the railroads, was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Division of
the Northern District of Mississippi, and was subsequently remanded to the state court on motion of the defendants in error.
A temporary injunction was granted, enjoining and commanding the Mobile Company and the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company to "absolutely refrain from constructing and
operating a certain line of railroad, from Decatur, Mississippi,
to Middleton, Tennessee, or any other line of railroad from
any point whatsoever to any other point passing within three
miles of the county seat of Pontotoc County, Mississippi,
as the said county seat was originally laid out, marked and established, without passing through the said county seat . .
Upon motion of the companies and after proofs submitted a decree was entered dissolving the injunction, the decree
reciting that all of the relief prayed for by the bill could be obtained by a mandatory injunction if the allegations of the bill
should be sustained upon the final hearing; and further reciting
that "the public interests of the county north and south of the
town of Pontotoc, along the line of said railroad, as well as the

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 193
210 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

interests of the railroad, will suffer by reason of the continuance of the temporary injunction." All other questions were
reserved until the final hearing.
The Supreme Court of the State reversed the decree, reinstated the injunction and remanded the case to the Chancery
Court. 86 Mississippi, 172.
After a trial upon the merits the Chancery Court entered a
decree, making the injunction perpetual. The decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 89 Mississippi, 724. Other facts
will appear in the opinion.
Mr. William Hepburn Russell for plaintiffs in error:
The Federal questions presented by the record in this case
confer jurisdiction upon this court to review the decision of the
Supreme Court of Mississippi.
The record clearly shows claims of rights under the Consti-'
tution of the United States expressly made by plaintiffs in,
error in the court below, any one of which, if sustained, would
have required the Supreme Court of Mississippi to reverse the
decree of the Chancery Court of Pontotoc County. C., B. &:
Q. Ry. Co. v. DrainageCom., 200 U. S.561; Grand Rapids Ry.,
Co. v. Osborn, 193 U. S.17; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co.,
1 Wall. 116, 142; Yazoo &c. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.1, 15.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, althoughavowedly placed upon a non-Federal ground, actually deprives
the plaintiffs in error of their property without due process of
law, and denies to them the equal protection of the laws by
conferring upon the state Railroad Commission powers and
authority not granted to it by the statutes of the State of Mississippi.
It sustains a claim of power and authority exercised by the
state Railroad Commission compelling the plaintiffs in error to
abandon their line of railway through the town of Pontotoc, as
located, graded and in operation, and their depot as built and
in use, and to acquire rights of way and locate and construct a'
new line through said town, The Railroad Commission of the
VOL. ccx-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

210 U. S.,

State of Mississippi "is a mere administrative agency of the
State." Mississippi R. R. Comn. v. Illinois Central, 203 U. S.
335, 341. It has no powers beyond those given it by statute
and is strictly limited in its exercise of power by the laws creating it. Commissioners v. Oregon Ry. Co., 17 Oregon, 65;
Nashville R. R. Co. v. State, 137 Alabama, 439.
The statutes of Mississippi forbid the consolidation of parallel and competing lines of railroad and forbid the Railroad
Commission to consent to the consolidation of such lines and
confer no power upon the Commission to enter into contracts
whereby such a consolidation of competing lines can be effected.
The orders of railroad commissioners are not contracts. New
Haven &c. R. Co. v. Hammersly, 104 U. S. 1.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Mississippi deprives,
without due process of law, the Gulf and Chicago Railway
Company, plaintiff in error, of its vested contract rights under
chapter 143 of the laws of Mississippi of 1906, which was a
valid exercise of legislative power constituting a contract between the State and the plaintiff in error. Blake v. McClung,.
172 U. S. 239; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339;,Scott v. McNeill,
154 U. S. 34, 45; Douglas v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677, 686,
687; Edwards v. Kerzey, 96 U. S. 595; Gelpke v. Dubuque, 1
Wall. 175, 206, 207; Rowan v. Runnells, 5 How. 134, 139;
Thompson v. Lee County, 3 Wall. 327; Olcott v. Supervisors, 16
Wall. 678; Guthrie National Bank v. Guthrie, 173 U. S. 528, 533.
The Gulf and Chicago Railway Company having located its
line through the town of Pontotoc and established its station
therein in strict conformity to § 187 of the constitution of Mississippi and in accordance with its line between its terminal
points as established by its charter, the state Railroad Commission, and the courts of Mississippi are without power to
compel it to abandon that line and that station and establish
a different line over a different route and a different station at
a different point.
This proposition having been thus judicially established in
Mississippi v. Mobile, Jackson & Kansas City R. Co., 86 Mis-

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R: CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 195
210 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

sissippi, 172, the power of the state Railroad Commission over
the line and station of the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company
in the town of Pontotoc was exhausted and the Supreme Court
of Mississippi, upon the final appeal, by its decision and decree
affirming the decree of the Chancery Court of Pontotoc County,
deprives the plaintiffs in error of their property without due.
process of law, because although the proceeding was conducted
under the guise of a judicial controversy, neither the State of
Mississippi nor its Railroad Commission had authority to invoke the judicial power in confiscation of the property rights
of the plaintiffs in error.
Statutes providing for enforcement by proceedings in chancery of the orders of the Commission, refer solely to the duties
and powers enumerated in the statutory provisions under
which a railroad commission is created and exists. Nashville
&c. Ry. Co. v. State, 137 Alabama, 439.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi in its final opinion in this,
case rests its decree entirely upon an alleged contract in the
order of consolidation. As such a contract was beyond the
power of the Railroad Commission to enter into, the decree of
the Supreme Court predicated upon it is a taking of property
without due process of law and a denial of the equal protection
of the laws to the plaintiffs in error.
The laws of Mississippi creating the state Railroad Commission and conferring powers upon it, if such powers go to the
extent established by the opinion of the Supreme Court of Mississippi in this case, are laws impairing the obligation of contracts in this, that § 8 of the "Act to Incorporate the Ripley
Railroad Company" conferred upon that company and upon
the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company as its legal successor
the right to change the location of its line through the town of
Pontotoc and under the decision of the Supreme Court of Mississippi holding that the Railroad Commission under the Railroad Commission laws had power to abrogate this right, the
laws creating the Railroad Commission as so construed are law.
impairing the obligations of contracts.

196,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

210 U. S.

Mr. R. V. Fletcher, Attorney General of the State of Mississippi, and Mr. Hannis Taylor, for defendants in error:
There is no Federal question presented by the record in this
cause for the consideration of the court., The record shows that
no right or question arising under the Fourteenth Amendment
was claimed or raised until after the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi. It was raised for the first time in
the petition for writ of error. Under the decisions of this
court, this was too late. Montana v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291; Corkran Oil &c. Co. v. Arn4udet, 199 U. S. 182; Dewey v. Des Moines,
173 U. S. 193; Osborne v. Clark, 204 U. S. 565.
The contention that the court has violated the clause of the
Federal Constitution which prohibits a State from passing any
law impairing the obligation of a contract, was raised for the
first time in the assignment of errors filed in the Supreme Court
of Mississippi on the second or final appeal of the case, and it
is clear that this contention was rejected by the Mississippi
court, if for no other reason than because is was raised too late.
Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446. See also, Chi., I. & L. Ry. Co. v.
McGuire, 196 U. S. 127; Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 131;
Eastern Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Welling, 181 U. S. 47.
Since the Supreme Court of Mississippi has declined to consider
this assignment of error, solely upon the ground that it was not
relied on in the Chancery Court, this court will respect the rules
of practice in vogue in Mississippi, and will hold that the point
was raised too late.
In any case, it is well settled that the prohibition of the
Federal Constitution extends only to such judgments as give
effect to statutes. New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana
Sugar Ref. Co., 125 U. S. 18, 30, 31; St. Paul Gaslight Co. v. St.
Paul, 181 U. S. 124, 148; M. & M. R. Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177;
M. & M. R. Co. v. McClure, 10 Wall. 511; Knox v. Exchange
Bank, 12 Wall. 379; Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 338,
392; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 334.
The action of the Railroad Commission and the decisions of
the Mississippi courts herein, do not constitute an interference

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 197
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with interstate commerce. The commerce clause of the Federal Constitution cannot be applied to the location of a line of
railway. C., M. & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133;
Wabash, St. L. & P. R. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Mo.,
Minn. & Pac. R. R. Co. v. Jackson, 179 U. S. .287'
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant railroad companies in their motion to dissolve
the temporary injunction urged- as grounds thereof, among
others, that the. injunction imposed a direct and unnecessary'
burden upon and was an interference with interstate commerce and an interference with the carrying of United States
mail. To those grounds the court did not apparently respond,
and the Supreme Court did not refer to them in either of its
opinions.
Counter contentions are urged. Plaintiffs in error contend
that the Federal questions set up by them were evaded.
Defendants in error contend that such questions were not involved and are not now presented for consideration.
The opinion of the Supreme Court on the first appeal was
very elaborate, and we can only give a brief summary of the
propositions decided. The court gives a summary of the facts
of the bill, the averments ,of the petition to the Commission
and the terms of its order, and says that "waiving minor considerations not sufficiently developed by the proof," and "passing at once to the very heart of the matter," the case divided
into two main branches:
"1. What is the true interpretation to be given § 187 of'
our constitution and has it any application to the facts of this
litigation? 2. What are the legal rights of the citizens of the
town of Pontotoc and the duties of the appellees as to the nar.row gauge road which was in use and active operation before
and at the consolidation hereinbefore referred to and at the date
of the leasing of its property by one appellee to the other?"

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

Under the first branch the court decided that appellants
(defendants in error here) could, under the facts of the record,
be "afforded no relief by the language or intendment of § 187
of the constitution." This branch of the case, therefore, needs
no further consideration.
As elements in the discussion and decision of the second
branch of the case, the court said that there had been no consolidation between the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company
and the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company, and if the latter
company had constructed its road over the route in the direction specified in its application for incorporation, it would inevitably have been a parallel and a competing line with the narrow gauge line then in existence, and the consolidation of the
roads would not have been permitted. "More than this," it
was said, "an express grant of power by the legislature for the
two companies to consolidate . . . would have been void, as
being in contravention of the general statutory inhibition
against consolidation or purchase of competing lines of railroads, which cannot, without violating § 87 of the constitution of the State, be suspended 'for the benefit of any
individual or private corporation or association."' And to
sustain this proposition Y. & M. V. Ry. Co. v. So. Ry. Co., 83
Mississippi, 746, was cited. It was deduced from § 3587 of the
code of the State of 1892, that the statement in the petition
that the roads were "in no way parallel or competing lines,"
were statements of jurisdictional facts, "upon the existence of
which depended the power of the corporations to consolidate."
And following Lusby v. Railroad, 73 Mississippi, 364, the court
held that tthe Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company was without
power to abandon or relocate any portion of its line, "except
on the score of 'imperious necessity."' An exception, it was
said, not suggested by the facts ofthis record. These restraints
and duties, it was further said, came to the consolidated corporation.
On the return of the case to the Chancery Court, and after a
hearing on the merits, that court entered a decree making the

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v.MISSISSIPPI. 199
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

injunction perpetual. The decree recited that the court found
"as a fact" that a valid contract existed between the Gulf and
Chicago Railroad Company and the citizens of Pontotoc, which
provided that the line of the railway of the company should be
established and maintained where the same was established
and maintained before. the consolidation of that company with
the other companies, and that the town had not given its assent to the abandonment of that line. The court further found
"that no natural obstacles or imperious necessity prevented the
said defendant companies from broadening and standardizing"
the narrow gauge road "and making it a part of the main line
of the proposed railroad, and no such obstacles or necessity
existed to prevent the said companies from extending their
said lines from the southern terminus of the said original
line

.

.

.

and that the allegations of the bill have been sus-

tained by the proof, and that the complainants are entitled to the
relief prayed for." The Supreme Court affirmed the decree of the
Chancery Court, repeating, with some modifications, the principles which it expressed on the first appeal of the case. It
said that in a former opinion the court expressly held that "the
consolidation was conditioned upon the broadening and standardizing the then existing narrow gauge railroad, and making it
a part of the main line of railroad operated by the consolidated
corporation." And it was alone, it was further said, upon the
compliance of those conditions that the Railroad Commission
consented to the consolidation, and without which the Commission would have had no power to authorize the consolidation, and without which the consolidation would not have been
effected. So insistent was the condition, the court held, in
view of the fact, that the roads would otherwise be parallel
and competing roads, that the legislature could not relieve
from it without violating §87 of the constitution of the State.
The court expressed the law of the State to be that parallel
and competing roads could not consolidate, and that other
roads could only consolidate with the consent of the Railroad
Commission. And it was also said that the roads recognizing

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

the law stated in their petition to the Commission "that their
railroads were 'in no way parallel or competing lines,' and
expressly pledged themselves to broaden and standardize
the then existing narrow gauge railroad, and to make it a part
of the main line and operated by the consolidated corporation.

.

.

And it is upon this ground, and this ground

alone, that we now hold that the decree of the Chancellor should
be affirmed." The court took pains to repeat this limitation.
And, excluding other questions, the court said that it had
nothing to do with the location of the depot, and that it dealt
alone with the "obligation entered into" by the companies
with the Commission, "that only," to quote the words of the
court, "is the core of this contention and that, and that precisely, is what we deal with and decide in this case, to wit, that
these appellants [plaintiffs in error here] are bound by their
solemn obligations, deliberately entered into, as stated above,
to broaden and standardize the narrow guage railroad and
make it a part of the main line."
We have made these full quotations from the opinions and
decrees of the state courts to clearly show what facts were
found and what principles of law laid down that we might
estimate the Federal questions which it is contended are involved in the case. We have seen that the Federal grounds
invoked in the motion to dissolve the temporary injunction
were that the injunction imposed a direct and unnecessary burden upon and was an interference with interstate commerce,
and was an interference with the carrying of the United States
mails. In the amended answer the same grounds were repeated witl more circumstantiality and § 8, Article I, of the
Constitution of the United States, was invoked.
The same grounds were practically repeated in the assignment of errors on the appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State, and in addition the provision of § 10, Article I,
which prohibits any State from inpairing the obligation of a
contract was invoked on the ground that the decree of the
Chancery Court impaired "the obligation of the contract right

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 201
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to change the location of the narrow gauge road embodied in
§8 of the charter of the Ripley Railroad and in the articles
of organization of the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company."
In the assignments of error in this court the plaintiffs in
error have for the first time invoked the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. To sustain
this assignment it is contended that the Supreme Court of the
State, by directing the consolidated company "to operate the
spur track as soon as completed, connecting the main line on
the north with the town of Pontotoc," deprives plaintiffs in error
of their property without due process of law. And a like result is produced, it is also contended, by the decision of the
court holding the "Stegall Bill," so called, to be invalid. The
latter ground will be referred to hereafter. Of the other, it is
said, it arose for the first time upon the decree and opinion of
the Supreme Court, as it is further said that the decree of the,
Chancery Court did not deny the rights of the companies under
the Fourteenth Amendment. It is difficult to appreciate the
contention. The decree of the Chancery Court recited, among
other things, that no natural obstacles existed to prevent the
companies from extending their line "from the southern terminus" of the original line, and enjoined the companies from
building and operating any line that "did not include or comprise the original line of the Gulf and Chicago Railroad Company, as originally constructed and maintained," required
them to broaden and standardize the entire line of the original
narrow gauge railroad, and to construct their line of railway in
such a way as to include as a part of the main line "all of the line
of the narrow gauge line." And it was commanded that the
work commence within thirty days and be finished within sixty
days. The Supreme Court, in its opinion, said: "In view of
the various interests here involved, we direct the appellant to
operate the spur track as soon as completed, connecting the
main line on the north with the town of Pontotoc." The court
therefore accepted and approved what was already done and
modified the decree of the Chancery Court in the interest.of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

the companies. And it besides extended the time for compliance with the decree from sixty days to six months. But aside
from this, all of the contentions of the companies (except that
based on the "Stegall Bill," which will be presently considered)
depend upon the power of the Commission, the petition of the
companies and the order of the Commission upon the petition.
And these, we think, were all local questions the decisions of
which we have no power to review. There is nothing in the
statutes or Constitution of the United States which prevents a
State from creating a; board of railroad commissioners, and
what powers the board shall have will depend upon the law
creating them, of which the courts of the State are the absolute interpreters.: Whether corporations shall remain separate
or be permitted to consolidate is a matter of state regulation
and provision. It is competent also for a State to prescribe
the route of the railroad it creates and to provide that parallel
and competing lines shall remain so. And this power was exercised by the State of Mississippi. It is not exactly clear
whether this is disputed by the companies. It is, however,
contended that the Commission is a mere administrative
agency, and that its only real power or duty in the matter of
consenting to consolidations is to determine that such consolidations are not of parallel or competing roads, and that the
Commission' has nothing whatever to do with the terms of the
consolidation. And it is further contended that there was no
agreement or contract of any kind between the companies and
the Commission, that the order of the Commission was." merely
an official finding that the two roads came within the necessary statutory requirements," and that the attempt of the Supreme Court to base its decision and decree upon the ground
that the petition and order constituted a contract binding
upon the plaintiffs in error was a "mere pretext intendedto
avoid the determination of the Federal questions arising in the
case, and to place its decision on a non-Federal ground." We
cannot assent to this view. The power of the Commission and
the .effect of its order were necessarily presented by the case.

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 203
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

They were grounds of suit. They became, therefore, the immediate and primary questions to be decided. The power of
the Commission, and the effect of its order, depended upon the
statutes of the State, and of them, as we have said, the Su.reme Court is the absolute interpreter. The matter is exceedingly simple and is best explained by the reference to the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the State. The court declared
that the roads, but for their consolidation, would have been
parallel and competing roads, and in order to make their consolidation-in order to give the Commission power to consent
to their consolidation-the companies represented that the
roads were not parallel and competing. Of course, they would
not be if they were made parts of one line. And it was represented that they would be made parts of one line-to be made
so by the broadening of the narrow gauge road, not by its abandonment in whole or in part. Upon this representation, upon
this condition, the consent of the Commission was invoked and
secured.
Much -more discussion is unnecessary. It is enough to add
to that which we have said, that the decree of the Supreme
Court does not work an interference with or cast a direct burden
upon interstate commerce. The cake of the Illinois CentralR.R.
Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois,
177 U. S. 514, and Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335, cited by the companies to
sustain their contentions, are not apposite. In those cases
there was an interference with interstate trains for local purposes, though local needs had been adequately supplied. In
the case at bar there is the insistence of the operation of a
particular road, which the companies themselves selected or
represented that they had selected. That compliance will entail expense or require the exercise of eminent domain will not
make it a burden upon interstate commerce. Wisconsin &c.
R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287. Besides., the comparative
expense 'of roads, we must assume, was considered when the
petition to the Commission was made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinon of the Court.

210 U. S.

It is further contended by the companies that they had the
right, -under § 8 of the charter of the Ripley Railroad Company, to change the location of its line through the town of
Pontotoc, and that the charter constitutes a contract which
is impaired, it is further urged, by the laws creating the Railroad Commission, as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
Sate. Section 8 of the charter provides that for the purpose
of\ making the railroad provided for in § 2, "or repairing or
changing it afterwards," the railroad shall have rights of entering upon adjoining land, etc., upon making compensation
to the owners. What power this section confers may be open
to dispute. It may be said that the righ't of "this repairing or
changing" the railroad does not give the power to abandon it.
However, the Supreme Court did not pass upon the meaning

of § 8. The court said if that section gave the companies
-the power to change the line of the narrow gauge road as they
desited, they waived it, and are estopped to revoke it by their
obtaining the consent of the State through its Railroad Commission to broaden and standardize that line through its entire
length. This was a question for the Supreme Court to decide.
It was fairly presented to the court. We cannot question the
motives of its judgment; indeed we cannot saythat we dissent
from it. At any rate, it is not reviewable.. Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361; Weyerhauser v. Minnesota, 176 U. S. 550; Hale
v. Lewis, 181 U. S. 473; Schaefer v. Werling, 188 U. S. 516.
The final contention of plaintiff in error is based on the act
of the legislature of the State, called the "Stegall Bill." This
act
was passed after the decree of the Chancery Court, and it
Is contended
that it is an express legislative enactment
which
approved the location by the Gulf and Chicago Railway Company, as consolidated, of its railway through the town of Pontotoe, and authorized a continuance of the same on condition
that it should broaden and standardize the track into the old
town and to the site of the old station. These conditions, it
is asserted, were performed, and a contract was hence entered
into between the State and the railroad company, and that the

MOBILE, JACKSON &c. R. R. CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 205
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decision of the Supreme Court, "denying the obligation of this
contract, is either, (a) a law impairing the obligation of a contract; or (b) a denial to the plaintiff in error of the equal protection of the liws; or (c) the taking of their property without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendneht
of the Constitution of the United States."
The Supreme Court decided that the bill was unconstitutional, saying: "So far as the Stegall Bill is concerned, it is perfectly obvious, as already held in the former opinion, that this
special act, which was in substance for the benefit of this particular corporation, was, under the general statute laws, which
we have referred to with respect to consolidation, palpably
and manifestly violative of § 87 of the constitution, and
plairly null and void." This conclusion is attacked, and our
construction is. invoked of the constitutional provision against
that made by the Supreme Court of the State.
We are unable to yield to the appeal.

It is only when the

judgment of a state court gives'effect to a law ,ubsequent to
that (or it may be a constitution), which it is alleged constitutes a contract, that we may review the judgment and decide
the questicn of contract. And this would involve the construction of the law. But the record iresents no such case. The
"Stegall Bill," it is true, is claimed to be a contract, but its
validity is not asserted against a subsequent law. It is asser
ted against prior laws and the Constitution. The decision of
the court, therefore, 'was of that kind that a court is often
called to make under the laws and constitution of its State.
To assert error in the decision or even to be able to demonstrate
it does not invest us with the power of review. Nor do the
other supposed consequences of the decision of the Supreme
Court give us jurisdiction to review it. That it denies the
companies the equal protection of the law, we may say, is without any foundation. No discrimination against them is pointed
out, and to say that the decision takes their property without
due process of law is only another way of saying that they had
a contract, the obligation of which is impaired. Of course,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

210 U. S.

they assert rights under the "Stegall Bill," but in that they
present a very common case within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the state court.
Judgment affirmed.

OLD DOMINION COPPER MINING AND SMELTING
COMPANY v. LEWISOHN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 206.

Argued April 16, 20, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

A corporation remains unchanged and unaffected in its identity by changes
in its members, nor does it change its identity by increasing its capital
stock; and its legal action is equally binding on itself after such an increase
as it was prior thereto.
A corporation should not be allowed to disregard its assent previously given
in order to charge a single member with the whole results of a transaction
to which the greater part-in this case thirteen-fifteenths--of its stock
were parties for the benefit of the guilty and innocent alike.
148 Fed. Rep. 1020, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Louis D. Brandeis and Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with
whom Mr. William H. Dunbar was on the brief, for petitioner:
The sale was made by promoters to a corporation organized
for the purpose and exclusively controlled and represented by
them.
A corporation is entitled to relief against a sale made to it
by promoters who themselves control the corporation unless
all persons entitled to object acquiesce.
The rule is universal that if a vendor stands in a fiduciary
relation to his vendee the sale is voidable, unless independently
acquiesced in by the latter with full knowledge of all material

