OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

8.58

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S.

GLOBE NEWSPAPER COMPANY v. WALKER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 210. Argued April 23, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.
The right of an author in'the United States to multiply copies of his works
after publication is the creation of a new right by Federal statute under
constitutional authority and not a continuation of a common-law right.
Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 590.
While a general liability or right created by statute without a remedy may
be enforced by an appropriate common-law action, when a special remedy
is coupled therewith that remedy is exclusive. Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall.
520.
Although remedies given by a -statute to protect property in copyright may
be inadequate for the purpose 'intended, the courts cannot enlarge the
remedy. Congress alone has power so to do by amending the statute.
Congress having by §§ 4965-4970, Rev. Stat., provided a remedy for those
whose copyrights in maps are infringed, a civil action at common law for
.,money damages cannot be maintained against the infringers.
140 Fed. Rep. 305, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Quinby for plaintiff in error:
The common-law rights of authors run only to publication;
thereafter their sole protection is under the copyright statute.
A copyright cannot be maintained as a right existing at common
law, but d.epends wholly upon the copyright statutes. All
common-law rights of authors are superseded by the copyright
statute after copyright. Banks v. Manchester, 23 Fed. Rep.
143; S. C., 128 U.S. 244, 252:; Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Peters,
591, 662, 663; aff!d and followed in Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S.
82, 85; Werckmeister v. American Lithographic Co., 134 Fed.
Rep. 321; Palmer v. DeWitt, 47 N. Y. 532, 536; Jewellers Mercantile Agency v. Jewellers Weekly PublishingCo., 155 N. Y. 241.
The copyright act provides no remedy by a civil action

GLOBE NEWSPAPER CO. v. WALKJER.
210 U. S.

351,

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

either at law or in equity for damages on behalf of the owner
of a copyright of a map. Section 4965, Rev. Stat., Forfeiture;
Thornton v. Schreiber, 124 U. S. 612, 614; MacGillivray, Copyrights, 290; Chapman v. Ferry, 12 Fed. Rep. 693; Sarony v.
Ehrich, 28 Fed. Rep. 79.
The sole and only remedy provided by § 4965 for the infringement of a copyrighted " map" is the forfeiture to the
owner of the copyright of infringing copies and one dollar for
each copy found, etc. Section 4970 gives to the owner of a
copyrighted map in common with owners of other classes of
copyrighted property a remedy by injunction.
The owner of a cut or a map cannot avail himself of the
remedies, damages and forfeitures for copies sold or offered for
sale, provided for a book or a painting. Bennett v. Boston
Traveler, 101 Fed. Rep. 445; maps may be copyrighted as an
atlas or book. Black v. Allen, 42 Fed. Rep. 618, 625 (1890),
Shipman, J.
A general liability created by statute, without a remedy,
may be' enforced by an appropriate common-law action, but
where the provision for the liability is coupled with the provision for a special remedy, that remedy, and that alone, must
be employed. Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520; Farmers' &
Mechanics'National Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29; Barnet v.
National Bank, 98 U. S. 555; Arnson v. Murphy, 109 U. S. 238;
Fourth National Bank of New York v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 747.
The rule applied by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the case
at bar is in direct conflict with previous cases. See Sarony v.
Ehrich, 28 Fed. Rep. 79, 80; Bennett v. Boston Traveler Co., 101
Fed. P ep. 445.
The right of the defendant in error being a statutory right,
the rule as stated in Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, 526, 527;
Barnet v. National Bank, 98 U. S. 555; Arnson v. Murphy, 109
U. S. 238, controls and said rule is in no Way modified by the
decision in Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11, 17, relied
on by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

210 U. S.

Mr. H. L. Boutwell, with whom Mr. A. W. Levensaler was on
the brief, for defendants in error:
Original and exclusive jurisdiction in copyright and patent
cases is vested in the Circuit Courts of the United States. Rev.
Stat. § 629, par. 9; Rev. Stat. § 711, par. 5; see also Walker v.
Globe Newspaper Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 305, 315; Drone on
Copyright, p. 546; Harrington v. Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph
Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 329; Falk v. Curtis Pub. Co., 100 Fed. Rep.
77, 79; Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185
U. S. 282, 291; Littlefield v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205.
Where a right, previously existing by the common law, is
secured by a statute which provides no remedy for its protection, the common-law remedies are available, and where the
statute prescribes penalties and forfeitures, but does not provide a remedy for damages, the common-law action for damages will lie. This rule has been applied in the interpretation of
copyright statutes. Drone on Copyright, 473, 493; Sutherland
on Stat. Const. 509; 7 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2 ed.), 592-593;
Curtis on Copyright, 313; Copinger, Law of Copyright, 247-252;
Slater on Copyright, 168, 169. See also Beckford v. Hood, 7
T. R. 620; Thompson v. Symonds, 5 T. R. 41; Cadell v. Robertson, Paton's Appeal Cases, vol. 5, p. 493; Roworth v. Wilkes, 1
Camp. 94.
The plaintiff in error published a copy of the map of the
defendants in error in a single issue of its paper. Immediately
upon publication substantially the whole issue was distributed.
When the infringement was brought to the attention of the
defendants in error no substantial number of copies could be
found in tlie possession of the plaintiff in error. Equity furnished no relief, for the purpose of the plaintiff in error had been
accomplished. If this action cannot be maintained, then a
copyright of a map affords the map-makers of this country no
protection as against the publishers of newspapers. Are the
defendants in error without a remedy?
That the law confers no right without a remedy to secure
it is a maxim of the law. Becklord v. Hood, supra; 11 Ency. of

GLOBE NEWSPAPER CO. v. WALKER.
210 U. S:

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Law, 179; 1 Por. Eq. Jur. (2d ed.), § 423; Miller v. Jefferson
College, 5 Smed. & M. (Miss.) 661; Stanley v. Earl, 5 Litt. (Ky.)
282; Robinson v. Steamboat Red Jacket, 1 Michigan, 175.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit (140 Fed. Rep. 305) controls the question raised by
the assignment of error.
The Circuit Courts of Appeals have no jurisdiction over appeals and writs of error where the only assignments of error are
jurisdictional questions. The Annie Faxon, 87 Fed. Rep. 961;
Davis & R. Mfg. Co. v. Barber, 60 Fed. Rep. 465.
Where, however, the assignments include other errors, the
Circuit Courts of Appeals can determine the whole case, including the question of jurisdiction. The Alliance, 70 Fed. Rep. 273;
United States v. Sutton, 47 Fed. Rep. 129; Cabot v. McMaster,
65 Fed. Rep. 533; and it may certify the jurisdictional question
to this court. Rust v. United Water Worcs Co., 70 Fed. Rep.
129; American S. R. Co. v. Johnston, 60 Fed. Rep. 503; United
States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109.
Circuit Courts of Appeals have jurisdiction over questions
touching the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, unless the issue
has been made in the court below and certified to the Supreme
Court. Cabot v. McMaster, 65 Fed. Rep. 533, 534; limited in
King v. McLean, 64 Fed. Rep. 325, 327.
The provisions of the statute permit in the alternative, two
methods of procedure to bring before this court the question
of jurisdiction, namely:
To have the question certified directly from the Circuit Court;
or to carry the whole case to the Circuit Court of Appeals and'
the question of jurisdiction then certified by that court to the
Supreme Court.
When the unsuccessful party wishes to have the judgment
or decree reviewed upon jurisdictional grounds and other
grounds as well he cannot appeal to both this court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals. United States v. Jahn, supra;.
Columbus Const. Co. v.Crane, 174 U. S.600. See also McLish
v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, 667.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

210 U. S.

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, upon a question
of its jurisdiction to entertain a suit to recover damages for an
alleged infringement of the copyright of a map.
The Revised Statutes of the United States, §711, par. 5,
give jurisdiction to the courts of the United States in cases
arising under the patent right or copyright laws of the United
States, exclusive of the courts of the several States. The case
is one, therefore, which involves the jurisdiction of a Federal
court as such.
The defendants in error, plaintiffs below, partners under the
style of George H. Walker & Company, are the owners of a
certain copyrighted map, known as the "map of the electric
railways of the State of Massachusetts accompanying the report
of the railroad commissioners." They allege that they had
complied with all of the requirements of the copyright statutes
of the United States, and that the defendant, Globe Newspaper
Company, well knowing the' prenises, without the plaintiff's
consent, printed and sold a large number of the copies of the
copyrighted map. And the plaintiffs sought to recover damages
in an action at law thus begun for the alleged infringement of
the copyright.
The newspaper company demurred upon several grounds,
among others:
" 1. That the statutes relating to copyrights provide no
i emedy by a civil action on behalf of the owner of the copyright
of a map.
" 2. That the declaration confuses two separate and distinct
causes of action, neither of which is authorized by the statutes
relating to the copyright of maps.
" 3. That the declaration contains no allegation that any
copy or copies of the alleged infringing map complained of was
or were found in the possession of the defendant.
" 4. That the declaration contains no allegation that the

(HLOBE NEWSPAPER CO. v. WALKER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

alleged infringing map complained of, or any copy thereof,
was published with the knowledge or consent of the defendant,,
or any of its officers, or with any intent to evade the statutes
for the protection of the copyright for a map."
Upon hearing the demurrer the Circuit Court at its February
term, 1904, sustained the same, on the ground that the copyright law gave no such action, and judgment was entered for
the newspaper company. 130 Fed. Rep. 594. Walker &
Company took the case to the Court of Appeals, where the
judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed. 140 Fed. Rep.
305. That court, holding that the declaration contained a good
cause of action for money damages against the newspaper
company, the cause was remanded and a new trial had in the
Circuit Court, which resulted in a verdict and judgment in the
sum of $250 in favor of the Walker Company against the
Globe NewsDaper Company. At the trial the newspaper company moved that the action be dismissed and a verdict be directed for it, on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of
the action. At the close of the plaintiff's evidence in chief
the motibn was renewed; the court overruled the motion and
the defendant excepted. A like motion and order was made
at the close of all the evidence. The court made a certificate
that the denial of the motions aforesaid was based in each case
solely upon the ground that the cause set forth in the declaration was one, in the opinion.of the court, which arose under the
copyright laws of the United States, whereof the Circuit Court
of the United States had jurisdiction, and, in any event, its
action was controlled by the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in 140 Fed. Rep. 305. Thereupon the case came here
upon the question of jurisdiction.
A preliminary objection is made that this court cannot entertain jurisdiction of this writ of error, because the case is not
one which may properly come here under § 5 of the Court of
*Appeals Act of 1891, and it is contended that, as the case went
to the Circuit Court of Appeals and that court determined it,
if the present plaintiff in error wished to save the question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

jurisdiction it should have been duly certified to this court from
the Court of Appeals. But we are of the opinion that this
objection is untenable. The case was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals by Walker & Company. The judgment of the
Circuit Court was in favor of the newspaper company. It had
no occasion to take the case to the Court of Appeals. When
the Court of Appeals reversed the decision of the Circuit
Court and remanded the case for trial, because of its holding
that the declaration contained a cause of action in favor of
Walker & Company, 'the Circuit Court was bound by, and of
course followed, the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The newspaper company, in various forms, objected to the
jurisdiction of the court as a court of the United States, because there was no such action under the copyright law as was
asserted.in the declaration filed against it. Its objection to the
jurisdiction was overruled. It saved the question in various
ways and brought it here upon an adequate certificate, raising
solely the question of jurisdiction. We think we have jurisdiction of the case.
Certain propositions arising under the copyright" laws are
settled by the decisions of this court beyond the necessity of
further discussion. In this country the right of an author to
multiply copies of books, maps, etc., after publication, is the
creation of the Federal statutes. These statutes did not provide
for the continuation of the common-law right, but, under
constitutional authority, created a new right. This was
directly held in the case in this court of Wheaton et al., v. Peters
et al., 8 Pet. 590. That case has frequently been followed since,
and is diretly approved of in subsequent cases in this court.
Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, just decided, ante, page 339, and
the previous cases from this court therein cited.
The question in this case, therefore, is, whether in the absence of a statute to that effect, there is a common-law right of
action because of the right of property created by the statute
to recover money damages against infringers of a copyright.
That there is no express statutory provision giving such right

GLOBE NEWSPAPER CO. v. WALKER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of action is conceded. The Circuit Court (130 Fed. Rep. 594)
was of the opinion that the question was determined adversely
to plaintiffs below by the well-known case of Wheaton v. Peters,
8 Pet. supra. In that case the court held that there could be no
relief at common law in an action brought for the infringement
of the copyright of Wheaton's reports, because of the publication, since the passage of the copyright act, of condensed reports
of cases decided in the Supreme Court of the United States.
It was held that there was no common law of the United States,
and that for common-law rights this court looked to the State in
which the controversy originated, and the court held that there
was no common-law right in Pennsylvania to a perpetual copyright. And, further, held that Congress, by the copyright act
of 1790, instead of sanctioning an existing right, created a new
one, and said (p. 662) that " If the right of the complainant
can be sustained, it must be sustained under the acts of Congress." The judgment of the court below was reversed, and
the cause remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to
direct an issue of fact to be examined and tried by a jury as to
whether Wheaton, the author, or other person as proprietor,
had complied with the requirements of the copyright act of the
United States of May 31, 1790.
While we agree that the case did not necessarily decide the
point made in the present case, yet the reasoning and the decree
of the court decidedly favor the conclusion that Congress not
only created a new right in the copyright statute, but that the
remedies therein given are the only ones open to. those seeking
the benefit of the statutory right thereby created.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, conceding the effect of the
decision in Wheaton v. Peters, supra, as to the origin of property
in copyright, says:
"The property right being established, the common-law
remedies attach, whether the right arises out of the common

law or under a statute, unless there is something in the statute
to the cofitrary."
And in support of this doctrine reliance is had on Beckford v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

Hood, 7 T. R. 620. That was an action on the case to recover
damages for the publication of the plaintiff's book, " Thoughts
upon Hunting." Neither the original nor any subsequent
editions were entered in Stationers' Hall, as required by the
statute. The defendant published the same work under title
"Thoughts upon Hare and Fox Hunting," with plaintiff's
name upon the title page.
Lord Kenyon, C. J., in the opinion delivered by him, held that
the statute, 8 Anne, chap. 9, vested in authors for the periods
named in the act the sole right and liberty of printing, etc., and
the statute, having vested the right in the author, the common
law gave the remedy by action on the 'case. " Of this," says
Lord Kenyon, p. 627, "there could have been no doubt made
if the statute had stopped there. But it has been argued that
as the statute in the same clause that creates the right has
prescribed -a particular remedy, that and no other can be
resorted to. And if such appeared to have been the intention
of the legislature, I should have subscribed to it, however
inadequate it might be thought;" and, concluding his opinion,
says:
"On the fair construction of this act, therefore, I think it
vests the right of property in authors of literary works for the
times therein limited, and that consequently the common-law
remedy attaches if no other be specifically given by the act,
and I cannot consider the action given to a common informer
for the penalties which might be preoccupied by another as a
remedy to the party grieved within the meaning of the act."
The gist of this decision is that the statute gave the right
of exclusive publication of copies, and gave the proprietor of
the copyright no remedy; hence the common law supplied one.
As we shall have occasion to see, the American copyright act
does give special remedies to the owner of a copyright of maps.
Inadequate it may be to fully protect the property in the copyright, yet such as Congress has seen fit to give, and which it,
not the courts, have power to enlarge by amendment of the
statutes.

GLOBE NEWSPAPER CO. v. WALKER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And we think an inspection of the copyright statute indicates
that the purpose of Congress was not only to create the rights
granted in the statute, but also to create the specific remedies
by which alone such rights may be enforced. The general rule
applicable in such cases was stated in Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall.
520:
"A general liability created by statute, without a remedy,
may be enforced by an appropriate common-law action, but
where the provision for the liability is coupled with the provision for a special remedy that remedy, and that alone, must
be employed."
Pollard v. Bailey has been many times cited with approval
and followed in this court. In Middleton Nat'l Bank v. Toledo,
Ann Arbor & Northern Michigan R. R., 197 U. S.394, the principle was applied in an action brought outside the State of
Ohio to recover the stockholders' liability given by the statutes
of that State, and it was held that the action could not be
maintained; that the statutory method providing for the enforcement of the right in the courts of the State must be followed. Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the court, said:
" The statute, under such circumstances, may be said to so
far provide for the liability and to cieate the remedy as to make
it necessary to follow its provisions and to conform to the procedure provided for therein. See Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall.
520, 526; Fourth Nat'l Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 747, 756;
Evans v. Nellis, 187 U. S.271."
Looking to the copyright statutes, we find a comprehensive
system of rights and remedies provided. Section 4952 provides
that the author, inventor, designer or proprietor of any book,
map, etc., upon complying with the provisions of this section,
"shall have the sole liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing,
completing, copying, executing, finishing and vending the
same." This is the section creating the right.
Section 4963 provides for a penalty of $100 for falsely inserting or inpressing a copyright notice where no copyright has
been obtained. The penalty in this section .is recoverable, one-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

half for the person suing for the same, and one-half to the use
of the United States; and the Circuit Courts of the United
States sitting in equity are authorized to enjoin the issuing,
publishing or selling of articles marked or imported in violation
of the copyright laws of the United States.
By § 4964 it is provided, as to books, that those who print,
publish, dramatize, translate or import the same, without the
consent of the proprietor of the copyright, signed in the presence
of two witnesses, or who knowing the same to be so printed,
published, dramatized and translated or imported, shall sell, or
expose to sale any copies of such article, shall forfeit every copy
thereof to the proprietor of the copyright, and shall also forfeit
and pay such damages as may be recovered in a civil action by
the proprietor of the copyright in any court of competent
jurisdiction. Here is a specific remedy given to recover damages for books wrongfully printed or published, etc., in violation
of the act. While Congress conferred this action to protect
copyrighted books, for some reason it does not include the
holders of copyrighted maps within its provisions.
Section 4965 relates to the owners of copyrights on maps,
charts,'etc., and provides for the forfeiture of plates and copies,
and for the recovery of money penalties in certain cases, onehalf of the penalty to go to the proprietor of the copyright, the
other half to the use of the United States.
Section 4966 gives remedies for damages against those wrongfully performing or representing a dramatic, or musical composition, in public, such damages to be assessed at such sum, not
less than $100 for the first and $50 for every subsequent performance, as to the court may seem j.ust, and such offending persons are declared guilty of a misdemeanor, anal, upon conviction,
liable to imprisonment not exceeding one year; or an injunction
may be granted upon hearing, after notice to the defendant, by
any Circuit Court of the United States.
Section 4967 gives an action for damages for printing or
publishing any manuscript without the consent of the author
or proprietor.

GLOBE NEWSPAPER CO. v. WALKER.
2i0 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 4970 provides for injunctions in copyright cases in
the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, by bill in
equity, to prevent the violation of any right secured by the
laws respecting copyrights, according to the course and principles of courts of equity, on such terms as the court may deem
reasonable.
We think these statutes, taken together, indicate the purpose
of Congress to provide a system of remedies to enforce the
rights which have been granted to those who shall avail themselves of the statutes of the United States, and, in accordance
therewith, become the owners of the exclusive right for a
limited term to publish and multiply the copyrighted work.
To the owner of a copyright on a map is given, under § 4965,
forfeiture of plates and sheets, and one-half the penalty of
$1 for every sheet found in the defendant's possession; under
§ 4970, the right to proceed by injunction. It thus appears
that Congress has prescribed the remedies it intends to give,
this being true, " however inadequate," as Lord Kenyon
said in Beckford v. Hood, supra, " no others can be resorted to."
We, therefore, think the Circuit Court erred in holding that
it had jurisdiction of this action by virtue of the laws of the
United States.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause
remanded to that court, with directions to disitiss the action
for want of jurisdiction.
Reversid.

