CASES

ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE COMPANY v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
MINNESOTA AND DAKOTA CATTLE COMPANY v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 178, 179.

Argued March 13, 16, 1908.-Decided May 4, 1908.

The fact that each party asks for a peremptory instruction to find in his
favor does not submit the issues of fact to the court so as to deprive either
party of the right to ask other instructions and to except to the refusal to
give them, or to deprive him of the right to have questions of fact submitted to the jury where the evidence on the issues joined is conflicting or
divergent inferences may be drawn therefrom. Beuttell v. Magone, 157
U. S. 154, distinguished.
Although a peremptory instruction of the trial court cannot be sustained
on the ground that both parties having asked a peremptory instruction
the case was taken from the jury notwithstanding special instructions
had been asked by the defeated party, the verdict will be sustained if the
evidence was of such a conclusive character that it would have been the
duty of the court to set aside the verdict had it been for the other party.
The Kansas City flood of 1903 was so unexpected and of such an unprecedented character that a railroad company was not, under the circumstances of this case, chargeable with negligence in sending cattle. trains
via Kansas City or for failing to move the cattle from the stock yards
before the climax of the flood.
The duty that may rest on a carrier under normal conditions to transport
merchandise by a particular, and the most advantageous, route is re-

VOL. CCX-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

210 U. S.

strained and limited by the right of the carrier, in case of necessity, to
resort to such other reasonable direct route as may be available under
the existing conditions to carry the freight to its destination, and if such
necessity exists, in the absence of negligence in selecting the changed
route, the carrier is not responsible for damages resulting from the change
even if such change may be, in law, a concurring and proximate cause
of such damages.
147 Fed. Rep. 457.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James S. Botsford, with whom Mr. Buckner F. Deatherage, Mr. Odus G. Young and Mr. R. E. Ball were on the brief,
for petitioners:
The court should have submitted the question of negligence
to the jury, it being the settled law of the Federal appellate
courts that it is the province of the jury to determine that question. Railroad Co. v' Stout, 17 Wall. 657; Union Pacific Ry.
Co. v. McDonald, 152 U. S. 262, 275; Marandev. R. R. Co., 184
U. S. 173.
The question of proximate cause was also a question for the
jury, and should have been submitted to them. Milwaukee &
St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469; Webb v. Rome, Watertown & Ogdensburg R. R. Co., 49 N. Y. 420; PennsylvaniaR. R.
Co. v. Hope, 80 Pa. St. 373; Kellogg v. The Chicago & Northwestern R. R. Co., 26 Wisconsin, 224; Perley v. The Eastern
R. R. Co., 98 Massachusetts, 414; Higgins v. Dewey, 107 Massachusetts, 404; Tent v. The Toledo, Peoria & Warsaw R. R. Co.,
49 Illinois, 349.
Contributory negligence of the carrier renders it liable, notwithstanding the act of God relied on by it as the cause. Sweezey v. Philadelphia, 64 Pa. St. 106; Helbling v. Cemetery Co.,
201 Pa. St. 171; Morrison v. Davis, 20 Pa. St. 176; Williams
v. Grant, 1 Connecticut, 487; Wallace v. Clayton, 42 Georgia,
443; Railroad Co. v. White, 88 Georgia, 805; Merritt v. Earle,
29 N. Y. 115, 116/; Michaels v. RailroadCo., 30 N. Y. 564, 570;
Bibb Broom Corn Co. v. A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 102 N. W. Rep.
(Minn.) 709; Railroad Co. v. Curtiss, 80 Illinois, 324; Wald v.

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v. ATCHISON RY. CO. 3
210 U. S,

Argument for Petitioners.

Railroad Co., 162 Illinois, 545; Blodgett v. Abbott, 72 Wisconsin,
516; Nelson v. Railway Co., 72 Pac. Rep. (Mont.) 643, 651;
Steamboat Co. v. Tiers, 24 N. J. L. 697; Railroad Co. v. David,
6 Heisk, 261; McGraw v. Railroad Co., 18 W. Va. 361; Smith
v. Railway Co., 91 Alabama, 455; Coosa Steamboat Co. v. Barclay, 30 Alabama, 12, 127; Nugent v. Smith, 1 C. P. Div. 19, 423;
1 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 595; 5 Am. & Eng. Enc.
of Law (2d ed.), 234; Hutchinson on Carriers, §§ 181, 187,
188; 6 Enc. of L. & P., 377-384; Strouss v. Railway Co., 17
Fed. Rep. 209, 212; Caldwell v. Southern Exp. Co., 4 Fed. Cas.
1036, No. 2,303; Thompkins v. Duchess of Ulster, 24 Fed. Cas.
32, No. 14,087a; Southern Pac. Co. v. Schoer, 52 C. C. A. 269,
274; Newport News Co. v. United States, 9 C. C. A. 579; Clark
v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272, 280; Holladay v. Kennard, 12 Wall.
254; Gleason v. Railroad Co., 140 U. S. 433; The Majestic, 166
U. S. 376, 386; GratiotW. H. Co. v. Railway Co., 102 S. W. Rep.
11.
By the deviation of the cattle from Strong City they were
taken from a safe place into what was then known to be a
hazardous place. If the deviation from Strong City to Kansas
City was made without the consent of the shippers, then,
according to all the authorities, it was wrongful, and the company is liable on that ground alone. Crosby v. Fitch, 12 Connecticut, 410, 420, 423; Railroad Co. v. Beck, 125 Pa. St. 620;
Phillips v..Bingham, 26 Georgia, 617; Railroad Co. v. Cole, 68
Georgia, 623; Cassilay v. Young, 4 B. Mon. 265; Sager v. Railroad Co., 31 Maine, 228, 238; RailroadCo. v. Washburn, 22 Ohio
St. 324; Express Co. v. Smith, 33 0. St. 511; Brown Co. v. Railroad Co., 63 Minnesota, 546; Hendricks v: Steamship Co., 18 La.
Ann. 353; Hastings v. Pepper, 11 Pick. 41; Proctor v. Railroad
Co., 105 Massachusetts, 512; Railway Co: v. Allison, 59 Texas,
193; Johnson v. Railway Co., 33 N. Y. 610; Goodrich v. Thompson, 44 N. Y. 324; Maghee v. RailroadCo., 45 N. Y. 514; Keeney
v. Railway Co., 47 N. Y. 525; Robertson v. Nat. S. S. Co., 14
N. Y. Supp. 313; Seavey Co. v. Union Trans. Co., 106 Wisconsin,
394; Railway Co. v. Brichetto, 72 Mississippi, 891; RailroadCo.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Respondent.

210 U. S.

v. Odil, 96 Tennessee, 61; Mer. Dis. Tr. Co. v. Kahn, 76 Illinois,
520; 1 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 594; 5 Am. & Eng.
Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 422, 426; Hutchinson on Carriers,
§§ 190, 191; Lawson on Bailments, § 127; 6 Cyc. of Law &
Pro. 383; Marsh v. Union Pac. R. E. Co., 9 Fed. Rep. 873;
Insurance Co. v. LeRoy, 7 Cranch, 26; Hostetter v. Park, 137
U. S. 30, 40; Constable v. Steamship Co., 154 U. S. 51, 61;
Texas & P. Ry. Co. v. Eastin (Texas), 102 S. W. Rep. 105.
Mr, Gardiner Lathr~p and Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom
Mr. William R. Smith and Mr. C. Angevine were on the brief,
for respondent:
As each party asked for a peremptory instruction in its favor
and argued and submitted such instructions together to the
court, and the court determined the same, it must be assumed
that they both submitted the case to the court to find the facts
upon the assumption that under the evidence there was only
involved a question of law as to liability or nonliabilify. Beuttell v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154; Bankers' Mutual Casualty Co. v.
State Bank of Go fs, 150 Fed. Rep. 78; City of Defiance v. McGonigale, 150 Fed. Rep. 689; Johnson's Admr. v. C. & 0. Ry.
Co., 21 S. E. Rep. 238; S. C., 91 Virginia, 171; Insurance Co. v.
Wisconsin Central Ry., 134 Fed. Rep. 794, 798; Empire State
Cattle Co. v. A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 147 Fed.- Rep. 459; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Sansom, 84 S. W. Rep. 615, 616;
S. C., 113 Tennessee, 683.
Nevertheless, as the evidence was of such a conclusive character in favor of the defendant that the trial court would have
been obliged to set aside a verdict in favor of plaintiffs, it
therefore properly directed a verdict for the defendant. This
is true not only in respect to any question of alleged negligence,
but also in respect to the question whether such alleged negligence was the proximate cause of the damage and also whether
there was any wrongful deviation from instructions, if any, of
the shipper, or from any alleged agreement of defendant. West
v. Camden, 135 U. S. 508; Southern Pacific Co. v. Pool, 160

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v. ATCHISON RY. CO.
210 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

U. S. 440; GoodlanderMill Co. v. StandardOil Co., 63 Fed. Rep.
400; Christensonv. Metropolitan Street Ry. Co., 137 Fed. Rep.
708; Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S. 18;'Pattonv. Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658.
The overflowing of the Kansas City stock yards by this flood
being sudden, extraordinary and unprecedented, defendant
cannot be held liable for damages caused in consequence thereof
as it could not be expected to anticipate the unusual character
of the same. The antecedent delay at Strong City and Wellington, as well as the taking of the cattle to and depositing the
same in the Union stock yards for. the connecting carrier was
not culpable negligence, as it could not be anticipated at the
time that the disaster complained of was likely to result from
any of the preceding acts of the defendant. Such a disaster
was not then probable. Lightfoot v. St. Louis & San Francisco
Ry. Co., 104 S.W. Rep. 483; Insurance Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S.
130, 131; Danielv. Directors &c. of MetropolitanRy. Co., L. R., 5
Eng. & Ir. App. (House of Lords) 45; Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co.
v. Kellogg, 94 U. S.475; Kreigh v. Westinghouse, Church, Kerr &
Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 120; Cole v. German Savings &c. Society, 124
Fed. Rep. 113; Stetanowski v. Chain Belt Co., 109 N. W. Rep.
532; Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Columbia, 65 Kansas, 390; S.C., 69 Pac.
Rep. 338; Morrison v. Davis, 20 Pa. St. 175; RailroadCompany
v. Reeves, 10 Wallace, 176; C., St. P. M. & 0. Ry. v. Elliott, 55
Fed. Rep. 949--952; Schefier v. Railroad Company, 105 U. S.
249; Glassey v. Worcester Con. St. Ry. Co., 185 Massachusetts,
315; S. C., 70 N. E. Rep. 199; Stone v. B. & A. R. R. Co., 171
Massachusetts, 536; S.C., 51 N. E. Rep. 1; Vol. 7, Rose's Notes
to U. S. Rep., Reeves Case, pp. 297, 298; Hutchinson on Carriers, 2d ed. by Meachem, §§ 193-195; 5 Am. & Eng. Enc.
of Law (2d ed.), 259, 260.
As during the transit over defendant's lines a necessity arose
which showed that the cattle could not be delivered by it to
the Burlington road at Atchison, as it had intended to do,
without further delays likely to injure the shipment, it was in
any aspect of the case justified in arranging for delivery to

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

the Missouri Pacific at Kansas City and in transporting the
cattle to the Union stock yards at that place. In doing so there
would have been no wrongful deviation even if the contract
had expressly provided for carriage over its own line to Atchison. It was simply acting in accordance with a well-established
custom. Hostetter v. Park, 137 U. S. 31, 40; M., K. & T. R. R.
Co. v. Olive, 23 S. W. Rep. 526; 1 Am. & Eng. Eno. of Law
(2d ed.), 1063; Ray's Negligence of Imposed Duties, 317;
International &c. Ry. Co. v. Wentworth, 27 S. W. Rep. 680;
Propeller Niagara v. Cordes, 21 How. 7; Reade v. Comm. Ins.
Co., 3 Johns. 352; Fosterv. Great Western Ry. Co., L. R. (1904),
2 K. B. Div. 306.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

With the object of saving them from destruction by the flood
which engulfed portions of Kansas City on May 31 and the first
week of June, 1903, more than three thousand head of cattle
belonging to the petitioners, which were in the Kansas City
stock yards, were driven and crowded upon certain overhead
viaducts in those yards. For about seven days, until the subsidence of the flood, they were there detained and could not be
properly fed and watered. Many of them died and the remainder were greatly lessened in value. These actions were brought
by the petitioners to recover for the loss so sustained upon the
ground that the cattle were in the control of the defendant railway company as a common carrier, and that the loss sustained
was occasioned by its negligence.
The railwky company defended in each case upon the ground
that before the loss happened it had delivered the cattle to a
connecting carrier, but that if the cattle were in its custody
it was without fault, and the damage was solely the result of
an act of God, that is, the flood above referred to.
As the cases depended upon substantially similar facts and
involved identical questions of law, they were tried together,
and at the close of the evidence the trial court denied a peremp-

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v.ATCHISON RY. CO. 7
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tory instruction asked on behalf of the plaintiffs, and gave one
asked on behalf of the railway company. 135 Fed. Rep. 135.
While there was some contention in the argument as to what
took place concerning the requests for peremptory instructions,
we think the bill of exceptions establishes that at the close of
the evidence the plaintiffs requested a peremptory instruction
in their favor, and on its being refused duly excepted and asked
a number of special instructions, which were each in turn refused, and exceptions were separately reserved, and the court
then granted a request for a peremptory instruction in favor of
the railway company, to which the plaintiffs excepted.
On the writs of error which were prosecuted from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit that court affirmed
the judgment on the ground that as both parties had asked a
peremptory instruction the facts were thereby submitted to
the trial judge, and hence the only inquiry open was whether
any evidence had been introduced which tended to support the
inferences of fact drawn by the trial judge from the evidence.
One of the members of the Circuit Court'of Appeals (Circuit
Judge Sandborn) did not concur in the opinion of the court,
because he deemed that as the request for peremptory instruction made on behalf of plaintiffs was followed by special requests seeking to have the jury determine the facts, the asking
for a peremptory instruction did not amount to a submission
of the facts to the court so as to exclude the right to have the
case go to the jury in accordance with the subsequent special
requests. He, nevertheless, concurred in the judgment of
affirmance, because, after examining the entire case, he was
of opinion that prejudicial error had not been committed, as
the evidence was insufficient to have justified the submission
of the issues to the jury. 147 Fed. Rep. 457.
The cases are here because of the allowance of writs of certiorari. They present similar questions of fact and law, were
argued together and, are, therefore, embraced in one opinion.
The scppe of the inquiry before us needs, at the outset, to be
accurately fixed. To do so requires us to consider the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

which gave rise to a division of opinion in the Circuit Court of
Appeals. If it be that the request by both parties for a peremptory instruction is to be treated as a submission of the cause
to the court, despite the fact that the plaintiffs asked special
instructions upon the effect of the evidence then, as said in
Beuttell v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154, "the facts having been thus
submitted to the court, we are limited in reviewing its action,
to a consideration of the correctness of the finding on the law
and must affirm if there be any evidence in support thereof."
If, on the other hand; it be that, although the plaintiffs had
requested a peremptory instruction, the right to go to the jury
was not waived in view of the other requested instructions,
then our inquiry has a wider scope, that is, extends to determining whether the special instructions asked were rightly
refused, either because of their inherent unsoundness or because,
in any event, the evidence was not such as would have justified
the court in submitting the case to the jury. It was settled in
Beuttell v. Magone, supra, that where both parties request a
peremptory instruction and do nothing more, they thereby
assume the facts to be undisputed and in effect submit to the
trial judge the determination of the inferences proper to be
drawn from them. But nothing in that ruling sustains the view
that a party may not request a peremptory instruction, and yet,
upon the refusal of the court to give it, insist, by appropriate
requests, upon the submission of the case to the jury, where the
evidence is conflicting or the inferences to be drawn from the
testimony. are divergent. To hold the contrary would unduly
extend the doctrine of Beuttell v. Magone, by causing it to
embrace a case not within the ruling in that case made. The
distinction between a case like the one before us and that which
was under consideration in Beuttell v. Magone has been pointed
out in several recent decisions of Circuit Courts of Appeals. It
was accurately noted in an opinion delivered by Circuit Judge
Severens, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, in Minahan v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 37,
41, and was also lucidly stated in the concurring opinion of

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v.ATCHISON RY. CO. 9
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Shelby, Circuit Judge, in McCormack v. National City Bank of
Waco, 142 Fed. Rep. 132, where, referring to Beuttell v. Magone,
he said (p. 133):
"A party may believe that a certain fact which is proved
without conflict or dispute entitles him to a verdict. But there
may be evidence of other, but controverted facts, which, if
proved to the satisfaction of the jury, entitles him to a verdict,
regardless of the evidence on which he relies in the first place.
It cannot be that the practice would not permit him to ask for
peremptory instructions, and, if the court refuses, to then
ask for instructions submitting the other question to the
jury. And if he has the right to do this, no request for instructions that his opponent may ask can deprive him of the right.
There is nothing in Beuttell v. Magone, supra, that conflicts
with this view when the announcement of the court is applied
to the facts of the case as stated in the opinion.
"In New York there are many cases showing conformity to
the practice announced in Beuttell v. Magone, but they clearly
recognize the right of a party who has asked for peremptory
instructions to go to the jury on controverted questions of
fact if he asks the court to submit such questions to the jury.
Kirtzv. Peck, 113 N. Y. 226; S. C.,21 N. E. 130;Sutterv. Vanderveer, 122 N. Y. 652; S.C., 25 N. E. 907.
"The fact that each party asks for a peremptory instruction
to find in his favor does not submit the issues of fact to the court
so as to deprive the party of the right to ask other instructions,
and to except to the refusal to give them, nor does it deprive
him of the right to have questions of fact submitted to the jury
if issues are joined on which conflicting evidence has been of-0
fered. Minahan v. G. T. W. Ry. Co. (C. C. A.), 1'8 Fed. Rep.
37."
From this it follows that the action of the trial court in giving
the peremptory instruction to return a verdict for the railway
company cannot be sustained merely because of the request
made by both parties for a peremptory instruction in view of
the special requests asked on behalf of the plaintiffs. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

correctness, therefore, of the action of the court in giving the
peremptory instruction depends, not upon the mere requests
which were made on that subject, but upon whether the state
of the proof was such as to have authorized the court, in the
exercise of a sound discretion, to decline to submit the cause
to the jury. That is to say, the validity of the peremptory
instruction must depend upon whether the evidence was so
undisputed or was of such a conclusive character as would have
made it the duty of the court to set aside the verdicts if the cases
had been given to the jury and verdicts returned in favor of
the plaintiff. McGuire v. Blount, 199 U. S. 142, 148, and cases
,cited; Marande v. Texas & P. R. Co., 184 U. S. 191, and cases
cited; Southern Pacific Co. v. Pool, 160 U. S. 440, and cases
cited.
To dispose of this question requires us to consider somewhat
in detail the origin of the controversy, the contracts of shipment
from which the controversy arose and the proof which is embodied in the bill of exceptions relied on to justify the inference
of liability on the part of the railway company.
The action brought by the Minnesota and Dakota Cattle
Company concerned 1,635 head of cattle, shipped from Kenna,
in the Territory of New Mexico, and 659 head, shipped from
Bovina, Texas, both in the latter part of May, 1903, to Evarts,
South Dakota, over the line of the Pecos Valley and Northeastern Railway Company, to be transported by that company
"and connecting carriers." The other action concerned 798
head of cattle, shipped about the same time, at Hereford, Texas,
by the Pecos and Northern Texas Railway Company, "and
connecting 6arriers," to the same place in South Dakota.
There were written contracts of shipment, which it was declared embodied the entire agreement of the parties, and which
contained stipulations restricting the liability of each carrier
to his own line. In none of the contracts was there a specification as to the several lines of railroad over which the cattle
should be transported. The station agent of the initial carrier,
however, delivered way bills to the train conductors, routing the

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v. ATCHISON RY. CO. 11
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cattle by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railway to Atchison, thence by the Burlington Railroad from Atchison to Council Bluffs, and thence by the Milwaukee road from Council
Bluffs to destination in South Dakota. Such station agent
also made a memorandum on the back of some of the contracts,
"Hereford to Atchison;" on others the endorsement was
"Kenna, N. M., to Evarts, S. D.;" on others the endorsement
was "Kenna, N. M., to Atchison, Kan.;" on others the endorsement was" Bovina, Tex., to Atchison, Kan." It was stipulated
that the stock was not to be transported in any specified time
nor delivered at destination at any particular date, nor in season
for any particular market. The shipper also expressly assumed
the risk of and released the company from any loss which might
be sustained by reason of any delay in the transportation of
the stock or injury thereto caused by damage to tracks or yards
from storms and washouts. There was also an express agreement on the part of the shipper to care for the stock at feeding
points. The company on its part agreed as follows:
"The company agrees to stop cars at any of its stations for
watering and feeding, where it has facilities for so doing, whenever requested to do so in writing by the owner or attendant
in charge, andthe party of the second part agrees not to confine
his stock for longer period than twenty-eight consecutive hours
without unloading the same for rest, feeding and water for
a period of at least five consecutive hours, provided he is
not prevented from doing so by storm or other accidental
causes."
The Pecos Valley and Northeastern Railway was the more
southerly of the initial carriers. It connected at its northern
terminus with the Pecos and Northern Texas road, and this
latter road connected with the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6.
This latter road, from its point of connection with the Pecos
and Northern Texas Railway Company (at Amarillo or Higgins, Texas), extends in a generally northeasterly direction
through Oklahoma and Kansas. The main line extends 4by
way of Topeka to Kansas City, but at Emporia, :south of To-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

peka, there is a branch line or cut-off extending towards Kansas
City, and which joins the main line running from Topeka to
Kansas City at a place called Holliday, thirteen miles west of
Kansas City. From Toveka, where the main line veers eastwardly to Kansas City, there is a branch line running to Atchison, .which is about fifty miles north or northwest of Kansas
City, on the Missouri River. At Kansas City both the Burlington and the Missouri Pacific systems connect with the Atchison,
the two roads named operating lines which run in a northwesterly direction, on opposite banks of the Missouri River, to
Council Bluffs and Omaha, respectively, and the two roads in
question also connect at Atchison with the Achison road, which
reaches that point by the branch from Topeka. The Missouri
Pacific and Burlington systems connect, respectively, at Omaha
and Council Bluffs with the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway, and the latter road extends to Evarts, South Dakota.
The Atchison company had feeding yards at Wellington and
Strong City, these places being on the line of its road and situ'
ated to the south of Emporia. The road also had feeding yards
at Emporia. There was no yard for such purposes, however,
between Emporia and Atchison, or at Atchison itself, nor did
the Burlington road have feeding yards at Atchison. The proof
also was that to unload and reload an ordinary trainload of
cattle required from four to five hours. There were in 1903,
when the shipments in question were made, as there are at the
present time, large public stock yards at Kansas City, where
stock in transit could be unloaded for feeding and rest, and to
enable it to be transferred from one road to another.
The cattle in controversy were conveyed from the starting
points in four trains, and the order in which they arrived at
feeding stations was as follows: Empire Company train (21
cars), arrived at Strong City (north of and run of five hours from
Wellington) on Wednesday, May 27, 1903, 12:10 A. M.; First
Minnesota Company train (20 cars), arrived at Wellington on
Tuesday, May 26, 1903, between 10 and 11 P.M.; Second MinneSota Company train (19 cars), arrived at Wellington on Wed-

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v. ATCHISON RY. CO. 13
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nesday, May 27, 1903, 5:30 P. M.; Third Minnesota Company
train (20 cars), arrived at Wellington on Wednesday, May 27,
1903, between 6 and 7 F. M.
About six or seven hours before the arrival at Strong City of
the triin containing the Empire company cattle, above referred to, a shipment of cattle made by the same company
to the same destination, but Which is not here involved, had
reached Strong City, and had been there unloaded for feeding
and rest. Early en the next morning (Wednesday, May 27),
the reloading of these cattle was commenced, but was stopped
because of a notice to the Atchison of a washout on the Burlington road, north of Atchison. Notice, however, having been
received by the Atchison from the Burlington on the afternoon
of the same day that the washout had been repaired, the cattle
were again reloaded and the train left Strong City at about
8:30 o'clock that night (Wednesday, May 27). -In ordinary
iourse the train would have been delivered to the Burlington
at Atchison at about daylight the next (Thursday) morning,
but about one o'clock on that morning the. Burlington sent the
following message to the Atchison company: "We cannot now
accept Evarts stock. Our line washed out again. Will inform
you when we can transmit stock." " The chief clerk of the general superintendent of the Atchison, in communicating this
message to him, also informed him that the track at Valley
Falls, a station on the Atchison road between Topeka and
Atchison, was in very bad condition, and that there was "no
certainty as to how long it will be passable." We shall trace the
further movement of this train hereafter.
Promptly after its arrival at Wellington the cattle in the
first train of the Minnesota company were unloaded for food
and rest. They were reloaded at about five o'clock on Wednesday morning, May 27. When information as to the washout
on the Burlington came early on that morning the cattle were
again unloaded, but when the notification was received that
the tracks of the Burlington had been repaired the cattle were
a second time reloaded, and the train left Wellington that even-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

ing at about eight o'clock for Atchison. When the train was a
few miles east of Strong City, very early on Thursday morning,
it was ordered to return as far as Strong City and there unload.
This order was given in consequence of the second message from
the Burlington road above referred to. From this situation
it resulted that all the cattle in controversy Avere in the yards of
the Atchison at Wellington or Strong City, that road being
uncertain as to the condition of its own tracks on the branch
road from Topeka to Atchison, and knowing to a certainty that
the Burlington. had declined to receive the cattle at Atchison,
on account of the condition of its tracks. Under these circumstances, promptly, on Thursday morning, negotiations were
commenced by the Atchison with the Missouri Pacific road and
by noon that road had agreed to receive the cattle at Kansas
City, and soon afterward instructions were given to load the
stock then at Wellington and Strong City, preparatory to being
forwarded to Kansas City-.
The first Empire company train, which was on its way to
Atchison when the information of the break came, on.Thursday
morning, and whose movements we have said we would hereafter trace, along with a train of twenty-two cars which had
preceded it with cattle destined to Sioux City, were ordered
to proceed to Kansas City, and did so. One of the Minnesota
company trains, of nineteen cars, at the Wellington yards was
also directed to depart for Kansas City on Thursday. Before,
however, it was practicable to move the other cattle trains
which remained at Wellington and Strong City, uncertainty
arose as to the ability of the Missouri Pacific to take the cattle
forward from Kansas City, caused by a telegram on that subject, received from the general superintendent of the Missouri
Pacific road. By about nine o'clock on that (Thursday) evening, however, this uncertainty was dispelled, and about the
same time the Atchison company was notified by the Burlington that it also was in condition to' receive and forward cattle
at Kansas City. On the next (Friday) morning the first Minnesota company train of twenty cars, which was at Strong City,

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v. ATCHISON'RY. CO. 15
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to which point it had been turned back on the advice of the
washout on the Burlington road, and the Empire train of
twenty-one cars originally unloaded at Strong City were reloaded, and the two trains were consolidated into one and
started about noon on Friday for Kansas City. So, also, the
third Minnesota company train of twenty cars, which had been
held at Wellington waiting for an opportunity to send it forward, left there early Friday morning.
The three trainloads of cattle previously referred to, which
had been ordered to Kansas City ahd started for that point
during Thursday before the uncertainty arose as to the ability
of the Missouri Pacific to receive and forward the cattle from
Kansas City, reached that place as follows: forty-two cars,
consisting of the Sioux City and first Empire train, arrived on
the morning of Friday, and were delivered to the Burlington and
went forward. The nineteen cars belonging to the Minnesota
company, which had left Wellington also on Thursday, arrived
about three o'clock on the afternoon of Friday, and because
of the length of the journey from Wellington did not go forward,
but were unloaded at the stock yards for food and rest. The
trains which did not get away from Wellington and Strong City
on Thursday before the uncertainty arose, but which left those
places on Friday after the uncertainty had been dispelled,
reached Kansas City early on Saturday morning. The first of
these latter trainloads, the twenty cars from Wellington, arrived at about six o'clock, and the cars were placed on the transfor track of the Missouri Pacific at the stock yards and were
taken in charge by the switching crew of that company and
were unloaded at its chutes at the stock yards. The secondthat is, the consolidated train from Strong City-arrived an
hour or two afterwards, and was unloaded at the stock yards,
the delivery there being claimed to be a delivery to the Missouri
Pacific Company.
In the early part of the forenoon of Saturday some of the local
officers of the Missouri Pacific, asserting that they had not been
notified by the general officers of that road of an arrangement

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

to take the cattle, hesitated to do so. By noon, however, the
doubt was dispelled, since the local officers of the Missouri
Pacific applied to the Atchison for cars to move the cattle.
Steps were taken by the Atchison to at once furnish the cars,
but before midday the Atchison company was notified that
the cars would not be required, as the Missouri Pacific would.
be unable, because of the condition of its tracks, to move the
cattle forward on that day.
Prior to the shipments of the cattle in question and at the
time of the movement of the trains to which we have referred,
there had been copious rainfalls in the valley of the Kaw, or
Kansas, River, a tributary of the Missouri River, emptying
into-the same at Kansas City, and the interruptions and washouts, to which we have referred, were the results of flood conditions created by such rains. The Kansas, or Kaw, River and
the Missouri River north of Kansas City, and the Kaw River,
especially at Kansas City, were undoubtedly in a more or less
accentuated flood condition. On Saturday morning the stage
of the Kansas River at Kansas City was -slightly below, and
certainly was not higher, than that of the previous highest flood
recorded at that point, viz., the flood of 1881. The stage of
the 1881 rise, however, was not considered dangerous in the
yards in 1903, as in the prior flood the water only came upon a
small portion of the yard aind afterwards the yards were filled
and graded, so that in 1903 a rise equalling that of 1881 would
not have come into any of the pens. The reports on Saturday
from the weather observer at Topeka, Kansas City, and from
other sources, were not alarming. Between the time, on Saturday morning, when the cattle were put in the stock yards, and
Sunday morning the river rose four feet. Indeed, on Sunday
morning, the water was one to four feet deep over one-half to
three-fourths of the yard. On that morning all the live stock
were put on the viaducts, which were about ten feet above the
level of the yards. During daylight Sunday the water rose
another four feet, and during Sunday night and Monday morning five feet more, and when the rise ceased on June 1 the river

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v. ATCHISON RY. CO. 17
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was thirteen and one-half feet above the high-water mark of
1881.
The stock yards were entirely submerged, and the entire
bottoms, east and west of the river, clear to the bluffs, were
flooded-the water in that territory being from five and six
to fourteen feet deep. Situated within this district was the
live stock exchange building, containing a bank and numerous
offices, including those used by the live stock officials of the
different roads. There was also within the flood area a number
of other banks, numerous hotels, stores and lumber yards;
all the packing houses of Kansas City, railroad shops and yards,
and the union depot; nearly all the large factories, warehouses,
implement houses and wholesale grocery stores. So unexpected
to all concerned was the rise of the river that not a dollar's
worth of property was -emoved in anticipation of the flood.
Many thousands of homes in Kansas City were submerged, and
the inhabitants fled to the hills and other places of safety, with
nothing saved from destruction but the clothing they had on.
An illustration of the suddenness of the disaster is afforded by
the following: During the morning of Sunday the finest passenger train of the Atchison road, its California limited from Chicago, arrived at the union, depot vith passengers. The engine
was uncoupled from the train and moved to the coal chute,
and after coaling, on account of the rapid rise of the water
and floating driftwood, was unable to get back to the depot.,
When the flood came on Sunday morning, May 31, it swept
fifteen or sixteen bridges from their piers, about two thousand
houses from their foundations, hundreds of freight cars from
the tracks, and every lumber yard in the bottom lands, and
the lumber was swept away. Houses, lumber, cars and other
wreckage 'were piled in the streets, completely blocking them,
and drifted upon the wrecked bridges. The one bridge which
stood was the Missouri Pacific bridge, upon which for, safety
there had been stationed seventeen locomotives. The debris
carried against that bridge completely damned the river, so
that the water ran over the top of the locomotives on the bridge..
VOL. ccx-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

The vast accumulation of debris in the streets and against the
bridges obstructed the flow of the water, so that the river rose
higher than it otherwise would have done, it being ten feet and
five inches higher at the mouth of Turkey Creek, near the stock
yards, than it was at Hannibal bridge over the Missouri River,
at about a mile below.
For a period of seven or eight days, whilst these appalling
conditions continued, the cattle remained upon the viaducts,
as we have said, could not be properly fed and watered, and
over five hundred perished, and the remainder were greatly
injured. After the subsidence of the flood, owing to the fact
that the cattle were in such a starved and weakened condition
as to be unfit to be carried forward to the point of destination,
the railway company, seeking to minimize the loss, and with
the cQnsent of the plaintiffs, and after they had refused to receive the cattle, carried the remainder of the herd to pastures
'in Lyon County, Kansas, where they were held until about the
tenth of July following, when they were forwarded by the railway company on the original billing to Atchison, Kansas, and
from thence to the place of destination over the Burlington
and St. Paul roads.
With these undisputed facts, in mind let us briefly consider
the contentions relied upon to establish the liability of the railway company, in order to determine whether there was any
evidence of negligence adequate to have justified the submission of the case to the jury.
1. It is urged that the company was negligent in detaining
the cattle at Wellington and Strong City, and in not carrying
them promptly by way of Topeka .to Atchison and there delivering them to the Burlington. The undisputed facts which
we have stated concerning the prompt arrival of the cattle at
Wellington and Strong City, the early initiation of their movement forward as routed, the information as to the washouts
on the Burlington line and of the bad condition of the track
of the Atchison company, the unloadmg and reloading, and the
final impossibility of sending the cattle forward by way of

EMPIRE STATE CATTLE CO. v.ATCHISON RY. CO. 19
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Topeka to Atchison, we think completely answers the proposition, and leaves room for no other conclusion than that it
would have been the duty of the court to set aside any verdict
which had been rendered upon the contrary hypothesis.
2. It is insisted that, even if there was no proof of negligenc6
on the part of the company because of its failure to move the
cattle by way of Topeka to Atchison, they should have been
detained at the Strong City and Wellington feeding stations
"until the flood, which had been on in the Kaw River, had subsided." And, although argued as a separate proposition, involved in and connected with the contention just stated, it is
urged that the railway company was negligent in deviating the
shipments to Kansas City, thereby taking the cattle into the
lowlands at the mouth of the river in front of the approaching
flood. But we think these contentions are disposed of by the
statement of the undisputed facts which we have heretofore
made. Whether, irrespective of negligence, the railway company, as a matter of law, was without the lawful power when
the break in the lines occurred to seek to 'discharge its duty to
forward promptly, by sending the cattle yia Kansas City, is a
subject which we shall hereafter separately consider. The
propositions we are n'ow considering are, therefore, to be tested
solely by considering whether there was any proof tending to
show negligence in sending the cattle via Kansas City. That
the stock yards at Kansas City under ordinary conditions were
a fit connecting point to send the cattle, in view of the break
in the line of connection to Atchison via Topeka, cannot be
disputed. The propositions therefore reduce themselves to
the contention that the flood conditions wvere such that it was
negligence on the part of the carrier to send the cattle to Kansas
City, because the railroad officials knew, or should have known,
that it would be unsafe to send them to that point. We are of
opinion, however, that the undisputed facts which we have
recited, concerning the eligibility and safety of the stock yards
at Kansas City under normal conditions, and the unexpected
and unprecedented character of the flood which subsequently

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

engulfed those parts, entirely dispose of the contention. But
the want of merit in the proposition does not alone depend
upon these general considerations, as we think that the record
abundantly shows that there was no reasonable ground whatever for the contention that the officers of the Atchison company were in any way lacking in diligence in endeavoring to
ascertain the flood conditions and the probability as to a further
rise in the river, which might render it hazardous to take the
cattle to Kansas City. This is also indisputably shown by the
negotiations with the Burlington and Missouri Pacific roads in
respect to receiving the cattle at Kansas City as it is manifest
that those officials, like all others concerned in the vast interests which were destroyed by the flood in question, had not the
slightest suspicion, or reason to indulge in the suspicion, that
a flood of such unprecedented and injurious proportions would
come upon Kansas City. These considerations and those which
we have previously stated effectually also dispose of the last
contention as to acts of alleged negligence on the part of the
railway company, viz., that the railway company was negligent in failing to move or cause to be moved the cattle from
their position of peril in the stock yards at Kansas City before
the arrival 6f the climax of the flood.
It remains only to consider the proposition that, irrespective
of the absence of all negligence, the railway company was as
a matter of law responsible, because of an alleged wrongful
deviation, caused by carrying the cattle via Kansas City instead of via Topeka to Atchison, for delivery there to the Burlington road. No express agreement was shown to carry the
cattle to Atchison via Topeka. But as that route was the usual
and most direct one for such shipments, and as the owners
were to be subjected to the expense of feeding en route, we
shall assume, for the sake of argument, the best possible view
for the plaintiffs, viz., that the duty of the railway company,
under normal conditions, was to transport the cattle by that
route. But this general duty, assumed though it be, was in
the very nature of things restrained and limited by the right

ST. PAUL, MINN. & MAN. RY. CO. v. DONOHUE. 21
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

of the carrier, in case of necessity, especially in order that it
might carry on the operations of its road, to resort to such other
reasonably direct route as was available under existing conditions to carry freight of this character to destination. By
the admiralty law, a departure from the regular course of a
shipment when done under the usage of trade is no deviation.
Hostetter v. Park, 137 U. S. 31, 40. So, also, in Constable v.
National S. S. Co., 154 U. S. 52, it was said: "In the law maritime a deviation is defined as a 'voluntary departure without
necessity or any reasonable cause, from the regular and usual
course of the ship insured.' " As we think the undisputed
proof to which we have referred not only established the existence of the necessity for the change' of route, but also, beyond dispute, demonstrated that there was an entire absence
of all negligence in selecting that route, we are clearly of opinion
that no liability was entailed simply by reason of the change,
even if that change could in law be treated as a concurring and
proximate cause of the damages which subsequently resulted.
Affirmed.

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS & MANITOBA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. DONOHUE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 440.

Submitted January 10, 1908.-Decided May 4, 1908.

A homesteader who initiates a right to either surveyed or unsurveyed land
and complies with the legal-requirements may, when he enters the land,
embrace in his claim land in contiguous quarter-sections if he does not
exceed the quantity allowed by law and provided that his'improvements
are upon some portion of the tract, and that he does such acts as put the
public upon notice as to the extent of his claim. Ferguson v. McLaughlin,
96 U. S. 174, distinguished.
Under the land grant act of August 5, 1892, 27 Stat. 390, chap. 382, the
right of the railway company to select indemnity lands, non-mineral and
not reserved and to which no adverse right or claim had attached or been
initiated, does not include land which had been entered in good faith by
a homesteader at the time of the supplementary selection, and on a re-

