OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

210 U. S.

they assert rights under the "Stegall Bill," but in that they
present a very common case within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the state court.
Judgment affirmed.

OLD DOMINION COPPER MINING AND SMELTING
COMPANY v. LEWISOHN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 206.

Argued April 16, 20, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

A corporation remains unchanged and unaffected in its identity by changes
in its members, nor does it change its identity by increasing its capital
stock; and its legal action is equally binding on itself after such an increase
as it was prior thereto.
A corporation should not be allowed to disregard its assent previously given
in order to charge a single member with the whole results of a transaction
to which the greater part-in this case thirteen-fifteenths--of its stock
were parties for the benefit of the guilty and innocent alike.
148 Fed. Rep. 1020, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Louis D. Brandeis and Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with
whom Mr. William H. Dunbar was on the brief, for petitioner:
The sale was made by promoters to a corporation organized
for the purpose and exclusively controlled and represented by
them.
A corporation is entitled to relief against a sale made to it
by promoters who themselves control the corporation unless
all persons entitled to object acquiesce.
The rule is universal that if a vendor stands in a fiduciary
relation to his vendee the sale is voidable, unless independently
acquiesced in by the latter with full knowledge of all material

OLD DOMINION COPPER CO. v. LEWISOHN.
210 U. B.

207

Argument for Petitioner.

facts. Wardell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 651, 658; Thomas v.
Peoria& R. I. R. Co., 36 Fed. Rep. 808; Tyrrell v. Bank of
London, 10 H. L. C. 26; Aberdeen Railway Co. v. Blaikie, 1
McQueen, 461.
A promoter stands in a'fiduciary relation to the corporation
he promotes, and is subject to this rule. Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181; Teiser v. U. S. Board & Paper
Co., 107 Fed. Rep. 340; Hayward v. Leeson, 176 Massachusetts,
310; Old Dominion Copper Co. v. Bigelow, 188 Massachusetts,
315; Central Trust Co. v. East Tenn. LandQtz,., .116 Fed.
Rep. 743; Yale Gas Stove Co. v. Wilcox, 64 Coxecticut, 101;'
Chandler v. Bacon, 30 Fed. Rep. 538; Burbank v. Dennis, 101
California, 90; The Telegraph v. Loetscher, 127 Iowa, 383;
Hinckley v. Sac Oil & Pipe Line Co., 132 Iowa, 396; Camden
Land Co. v. Lewis, 101 Maine, 78; Fred Macey Co. v. Macey, 143
Michigan, 138; South Joplin Land Co. v. Case, 104 Missouri, 572;
Exter v. Sawyer, 146 Missouri, 302; Woodbury Heights Land
Co. v. Loudenslager, 55 N. J. Eq' 78; S. C., 56 N. J. Eq. 411;
S. C., 58 N. J. Eq. 556; First Avenue Land Co. v. Hildebrand,
103 Wisconsin, 530; Hebgen v. Koeffler, 97 Wisconsin, 313;
Hitchcock v. Hustace, 14 Hawaii, 232; Erlanger v. New Sombrero Co., 3 App. Cas. 1218; Gluckstein v. Barnes, A. C. 240.
The liability of the promoter exists independently of any
misrepresentation, of the issue of a prospectus, or of the particular method in which the transaction is carried out. Gilman
C. & S. R. R. Co. v. Kelly, 77 Illinois, 426, 435; Dutton v. Willner, 52 N. Y. 312; Hayward v. Leeson, 176 Massachusetts, 310;
Salomon v. Salomon, A. C. 22; Tompkins v. Sperry, 96 Maryland, 560.
The duty of the promoters extends to all persons whom they
bring in as original subscribers for stock, whether before or after the transaction complained of. Morawetz on Private Corporations (2d ed.), § 294; Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co., 176
U. S. 181; Geiser v. U. S. Board & Paper Co., 107 Fed. Rep.
340, 348; Chandler v. Bacon, 30 Fed. Rep. 538; Hayward v.
Leeson, 176 Massachusetts, 310, 320; South Joplin Land Co. v.

OCTOBFA TERM, 1907.
Argument for Respondents.

210 U. S.

Case, 104 Missouri, 572, 579; In re Leeds & Hanley Theatres,
2 Ch. 809.
The subscribers for the twenty thousand shares issued for
cash were persons interested, who did not acquiesce. Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181.
The members of the Old Dominion Syndicate were persons
interested, who did not acquiesce. Arnold v. Searing, 67 Atl.
Rep. 831, 832; Brewster v. Hatch, 122 N. Y. 349.
There was clearly no disclosure and therefore no acquiescence if persons other than the promoters themselves were
concerned. Gluckstein v. Barnes, A. C. 240, 249.
Mr, Eugene Treadwell, with whom Mr. Edward Lauterbach
was on the brief, for respondents:
. The company is without equity in the premises. There was
no fraud on the company. Since at the date of the transaction
sought to be rescinded, Bigelow and Lewisohn owned all the
stock of the complainant, constituted the entire stockholding
interest of the company and received all of the stock of the
company issued, including the stock issued by the complainant
for the property in question, there was no one who could in
equity complain. Foster v. Seymour, 23 Fed. Rep. 65;
McCracken v. Robison,' 57 Fed. Rep. 375; Stewart v. St. Louis
&c. R:* Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 736, 738; Dupont v. Tilden, 42 Fed.
Rep. 87; Wood v. Corry Water Works, 44 Fed. Rep. 146, 149;
Fort Madison Bank v. Alden, 129 U. S. 373, 378; Barr v.
N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co., 125 N. Y. 263, 273; Seymour v.
Spring Forest Assn., 144 N. Y. 333; Thornton v. Wabash Ry.
Co., 81 N. Y. 462, 467; Parsonsv.-Hayes, 14 Abb. N. C. 419,
434; King v. Barnes, 109 N. Y. 267; Insurance Press v. Montauk Wire Co., 103 App. Div. (N. Y.) 472; Blum v. Whitney, 185
N. Y. 232; Higgins v. Lansingh, 154 Illinois, 301, 331, 336;
Spaulding and Another v. North Milwaukee Town Site Co., 106
Wisconsin, 481, 488; In re Ambrose, L. R. 14 Ch. D. 390, 395,
399; In re British Seamless Paper Co., L. R. 17 Ch. D. 467;
Salomon v. Salomon, L. R. (1897) A. C. 22; Cook on Corpora.

OLD DOMINION COPPER CO. v. LEWISOHN.

209

Opimou of the Court.

210 U. S.

tions (5th ed.) §§ 46, 47, 649; 1 Morawetz on Priv. Corp. (2d
ed.) § 290; 3 Pomeroy on Eq. Jurisp. (3d ed.) § 1092.
The company Was. not injured by the exchange on July 11,
1895, for property duly received, of 130,000 of the 150,000
authorized shares of the capital stock, in the absence of any
cash capital or other shares outstanding, either issued, contracted for or offered.
The company was not injured by the subsequent offer for
sale on July 18, 1895, of the remaining 20,000 shares of its
authorized capital stock at par for cash, as it duly received
ahd always retained the -entire amount, $500,000, in cash, no
part ever going to Lewisohn or Bigelow in any form.
The company, therefore, suffered no injury.
MR. JUSTICE

HoImEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the petitioner to rescind
a sale to it of certain mining rights and land by the defefhdants'
testator, or in the alternative to recover damages for the sale.
The bill was demurred to and the demurrer was sustained.
136 Fed. Rep. 915. Then the bill was amended and again
demurred to, and again the demurrer was sustained, and the bill
was dismissed. This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 148 Fed. Rep. 1020; 79 C. C. A. 534. The ground of
the petitioner's case is that Lewisohn, the deceased, and one
Bigelow, as promoters, formed the petitioner that they might
sell certain properties to it at a profit, that they made their
sale while they owned all the stock issued, but in contemplation of a large further issue to the public without disclosure of
their profit, and that such an issue in fact was made. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts has held the plaintiff
entitled to recover from Bigelow upon a substantially similar
bill. 188 Massachusetts, 315.
The facts alleged are as follows: The property embraced in
the plan 'Was the mining property of the Old Dominion Copper
Company of Baltimore, and also the mining rights and land
VOL, CCX-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

now in question, the latter being held by one Keyser, for the
benefit of himself and of the executors of one Simpson, who.
with Keyser owned the' stock of the Baltimore company.
Bigelow and Lewisohn, in May and June, 1895, obtained options from Simpson's executors and Keyser for the purchase
of the stock and the property now in question. They also
formed a syndicate to carry out their plan, with the agreement
that the money subscribed by the members should be used for
the purchase and the sale to a new corporation, at a large
advance, and that the members, in the proportion of their
subscriptions, should receive in cash or in stock of the new
corporation -the profit made by the sale. On May 28, 1895,
Bigelow paid Simpson's executors for their stock on behalf of
the syndicate, in cash and notes of himself and Lewisohn, and
in June Keyser was paid in the same way.
On July 8, 1895, Bigelow and Lewisohn started the plaintiff
corporation, the seven members being their nominees and tools.
The next day the stock of the company was increased to 150,000 shares of twenty-five dollars each, officers were elected,
and the corporation became duly organized. July 11, pursuant to instructions, some of the officers resigned, and Bigelow and Lewisohn and three other absent members of the
syndicate came in. Thereupon an offer was received from the
Baltimore company; the stock of which had been bought, as
stated, by Bigelow and Le'wisohn, to sell substantially all its
property for 100,000 shares of the plaintiff company. The
offer was accepted, and then Lewisohn offered to sell the real
estate now in question, obtained from Keyser, for 30,000
shares, to be issued to Bigelow and himself. This also was
accepted and possession of all the mining property was delivered the next day. The sales "were consummated" by
delivery of deeds, and afterwards, on July 18, to raise working
capital, it was voted to offer the remaining 20,000 shares to
the public at par, and they were taken by subscribers who
did not know of the profit made by Bigelow and Lewisohn
and the syndicate. On September 18, the 100,000 and 30,000

OLD DOMINION COPPER CO. v. LEWISOHN.
210 U. S.

211:

Opinion ofthe Court.

shares were issued, and it was voted to issue the 20,000 when
paid for. The bill alleges that the property of the Baltimore,
company was not worth more than $1,000,000, the sum paid'
for its stock, and the property here concerned not over $5,000,
as Bigelow and Lewisohn knew. The market value of the petitioner's stock was, less than par, so that the price paid was
$2,500,000, it is said, for the Baltimore company's property
and $750,000 for that here concerned. Whether this view of
the price paid is correct, it is unnecessary to decide.
Of the stock in the petitioner received by Bigelow and
Lewisohn or their Baltimore corporation, 40,000 shares went
to the syndicate as profit, and the members had their choice
of receiving a like additional number of shares or the repayment of their original subscription. As pretty nearly all took
the stock, the syndicate received about 80,000 shares. The
remaining 20,000 of the stock paid to the Baltimore company, Bigelow and Lewisohn divided, the plaintiff believes,
without the knowledge of the syndicate. The 30,000 shares
received for the property now in question they also divided.
Thus the plans of Bigelow and Lewisohn were carried, out.
The argument for the petitioner is that all would admit that
the promoters (assuming the English phrase to be well applied) stood in a fiduciary relation to it, if, when the transaction took place, there were members who were not informed
of the profits made and who did not acquiesce, and that the
same obligation of good faith extends down to the time of the
later subscriptions, which it was the promoters' plan to obtain.
It is an argument that has commanded the assent of at least
one court, and is stated at length in the decision. But the
courts do not agree. There is no authority binding upon us
and in point. The general observations in Dickerman v.
Northern Trust.Co., 176 U. S. 181, were obiter, and do not
dispose of the case. Without spending time upon the many
dicta that were quoted to us, we shall endeavor to weigh the
considerations on one side and the other afresh.
The difficulty that meets the petitioner at the outset is that

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

it has assented to the transaction with the full knowledge of
the facts. It is said, to be sure, that on September 18, when
the shares were issued to the sellers, there were already subscribers to the 20,000 shares that the public took. But this
does not appear from the bill, unless it should be inferred from
the ambiguous statement that on that day it was voted to
issue those shares "to persons who had subscribed therefor,"
upon receiving payment, and that the shares "were thereafter
duly issued to said persons," etc. The words "had subscribed"
may refer to the time of issue and be equivalent to "should
have subscribed" or may refer to an already past event. But
that hardly matters. The contract had been made and the
property delivered on July 11 and 12, when Bigelow, Lewisohn
and some other members of the syndicate held all the outstanding stock, and it is alleged in terms that the sales were consummated before the vote of July 18 to offer the stock to the
public had been "passed.
At the time of the sale to the plaintiff, then, there was no
wrong- done ,to any one. Bigelow, Lewisohn and their syndicate were on both sides of the bargain, and they might issu
to themselves as much stock in their corporation as they liked
in exchange for their conveyance of their land. Salomon v.
Salomon & Co. [1897], A. C. 22; Blum v. Whitney, 185 N. Y.
232; Tompkins v. Sperry, 96 Maryland, 560. If there was a
wrong it was when the innocent public subscribed. But what
one would expect to find, if a wrong happened then, would not
be that the sale became a breach of duty to the corporation
nunc pro tune, but that the invitation to the public without
disclosure, when acted upon, became a fraud upon the subscribers from an equitable point of view, accompanied by what
they might treat as damage. For it is only by virtue of the
innocent subscribers' position and the promoter's invitation
that the corporation has any pretense for a standing in cout.
If the promoters after starting their scheme had sold their
stock before any subscriptions were taken, and then the purchasers of their stock with notice had invited the public to

OLD DOMINION COPPER CO. v. LEWISOHN.
210 U.s.

213

Opinion of the Court.

come in and it did, we do not see how the company could
maintain this suit. If it could not then, we do not see how
it can now.
But it is said that from a business point of view t~e agreeO
ment was not made merely to bind the corporation as it then
was, with only forty shares issued, but to bind the corporation
when it should have a capital of $3,750,000; and the implication is that practically this was a new and different corporation.. Of course, legally speaking, a corporation does not
change its identity by adding a cubit to its stature. The
nominal capital of the corporation was the same when the
contract was made and after the public had subscribed.
Therefore what must be meant is, as we have said, that the
corporation got a new right from the fact that new men who
did not know what it had done had put in their money and
had become members. It is assumed in argument that the
new members had no ground for a suit in their own names,
but it is assumed also that their position changed that of the
corporation, and thus that the indirect effect of their acts was
greater than the direct; that facts that gave them no claim
gave one to the corporation because of them, notwithstanding
its assent. We shall not consider whether the new members
had a personal claim of any kind, and therefore we deal with
the c.se without prejudice to that question, and without taking advantage of what we understand the petitioner to concede.
But, if we are to leave technical law on one side and approach the case from what is supposed to be a business point
of view, there are new matters to be taken into account. If
the corporation recovers, all the stockholders, guilty as well as
innocent, get the benefit. It is answered that the corporation
is not precluded from recovering for a fraud upon it, because
the party committing the fraud is a stockholder. Old Dominion Copper Mining and Smelting Co. v. Bigelow, 188 Massachusetts, 315, 327. If there had been innocent members at
the time of the sale, the fact that there were also guilty ones
would not prevent a recovery, and even might not be a suffi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

cient reason for requiring all the guilty members to be joined
as defendants in order to avoid a manifest injustice. Stockton
v. Anderson, 40 N. J. Eq. 486. The same principle is thought
to apply when innocent members are brought in later under a scheme. But it is obvious that this answer falls back
upon the technical diversity between the corporation and its
members, which the business point of view is supposed to
transcend, as it must, in order to avoid the objection that the
corporation has assented to the sale with full notice, of the
facts. It is mainly on this diversity that the answer to the
objection of injustice is based in New Sombrero Phosphate Co.
v. Erlanger,5 Ch. D. 73, 114, 122.
Let us look at the business aspect alone. The syndicate was
a party to the scheme to make a profit out of the corporation.
Whether or not there was a subordinate fraud committed by
Bigelow and Lewisohn on the agreement with them, as the
petitioner believes, is immaterial to the corporation. The
issue of the stock was apparent, we presume, on the books,
so that it is difficult to suppose that at least some members of
the syndicate, representing an adverse interest, did not know
what was done. But all the members were engaged in the
plan of buying for less and selling to the corporation for more,
and were subject to whatever equity the corporation has
against Bigelow and the estate of Lewisohn. There was some
argument to the contrary, but this seems to us the fair meaning of the bill. Bigelow and.Lewisohn, it is true, divided the
stock received for the real .estate now in question. But that
was a matter between them and the syndicate. The real
estate was bought from Keyser by the syndicate, along with
his stock in the Baltimore company, and was sold by the
syndicate to the petitioner along *ith the-. Baltimore company's property, as part of the scheme.: The syndicate was
'paid for it, whoever received the stock. And this means that
two-fifteenths of the, stock of the corporation, the 20,000
shares sold to the public, are to be allowed to use the name of
the corporation to assert rights against Lewisohn's estate that

OLD DOMINION COPPER CO. v. LEWISOHN.
210 U. S.

215

Opinion of the Court.

will enure to the benefit of thirteen-fifteenths of the stock that
are totally without claim. It seems to us that the praptical
objection is as strong as that arising if we adhere to the law.
Let us take the business point of view for a moment longer.
To the lay mind it would make little or no difference whether
the 20,000 shares sold to the public were sold on an original
subscription to the articles of incorporation or were issded
under the scheme to some of the syndicate and sold by
them. Yet it is admitted, in accordance with the decisions,
that in the latter case the innocent purchasers would have no
claim against any one. If we are to seek what is called substantial justice in disregard of even peremptory rules of law,
it would seem desirable to get a rule that would cover both
of the almost equally possible cases of what is deemed a
wrong. It might be said that if the stock really was taken as
a preliminary to selling to the public, the subscribers would
show a certain confidence in the enterprise and give at least
that security for good faith. But the syndicate believed in
the enterprise, notwithstanding all the profits that they
made it pay. They preferred to take stock at par rather than
cash. Moreover, it would have been possible to issue the
whole stock in payment for the property purchased, with an
understanding as to 20,000 shares.
Of course, it is competent for legislators, but not, we think,
for judges, except by a quasi-legislative declaration, to establish that a corporation shall not be bound by its assent in a
transaction of this kind, when the parties contemplate an invitation to the public to come in and join as original subscribers for any portion of the shares. It may be said that the
corporation cannot be bound until .the contemplated adverse
interest is represented, or it may be' said that promoters cannot strip themselves of the character of trustees until'that
moment. But it seems to us a strictly legislative determination. It is difficult, without inventing new and qualifying'
established doctrines, to go behind the fact that the corporation remains one and the same after once it really exists.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

When, as here, after it really exists, it consents, we at least
shall require stronger equities than are shown by this bill to
allow it to renew its claim at a later date because its internal
constitution has changed.
To sum up: In our opinion, on the one hand, the plaintiff
cannot recover without departing from the fundamental conception embodied in the law that' created it; the conception
that a corporation remains unchanged and unaffected in its
identity by changes in its members. Donnell v. Herring-HallMarvin Sale Co., 208 U. S. 267, 273; Salomon v. Salomon &
Co. [1897], A. C. 22, 30. On the other hand, if we should
undertake to look through fiction to facts, it appears to us
that substantial justice would not be accomplished, but rather
a great injustice done, if the corporation were allowed to disregard its previous assent in order to charge a single member
with the whole results of a transaction to which thirteen-fifteenths of its stock were parties, for the benefit of the guilty,
if there was guilt in any one, and the innocent alike. We
decide only what is necessary. We express no opinion as t6
whether the defendant properly is called a promoter, or whether the plaintiff has not been guilty of laches, or whether a
remedy can be had for a part of a single transaction in the form
in which it is sought, or whether there was any personal claim
on the part of the innocent subscribers, or as to any other
question than that which we have discussed.
The English case chiefly relied upon, Erlanger v. New Sombrero Phosphate Co., 3 App. Cas. 1218, affirming S. C., 5 Ch. D.
73, seems to us far from establishing a different doctrine for
that jurisdiction. There, to be sure, a syndicate had made an
agreement to sell, at a profit, to a company to be got up by the
sellers. But the company, at the first stage, was made up
mainly of outsiders, some of them instruments of the sellers,
but innocent instruments, and, according to Lord Cairns, the
contract was provisional on the shares being taken and the
company formed (p. 1239). There never was a moment
when the company had assented with knowledge of the facts.

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG &c. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 217
210 U. S.

Syllabus.

The shares, with perhaps one exception, all were taken by subscribers ignorant of the facts, 5 Ch. D. 113, and the contract
seems to have reached forward to the moment when they
subscribed. As it is put in 2 Morawetz, Corp. (2d ed.) § 292,
there was really no company till the shares were issued. Here
thirteen-fifteenths of the stock had been taken by the syndicate, the corporation was in full life and had assented to the
sale with knowledge of the facts before an outsider joined.
There most of the syndicate were strangers to the corporation,
yet all were joined as defendants (p. 1222). Here the members of the syndicate, although members of the corporation,
are not joined, and it is sought to throw the burden of their
act upon a single one. Gluckstein v. Barnes [1900], A. C. 240,
certainly is no stronger for the plaintiff, and in Yeiser v. United
States Board & PaperCo., 107 Fed. Rep. 340, another case that
was relied upon, the transaction equally was carried through
after innocent subscribers had paid for stock.
Decree affirmed.

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUR'T OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 207.

Argued April 21. 22. 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The statute of Texas of April 17, 1905, c. 141, imposing a tax upon railroad
companies equal to one per cent of their gross receipts is, as to those companies whose receipts include 'receipts from interstate business, a burden
on interstate commerce and as such violative of the commerce clause of

the Federal Constitution. Philadelphia & Southern Mail S. S. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326 followed; Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway Co.,
142 U. S. 217, distinguished, and held that the latter case did not overrule
the former.
Neither the state courts nor the legislatures, by giving a tax a particular
name, or by the use of some form of words, can take away the duty of this
court to consider the nature and effect of a tax, and if it bears upon in-

