OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Syllabus.

361 U. S.

GOETT, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. UNION CARBIDE
CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3.

Argued November 12, 1959.Decided January 18, 1960.

Basing her claim alternatively on unseaworthiness and on negligence,
petitioner brought this libel in admiralty to recover under the West
Virginia Wrongful Death Act from the owner of a river barge for
the death of an employee of an independent contractor engaged in
repairing the barge, who fell off the barge and drowvied in navigable
waters in West Virginia. The District Court found that the vessel
was unseaworthy and that the barge owner was negligent. Basing
liability on negligence, it awarded petitioner the maximum amount
of damages allowable under the West Virginia Wrongful Death
Act. The Court of Appeals reversed the District Court's finding
of negligence and held that the vessel was not unseaworthy and
that the decedent was not a person to whom the warranty of seaworthiness was owed; but it did not pass on the question whether
unseaworthiness would in any event be available as a ground for
recovery in a West Virginia wrongful death action involving a
maritime tort. Held: The judgment is vacated and the cause is
remanded to the Court of Appeals to determine: (a) whether the
West Virginia Wrongful Death Act, as to this maritime tort,
employs the West Virginia or the general maritime law concept of
negligence; (b) whether, in the light of that determination, the
District Court's finding as to negligence is correct under the proper
substantive law; and (c) whether the West Virginia Wrongful
Death Act incorporates the doctrine of unseaworthiness in death
actions involving maritime torts. Pp. 341-344.
256 F. 2d 449, judgment vacated and cause remanded.

Harvey Goldstein argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Ernest Franklin Pauley and
S. Eldridge Sampliner.

GOETT v. UNION CARBIDE CORP.
340

Per Curiam.

Charles M. Love argued the cause and filed a brief for
the Union Carbide Corporation, respondent. Homer A.
Holt, William 7'. O'Farrelland David D. Johnson filed a
brief for the Amherst Barge Co., respondent.
PER CURIAM.

This was a libel in admiralty brought against respondent
Union Carbide Corporation by petitioner, the administratrix of Marvin Paul Goett. Goett had been an employee of respondent Amherst Barge Company, which was
engaged in repairing a river barge owned by Union. The
decedent was working on the barge when he fell off into
the waters of the Kanawha River, and, after fruitless
efforts at rescue, was drowned. The theory of the libel
was that, alternatively, Union was negligent in turning
over the barge to Amherst without its being equipped
with rescue equipment, or that the vessel was unseaworthy without such equipment; and that the lack of
rescue equipment caused the decedent's death. The accident had taken place in West Virginia waters and that
State's Wrongful Death Act was relied upon. The District Court found that the vessel was in fact unseaworthy
and that Union was negligent in the respect charged, causing the death of decedent, and that the decedent was not
shown to have been guilty of contributory negligence or
to have assumed the risk. The District Court bottomed
Union's liability on negligence, and awarded petitioner
*$20,000 in damages, the maximum allowable under the
West Virginia Act, though finding that the actual damages
were substantially higher. On Union's appeal to the
Court of Appeals, the judgment was reversed. 256 F.
2d 449.
The Court of Appeals held that, as a matter of law,
Union owed no duty to the employees of Amherst once
the vessel had been turned over to the latter. It accord-

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Per Curiam.

361 U. S.

ingly reversed the District Court's finding of negligence.
It further held, contrary to the District Court, that the
vessel was not unseaworthy at the time of the accident,
and that in any event the decedent was not a person to
whom the warranty of seaworthiness was owed. In the
light of this determination, it did not pass on the question
whether unseaworthiness would be in any event available
as a ground for recovery in a West Virginia wrongful death
action involving a maritime tort. We granted certiorari.
359 U. S. 923.
This case was decided in the lower courts before the decision of this Court in The Tungus v. Skovgaard, 358
U. S. 588, where it was held that it.was a question of
state law as to what is the proper substantive law to be
applied to maritime torts within the territorial jurisdictions of the States in wrongful death cases. See Hess v.
United States, ante, p. 314. Under this holding, in a
maritime tort death case, the State might apply the substantive law generally applicable to wrongful death cases
within its territory, or it might choose to incorporate the
general maritime law's concepts of unseaworthiness or
negligence.' Here the Court of Appeals did not decide
which standard the West Virginia Act adopted. It
did not articulate on what basis it was applying federal law if in fact it was; there is no intimation that
it believed the West Virginia Act incorporated the maritime law's negligence standard, and in fact it expressly
left open the question whether that Act incorporated the
maritime standard of seaworthiness. It seems more
likely to us to have passed on the negligence issue as a
matter of federal maritime law; it cited only cases apply' For examples of the general maritime law's concept of negligence,
see Kermarec v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique,358 U. S. 625;
Pope & Talbot, Inc., v. Hawn, 346 U. S. 406, 409; The Max Morris,
137 U. S. 1, 14-15.

GOETT v. UNION CARBIDE CORP.
340

Per Curiam.

ing the general maritime law's and the Jones Act's concepts of negligence, and general treatises; no West Virginia authority was relied upon.' The least that can be
said is that it is highly doubtful I which law the Court of
Appen.ls applied; 4 and so in the absence of any expression by it of which standard the West Virginia Act
adopted, we do not believe we can permit its judgment to
stand after our intervening decision in The Tungus.
Accordingly, so that the Court of Appeals, which is
closer than we to matters of local law, may pass upon
the questions of West Virginia law involved in the light
of this Court's holding in The Tungus, we vacate its
judgment and remand the cause to it to determine:
(a) Whether the West Virginia Wrongful Death Act, as
to
this maritime tort, employs the West Virginia or the
general
maritime law concept of negligence; and,
in the
light of its determination, (b) whether the district judge's
finding as to negligence is correct dinder the proper substantive law. To facilitate our discretionary review of
2 The respondent here cites West Virginia precedents in an effort

to sustain the Court of Appeals' determination.
3 The views of the dissenting opinions here confirm us in our
doubts. Some of the dissents take the view that the Court of
Appeals should be affirmed because it undoubtedly decided the point
as a matter of state law, while another is of the view that the Court
of Appeals should be affirmed because it made sufficiently clear that
it decided the point as a matter of federal law. Our views lie between
these two.
4 While the Court of Appeals declared that "The right to maintain
such a suit can be enforced in admiralty only in accordance with
the substantive law of the state whose statute is being adopted,"
256 F. 2d, at 453, this discussion seems to us probably to have been in
the context of the monetary limitation of the Act. Certainly there
was no specific identification of this statement with the discussion of
whether the negligence finding was justified. And if the statement is
taken to mean that a State cannot adopt the maritime standard, it is
not correct.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

361 U. S.

the Court of Appeals' findings as to unseaworthiness, it
should also determine whether the West Virginia Act
incorporates this standard of the general maritime law
in death actions involving maritime torts. Cf. Barr v.
Matteo, 355 U. S. 171P
Vacated and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,
FURTER joins, dissenting.

whom MR. JUSTICE FRANK-

I dissent from the Court's disposition of this case on the
following grounds:
First. For reasons elaborated in my Brother STEWART'S
dissenting opinion, there is no reasonable basis for concluding that the Court of Appeals' disposition of the negligence cause of action did not rest upon state substantive law, which in maritime wrongfi death actions controls, The Tungus v. Skovgaard, 358 U. S. 588, if, as I
expressed in my dissenting opinion in Hess v. United
States, ante, p. 322, it does not impose duties greater than
those created by maritime substantive law.
In any event, there being no suggestion that the state
standards of duty differ in any way from those obtaining
under maritime law, the remand of the negligence cause
5 THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
and MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN join this opinion, but solely under compulsion of the Court's ruling in The Tungus v. Skovgaard, 358 U. S.
588. They believe that as long as the view of the law represented by
that ruling prevails in the Court, it should be applied evenhandedly,
despite the contrary views of some of those originally joining it that
state law is the measure of recovery when it helps the defendant,
as in The Tungus, and is not the measure of recovery when it militates
against the defendant, as in Hess v. United States, ante, p. 314.
However, they note their continued disagreement with the ruling in
The Tungus, and reserve their position as to whether it should be
overruled, particularly in the light of the controversy application
of it has engendered among its original subscribers. See the various
separate opinions in this case and in Hess v. United States, supra.

GOETT v. UNION CARBIDE CORP.
340

WHITTAKER,

J., dissenting.

of action to the Court of Appeals seems to me to be
a needless and therefore wasteful procedure.
Second. As to the unseaworthiness cause of action,
no one suggests that West Virginia has such a doctrine of
its own. The Court of Appeals deliberately decided
(256 F. 2d, at 454) that it need not reach the difficult
question of whether the West Virginia Wrongful Death
Statute embraced a cause of action for unseaworthiiess
based on federal concepts, because it found that in any
event, under federal law, the vessel was not unseaworthy,

and that the petitioner was not one to whom the duty to
provide a seaworthy ship was owing.
In resting its decision on these grounds the Court of
Appeals exercised the traditional discretion of any court
to choose what appears to it a narrower and clearer ground
of decision in preference to a broader and more controverted one. The Court does not suggest that the limits.
of this discretion were exceeded in this instance. Cf.
Barr v. Matteo, 355 U. S. 171. In my view we cannot
properly require the-Court of Appeals to decide a question
which it intentionally and sensibly left open unless we
first reverse that court on the issues which it did decide.
This the Court does not do. Hence, I believe there is no
justification for remanding the case on this score.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITTAKER,

dissenting.

I am persuaded that the Court of Appeals has made
sufficiently clear that it thought this diversity, admiralty,
death case was governed by the general maritime law, as
remedially supplemented by the West Virginia Wrongful
Death statute, and properly decided it on that basis.
The Court's opinion says that The Tungus v. Skovgaard, 358 U. S.588, "decided that it was a question
of state law as to what is the proper substantive law to
be applied to maritime torts within the territorial jurisdiction of the States in wrongful death cases [and that]

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
WHITTAK E,

,J., dissenting.

361 U. S.

[u]nder this holding, in a maritime tort death case, the
State might apply the substantive law generally applicable to wrongful death cases within its territory, or it might
choose to incorporate the general maritime law's concepts
of unseaworthiness or negligence." I do not understand
the Tungus case to so hold, and if such a holding was
intended by its author or by any of the Justices who
joined it, it does not say so.
It seems to me that the substantive legal rights and
liabilities involved in this admiralty case are not in any
true sense governed by West Virginia law, but rather, are
within the full reach of exclusive admiralty jurisdiction
and are to be measured by the standards of the general
maritime law, Kermarec v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique,358 U. S. 625, 628, as remedially supplemented
by the West Virginia Wrongful Death statute. See The
Tungus, supra, at 592.
Although state Wrongful Death statutes are not ones
of survivorship and are generally spoken of as creating a
new cause of action for death, it seems rather clear that
the West Virginia Wrongful Death statute, like most
others, creates a cause of action only in the sense of providing a remedy for death resulting from an act made
wrongful by other laws-whether common, statutory or
maritime laws-which would have redressed the wrong
"if death had not ensued." W. Va. Code, 1955, § 5474 (5).
And when, in a case enoompassed by the terms of the
State's Wrongful Death statute, admiralty "adopts" such
statute, it does so only to afford a remedy for a substantive cause of action created by the maritime law which,
"if death had not ensued," would have redressed it.
It is true that when admiralty "adopts" a State's
Wrongful Death statute "it must enforce [it] as an integrated whole, with whatever conditions and limitations
the creating State has attached." The Tungus, supra, at

GOETT v. UNION CARBIDE CORP.
340

WHITTAKER,

J., dissenting.

592. But the West Virginia Wrongful Death statute,
like most such state statutes, apart from prescribing who
may prosecute the action, the time within which it must
be brought, and the measure and limit of recovery, has
attached only the condition that the wrongful "act, neglect
or default, [be] such as would . . . have entitled the
party injured to maintain an action to recover damages in
respect thereof [if death had not ensued]." W. Va. Code,
1955, § 5474 (5). Surely this means that the act, neglect
or default, must be such as would, under other lawswhether common, statutory, or maritime laws-have
entitled the party injured to recover damages in respect
thereof "if death had not ensued."
Adoption by admiralty of such a remedial statute cannot be permitted to, and does not, so expand the essential
purposes and characteristic features of the general maritime law as to interfere with its proper. nation-wide harmony and uniformity, Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205; Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,257 U. S. 233, 242.
By such adoption, admiralty takes over only the remedy
afforded for death by the State's Wrongful Death statute-albeit the whole thereof. It does not thereby abandon the nonconflicting substantive admiralty law which
gave rise to the right of action that it would have enforced
"if death had not ensued." In such a case; the real and
substantive right in suit is still the one created by, andto the extent not conflicting with the adopted State
Wrongful Death statute-is governed by, the maritime
law.
This is what I understood the Tungus case to mean
when I joined it, and re-examination of it confirms that
conclusion. I submit there is not a word in it to the
contrary. And this conclusion is buttressed by the sepa-

rate opinion of my Brother

BRENNAN

in that case.

Although this Court has many times and uniformly held

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
STEWART,

J., dissenting.

361 U. S.

that the maritime law creates no cause of action for
wrongful death, and that, in circumstances like these,
admiralty "adopts" the State's Wrongful Death Act, the
separate opinion in Tungus said, in effect, that admiralty
would merely look to see whether the State had enacted
a wrongful death statute and, if it had, would not "adopt"
that act but would put it aside and fashion its own remedy
for wrongful death, 358 U. S., at 608-609, which, I thought
and still think, is contrary to this Court's cases holding
that the maritime law does not create a cause of action
for wrongful death and that, in actions for wrongful death
arising on the territorial waters of a State, admiralty
"adopts" the State's Wrongful Death Act cum onere.
I believe that the opinion of the Court of Appeals makes
reasonably clear that the court regarded this case as governed by, and that it applied, the general maritime law as
remedially supplemented by the West Virginia Wrongful
Death statute. I also believe that the court correctly
concluded that the maritime doctrine of unseaworthiness
was not applicable, and that respondent was not guilty
of negligence causing or contributing to cause the death
of petitioner's decedent, because, as it found, the barge
was both withdrawn from navigation for extensive repairs
and completely out of respondent's control-points we
thoroughly explored and decided only the other day.
West v. United States, ante, p. 118. I would affirm.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART,

dissenting.
I.

In this wrongful death action it was incumbent upon
the Court of Appeals to apply the substantive law of
West Virginia. The Court today finds it "highly doubtful" whether the Court of Appeals did so. I entertain no
such doubt for the following reasons: (1) This Court's

GOETT v. UNION CARBIDE CORP.
340

STEWART,

J., dissenting.

"intervening decision"1 in The Tungus v. Skovgaard, 358
U. S. 588, announced no new principle, but simply restated
a doctrine well established in this Court. (2) Long
before the decision in The Tungus, this doctrine had been
specifically recognized as the law in the Fourth Circuit.
(3) The express language of the Court of Appeals' opinion
in the present case makes clear that the court understood that its function was to apply West Virginia law,
and that it did so.
Our decision in The Tungus simply reaffirmed a principle articulated in many decisions of this Court. This
principle, compendiously stated, is that admiralty enforces "the obligatio" created by a state wrongful death
action "as it would bne originating in any foreign jurisdiction." Levinson v. Deupree, 345 U. S. 648, 652. See
The Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199; The Hamilton, 207 U. S.
398; La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95; Western Fuel Co. v.
Garcia, 257 U. S.233.' Under this weight of authority,
it could be presumed that the Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit would recognize, as other federal courts
1 The judgment of the Court of Appeals in the present case was
entered May 27, 1958. The decision of this Court in The Tungus
was announced February 24, 1959.
2 The law took a different turn with respect to state workmen's
compensation laws. See Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.
205. Such legislation was differentiated from state wrongful death
statutes because of the greater burden imposed on shipowners by
"heavy penalties and onerous conditions" of the compensation statutes, and because of the "novel remedies incapable of enforcement
by an admiralty court." Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149, 166. More than 15 years ago this Court pointed out that
"[Tihe Jensen case has already been severely limited, and has no
vitality beyond that which may continue as to state workmen's
compensation laws." Standard Dredging Co. v. Murphy, 319 U. S.
306, 309. Cf. Davis v. Department of Labor, 317 U. S.249; Hahn v.
Ross Island Sand & Gravel Co., 358 U. S.272.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
STEWART,

J., dissenting.

361 U. S.

have recognized whenever the specific question has arisen,
that the right to recover for wrongful death occurring on
the navigable waters of a State is to be determined by
reference to state law.'
But there is no need to indulge in such a presumption,
because the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, several years before the present case was decided, manifested
a thorough understanding of the controlling doctrine
exactly in accord with the principles confirmed by this
Court last Term in The Tungus. In Continental Casualty Co. v. The Benny Skou, 200 F. 2d 246 (C. A. 4th
Cir. 1952), a suit to recover for a death occurring on hoard
a ship in the territorial waters of Virginia, the court held
that the action was barred by the one-year limitation
contained in the Virginia Wrongful Death Act. The
court's reasoning was unambiguous: "The right of action
which appellant has sought to enforce is one created solely
by 'the Virginia statute. . . . 'Virginia has bestowed
uponadmiralty a right to grant a recovery not previously
possessed by admiralty. The endowment must be taken
cum onere.' As appellant grounds his action upon the
Virginia statute, he is obliged to accept.the statute in its
entirety as construed by the Virginia court of last resort."
200 F. 2d, at 250.
Even if the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
had not previously expressed such a clear understanding
that cases like these are controlled by the substantive law
of the State, I think that its opinion in the present case,
standing alone, unambiguously shows a recognition of
•the duty to apply the substantive law of West Virginia.
3 See, e. g.. Turner v. Wilson Line of Massachusetts. 242 F. 2d 414
(C. A. 1st Cir.) ; Halecki v. United PilotsAssn,_ 251 F. 2d 708 (C. A.
2d Cir.), judgment vacated and cause remanded, 358 U. S. 613;
Curtis v. A. Garcia y Cia., 241 F. 2d 30 (C. A. 3d Cir.); Graham v.
A. Lusi, Ltd., 206 F. 2d 223 (C. iA. 5th Cir.); Lee v. Pure Oil Co.,
218 F. 2d 711 (C. A. 6th Cir.).

GOETT v. U.NION CARBIDE CORP.
340

STEWART,

J., dissenting.

What the court said seems to me quite clear: "The
maritime law does not allow recovery for wrongful
death ....
The right to maintain such a suit can be
enforced in admiralty only in accordance with the substantive law of the state whose statute is being adopted.
The endowment must be taken cum onere." 256 F. 2d,
at 453. 'This Court's suggestion that the above language
was confined to the issue of the monetary limitation upon
damages in the West Virginia statute is to me entirely
unconvincing, because the Court of Appeals never reached
the question of damages.
II.
Even if I were able to agree that it. is uncertain whether
the Court of Appeals decided this case under standards of
state or federal law, I still could not join in the Court's
judgment. For even if the Court of Appeals mistakenly
applied substantive standards of federal maritime law,
no purpose could be served by remanding this case unless
it were shown that the state law is somehow more favorable to the petitioner. But there has been no showingnor any suggestion- that the law of West Virginia is in
ahy way more favorable to plaintiffs than the general
maritime law.4 Contrast Hess v. United States, ante,
p. 314.
A remand of this case is equally pointless on the issue
of whether, as a matter of West Virginia law, the state
death statute incorporates the maritime duty of providing a seaworthy vessel. The district judge found that
the barge was unseaworthy, but went on to hold that
"this case is not one for the applicability of the doctrine
4Indeed the case was submitted to us upon the contrary assumption. The petitioner's argument was pitched upon his contention'
that we should oveirule The Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199, so that his
rights could be determined under federal law. The respondent relied
upon West Virginia decisions in urging affirmance.
525554 0-60-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
STEWART,

J., dissenting.

361 U. S.

of liability without fault." The Court of Appeals expressly refrained from deciding whether the West Virginia
Wrongful Death statute has imported the maritime concept of unseaworthiness, finding that the circumstances
of this case were not such as to impose liability under
that concept, even if incorporated in the state statute.
The court found as a fact that the barge was not unseaworthy, and held as a matter of law that in any event
there could be no warranty of seaworthiness with respect
to a vessel withdrawn from navigation and delivered into
the sole custody and control of a dry dock company for
the purpose of major repairs. Only last month we unanimously held that this view of the scope of unseaworthiness
liability is correct. West v. United States, ante, p. 118.
There is no point in requiring, the Court of Appeals to
make what would therefore be so completely irrelevant an
inquiry into an elusive question of state law.
I would affirm.

