OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Syllabus.

361 U. S.

STIRONE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 35.

Argued November 9-10, 1959.-Decided January 11, 1960.

Petitioner was indicted and convicted in a Federal District Court for
interfering with interstate commerce by extortion, in violation of
the Hobbs Act, 18 U. S. C. ยง 1951. The only interstate commerce
mentioned in the indictment was the importation into Pennsylvania
of sand to be used in building a steel plant there; but the trial judge
permitted the introduction of evidence to show interference also
with the exportation from Pennsylvania of steel to be manufactured
in the new plant, and he instructed the jury that it could base a
conviction upon interference with either the importation of sand
or the exportation of steel. Held: The conviction is reversed.
Pp. 213-219.
(a) Since the indictment did not charge interference with the
exportation of steel from the State, it was prejudicial error to submit to the jury the question whether the extortion interfered with
the exportation of steel. Pp. 215-219.
(b) The variance between pleading and proof here involved was
not insignificant and may not be dismissed as harmless error,
because it deprived petitioner of his substantial right to be tried
for a felony only on charges presented in an indictment returned
by a grand jury. Pp. 217-218.
(c) Since the jury might have based the conviction on a finding
of interference with the exportation of steel, the conviction must
be reversed. P. 219.
262 F. 2d 571, reversed.

Michael von Moschzisker argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief was Vincent M. Casey.
Wayne G. Barnett argued the cause for the United
States. On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin,
Assistant Attorney General Wilkey, Ralph S. Spritzer,
Beatrice Rosenberg and Theodore George Gilinsky.

STIRONE v. UNITED STATES.
212

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner Nicholas Stirone was indicted and convicted
in a federal court for unlawfully interfering with interstate commerce in violation of the Hobbs Act.' The
crucial question here is whether he was convicted of an
offense not charged in the indictment.
So far as relevant to this question the indictment
charged the following:
From 1951' until 1953, a man by the name of William G.
Rider had a contract to supply ready-mixed concrete from
his plant in Pennsylvania to be used for the erection of a
steel-processing plant at Allenport, Pennsylvania. For
the purpose of performing this contract Rider
"caused supplies and materials [ and] to move in
interstate commerce between various points in the
United States and the site of his plant for the manufacture or mixing of ready mixed concrete, and more
particularly, from outside the State of Pennsylvania
into the State of Pennsylvania."
The indictment went on to charge that Stirone, using his
influential union position,
"did . . unlawfully obstruct, delay [and] affect
interstate commerce between the several states of
162 Stat. 793, 18 U. S. C. ยง 1951.

"(a) Whoever in any way or degree obstructs, delays, or affects
commerce or the move'ent of any article or commodity in commerce,
by robbery or extortion or attempts or conspires so to do, or commits or threatens physical violence to any person or property in
furtherance of a plan or purpose to do anything in violation of this
section shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more
than twenty years, or both.
"(b) As used in this section"(2) The term 'extortion' means the obtaining of property from
another, with his consent, induced by wrongful use of actual or
threatened force, violence, or fear, or under color of official right."

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

the United States and the movement of the aforesaid
materials and supplies in such commerce, by extortion . . . o $31,274.13 . . . induced by fear and by
the wrongful use of threats of labor disputes and
threats of the loss of, and obstruction and prevention of, performance of his*contract to supply
ready mixed concrete."
The district judge, over petitioner's objection as to its
materiality and relevancy, permitted the Government to
offer evidence of an effect on interstate commerce not
only in sand brought into Pennsylvania from other
States but also in steel shipments from the steel plant
in Pennsylvania into Michigan and Kentucky. Again
over petitioner's objection the trial judge charged the
jury that so far as the interstate commerce aspect of the
case was concerned, Stirone's guilt could be rested either
on a finding that (1) sand used to make the concrete "had
been shipped from another state into Pennsylvania" or
(2) "Mr. Rider's concrete was used for constructing a mill
which would manufacture articles of steel to be shipped
in interstate commerce . . ." from Pennsylvania into
other States. On motion of petitioner for arrest of judgment, acquittal or new trial, the District Court held that
"A sufficient foundation for introduction of both kinds of
proof was laid in the indictment." 168 F. Supp. 490, 495.
The Court of Appeals affirmed, all the judges agreeing
that interference with the sand movements into Pennsylvania was barred by the Hobbs Act. 262 F. 2d 571.
Judge Hastie and Chief Judge Biggs disagreed with the
court's holding that Stirone could be tried and convicted
for interference with the possible future shipments of
steel from Pennsylvania to Michigan and Kentucky.
262 F. 2d, at 578, 580. They were of opinion that no
interference with interstate steel shipments was charged
in the indictment and that in any event it is an unreasonable extension of the Act to make a federal offense out of

STIRONE v. UNITED STATES.
212

Opinion of the Court.

extortion from a man merely because he is supplying concrete to build a mill which after construction will produce
steel, a part of which may, if processed, move in interstate
commerce.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that Rider's
dependence on shipments of sand from outside Pennsylvania to carry on his ready-mixed concrete business
entitled him to the Hobbs Act's protection against interruption or stoppage of his commerce in sand by extortion
of the kind that the jury found the petitioner had committed here. That Act speaks in broad language, manifesting a purpose to use all the constitutional power
Congress has to punish interference with interstate commerce by extortion, robbery or physical7 violence. The
Act outlaws such interference "in any way or degree."
18 U. S. C. ยง 1951 (it). Had Rider's business been hindered or destroyed, interstate movements of sand to him
would have slackened or stopped. The trial jury was
entitled to find that commerce was saved from such a
blockage by Rider's compliance with Stirone's coercive
and illegal demands. It was to free commerce from such
destructive burdens that the Hobbs Act was passed.
United States v. Green, 350 U. S. 415, 420.
Whether prospective steel shipments from the new steel
mills would be enough, alone, to bring this transaction
under the Act is a more difficult question. We need not
decide this, however, since we agree with the dissenting
judges in the Court of Appeals that it was error to submit
that question to the jury and that the error cannot be dismissed as merely an insignificant.variance between allegation and proof and thus harmless error as in Berger v.
United States, 295 U. S. 78. The crime charged here is
a felony and the Fifth Amendment requires that prosecution be begun by indictment.
Ever since Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1, was decided in
1887 it has been the rule that after an indictment has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

returned its charges may not be broadened through
amendment except by the grand jury itself. In that case,
the court ordered that some specific and relevant allegations the grand jury had charged be stricken from the
indictment so that Bain might be convicted without proof
of those particular allegations.! In holding that this could
not be done, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the Court,
said:
"If it lies within the province of a court to change
the charging part of an indictment to suit its own
notions of what it ought to have been, or what the
grand jury would probably have made it if their
attention had been called to suggested changes, the
great importance which the common law attaches to
an indictment by a grand jury, as a prerequisite to
a prisoner's trial for a crime, and without which the
Constitution says 'no person shall be held to answer,'
may be frittered away until its value is almost destroyed." 121 U. S. 1, 10.
The Court went on to hold in Bain:
"that after the indictment was chz ; ged it was no
longer the indictment of the grand jury who presented it. Any other doctrine would place the rights
of the citizen, which were intended to be protected
2

Bain was indicted for making a false statement "with intent to

deceive the Comptroller of the Currency and the agent appointed
to examine the affairs of said association . . ." After sustaining
demurrers of Bain to the indictment, the trial court went on to say
that "thereupon, on motion of the United States, by counsel, the
court orders that the indictment be amended by striking out the words
'the Comptroller of the Currency and' therein contained." By this
amendment it was intended to permit conviction of Bain without
proof that he had deceived the Comptroller as the grand jury had
charged.

STIRONE v. UNITED STATES.
212

Opinion of the Court.

by the constitutional provision, at the mercy or control of the court or prosecuting attorney ....
"
121
U. S. 1, 13.
The Bain case, which has never been disapproved, stands
for the rule that a court cannot permit a defendant
to be tried on charges that are n6t made in the indictment
against him. See also United States v. Norris, 281 U. S.
619, 622. Cf. Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S.207, 219,
220. Yet the court did permit that in this case. The
indictment here cannot fairly be read as charging interference with movements of steel from Pennsylvania to other
States nor does the Court of Appeals appear to have soread it. The grand jury which found this indictment was
satisfied to charge that Stirone's conduct interfered with
interstate importation of sand. But neitherthis nor any
other court can know that the grand jury would have been
willing to charge that Stirone's conduct would interfere
with interstate exportation of steel from a mill later to be
built with Rider's concrete. And it. cannot be said with
certainty that with a new basis for conviction added,
Stirone was convicted solely on the charge made in the
indictment the grand jury returned. Although the trial
court did not-permit a formal amendment of the indictment, the. effect of what it did was the same. And the
addition charging interference with steel exports here is
neither trivial, useless, nor innocuous. Compare Ford v.
United States, 273 U. S.593, 602; Goto v. Lane, 265 U. S.
393, 402. While there was a variance in the sense of a
variation between pleading and proof, that variation here
destroyed the defendant's substantial right to be tried
only on charges presented in an indictment returned b3 a
grand jury. Deprivation of such a basic right is far too
serious to be treated as nothing more than a variance and
then dismissed as harmless error. Compare Berger v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

United States, 295 U. S. 78. The very purpose of the
requirement that a man be indicted by grand jury is to
limit his jeopardy to offenses charged by a group of his
fellow citizens acting independently of either prosecuting
attorney or judge.3 Thus the basic protection the grand
jury was designed to afford is defeated by a device or
method which subjects the defendant to prosecution for
interference with interstate commerce which the grand
jury did not charge.
Here, as the trial court charged the jury, there are two
essential elements of a Hobbs Act crime: interference with
commerce, and extortion. Both elements have to be
charged. Neither is surplusage and neither can be treated
as surplusage. The charge that interstate commerce is
affected is critical since the Federal Government's jurisdiction of this crime rests only on that interference. It
follows that when only one particular kind of commerce
is charged to have been burdened a conviction must
rest on that charge and not another, even though it be
assumed that under an indictment drawn in general terms
a conviction might rest upon a showing that commerce
of one kind or another had been burdened. The right
3"Yet the institution [the grand jury] was adopted in this country,
and is continued from considerations similar to those which give
to it its chief value in England, and is designed as a means, not
only of bringing to trial persons accused of public offences upon
just grounds, but also as a means of protecting the citizen against
unfounded accusation, whether it comes from government, or be
prompted by partisan passion or private enmity. No person shall
be required, accordihg to the fundamental law of the country, except
in the cases mentioned, to answer for any of the higher crimes unless
this body, consisting of not less than sixteen nor more than twentythree good and lawful men, selected from the body of the district,
shall declare, upon careful deliberation, under the solemnity of an
oath, that there is good reason for his accusation and trial." Ex parte
Bain, 121 U. S. 1, 11. See also Costello v. United States, 350 U. S.
359, 362, 363, n. 6.

STIRONE v. UNITED STATES.
212

219

Opinion of the Court.

to have the grand jury make the charge on its own
judgment is a substantial right-which cannot be taken
away with or without court amendment. Here, as in the
Bain case, we cannot know whether the grand jury would
have included in its indictment a charge that commerce
in steel from a nonexistent steel mill had been interfered
with. Yet because of the court's admission of evidence
and under its charge this might have been the basis upon
which the trial jury convicted petitioner. If so, he was
convicted on a charge the grand jury never made against
him. This was fatal error. Cf. Cole v. Arkansas, 333
U. S. 196; De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353.
Reversed.

