OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SEABOARD AIR LINE
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 10.

Argued October 19, 1959.-Decided November 9, 1959.

The provision of the Safety Appliance Act requiring power brakes
on railroad "trains" applies to movements of an assembled unit
consisting of an engine and a substantial number' of cars between
a classification or assembly yard and industrial plants one or two
miles from such yard, over a track through a city which makes an
interchange connection with another railroad and crosses at grade
five streets, two private roads and four tracks of another railroad,
when the cars are either received from a consignor or delivered to
a consignee. Pp. 78-83.
258 F. 2d 262, reversed.

John F. Davis argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Rankin,
Assistant Attorney General Wilkey, Beatrice Rosenberg

and J. P'. Bishop.
Eppa Hunton IV argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Lewis Thomas Booker.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit for statutory penalties, instituted by the
United States, charging respondent with the operation of
four trains in violation of the Safety Appliance Act, 27

Stat. 531, as amended, 32 Stat. 943, 45 U. S. C. §§ 1, 6, 9.
That Act requires every "train" moving in interstate
traffic1 to have power brakes on not less than 50% of
1 Section

1 provides, in relevant part:

"It shall be unlawful fur any common carrier engaged in interstate
commerce by railroad to use on its line any locomotive engine in
moving interstate traffic not equipped with . . .appliances for oper-

UNITED STATES v. SEABOARD A. L. R. CO.
78

79

Opinion of the Court.

the cars (§§ 1, 9)-a requirement which the Interstate
Commerce Commission by regulation has increased to
85%. 49 CFR § 132.1. The penalties are $100 for each
violation.' § 6.
The District Court rendered judgment for respondent
and the Court of Appeals affirmed by a divided vote.
258 F. 2d 262. We granted the petition for a writ of
certiorari because of the seeming conflict between that
S. 926.
ruling and our prior decisions. 358 U.
Respondeht has a "classification or assembly yard" in
Hopewell, Virginia. Trains to and from Hopewell use
it for breaking up incoming trains and for assembling
cars into outgoing trains. A track extends from this
"classification" yard for about two miles through the city.
In this stretch the tracks make an interchange connection with another railroad and cross, at grade, five streets,
two private roads and four tracks of another railroad.
Nine spur tracks branch off these tracks to industrial sidings. About two miles from the "classification" yard
are plants of the Allied Chemical & Dye Company and
Continental Can Company.
The complaint charged four violations: First, moving a
locomotive and 26 cars as a single unit, without stops,
from the track of Allied Chemical to the "classification"
yard. Second, moving a locomotive and 28 cars as a single
unit, without stops, from the "classification" yard to the
track of Allied Chemical. Third, moving a locomotive
and 29 cars as a single unit, without stops, from a track
near Allied Chemical for about a mile to the interchange
ating the train-brake system, or to run any train in such traffic
that has not a sufficient number of cars in it so equipped with power
or train brakes that the engineer on the locomotive drawing such train
can control its speed without requiring brakemen to use the common
hand brake for that purpose."
2 The statute was amended August 14, 1957, to increase the penalty
to $250 (71 Stat. 352, 45 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 6).
525554 0-60-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

track where the locomotive was detached, coupled to 20
additional cars, and then recoupled to the 29 cars. The
49 cars were then hauled, without stops, for about a mile
to the "classification" yard. Fourth, moving a locomotive and 23 cars as a single unit, without stops, from the
"classification" yard to the track of Continental Can.'
The meaning of the word "train" as used in the Act
has been before the Court four times. In United States
v. Erie R. Co., 237 U. S. 402, it was recognized that
while "switching operations" were not "train"' movements
within the meaning of the Act, the movement of cars from
one yard to another yard of the same carrier was covered.
It was emphasized that this movement, like other mainline movements, took the cars over switches and other
tracks where the traffic was exposed to the hazards against
which the Act was designed to afford protection. The
same result was reached in United States v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co., 237 U. S. 410, where the movements were of
transfer trains, shifting cars from one yard in Kansas City
to another on the opposite side of the Missouri River.
It was again emphasized that this was "not shifting cars
about in a yard or on isolated tracks devoted to switching
operations," but moving traffic over a line where there
were great hazards in the operation. Id., at 412. Louisville & J. Bridge Co. v. United States, 249 U. S. 534,
involved movements of cars for about three-quarters of a
mile from one company's terminal to that of another, the
cars passing over city streets, at grade, and along and over
other tracks. The Court, in holding that these movements
3 Respondent since 1951 had used air brakes on the cars in these
movements after inspectors of the Interstate Commerce Commission
had advised that it was necessary to do so. But it discontinued the
practice in 1956, justifying the discontinuance on the ground that
switching movements were involved, that the use of air brakes caused
a delay of about 40 minutes in each movement, and that the increased
annual cost for the use of air brakes was $30,000.

UNITED STATES v. SEABOARD A. L. R. CO. 83
78

Opinion of the Court.

the legislation. The Act, therefore, should be liberally
construed as a safety measure. Movements which,
though miniature when compared with. main-line hauls,
have the characteristics of the customary "train" movement and its attendant risks are to be included.
Reversed.

ous and extremely powerful applicatiofi of the power brakes, which
causes'the front cars in the train to quickly slacken speed and stop,
and the other cars behind them, which are not braked, to rush
forward against them, thus causing a severe shock, which often wrecks
the train and jars the trainmen off and injures them, and in some cases
they fall under the wheels and are killed. if the brakes on all of
th6 cars were operated this would not be so, for the brakes would
be applied equally all over the train, and the cars on. the rear end
would slacken their speed just as quickly as those on the front end,
and thus prevent their running forward against the front cars and
producing the shock just described. There is no way for trainmen
to escape these injuries, for they are still required by the companies
to ride out on the tops of trains, 4nd when one of these shocks comes,
it comes to them without warning, for the noise of the running train,
together. with darkness at' night, prevents them from detecting any
trouble ahead.
"Wrecks caused in this way do not only cause injury to the
trainmen on the train which is wrecked, but also on double-tracked
roads the opposite track is immediately blocked, with wrecked cars,
thus endangering not only the lives and limbs of trainmen, but passengers as well, who may be on trains approaching on the opposite
track, which can not be stopped before striking the obstruction' I
personally know of several bad wrecks of this character myself."

