OIL WORKERS UNIONS v. MISSOURI.

363

Syllabus'

LOCAL NO. 8-6, OIL, CHEMICAL AND ATOMIC
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
AFL-CIO, ET AL. V. MISSOURI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.
No. 42.

Argued November 19, 1959.-Decided January 25, 1960.

Proceeding under a Missouri statute, the Governor of Missouri found
that the public interest, health and welfare were jeopardized by an
existing strike against a public utility in the State and issued
executive orders taking possession of the company and directing
that it continue operations. Pursuant to the statute, a state court
enjoined continuation of the strike. The strike was then terminated; a new labor agreement was entered into between the unions
and the company; and the Governor ended the seizure. On appeal
from the injunction decree, the Supreme Court of Missouri noted
that the injunction had "expired by its own terms"; but it proceeded to sustain the constitutionality of those sections of the
statute authorizing the seizure, forbidding continuation of a strike
after seizure, and authorizing the state courts to enjoin violations
of the Act. On appeal to this Court, held: Since the injunction
has long since expired by its own terms, the cause has become
moot. Pp. 364-371.
(a) Because the injunction has long since "expired by its own
terms" there remains for this Court no actual matter in controversy essential to a decision of this case. Harris v. Battle, 348
U. S. 803. Pp. 367-369.
(b) Life is not given to this appeal by the fact that the statute
contains provisions which impose (1) monetary penalties upon
labor unions which continue a strike after seizure, and (2) loss of
seniority for employees participating in such a strike; since the
Supreme Court of Missouri found that those separable provisions
of the Act were not involved in this case, it carefully refrained from
passing on their validity, and they are not properly before this
Court in this case. Pp. 369-371.
317 S. W. 2d 309, judgment vacated and cause remanded.

Mozart G. Ratner argued the cause for. appellants.
With him un the brief was Morris J. Levin.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

Robert R. Welborn, Assistant Attorney General of
Missouri, argued the cause for appellee. With him on
the brief was. John M. Dalton, Attorney General of
Missouri.
I. J. Gromfine, Bernard Cushman, Herman Sternstein
and Justus R. Moll filed a brief for the Amalgamated
Association of Street, Electric Railway and Motor Coach
Employes of America, AFL-CIO, as amicus curiae, in
support of appellants.
Briefs of amici curiae in support of appellee were filed
by Richmond C. Coburn for the Chamber of Commerce
of Metropolitan St. Louis; Myron K. Ellison for the Missouri State Chamber of Commerce et al.; Irvin Fane,
Harry L. Browne and Howard F. Sachs for the Kansas
City Power & Light Co.; and James. M. Douglas and
Edmonstone F. Thompson for the Laclede Gas Co.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Missouri affirming a decree which enjoined the appellants from continuing a strike against a St. Louis public
utility. The judgment upheld the constitutionality of
certain provisions of a Missouri law, commonly known as
the King-Thompson Act, which authorizes the Governor
on behalf of the State to take possession of and operate a
public utility affected by a work stoppage when in his
opinion "the public interest, health and welfare are
jeopardized," and "the exercise of such authority is
necessary to insure the operation of such public utility."'

IThe King-Thompson Act is Chapter 295 of the Revised Statutes
of Missouri, 1949. The section of the statute which.authorizes seizure
by the Governor on behalf of the State is Mo. 'Rev. Stat., 1949,
§ 295.180.

OIL WORKERS UNIONS v. MISSOURI.
363

365

Opinion of the Court.

In the state courts and in this Court the appellants have
contended that the Missouri law conflicts with federal
legislation enacted under the Commerce Clause of the
Federal Constitution, and that it-violates the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Because of doubt
as to whether the controversy was moot, we postponed
further consideration of the question of jurisdiction to
the hearing of the case on the merits. 359 U. S. 982.
The appellants are labor unions which represent
employees of the Laclede Gas Company, a corporation
engaged in the business of selling natural gas in the
St. Louis area. In the spring of 1956 the appellants
notified Laclede of their desire to negotiate changes in
the terms of the collective bargaining agreement which
was to expire in that year. Extended negotiations were
conducted, but no new agreement was reached, and upon
expiration of the existing contract on June 30, 1956, the
employees went out on strike.!
Five days later the Governor of Missouri issued a
proclamation stating that after investigation he believed
that the public interest, health, and welfare were in
jeopardy, and that seizure under authority of the state
law was necessary to insure the company's continued
operation. In an executive order issued the same day the
Governor took "possession" of Laclede "for the use and
operation by the State of Missouri in the public interest."
A second executive order provided that all the "rules
and regulations . . . governing the internal management
and organization of the company, and its duties and
responsibilities, shall remain in force and effect throughout
the term of operation by the State of Missouri."
All employees represented by the appellants, approximately 2,200,
participated in the strike; approximately 300 supervisors and others
not in the bargaining units represented by the appellants remained at
work.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

After the seizure the appellants continued the strike in
violation of the statute,3 and the State of Missouri filed
suit for an injunction against them in the Circuit Court
of St. Louis.' At the end of a three-day hearing the trial
court entered an order enjoining the appellants from continuing the strike, and in an amendment to the decree
declared the entire King-Thompson Act constitutional
and valid. On July 14, 1956, the day after the injunction
issued, the strike was terminated. On August 10, 1956,
the appellants and Laclede signed a new labor agreement,
and on October 31, 1956, the Governor ended the seizure.
On appeal the Supreme Court of Missouri, although
noting that the injunction had "expired by its own terms,"
nevertheless proceeded to consider the merits of certain of
the appellants' contentions. The court restricted its consideration, however, to those sections of the King-Thompson Act "directly involved"-"Section 295.180, relating
to the power of seizure, and subparagraphs (1) and (6)
of Section 295.200 RSMo, V.A.M.S., making unlawful a
strike or concerted refusal to work after seizure and giving
the state courts power to enforce the provisions of the Act
by injunction or other means." ' 317 S. W. 2d, at 316.
In upholding the constitutionality of these sections of the
Act, the court explicitly declined to pass on other provisions which the appellants sought to attack, stating: "The
3Missouri Rev. Stat., 1949, § 295.200, par. 1, provides: "It shall
be unlawful for any person, employee, or representative as defined in
this chapter to call, incite, support or participate in any strike or
concerted refusal to work for any utility or for the state after any
plant, equipment or facility has been taken over by the state under
this chapter, as means of enforcing any demands against the utility
or against the state."
4Missouri Rev. Stat., 1949, § 295.200, par. 6, provides: "The courts
of this state shali have power to enforce by injunction or other legal
or equitable remedies any provision of this chapter or any rule or
regulation ptmsctibed by the governor hereunder."
5 See notes 1,'3 and 4, supra.

OIL WORKERS UNIONS v.. MISSOURI.

367

Opinion of the Court.

363

sections which we have considered are severable from and
may stand independently of the remainder of the Act.
Although the defendants argue strenuously to the contrary, no case is made in this record for determination of
the constitutionality of section 295.090, pertaining to a
written labor agreement of a minimum duration and section 295.200, subparagraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5, relating to
monetary penalties and loss of seniority. We, therefore,
refrain from expressing any opinion with reference
thereto." 317 S. W. 2d, at 323. Accordingly, the court
"limited and modified" the judgment of the trial court so
as to remove all possible intimation that any provisions of
the Act had been held constitutional, other than those
necessarily upheld in sustaining the validity of the
injunction.'

Because that injunction has long since "expired by its
own terms," we cannot escape the conclusion that there
remain for this Court no "actual matters in controversy
essential to the decision of the particular case before it."
United States v. Alaska"S. S. Co., 253 U. S. 113, 116.
Whatever the practice in the courts of Missouri, the
duty of this Court "is to decide actual controversies by
a judgment which can be carried into effect, and not to
give opinions upon moot questions or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules of law which cannot
affect the matter in issue in the case before it." Mills v.
Green, 159 U. S. 651, 653. See Bus Employees v. Wisconsin Board, 340.U. S. 416. To express an opinion upon
the merits of the appellants' contentions would be to
6The court did reaffirm an earlier decision (State ex rel. State

Board of Mediation v. Pigg, 362 Mo. 79 ; 244' Sr W. 2d 75) upholding
the constitutionality of provisions of the King-Thompson Act relating
to the State Board of Mediation and public hearing panels, "[t]o
the extent that those sections are a necessary predicate for the additional sections . . . with which we are now concerned . . . ." 317
S. W. 2d, at 315.
525554 0-C- -29

OCTOBER TERM. 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

ignore this basic limitation upon the duty and function
of the Court, and to disregard principles of judicial
administration long established and repeatedly followed.'
In Harrisv. Battle, 348 U. S. 803, these principles were
given concrete application in a context so parallel as
explicitly to control disposition of the primary issue here.
That case originated as an action to enjoin the enforcement of a Virginia statute, markedly similar to the KingThompson Act, under which the Governor had ordered
that "possession" be taken of a transit company whose
employees were on strike. Although the labor dispute
was subsequently settled and the seizure terminated,
the trial court nevertheless proceeded to decide the
merits of the case, holding that the seizure was constitutional. Harris v. Battle, 32 L. R. R. M. 83. The Virginia Supreme Court refused an appeal. Harrisv. Battle,
195 Va. lxxxviii. In this Court it was urged that the
controversy was not moot because of the continuing
threat of state seizure in future labor disputes.' It
was argued that the State's abandonment of alleged
unconstitutional activity after its objective had been
accomplished should not be permitted to forestall decision
as to the validity of the statute under which the State
had purported to act.' It was contended that the situation was akin to cases like Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 498, 514-516.1"
7

See, e. g., Singer Mfg. Co. v. Wright, 141 U. S. 696; California v.

San Pablo & Tulare R. Co., 149 U. S. 308; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S.
651; American Book Co. v. Kansas, 193 U. S. 49; United States v.
Hamburg-American Co., 239 U. S. 466; Commercial Cable Co. v.
Burleson, 250 U. S. 360; United States v. Alaska S. S. Co., 253 U. S.
113; Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S. 216; Alejandrino v. Quezon,
271 U. S. 528; Barker Co. v. Painters Union, 281 U. S. 462
8 See jurisdictional statement in Harris v. Battle, No. 111, 0. T.
1954, pp. 12-13.
9 Ibid.

10 Ibid.

OIL WORKERS UNIONS v. MISSOURI.
363

369

Opinion of the Court.

In finding that the controversy was moot, the Court necessarily rejected all these contentions. 348 U. S. 803.
Upon the authority of that decision the same contentions
must be rejected in the present case. See also Barker
Co. v. Painters Union, 281 U. S. 462; Commercial Cable
Co. v. Burleson, 250 U. S. 360.
However, as the appellants point out, the decision in
Harrisv. Battle is not completely dispositive here because,
unlike the Virginia statute, the King-Thompson Act contains provisions which impose: (1) monetary penalties
upon labor unions which continue a strike after seizure; "
and (2) loss of seniority for employees participating in
such a strike.'" The Missouri court found that these
separable provisions of the Act were not involved in the
present case, and it carefully refrained from passing on
their validity. '3 The court noted that liability for monetary penalties had been asserted in a separate lawsuit,
317 S. W. 2d, at 314, and the parties have informed us
that the action is still pending in the state courts.
11 Missouri Rev. Stat., 1949, § 295.200, par. 3, provides: "Any labor
organization or labor union which violates paragraph 1 of this section
shall forfeit and pay to the state of Missouri for the use of the public
school fund of the state, the sum of ten thousand dollars for each
day any work stoppage resulting from any strike which it has called,
incited, or supported, continues, to be recovered by civil action in
the name of the state and against the labor organization or labor
union in its commonly used name."
12 Missouri Rev. Stat., 1949, § 295.200, par. 2, provides: "It shall
be unlawful for any public utility to employ any person or employee
who has violated paragraph 1 of this section except that such person
or employee may be employed only as a new employee."
13 See pp. 366-367, supra. Since neither the statutory penalties nor
possible loss of seniority turns on the validity of the injunction, this

case is quite unlike Bus Employees v. Wisconsin Board, 340 U. S.
383, where the very judgment in controversy imposed financial liability. Nor did this case involve a "perpetual" injunction. See Bus
Employees v. Wisconsin Board, 340 U. S. 416, n., at 417-418.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

361 U. S.

We cannot agree that the pendency of that litigation
gives life to the present appeal. When that claim is litigated it will be subject to review, but it is not for us now
to anticipate its outcome. " 'Constitutional questions
are not to be dealt with abstractly'. . . . They will not
be anticipated but will be dealt with only as they are
appropriately raised upon a record before us. . . . Nor
will we assume in advance that a State will so construe
its law as to bring it into conflict with the federal Constitution or an act of Congress." Allen-Bradley Local v.
Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S. 740, at 746.
The guiding principle is well illustrated in American
Book Co. v. Kansas, 193 U. S. 49. There the Kansas
Supreme Court had ousted the appellant from doing business in the State until it complied with provisions of
the local law governing foreign corporations. Pending
appeal the appellant satisfied the judgment by complying
with the requirements of the statute. But meanwhile the
State had brought another action against the appellant
to void contracts it had made prior to the date of its compliance. Because of this pending litigation the appellant
argued that " 'there still exists a controversy, undetermined and unsettled,' involving the right of the State to
enforce the statute against a corporation engaged in interstate commerce." 193 U. S., at 51. What the Court said
in rejecting that argument and dismissing the appeal as
moot is entirely -elevant here. "[T] hat suit is not before
us. We have not now jurisdiction of it or its issues.
Our power only extends over and is limited by the conditions of the case now before us." 193 U. S., at 52. See
Alejandrino v. Quezon, 271 U. S. 528.
The asserted threat to the seniority rights of Laclede
employees is even more speculative. Almost four years
have passed since the strike, and the appellants concede
that no action has been taken to deprive any employees of
their seniority. Moreover, the section of the Act which

OIL WORKERS UNIONS v. MISSOURI.
363

BLACK,

371

J., dissenting.

relates to seniority rights imposes no legal sanctions on
the employees or their unions, but makes unlawful only
the action of the utility company which rehires the
employees without loss of seniority.14 In the unlikely
event that a legal proceeding should now be brought
against Laclede for having done so, there is no way to
know what the outcome of such a proceeding in the
Missouri courts might be.' 5
The decision we are asked to review upheld only the
validity of an injunction, an injunction that expired by
its own terms more than three years ago. Any judgment
of ours at this late date "would be wholly ineffectual for
want of a subject matter on which it could operate. An
affirmance would ostensibly require something to be done
which had -already taken place. A reversal would ostensibly avoid an event which had already passed beyond
recall. One would be as vain as the other. To adjudicate a cause which no longer exists is a proceeding which
this Court uniformly has declined to entertain." Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S.216, 217-218.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
vacated, and the cause is remanded for such proceedings
as by that court may be deemed appropriate.
Vacated and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN

whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
join, dissenting.

We think this controversy is not moot. As the Court's
opinion points out, the appellant unions may still be held
liable for monetary penalties and their members may lose
seniority because of the strike theMissouri Supreme Court
held illegal under state law. Its holding was made long
14 See note 12, supra.
15The appellee asserts and the appellants do not deny that the

statute imposes no penalty for violation of the seniority provisions.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

361 U. S.

after the strike had ended. It was moot then if it is moot
now. But the state court treated it as a live controversy,
and so should we. Otherwise, the appellant unions and
their members stand constantly under threats of penalties
and continuing injunctions under the state statute the
Missouri Supreme Cout held validly applied in this case.
The wrongfulness in holding the case moot is emphasized by our belief that the state court was plainly without
any jurisdiction over this controversy unless the Coutrt
wants to overrule BusEmployees v. Wisconsin Board, 340
U. S. 383, and adopt the views of the three dissenters in
that case. We would follow that holding and reverse this
case op the merits.

