UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 112.

Argued December 7, 1915.-Decided May 1, 1916.

As questions of fact confront the court before a decision can be reached
on the proposition of law herein involved, and the finding of fact on
which the court below based petitioner's right of recovery for lands
appropriated as a result of construction and extension of dikes by
the Mississippi River Commission acting under authority of Congress are not sufficiently definite; this court, without expressing any
opinion and reserving all questions of law, remands the case to the
Court of Claims, for more particular firqdings on the testimony
already taken or, in the discretion of the court, on further testimony.
Qure whether the liability to the owner of a tract of land part of
which was taken for erection of a dike in a navigable river is limited
to compensation for the area actually occupied by the dike itself under Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217 and Jackson v. United
States, 230 U. S. 1, or includes compensation for the remainder of the
tract destroyed by the deflection upon it of waters of the river by
reason of the construction and maintenance of the dike under United
States v. Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180.
47 Ct. Cl: 248, reversed.
PETITION in the Court of Claims for the recovery of
$300,000 for damages alleged to have been caused by the
officers and agents of the United States under the authority of an act of Congress creating the Mississippi River
Commission by the construction and extending of a dike
known as the Leland Dike upon the land of petitioners,
called the Point Chicot Plantation.
A demurrer to the petition was overruled and after
answer and hearing judgment was rendered for claimants
in the sum of $54,920, to review which this appeal is
prosecuted.
The findings were necessarily voluminous; we condense

them narratively as follows: Claimants' plantation prior
to the construction of the levee system to the state of
completion which now exists was of great value and in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

high state of cultivation, being reclaimed lands comparatively free from overflows of the Mississippi river
except at intervals, the recurrence of such overflows being
so separated in point of time as not to materially affect
either the value or the productive capacity of the plantation. It was highly improved with houses and cabins
thereon and stocked with laborers and tenants and yielded
large crops.
It has been overflowed at certain rises of the water in
the river (the rise in feet, according to certain data, is
given from 1844 to 1910), and during the twenty years
following 1891 after the levee system had been made
effective there were eight years during which it was not
overflowed.
Gauges of the height of the water are taken at Memphis
and Greenville. Claimants' plantation is overflowed
whenever the water rises to 135 feet, Memphis datum, and
it has been more or less overflowed every year except two
years (1872 and 1889) during the eighteen years prior to
1891, up to which time the levee system had not been
completed sufficiently to withstand great floods and the
outlets unclosed; and during the twenty years following
1891 after the levee system had been made effective and
the outlets closed by the United States and the local
authorities, there were eight years, namely, 1894, 1895,
1896, 1900, 1901, 1902, 1905, and 1910, during which
claimants' land was not overflowed.
The plantation is overflowed at a stage of 38 feet on the
Greenville gauge, or whenever the surface water rises to
135 feet, Memphis datum, and the gauge readings show
that of the fifteen years from 1882 to 1896, inclusive, there
were only four years in which this stage was not exceeded,
and that for the fourteen years from 1897 to 1910, inclusive, there were five years in which this stage of 38 feet on
the Greenville gauge was not exceeded.
From time immemorial the waters of the river during its

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

highest stages when not contained within the low-water
banks have naturally found outlets through certain basins
(they are mentioned) and through the rivers draining them
into the Gulf of Mexico. And the plantations that were
not overflowed so frequently before such outlets were
closed by levee construction were consequently little
injured by overflows.
Prior to 1883 the State and local authorities constructed
a system of levees, miles of which were destroyed in 1882.
Beginning in 1883 the officers of the United States under
the authority of an act of Congress creating the Mississippi
River Commission and other acts amendatory thereof
adopted the so-called Eads plan, and in consequence
thereof have projected and constructed levees on both
sides of the river for various distances from Cairo, Illinois,
to near the Head 'of the Passes, a distance of 1050 miles
from Cairo; and the local authorities along the river on
both sides from Cairo to the Gulf have before and since
also constructed and maintained levees at various places
and of various lengths for the purpose of protecting and
reclaiming land within their respective districts.
The levee lines so constructed by the United States and
local authorities have been practically joined, with the
result of confining the river within a narrow scope, increasing its velocity and elevation and !the strength of its
current. The highest. elevation is approximately six feet
in times of high water, and the plan of the United States
was to increase the scouring power of the water, deepen
the channel and improve navigation, and that of the local
authorities to reclaim and to protect the land on both
sides of the river from overflowing at times of high water.
From time immemorial the high-water bed of the river
has been between the highlands on the east side and the
highlands on the west side and the claimants' plantation
is within this boundary, that is, between the highlands
on the Mississippi side and the highlands on the Arkansas

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

side, and has been occasionally overflowed at times of high
water, as stated above, before as well as since the construction of the levees.
From Cairo to the mouth of the Yazoo river the Mississippi river is practically leveed on both sides, except on
the east side where the high lands abut on or very near
the river in Kentucky and Tennessee, and there is a gap
in, the line of levees of 234 miles from the mouth of the
Yazoo river to Baton Rouge unleveed.
The extension of the levee system has resulted in an
increased elevation of the general flood levels which subjects claimants' land to a deeper overflow than they were
subjected to formerly and consequently has somewhat
reduced it's value for agricultural purposes. The immediate cause of the deeper overflow on claimants' land is
the increased elevation of the flood heights, which is the
result of the general confinement of the flood discharge
by the levee system as a whole.
During the flood waters of 1882 the levees failed throughout the length of the river. In 1884 the crevasses were still
open in all basins. They were open and closed in subsequent years (which are given); they were all closed in 1904
to 1910. In consequence of the closing of the natural
basins, outlets and crevasses, overflowed lands on both
sides of the river have been reclaimed and protected from
overflow in times of high water and vast benefit has accrued to the States of Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee,
Mississippi, Arkansas and Louisiana, but the land of

claimants, situated between the levees and outside thereof
and not protected thereby, has been subjected to repeated
overflow, tending to diminish and impair its value, but
to what extent does not satisfactorily appear from the
evidence.
A part of the levee system runs back of claimants'
plantation, not touching the same, and between it and
the plantation is a stretch of ground lower than the main

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

body of the plantation, and in periods of high water the
water, rising and passing over and upon said land, has
by reasonf of its lowness first gone thereupon and its main
current was across said land and not upon the plantation,
which, while in extreme high water it would be flooded,
did not have the full force of the current of the river but
was covered in part or in whole by slacker water. The
current during high-water seasons struck against the levee
back of claimants' plantation, eroding and washing it
away, to the great danger of its existence and the inundation of the lands to the rear thereof and diverting the
water from the channel of the river. A breach or crevasse
in the levee would have entailed damage to it and to the
adjacent landowners and impaired the efficacy of the levee
system as projected, constructed and maintained by the
officers of the Mississippi. River Commission in accordance
with the plans heretofore stated.
In addition to the danger to the levee the current, impinging upon the banks of the stream and the neck of the
land adjoining Point Chicot to the mainland, cutting into
it, threatened to and would have, if permitted to continue,
cut through the neck of land, thus straightening the channel and making the plantation an island.
In order to prevent the threatened danger to the levees
and the neck of land the officers of the United States,
acting under the authority of the acts of Congress, and
the Mississippi River Commission constructed what is
known as the Leland Dike, running diagonally and at an
angle from the main line of levee on the Arkansas side
across and on the land of claimants to a point 662 feet
beyond where the line of the plantation begins, their object
being to divert the current of the stream during high
waters from impinging upon the levee, and, by throwing
it northeastward by the dike, to prevent the destruction
of the levee and the cutting across the neck of land.
The dike first went into and on the land a distance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Sttement of the Case.

241 U. S.

662 feet, but, its end being exposed to the waters of the
river and to its powerful current, the officers deemed it
necessary to extend the dike a distance of some 2700 feet
farther upon the land of claimants and did so extend it in
1907 without any condemnation of theland and with no
remuneration therefor being made to claimants. A large
part of the soil was used for this construction.
Before the United States joined the levee lines in accordance with the Eads plan, thus making the same continuous, there were occasional overflows of the plantation
but they have been made deeper and more forceful by the
adoption of such system. But before the erection of the
dike the overflows did not materially damage the plantation and it remained still valuable for agricultural purposes. By the extension of the dike the high-water current
of the river has been deflected over and across a large part
of the plantation, but flows in the same direction as did
a portion of the high waters of the river before the erection
of the dike-but with greater force and depth-the escape
of a portion of the high waters over and across the neck
of land being thereby prevented, in consequence of which
the overflows of the plantation have been greatly increased
and intensified, the result of which has been to wash and
scour out its top soil and to deposit upon a large part of
the plafitation great burdens of sand and gravel, and 3,696
acres have been thereby rendered totally unfit for cultivation or any other profitable use. This result has been
caused partly by the joining of the levee systems and the
erection of said dike,, but directly and proximately by the
erection of said dike.
The lines of levees constructed' in part by the officers of
the United.States and in part by the officers and agents of
the local organizations of the States bordering on the
river to 1909 had a length of 1,548 miles and contained
229,729,354 cubic yards. The officers of the United
States constructed 1,050 miles of the total.. Since 1909

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

the authorities of the United States have built additional
lines of levees containing 2,970,224 cubic yards and the
local authorities lines of levees containing 5,063,427
cubic yards, thus bringing the work of levee construction
up to the year 1910.
The 3,696 acres of land damaged as stated was, at the
time of the erection of the dike, of the value of $83,920, and
314/10 acres of the same is actually and wholly occupied
by the United States by the construction of the dike, and
the balance, to-wit, 3,664-6/10 acres, has been destroyed
and rendered wholly unfit for cultivation or any other
profitable use. The land is described.
As an ultimate fact, the court finds, in so far as it is a
question of fact, the 3,696 acres of land was somewhat
impaired in value by the construction of the levee
system, but that its use was totally destroyed by the
erection of the Leland Dike and was thereby taken, its
value at the time of such destruction and taking being
$83,920.
Before this suit was brought George F. Archer, one of
the claimants, brought a suit in the United States Circuit Court for the Western District of Arkansas against
the Board of Levee Inspectors of Chicot County, Arkansas,
for the damages arising from the erection of said dike
and the taking of the 31-4/10 acres of land. A demurrer
by the defendants to the complaint was overruled (128
Fed. Rep. 125); and thereafter and before the beginning of
this suit Archer discontinued the suit brought against
the Board.
The ownership of the plantation by the claimants was
found. From the findings of fact the court concluded that
claimants were entitled to a judgment of $54,920.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for the United States:
Liability of the Government for .damages is limited to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellee.

241 U. S.

land actually occupied by the Leland Dike. Jackson
Case, 230. U. S. 1; Hughes Case, 230 U. S. 24.
Occupancy of part of claimants' land creates no liability
for remote damages to the balance. United States v.
Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180.
Mr. Percy Bell for appellee:
Taking and using dike site without condemnation or
compensation by the agents, officers, and employees of the
Government in improving navigation, or protecting a levee
as incident thereto, a virtual trespass and actual taking
which creates an undisputed liability.
The superimposition of sand and gravel on adjacent
lands of same tract, as the immediate result of the construction of the dike, so as to destroy their value and
prevent their use by the owners, is, a destruction thereof
which constitutes a taking and creates a liability for the
value thereof.
The destruction of adjacent lands of owners in same
tract, as the immediate result of the dike, and its effect
as intended and foreseen by the builders thereof, constitutes a taking and creates a liability for the value
thereof.
The value of lands was fixed as of the time of taking.
In support of these propositions, see Fawcett v. United
States, 25 Ct. Cl. 188; Grant v. United States, 1 Ct. C1. 41;
King v. United States, 59 .Fed. Rep. 9; M. & C. Ry. v.
B., S. & T. Ry., 18 L..R. A. 166; Manigault v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473; Merriam v. United States, 29 Ct. Cl. 250;
Mills v. United States, 19 Ct. Cl. 79; Morris v. United
States, 30 Ct. Cl. 324; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall.
166; Sharp-v. United States, 191 U. S. 351; United States
v. Great Falls Afg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; United States v.
Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445; Welch v. United States, 217 U. S. 33; Williams v.
United States, 104 Fed. Rep. 50.

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The following cases cited by the United States are
considered and distinguished: Bedford v. United States,
192 U. S. 217; Levee Commissioners v. Harkleroads, 62
Mississippi, 807; Fort Smith Ry. v. Schulte, 109 Arkansas,
575; Greenleaf Lumber Co. v. Garrison, 237 U. S. 251;
High Bridge Lumber Co. v. United States, 69 Fed. Rep.
320; Hughes v. United States, 230 U. S. 24; Jackson v.
United States, 230 U. S. 1; McCoy v. Plum Bayou Levee,
95 Arkansas, 345; Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S.
530; Railroad Co. v. Hopkins, 90 Illinois, 316; Railroad
Co. v. Roskemmer, 264 Illinois,' 103; Railway Co. v. Allen,
41 Arkansas, 431; Railway Co. v. Hunt, 51 Arkansas, 330;
Richardson v. Levee Commissioners, 68 Mississippi, 539;
Sharp v. United States, 191 U. S. 341; United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.53.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the findings as thus made the parties to the action
base opposing contentions. The Government asserts
that the Government's liability is limited to the land
actually taken and all other damages are consequential.
In other words, that the appropriation of the land and
the erection of the Leland Dike put the Government in
the position of owner of the land with the rights and liabilities of owner, and that besides it had the rights of government to improve navigable waters. There was concession or some concession of the contention by the Court
of Claims in its opinion. The court, through Mr. Justice
Barney, said:
"In the decision of this case it may be admitted that
if the Government had owned the site of the Leland Dike
at the time of its erection, or if it had been owned by a
stranger to this suit, and hence had made no invasion
upon the lands of the plaintiff, it would not have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

liable for the destruction thereby inflicted, under the
ruling in the Bedford Case." [192 U. S. 217.]
But it was further said: "Under the decisions of the
Supreme Court in all cases of this character, it is the
invasion upon the lands and the actual and visible possession which constitutes the taking, and when thus taken
all of the consequences incident to such invasion necessarily follow, among which is the liability to pay for the
damage thereby occurring to the balance of the tract
to which the land thus taken belongs." Citing United
States v. Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180.
Claimants concede the power of the Government over
the river and that they "do not base their claim upon
any, raising of the flood levels of the Mississippi River,
although it is stated by them and was found as a fact
by the lower court that the high-water flood level of the
Mississippi River had been raised six feet by the completion of the general levee system."
They "recognize the fact that the right of the United
States Government to complete the levee system and
maintain the same-is indisputable, and that any purely
incidental injury which might have resulted to them solely
from raising the flood level would be a damnum absque
injuria. They claim nothing by reason of said fact, adducing the same merely by way of inducement as showing
that the ruin, which would inevitably have come to their
plantation from the deflecting thereon of the flood waters
by the construction of Leland Dike, was merely accelerated and expedited but not caused by the raising of the
flood level.
"Their claim is that the deposit of sand and gravel and
the destruction of their lands thereby were a direct and
immediate result of the construction of the dike which
was built on their plantation, using a part of it for the
base thereof and the material thereof, and constructing
the same without any condemnation of their lands and

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ouster of them therefrom, which with the destruction
constituted the taking of their lands within the meaning
of the Fifth Amendment, and entitled them tQ com-

pensation therefor."
And they rely on United.States v. Grizzaid, 219 U. S.
180, and other *cases, and distinguish the Jackson Case,
230 U. S. 1, and the Hughes Case, 230 U. S. 24.
A serious proposition of law is hence presented by the
contentions and controversy arises, as we have seen,
whether an appropriation of the land without condemnation proceedings can have different legal results from
its appropriation by such proceedings. In other words,
whether compensation for the land appropriated in .either
case would be the only measure of relief, and its payment
or recovery transfer ownership of the land and the rights
of ownership.
But before reaching decision on this proposition questions of fact confront us. It will be observed that the
findings are somewhat involved, mixing statement with
inference, indeed, it may be said, even with prophecy.
And it may be said again (we say "may be said" to avoid
the expression of a definite judgment at this time) that
there are effects caused by the United States and effects
caused by the State which are not distinguished. We
think there should be more precision. Great problems
confronted the National and state governments, great
and uncertain natural forces were to be subdued or controlled, great disasters were to be averted; great benefits
acquired. There might be liability to the individual;
if so, the liability should be clear, the cause of it direct and
certain. This we explained in Jackson v. United States,
230 U. S. 1, and in Hughes v. United States, Id., 24. There
is an effort in the present case to satisfy these conditions,
but we do not think it goes far enough.
The finding which recites the effects upon claimants'
property is ae follows: "In addition to the danger which

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

threatened the levee [that is, by the concentration of the
current and during seasons of high water], said current,
impinging upon the banks of the stream and the neck
of land adjoining Point Chicot to the mainland, cutting
into it, threatened to and would have, if permitted to
continue, cut through said neck of land, thus straightening
the channel and making Point Chicot plantation an
island." In other words, it is found that but for the dike
the river would have cut through the neck of land. Or, to
express it another way, the dike kept the river in its
channel. But, as We have seen, many forces were at work,
and if the conditions at claimants' plantation were artificial they were the result of the lawful exercise of power
over navigable rivers.
The finding seems to be definite, but it is too broad in
its inference. It may indeed be a just inference, but the
elements are wanting upon which a judgment can be with
assuranice pronounced. Besides there were two agencies
at work, National and state, in the construction of the
levees. There is no distribution of liability; all the results
to claimants' plantation are assigned to the Government.
Yet it is found that the claimants at one time conceived
that the local authorities were the offenders, that is, the
Board of Levee Inspectors of Arkansas was alone responsible, and brought an action against the Board. In passing
upon the ground of action and its sufficiency challenged
by demurrer the court said that the action "was instituted
to recover damages alleged to have been sustained by him
[Archer] by reason of the trespass of the defendant [the
Board of Levee Inspectors], who' unlawfully, with force
and arms, entered upon his premises-a plantation in the
county of Chicot-and built a levee thereon, without
having made compensation therefor." The demurrer was
overruled, the court expressing the view that the action
could be maintained and intimated an opinion that
an injunction might have been granted to enjoin the

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

trespass but that Archer. could elect an action for damages.
The action was discontinued. We are not informed by
the findings for what reason. It may have been for good
reason; we make no intimation to the contrary, but its
commencement and subsequent discontinuance suggest
some questions which may lead to answers pertinent to
be considered. In that action the trespass upon claimants'
plantation by the construction of the Leland Dike was
attributed to the local levee board; in the action at bar
it is ascribed exclusively to the officers of the United
States and it is averred that the encroachment of the
trespass was at different times, and to a greater extent the
second than the first time. Did claimants object at either
time? And if not, why not? Upon the answer may
depend a serious legal question. Or, if they were silent,
why were they silent? What were the local conditions
which called for judgment, not only the general conditions
to which we have adverted and the findings describe, but
the exact conditions as to claimants' property? Did
danger threaten it before the erection of the dike as well
as threaten the levees? As we have said, great forces were
in operation and a judgment or prediction of their effect
might have been difficult and uncertain, and claimants
have regarded the dike as a protection to their plantation
as well as to the levees.
The flow of the river is towards the Gulf and necessarily
the water is always higher on the upper side of the reaches
or bends such as exist at claimants' plantation. It may
be inferred, therefore, that the pressure of the water, compounded of its velocity and volume, is greatest at the
recesses or apices of the bends, has its first effect there, but
necessarily extends along the whole concave shore. At
first, of course, there would be a break at the neck or
narrowest pait, but would it not successively extend until
the whole mass would crumble and a wide breach be

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

formed through which the river would pour with its full
eroding force? And that such might be the effect we
gather from the report of the United States engineers,
of which we take judicial notice. It certainly may be
questioned, therefore, whether the river breaking through
at the neck would have confined itself to a narrow channel,
"making Point Chicot plantation an island," and would
not have permanently submerged it or swept it away.
The Leland Dike prevented a demonstration of experience
but it would seem that examples elsewhere on the river
could give testimony of what would have occurred if the
dike had not been constructed. It may be they were
adduced, it may be expert testimony was heard and all
pertinent facts exhibited to the court, and its finding is a
true deduction from the testimony and the facts. We
think, however, as we have already said, it is too broad
in its inference, and that therefore, the case should be
remanded to the court for more particular findings on the
testimony in the case or, in the discretion of the court,
upon further testimony to be taken; and the case should
be given such dispatch as may be consistent with such
purposes.
In what we have said no opinion is intended to be expressed of the case as it is presented or may be presented,
and all questions of law are reserved.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY,

dissenting.

Being unable to perceive that the facts found by the
Court of Claims are in any material respect lacking in
certainty, or are inadequate to support the judgment of
that court, I am constrained to record my dissent.

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

The salient facts included in the findings are as follows:
Claimants' plantation comprises about 6,000 acres, and
includes the whole or the greater part of Point Chicot, on
the Arkansas side of the Mississippi River. Point Chicot
is a peninsula formed by a sweep of the river, being joined
at its southwesterly end to the back land by a narrow
neck of comparatively low land, which is the property of
others than the claimants. The river flows easterly past
this neck of land on its upper or northwesterly side, and
after flowing around the Point, passing the important
town of Greenville, which is on the easterly or Mississippi
side, it of course flows past the southerly side of the
plantation and of the neck of land, on its way to the Gulf.
The distance on the course of the river from the upper side
of the neck of land to the lower is approximately 13 miles,
while the distance across the neck is less than a mile.
The situation is clearly shown upon the map annexed to
the findings of the Court of Claims, and reproduced with
the report of the case. 47 Ct. Cls. 248, 264.
The findings show that levee construction work of two
different kinds has been in progress along the Mississippi
River for more than 30 years. On the one hand, the
States and local organizations of the States bordering
the river on both sides have, both before and since the
year 1883, constructed and maintained certain lines of
levees at various places and of various lengths, for the
purpose of protecting and reclaiming land within their
respective districts from overflow in times of high water.
The lands of claimants are not included within any such
levee district, and are not affected by any state or local
levee construction except as such construction has contributed to closing certain natural outlets that formerly
accommodated the flood waters of the river, the result of
closing the outlets being to raise the elevation of the
river in times of high water. On the other hand, beginning
about the year 1883, and continuing to the present time,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

the officers and agents of the United States, in pursuance
of an act of Congress creating the Mississippi River Commission and other acts amendatory thereof, and for the
improvement of the river for navigation, have adopted
the so-called Eads plan, and in pursuance of it have projected, constructed, and maintained, and are engaged in
constructing and maintaining certain lines of levees on
both sides of the river at various places; the plan being to
increase the velocity and scouring power of the water,
and thus deepen the channel of the river and improve it
for navigation.
The findings show that "The extension of the general
levee system by the United States and the local authorities
has resulted in an increased elevation of the general flood
levels, which subjects the claimants' lands to deeper overflow than they were subject to formerly or would be subject to now if the levee system were not in existence, and
consequently somewhat reduced its value for agricultural
purposes," and this because "the lands of claimants,
situated between said levees and on the outside thereof
and not protected thereby, have been subjected to repeated overflow, tending to diminish and impair their
value, but to what extent does not satisfactorily appear."
It is important to observe that for the diminution of the
value of claimants' land thus produced by the general
effect of levee construction, State and National, no compensation is claimed from the United States, and no part
of such diminution is included in the amount of the judgment awarded by the Court of Claims.
But it came to pass that "a part of the levee system so
constructed and maintained runs back of said Point
Chicot plantation, not touching the same [whether this
was a part of the state or of the National system does not
appear from the findings, and is quite immaterial, for it
was not this that encroached upon claimants' land or
caused an actual invasion of it and direct damage to it],

UNITED STATES v. ARCIHER.
241 U. S.

PITNLEY, J., dissenting.

and that between it and said Point Chicot plantation is a
stretch of 'ground lower than the main body of said plantation [this is the neck of land already mentioned, owned by
other parties, and, as the map shows, it extends for nearly
a mile from the face of the levee to claimants' nearest
boundary line], and in periods of high water, the water
rising, passing over and upon said land, has, by reason of
its lowness, first gone thereupon, and its main current
was across said land and not upon Point Chicot plantation,
which, while in extreme high water it would be flooded
as hereinabove set fortfi, did not have the full force of the
current of the Mississippi River thereupon, but was covered in part or in whole by slacker water.
"The current during high-water seasons (being) as
aforesaid struck against and impinged upon the said levee
,back of said Point Chicot plantation and protecting the
lands on the interior, and such impingement resulted in
the waters of said river eroding and washing away said
levee, to the great danger of its existence, and threatening
to break through said levee and inundate said lands to the
rear thereof [not claimants' lands] and divert the water
from the channel of the. river. Such breach or crevasse
in said levee would have/entailed damage thereunto and
to the adjacent landowners [not to claimants] and impaired the efficacy of said levee system as projected, constructed, and maintained by the officers of said Mississippi
River Commission in accordance with the plans heretofore
stated. In addition to the danger which threatened the
levee, said current impinging upon the banks of the
stream, and the neck of land adjoining Point Chicot to the
mainland, cutting into it, threatened to and would have,
if permitted to continue, cut through said neck of land
[owned by others than claimants] thus straightening the
channel and making Point Chicot plantation an island."
It is obvious that the straightening of the channel, by
permitting the river to make a "cut-off" at the neck of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

land, would have sent the principal flow of the river
through the shorter route, thus interfering with and probably closing navigation along the 13 miles of river around
Point Chicot, to the especial detriment of navigation at
Greenville. For it is a well-known fact, and a subjedt of
official comment, that when the river forms a new channel
for itself across such a neck of land, the old bed has a
tendency to fill up at the head and foot and become a
lake. There are many crescent-shaped lakes in the
Mississippi bottom-lands, thus caused. Rep. Sec. War,
1875, Vol. 2, Pt. 2, p. 499. In many cases the entire bed
along the former and more circuitous channel has been
transformed into dry land, or nearly so. Two historic
instances of this kind have given rise to interstate suits
now pending on the original docket of this court: No. 6
Original, Arkansas v. Tennessee, turns upon the effect of
the "Centennial Cut-off" of 1876, while in No. 10 Original,
Arkansas v. Mississippi, the effect of the cut-off of 1848
is the subject of inquiry. We can thus appreciate the
situation, in view of which the powers of the Government
of the United States were put forth in the taking of a
considerable portion of claimants' land, as is shown by the
findings that follow.
In order to prevent the threatened danger to the levees
and the neck of land, the officers of the United States,
acting under the authority of the acts of Congress, and
the Mississippi River Commission, constructed what is
known as the Leland Dike, running diagonally and at an
angle from the main line of levee on the Arkansas side,
across and on the land of claimants to a point 662 feet
beyond where the line of the plantation begins, theii
object being to divert the current of the stream during
high waters from impinging upon the levee, and, by
throwing it northeastward by the dike, to prevent the
destruction of the levee, 'and the cutting across the neck
of land. The dike first went into and on the land of

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.

241 U.S.

PiTgNy, J., dissenting.

claimants a distance of 662 feet, but, the end of it being
exposed to the waters of the river and to its powerful
current, the officers deemed it necessary to extend the
dike a distance of some 2700 feet farther upon the land
of claimants, and did so extend it in 1907, without any
condemnation of the land and with no remuneration therefor being made to claimants. A large part of the soil was
used for the construction of the extension.
Before the United States 'joined the levee lines in accordance with the Eads plan, thus making the same
continuous, there were occasional overflows of the plantation, but they have been made deeper and more forceful
by the adoption of said system. But before the erection
of the dike the overflows did not materially damage the
plantation and it remained still valuable for agricultural
purposes. By the extension of the dike the high-water
current of the river has been deflected over and across
a large part of the plantation, flowing in the same direction as did a portion of the high waters of the river before
the erection of the dike, but with greater force and depth,
the escape of a portion of the high waters over and across
the neck of land being prevented by the dike, in consequence of which the overflows of the plantation have
been greatly increased and intensified, the result of which
has been to wash and scour out its top soil and to deposit
upon a large part of the plantation great burdens of sand
and gravel, and 3,696 acres have been thereby rendered
totally unfit for cultivation or any other profitable use.
This result had been caused partly by the joining of the
levee systems and the erection of the dike, but directly
and proximately by the erection of said dike.
"The 3,696 acres of land hereinbefore mentioned at
the time of the erection of the Leland Dike was of the
value of $83,920. Thirty-one and four-tenths acres of
the same is actually and wholly occupied by the United
States by the construction of the dike before mentioned,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PiTNiEY, J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

and the balance of said 3,696 acres, to wit, 3,664.6, has
been destroyed and rendered totally unfit for cultivation
or any other profitable use by the owners thereof.
The court finds as an ultimate fact, in so far as it is a
question of fact, that the said 3,696 acres of land was
somewhat impaired in value by the construction of said
levee system, but that its use was totally destroyed by
the erection of the Leland Dike and was thereby taken,
its value at the time of such destruction and taking being
$83,920."
Upon these findings, a judgment was rendered in favor
of the claimants for $54,920, the difference between this
and the total value of the land apparently being represented by an outstanding mortgage.
The record shows that the case was tried and considered
with unusual care and deliberation in the Court of Claims.
The petition was filed July 19, 1909; final judgment was
entered February 17, 1914, nunc pro tunc as of February 12, 1912. The merits of the case were argued at lea'-t
three times, and the United States filed several motions
for new trial, for amendment of the findings, etc. It was
therefore only after years of contentious litigation that
the Court of Claims arrived at the findings and conclusions upon which it based its judgment.
In this court the case has been fully argued upon the
facts disclosed by the findings; the argument for the
Government being conducted by the learned Solicitor
General in person. It was not suggested in argument
that the findings were incomplete or wanting in certainty.
That the essential facts clearly appear from the findings
is evident from the following excerpt from the Government's brief:
"From the findings of the Court of Claims the following facts appear: The plantation, described as 'Point
Chicot Plantation,' is situated in Chicot County, in the

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

PiTNEY,

J., dissenting.

southeastern corner of Arkansas. ,It isin a bend, bounded
on the north, east, and west by the river. Behind the
Point Chicot Plantation to the south was a levee, a part,
of the general system constructed by-the United States
and local authorities after 1883, pursuant to the Eads.
plan for the improvement of navigation. Between the
levee and Point Chicot Plantation was a low strip of
ground often covered by the river. The natural current
of the river in high water seasons running over the low
strip of ground behind the Point Chicot Plantation threatened the destruction of the levee, and a severance of the
Point from the mainland, leaving Point Chicot an island.
To forestall the danger to the levee from erosion, and to
the connecting neck of land, and thus to prevent the
river from leaving its channel, agents of the United States
Government constructed the Leland Dike in 1904, running 662 feet into the Point Chicot Plantation. In 1907
the dike was extended 2,700 feet further on claimants'
land. In all, 31.4 acres were occupied in the construction
of the Leland Dike.

.

.

.

In periods of high water the

floods deflected by the dike came over the plantation,
rendering 3,696 acres of the plantation unfit for cultivation."
Even were it suggested, as it is not, that the Court of
Claims had committed some trial error or had drawn
improper inferences from the evidence there submitted,
this court would have no authority to review the judgment and reverse it upon that ground. The rules established by this court, pursuant to ยง 708, Rev. Stat.
(now ยง 243, Jud. Code), for regulating appeals from the
Court of Claims require that the record shall contain
"A finding by the Court of Claims of the facts in the
case, established by the evidence, in the nature of a
special verdict, but not the evidence establishing them;
and a separate statement of the conclusions of law upon
said facts on which the court founds its judgment or

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

decree." The findings are conclusive upon this court
unless error of law appear in the record. United States
v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214; Stone v. United States, 164 U. S.
380; Districtof Columbia.v. Barnes, 197 U. S. 146, 150.
The entire argument for the Government may be reduced to the single contention that its liability for damages is limited to the 31.4 acres of claimants' lands that
are actually occupied by the Leland Dike, and that the
Court of Claims erred in awarding compensation also
for the 3,664.6 acres destroyed by the deflection upon
it of the flood waters of the river through the construction
and maintenance of the dike. The simple question is
whether the case should be governed by United States v.
Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180, upon which the Court of Claims
rested its decision, or by Bedford v. United States, 192
U. S.217; and Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S.1.
It was attempted to be shown in argument that the
causes of the damage to claimants' lands were diverse,
it being attributable in part to the levee work of the local
and state authorities, and only in part to the construction of the Leland Dike by the agents of the United
States Government. It seems to me that the findings
render this matter perfectly clear, for they show that
while the general work of levee construction in which
local, state, and Federal agencies co6perated, resulted
in an increased elevation of the flood levels and subjected
claimants' land to deeper overflows than before, and
consequently somewhat reduced its value for agricultural
purposes, no compensation was awarded-indeed, none
was or is asked-for this general and consequential result
of levee construction. Nor was the judgment in favor of
claimants based at all upon the value that claimants'
lands would have had but for this levee construction. On
the contrary, the finding is explicit that-while the tract
of 3,696 acres of land was somewhat. impaired in value
by the construction of the levee system, its use was totally

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

destroyed by the subsequent erection of the Leland Dike,
and that its value at the time of such destructionwas $83,920.
In view of this, I confess myself unable to comprehend
the basis of the criticism that the findings lack precision
and that the effects of the work done, respectively, by
the States and by the United States ought to be more
clearly distinguished. It is not suggested in what respect
the findings lack precision, and the Government advances no such contention. The findings certainly render
it most clear that no compensation is claimed or allowed
for anything done by the state or local authorities; that
neither of these has invaded the soil of claimants' lands;
that this invasion was done solely by agents of the United
States Government, acting under the authority of acts
of Congress, in the execution of an important public
work; and that by their acts 31.4 acres were actually
occupied for the construction of the dike and the balance
of the 3,696 acres were destroyed as the direct consequence
of the effect of the dike in turning the flood waters of
the river upon and across claimants' lands in other than
their natural course; and this because the dike performed
the very function that it was designed to perform.
Unfavorable reference is made to the finding that, in
addition to the danger which threatened the levee, the
current, impinging upon the banks of the stream at the
neck of land, cut into it, threatening to cut through it
and thus straighten the channel and make of Point
Chicot plantation an island. I am unable to see in this
anything else than a very clear and direct inference based
upon the physical facts and the effect of previous floods
upon the neck of land as recited in the findings, viewed
in the light of a history of cut-offs so frequent and familiar
along the lower Mississippi as to have become a matter
of common knowledge. But, if the finding is wanting
in any respect, this has nothing to do with claimants'
right to compensation for the taking of their lands. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PrNEY, J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

danger to the neck of land connecting Point Chicot with
the mainland does not affect the question of the quantity
or value of the land taken from claimants. It bears
8olely upon the nece8sity for the taking. Now, the objection -of want of necessity may be appropriately raised
by an objecting land owner. But surely it does not lie
in the mouth of the. Government, after an actual taking
of private property, to answer a claim for compensation
by setting up that there was no necessity for taking it.
It is said that it may be questioned whether the river,
breaking through at the neck, would have confined itself
,to a narrow channel, making Point Chicot plantation
an island,' and would not have permanently submerged
it or swept it away. Plainly, this is wholly speculative;
and it seems to me, in view of the findings and the illustrative map, that the result hinted at is not even a remote
possibility. The findings are clear to the effect that,
before the construction of the dike, flood waters went
across the neck of land, to the relief of the Point Chicot
plantation, upon which the ground is much higher. The
entire width of the river opposite the neck of land and
on its upper side is about one-half mile, perhaps less.
As already mentioned, the neck is less than a mile across,
and it extends for over a mile from the levee to -the nearest
line of the Point Chicot plantation.
My brethren deduce an inference of possible extensive
erosion from the reports of the United States engineers.
The reports at the utmost, would be no more than evidential. as to this point. Nor am I aware that this court,
in reviewing a judgment of the Court of Claims, is at
liberty to seek contradiction of the express findings of
fact made by that court by reference to some government
publication of which we may take judicial notice.
But if, before construction of the Leland Dike, there
was any probability, near or remote, that the opening of a
cut-off at the neck of land would lead to any encroach-

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

PITNEYj

J., dissenting.

ment of the river upon claimants' land, the only possible
legitimate effect of this upon their claim for compensation
for the lands actually taken and directly damaged by the
construction of the dike would be to reduce the damages
to such extent as it should be made to appear that by
such construction claimants had been specially benefited
through the saving of their other lands from destruction.
But the burden of showing this was upon defendant, not
upon claimants. And I can see no justification for reversing a judgment, fairly recovered by claimants, upon
the mere conjecture that possibly there ought to have
been an allowance in favor of the United States for the
direct benefit that the dike construction conferred upon
claimants.
Reference is made to the 'fact that before this suit was
brought George F. Archer, one of the claimants, brought
a suit in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Arkansas against the board of levee inspectors
of Chicot County, Arkansas, for the damages,arising from
the erection of the dike and the taking of the 31.4 acres
of land, and that after the overruling of a demurrer to thecomplaint the action was discontinued before the commencement of this suit (128 Fed. Rep. 125). As a finding
of fact, this manifestly imports nothing whatever pertinent
to the right of action of claimants against the Government
of the United States. As an evidential circumstance,
even were it entitled to any weight, this court'has nothing
to do with it, for we have no jurisdiction to consider or
weigh evidence. Even as against the defendant in that
action, the discontinued suit would not estop the plaintiff
therein; and certainly this court does not intend to intimate that it furnishes any bar to the recovery by the
claimants of compensation for the land actually taken by
the Government of the United States.
The question whether claimants objected to the entry
by the officers of the United States is likewise immaterial,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PiTN Y, J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

for their suit is based, not up6n the ground that the
officers were trespassers, but upon the ground that they
were lawfully engaged in the construction of a public
work under governmental authority, and in the doing of
it found it necessary to take and did take a considerable
part of claimants' land, with incidental direct damage to
another and greater part. This, upon well-settled principles, is to be deemed a taking of private property for the
public use, and by the plain mandate of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution is to be made the subject of
compensation. The protest of the property owner is not
necessary to entitle him to compensation. Acquiescence
in an unauthorized taking may estop a landowner from
having equitable relief by way of injunction against the
consequences of the taking, or from treating the taking as
a trespass; but it does not disentitle him to compensation
for the land actually taken. New York v. Pine, 185
U. S. 93, 96, 103. Nor is the absence of formal condemnation proceedings of any consequence. An agreement on
the part of the Government to pay him the fair value of
his property is necessarily implied, on principles of justice
and equity, from the mere act of taking, and it is upon the
implied assumpsit that the action rests. United States
v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 462, 465, 468-470.
Stress is laid upon the suggestion that if the Government or some third party had owned the site of the Leland
Dike at the time of its erection, so that in its construction
there had been no invasion of the lands of the claimants,
the Government would not have been liable for the destruction thereby inflicted. It is quite true that the constitutional inhibition against the taking of private property
for public use without compensation has been generally
construed as not conferring a right to compensation upon
a landowner, no part of whose property has been actually invaded, and who has sustained only consequential
damages by reason of the erection of a public work upon

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

PITN.Y,

J., dissenting.

adjoining land owned by a third party. It is this doctrine
that underlies the decisions of this court in Bedford v.
United States, 192 U. S. 217; and Jackson v. United States,
230 U. S. 1. The great hardship of the doctrine has been
so generally recognized that many of the States have
established constitutions providing in substance that
private property shall not be taken or damaged for public
use without compensation. Richards v. Washington
Terminal Co., 233 U. S. 546, 554. A rule so harsh in its
operation ought not to be extended; and this case very
clearly stands on the other side of the line, and comes
within a class of cases quite as well established, of which
United States v. Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180, is an example.
I cannot yield assent to the suggestion that the taking
of the 31.4 acres, actually invaded and occupied by the
construction of the dike, can be treated as a matter apart
from the destruction of the 3,664.6 acres of claimants'
lands immediately adjoining, which, as a direct result
of the construction of the dike and because of the function that it performs, have been "rendered totally unfit
for cultivation or any other profitable us- by the owners
thereof." Assuming, for the purposes of the argument,
that if the Government itself, or some stranger, had
owned the site of the dike, so that in the erection of it
no actual invasion had been made upon claimants' lands,
the Government would not have been liable on an implied
assumpsit for the destruction thereby inflicted, it is
sufficient to say that that is not this case. The whole of
the lands in question were owned by claimants, and were
in use as.integral parts of a single plantation. There was
an actual invasion and exclusive occupancy of claimants'
lands in the construction of the dike, and the destruction
of the adjoining lands was a direct and necessary consequence of the use made of the dike, and, in justice, must
be regarded as an inseparable part of the taking. It is
the established rule, recognized everywhere, that where

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PiNEY,

J. dissenting.

241 U. S.

only part of a tract of land is taken the owner is entitled
not merely to the market value of the part taken, but to
all damages to the remainder of his tract proximately
resulting from the use made of the part actually taken;
or, putting it in another way, he is entitled to the difference between the market value of the entire tract
and the market value of that which is left; excluding
from consideration, however, any general benefit that is
shared by all landowners whose property is similarly
circumstanced. A multitude of cases might be cited in
support of this proposition, but it is not necessary,
for they can be found in the text books and cyclopedias. The doctrine has been. uniformly adhered to
by this court. In Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 574,
it was expressed thus: "When part only of a parcel of
land is taken for a highway, the value of that part is not
the sole measure of the compensation or damages to be
paid to the owner; but the incidental injury or benefit
to the part not taken is also to be considered. When the
part not taken is left in such shape or condition, as to
be in itself of less value than before, the owner is entitled
to additional damages on that account. When, on the
other hand, the part which he retains is specially and
directly increased in value by the public improvement,
-the damages to the whole parcel by the appropriation
of part of it are lessened." In Sharp v. United States,
191 U. S. 341, 353, 354, an attempt was made to apply
the same Tule to separate and independent farms owned
by the same owner and having no necessary relation to
each other, the farming on each having been conducted
separately, and each farm having its own house and
outbuildings. The court said: "Upon the facts which
we have detailed, we think the plaintiff in error was not
entitled to recover damages to the land not taken because
of the probable use to which the Government would put
the land it proposed to take. If the remaining land had

UNITED STATES v. ARCHER.
241 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

been part of the same tract which the Government seeks
to condemn, then the damage to the remaining portion
of the tract taken, arising from the probable use thereof
by the Government, would be a proper subject of award
in these condemnation proceedings. But the Government takes the whole of one tract." In United States v.
Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180, 182, 183, which was an action
by the owners of a farm for a taking of a part of it by the
United States for public purposes, the court said:" Reference has been made to the well-known class of cases
touching an injury to land not taken by the construction
of a railroad along and upon an abutting public road,
or a change of grade to the damage of adjacent property,
and like indirect injuries to the use of property adjacent
but of which no part was taken from the owner. Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Sharp v. United
States, 191 U. S.341. But here there has been an actual
taking by permanently flooding a part of the farm of the
defendants in error. An incident of that flooding is that
a public road running across the flooded land is also
flooded. But if this were not so, and the roadway had
simply been cut off by the interposition of the flooded
portion of the farm, the damage would be the same.
Since, therefore, there has been a taking of a part of the
owners) single tract and damage has resulted to the
owners' remaining interest by reason of the relation
between the taken part and that untaken, or by reason
of the use of the taken land, the rule applied in the cases
cited does not control this cas.
Whenever
there has been an actual physical taking of a part of a
distinct tract of land, the compensation to be awarded
includes not only the market value of that part of the
tract'appropriated, but the damage to the remainder resulting from that taking, embracing, of course, injury ,due to
the use to which the part appropriated is to be devoted."
Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217, 225, is clearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

distinguishable, it being an instance of consequential
damages to the claimants' land by reason of Governmen
operations conducted six miles farther up the river.
There was no actual invasion of any part of their land,
and therefore no responsibility for the consequential
damages arising from the Government operations. Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1, 23, was likewise a case
of consequential damages without actual taking of any
part of the claimant's lands. It was decided both in the
Court of Claims (47 Ct. Cl. 579, 613) and by this court
upon the authority of the Bedford Case.
It seems to me that the findings of the Court of Claims
are sufficiently clear and definite to furnish the materials
for a proper judgment upon the claim in controversy;
that an actual invasion and occupation of a part of claimants' lands, particularly described, by the agents of the
United States, in the construction of the dike under the
authority of acts of Congress, is shown, as well as the
market value of the particular part actually invaded
and of the larger and adjacent portion of the same tract
necessarily destroyed as a direct and immediate result
of the construction and maintenance of the dike. I also
think that the case comes clearly within the authority of
United States v. Grizzard, supra, and that the judgment
under review should be affirmed.
More than eight years have elapsed since the practical
destruction of the greater part of claimants' plantation;
nearly seven years since the suit was commenced. And
as no interest is allowable against the Government in a
case of this kind up to the time of the rendition of judgment in the Court of Claims, (ยง 1091, Rev. Stat., ยง 177,
Jud. Code; TilIson v. United States, 100 U. S. 43, 47;
Harvey v. United Statis, 113 U. S. 243) any unnecessary
postponement of the judgment is a virtual denial of
justice.
For these reasons, I dissent.

