OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

We confifie ourselves to the single point presented.
There is no controversy whatever as to the authority of
the Secretary of the Interior, where there 'are undivided
interests belonging to Indians, adequately to protect
those interests according to the statutory provisions to
this end. Our conclusion simply is that the act of 1906
placed no restrictions upon the alienation of land, or undivided interests in land, of which white men who were
not members of the tribe became owners.
The-judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took

no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK COMPANY v. LEWIS, ET
AL., CONSTITUTING THE STATE WATER
BOARD OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 300. Argued March 16, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.
Nothing is accomplished by an unsuccessful attempt to remove an
administrative proceeding into the Federal court where the District
Court has by its remanding order adjudged that the removal is not
authorized.
Under § 28,Judicial Code, the order of the District Court remanding a
proceeding to the state court is final and conclusive; it is not subject to review either directly or indirectly.
The rule of retention of a cause by the first of two courts of concurrent
jurisdiction to the exclusion of other courts and the protection of its

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 441
241 U. S.

Counsel for Appellant.

jurisdictioniiby injunction, applies only where there is substantial
identity in the rights asserted and purposes sought in the several
suits; the rule does not apply where the earlier suit is a mere private
effort to restrain encroachments on plaintiff's individual rights and
the later suit is a quasi-public proceeding set in motion by a public
agency to determine the rights of all parties in interest.
Where the decision by the state court, that a statutory proceeding
before a state board is preliminary and administrative and not judicial, is the necessary result of that court's construction of the statute, this court accepts it as correct.
A State may, without violating due process of law, require all claimants
to the same water to submit their claims to an administrative board
and to pay a reasonable fee for the expenses of such board in determining the relative rights of the various claimants; and an opportunity to be heard is not denied by accepting ex parte sworn
statements if all testimony is to be subsequently reviewed by the
court in a proceeding wherein testimony may be taken; nor is it a
denial of due process of law to make the preliminary order of such a
board effective pending final determination by the court, where
provision is made for a stay on giving suitable bond for damages that
may accrue; such requirements are not arbitrary and are a proper
exercise of governmental protection of the water which in its absence
might.pass on and be lost.
The statutes of Oregon, 3 Lord's Laws, chap. 6 and chaps. 82, 86 and
97 of Laws of 1913, establishing proceedings before the State Water
Board for ascertainment and adjudication of the relative rights of
various claimants to the same water, do not deny due process of law
because they require a claimant to assert his right and to pay fees
for its consideration, or because they allow the board to accept and
consider sworn statements taken ex pare without opportunity for
cross-examination, or because they allow administrative orders to be
followed and given effect before final action of the courts thereon.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under the
Fourteenth Amendment, of the statute of Oregon relating
to appropriation and distribution of water, and the validity of proceedings thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward F. Treadwell, with whom Mr. Alexander
Britton, Mr. Evans Browne. and Mr. F. W. Clements were

on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Mr. George M. Brown, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, Mr. George T. Cochran and Mr. Will R. King,
with whom Mr. J. 0. Bailey, Mr. James T. Chinnock and
Mr. Percy A. Cupper were on the brief, for appellees.1
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a bill in equity to enjoin a proceeding before the
State Water Board of Oregon looking to the ascertainment and adjudication of the relative rights of the various
claimants to the waters of Silvies River in that State, the
grounds itipon which such relief is sought being (a) that it
is essential to protect a jurisdiction previously acquired
'by the District Court, and (b) that the local statute, 3
Lord's Oregon Laws, Title XLIII, chap. 6; Laws 1913,
chaps. 82, 86 and 97, authorizing and controlling the proceeding, is repugnant to the due process of law clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. -An interlocutory injunction
was denied by the District Court, three judges sitting,
217 Fed. Rep. 95, and motions to dismiss the bill as disclosing no right to relief were afterwards sustained.
The plaintiff, a California corporation, owns large tracts
of land along the river and claims a vested right to use
upon thesti lapds a portion of the waters of the stream for
irrigation and other beneficial purposes. The defendants
are the members of the State Water Board and a few out
of many persons and corporations claiming similar rights
in the waters of the river. The statute under which the
proceeding assailed is being conducted was enacted in
1909 and amended in 1913, and most of the rights affected
by the proceeding are claimed to have arisen prior to the
1 The briefs in this case are elaborate and exhaustive and too lengthy
to permit abstracts to be included in the Reports; they cite several
hundred authorities, state and Federal, on the questions involved and
discussed.

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 443
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute-the plaintiff's as much as thirty years before.
All claimants to the waters of the river, including the plaintiff, were brought into the proceeding by due notice and
in conformity with the statute.
A general outline of the statute, as it has-been construed
by the Supreme Court of the State,' will serve to simplify
the questions to be considered. It recognizes that in
Oregon rights to use the waters of streams for irrigation
and other beneficial purposes may be acquired by appropriation, adopts a comprehensive scheme for securing
an economical, orderly and equitable distribution of the
waters among those entitled to their use, incidentally
prescribes a mode of determining the relative rights of the
various claimants to the waters of each stream, and in
large measure commits the administration of the scheme
to the State Water Board and officers acting under the
supervision of its members. When one or more users of
water from any stream request it the board, if finding that
the conditions justify it, is required to set in motion a
proceeding looking to an ascertainment and adjudication
of all rights to the waters of that stream. Every material
step in the proceeding is to be attended with notice and an
opportunity to be heard, the adequacy of which is manifest. In the beginning each claimant is required to present
to the division superintendent a sworn statement of his
claim showing its nature, inception and extent and all the
particulars upon which it is based. These statements are
to be exposed to public inspection, so that every claimant
may determine whether there is occasion for him to oppose or contest the claims of others. The State Engineer,
or a qualified assistant, is to measure the flow of the stream,
the carrying capacity of the several ditches taking water

'See WaUles v. Baker County, 59 Oregon, 255; Pringle Falls Power
Co. v. Patterson, 65 Oregon, 474, 484; Claypool v. O'Neill, ibid. 511;
Pacific Live Stock Co. v. Cochran, 73 Oregon, 417; In re Willow Creek,
74 Oregon, 592; In re North Powder River, 75 Oregon, 83.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

therefrom, and the land irrigated or susceptible of irrigation from each ditch, and also to take such other observations as may be essential to a proper understanding
of the claims involved, a report of all of which is to be
made in writing. Any claimant desiring to contest the
claim of another may present to the division superintendent a sworn statement showing the grounds of contest
and obtain a hearing before that officer at which the parties
may present whatever evidence they have and may secure
the attendance of witnesses by compulsory process. After
the evidence in the contests is taken, it and the sworn
statements of the several claimants, with the report of
the engineer's measurements and observations, are to be
laid before the board,-the statements and the report'
both being regarded as evidence appropriate to be considered. The board is then to examine all the evidence,
make findings of fact therefrom, enter an order embodying
the findings and provisionally determining the relative
rights of the several claimants, and transmit the evidence
and a copy of the order to the circuit court of the county
wherein the stream or some part of it lies. Exceptions to
the board's findings and order may be presented to the
court and in disposing of them the court is to follow as
near as may be the practice prevailing in suits in equity.
All parties in interest, including the board as representing
the State, are to be fully heard. Further evidence may
be taken by the court, or the matter may be remanded
with directions that additional evidence be taken and that
the matter be again considered by the board, in which
event the evidence and a copy of the further order of the
board are to be transmitted to the court as in the first
instance. In short, upon exceptions the court may reexamine the whole matter and enter such decree as the
law and the evidence may require, whether it be an affirmance or a modification of the board's order. And even
where no exceptions are presented a decree giving effect

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 445
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the order is to be entered, that is to say, the matter
is not to be left as if the order in itself constituted an
effective adjudication. An appeal from the court's decree may be taken to the Supreme Court of the State
"as in other cases in equity," except that the time therefor is substantially shortened. When the rights involved
are adjudicated the decree is to be "conclusive as to all
prior rights and the rights of all existing claimants,"
and the right of each claimant as so settled is to be appropriately entered and shown upon the records of the
board and upon those of the proper county. Each claimant also is to receive from the board a certificate setting
forth the priority, extent and purpose of his right, and,
if it be for irrigation purposes, a description of the land
to which it is appurtenant. That the statute is not intended to take away or impair any vested right to any
water or to its u~e is expressly declared in its first and
seventieth sections, 3 Lord's Oregon Laws, Tit. XLIII,
c. 6, §§ 6594, 6595.
At the time the statute was adopted, and continuously
until this suit was begun, there were pending undetermined
in the District Court I two suits in equity brought by the
present plaintiff, one against two Oregon corporations
and the other against another corporation of that State,
in each of which suits the relative rights of the parties
thereto in the waters of Silvies River were in controversy.
These rights are reasserted and again brought in controversy in the proceeding before the board.
When that proceeding was first set in motion, the Pacific
Live Stock Company, the plaintiff in this suit, presented
to the board a petition and bond for the removal of the
proceeding, or a part of it alleged to involve a separable
controversy, to the District Court of the United States
The suits were begun in the Circuit Court and when it was abolished
were transferred to the District Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

upon the ground that it was A suit between citizens of
different States. But the attempted removal was not
sustained, for the District Court remanded the proceeding
and in that connection held that while it was pending
before the board it was essentially preliminary and administrative, and not a suit at law or in equity within the
meaning of the removal statute. In re Silvies River,
199 Fed. Rep. 495.
Thereafter the plaintiff presented to the division superintendent a sworn statement of its claim, accompanied
by the fee prescribed,-at the same time protesting that
the fee was extortionate, that the matter should be adjudicated in the Federal court and that the local statute
was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. More
than two hundred other claimants also appeared and submitted statements of their claims, all being described as
higher up the stream than that of the plaintiff. When the
statements were opened to public inspection many contests were initiated. Several of these were against the
plaintiff's claim; a large number were by the plaintiff
against other claims, and there were others in which, it
is said, the plaintiff was not directly concerned. It was
at this stage of the proceeding, and before any evidence
was taken in any of the contests, that this suit was brought.
Upon the assumption (1) that the removal proceedings
were effective, (2) that the proceeding before the. board
is substantially identical with the pending suits, and (3)
that that proceeding is essentially judicial in its nature,
the plaintiff insists that the continued prosecution -of the
proceeding before the board constitutes an inadmissible
interference with the District Court's jurisdiction and
that this jurisdiction should be maintained and protected
by an appropriate injunction. 1 The insistence must
I See Rev. Stat., § 720; Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall. 366, 370; Frenchy.
Hay, 22 Wall. 250, 253; Rickey Land Co. v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S.
258, 262; Ches. & Ohio Ry. v. Cockrell, 232 U. S. 146, 154.

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 447
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be overruled, because the assumption upon which it rests
cannot be indulged.
Nothing was accomplished by the removal proceedings.
The District Court did not take jurisdiction under them,
but, on the contrary, by its remanding order adjudged that
they were unauthorized. That order is not subject to
review, either directly or indirectly, but is final and conclusive. Jud. Code, § 28; Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, 580-583; McLaughlin Bros. v.
Hallowell, 228 U. S. 278, 286. In so holding it is not intimated that the result would be different if the order
were now open to review. See Upshur County v. Rich, 135
U. S. 467, 474, et seq. and cases cited.
The rule that where the same matter is brought before
courts of concurrent jurisdiction, the one first obtaining
jurisdiction will retain it until the controversy is determined, to the entire exclusion of the other, and will maintain and protect its jurisdiction by an appropriate injunction, is confined in its operation to instances where
both suits are substantially the same, that is to say, where
there is substantial identity in the interests represented,
in the rights asserted and in the purposes sought. Buck
v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334, 345; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall.
679, 715; Rickey Land Co. v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S. 258,
262. This is not such an instance. The proceeding sought
to be enjoined, although in some respects resembling the
prior suits, is essentially different from them. They are
merely private suits brought to restrain alleged encroachments upon the plaintiff's water right, and, while requiring
an ascertainment of the rights of the parties in the waters
of the river, as between themselves, it is certain that they
do not require any other or further determination respecting those waters. Unlike them, the proceeding in
question is a quasi public proceeding, set in motion by a
public agency of the State. All claimants are required to
appear and prove their claims; no one can refuse without

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

forfeiting his claim, and all have the same relation to the
proceeding. It is. intended to be universal and to result
in a complete ascertainment of all existing rights, to the
end; First, that the waters may be distributed, under
public supervision, among the lawful claimants according
to their respective rights without needless waste or controversy; Second, that the rights of all may be evidenced
by appropriate certificates and public records, always
readily accessible, and may not be dependent upon the
testimony of witnesses with its recognized infirmities
and uncertainties, and, Third, that the amount of surplus
or unclaimed water, if any, may be ascertained and
rendered available to intending appropriators.
Referring to a situation resembling that to which this
proceeding is addressed, the Supreme Court of Maine
said in Warren v. Westbrook Manufacturing Co., 88 Maine,
58, 66: "To make the water power of economic value,
the rights to its use, and the division of its use, according
to those rights, should be determined in advance. This
prior determination is evidently essential to the peaceful
and profitable use by the different parties having rights
in a common power. To leave them in their uncertainty,to leave one to encroach upon the other,-to leave each
to use as much as he can, and leave the other to sue at
law after the injury,-is to leave the whole subject matter
to possible waste and destruction." In considering the
purpose of the State in authorizing the proceeding the
Supreme Court of Oregon said in In re Willow Creek, 74
Oregon, 592, 613, 617: "To accelerate the development of
the state, to promote peace and good order, to minimize
the danger of vexatious controversies wherein the shovel
was often used as an instrument of warfare, and to provide
a convenient way for the adjustment and recording of
the rights of the various claimants to the use of the
water of a stream or other source of supply at a reasonable expense, the state enacted the law of 1909, thereby

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 449
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to a limited extent calling into reqdisition its police
power. . . .
Water rights, like all other rights, are
subject to such reasonable regulations as are essential
to the general welfare, peace and good order of the citizens of the state, to the end that the use of water by one,
however absolute and unqualified his right thereto, shall
not be injurious to the equal enjoyment of others entitled
to the equal privilege of using water from the same source,
nor injurious to the rights of the public." The District
Court, when making the remanding order, said (199 Fed.
Rep. 502): "The water is the res or subject matter of the
controversy. It is to be divided among the several claimants according to their respective rights. Each claimant
is therefore directly and vitally interested, not only in
establishing the validity and extent of his own claim,
but in having determined all of the other claims." And
thal court further said that what was intended was to
secure in an economical and practical way a determination
of the rights of the various claimants to the use of the
waters of the stream "and thus [to] avoid the uncertainty
as to water titles and the long and vexatious controversies
concerning the same which have heretofore greatly retarded the material development of the state." In such
a proceeding the rights of the several claimants are so
closely related that the presence of all is essential to the
accomplishment of its purposes, and it hardly needs
statement that these cannot be attained by mere private
suits in which only a few of, the claimants are present,
for only their rights as between themselves could be determined. As against other claimants and the public
the determination would amount to nothing. And so,
upon applying the test before indicated, it is apparent
that the assumed substantial identity between the proceeding and the pending suits does not exist.
The Supreme Court of the State holds that while the
proceeding is pending before the board it is merely pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

liminary and administrative, not judicial, and as this
holding is a necessary result of that court's construction
of the statute we accept it as correct. The question was
first suggested in Pacific Livestock Co. v. Cochran, 73
Oregon, 417, and the court then said, p. 429: "It is not
necessary-here to decide whether the proceeding by the
board to determine water rights is judicial or administrative. To a large extent it is administrative, but like
many proceedings of that character, the board must also
act in a quasi judicial capacity. A determination of the
water rights to a stream finally ends as a report to the
Circuit Court, and a decree of final determination by that
court." Afterwards the question was both raised and
determined in In re Willow Creek, 74 Oregon, 592. The
court there reviewed the several provisions bearing upon
the duties and powers of the board and said, pp. 610, 612,
614: "Their duties are executive or administrative in
their nature. In proceedings under the statute the
board is not authorized to make determinations which
are final in their character. Their findings and orders are
primafacie final and binding until changed in some proper
proceeding. The findings of the board are advisory
rather than authoritative. It is only when the courts of
the State have obtained jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the persons interested and rendered a
decree in the matter determining such rights that, strictly
speaking, an adjudication gr final determination is made.
It might be said that the duties of the water board
are quasi judicial in their character. Such duties may
be devolved by law on boards whose principal duties
are administrative.

.

.

.

The duties of the board of

control are similar to those of a referee appointed by the
court.

.

.

.. By proceeding in accordance with the

statute, when the matter is presented to the court for
judicial action, it is in an intelligible form. The water
board and state may then be represented by counsel."

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 451
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As an alternative to its first contention, which we hold
untenable, the plaintiff insists that the statute is repugnant to the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.; First, because it requires a claimant,
at his own expense, to assert and prove his claim before
the board, and to pay an extortionate fee for having it
considered,-all under penalty of forfeiting his claim if
he refuses,-notwithstanding the board acts only administratively and its findings and order are not conclusive;
Second, because it permits the board to accept and act
upon the sworn statements of claimants taken ex parte
and upon the data set forth in the-unsworn report of the
engineer, without, as is asserte d, affording any opportunity for showing their true value, or the want of it, by
cross examination or otherwise; and, Third, because it
requires that the board's findings and order, although
only administrative in character, be followed and given
effect in the distribution of the water pending the action
of the Circuit Court upon them.
A serious fault in this contention is that it does not
recognize the true relation of the proceeding before the
board to that before the court. They are not independent
or unrelated, but parts of a single statutory proceeding,
the earlier stages of which are before the board and the
later stages before the court. In notifying claimants,
taking statements of claim, receiving evidence and making an advisory report the board merely paves the way
*for an adjudication by the court of all the rights involved.
As the Supreme Court of the State has said, the board's
duties are much like those of a referee. (And see Oregon
R. R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510, 526-527.)
All the evidence laid before it goes before the court, where
it is to be accorded its proper weight and value. That
the State, consistently with due process of law, may thus
commit the prelhninary proceedings to the board and the
final hearing and adjudication to the court is not de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

batable. And so, the fact that the board acts administratively and that its report is not conclusive does not
prevent a claimant from receiving the full benefit of
submitting his claim and supporting proof to the board.
That he is to do this at his own expense affords no ground
for objection; on the contrary, it is in accord with the
practice in all administrative and judicial proceedings.
The fee alleged to be extortionate is a charge graduated
according to the amount of land irrigated under the
claim submitted, and is fifteen cents per acre for the
first one hundred acres, five cents per acre for the next
nine hundred acres, and one cent per acre for any excess
over one thousand acres. The purpose with which it is
exacted is explained in the following excerpt from the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the State in Pacific
Livestock Co. v. Cochran, 73 Oregon, 417, 429, 430: "The
board is required to take testimony which consumes the
time of a stenographer paid by the State; to make,
through the state engineer, an examination of the stream
and the works diverting water therefrom, including the
measurement of the discharge of the stream and of the
capacity of the various ditches and canals; to examine
and measure the irrigated lands and to gather such other
data as may be necessary; to reduce the same to writing
and make it a matter of record in the office of the state
engineer; to make maps and plats of the various ditches
and of the stream-all at the expense of the State. That
these services are beneficial to the claimant and necessary
to the preservation of his rights in the stream and the
protection and assurance of his title goes without saying. . . . it is reasonable to assume that the expense to the State of the investigation, mapping, taking
testimony and other acts involved in the determination of
the claimant's rights will equal and in many cases exceed
the amount of the fee charged; and that the method indicated by the act by which the amount is determined is

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK CO. v. OREGON WATER BD. 4M
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eminently fair." In our opinion, the charge is not
extortionate and its exaction is not otherwise inconsistent with due process of law.
Upon examining the statute and the decisions* of the
Supreme Court of the State construing and applying it
we are persuaded that it is not intended that the board
shall accept and act upon anything as evidence that is
devoid of evidential value, or in-respect of which the
claimants concerned are not given a fair opportunity to
show its true value, or the want of it, in an appropriate
way. On the contrary, the statute discloses a fixed purpose to secure timely notice to all claimants of every
material step in the proceeding and full opportunity to be
heard in respect of all that bears upon the validity, extent
and priority of their claims. And while it is true, according to the concessions at the bar, that the sworn statements of claim are taken ex parte in the first instance, it
also is true that they are then opened to public inspection, that opportunity is given for contesting them and
that upon the hearing of the contests full opportunity is
had for the examination of witnesses, including those
making the statements, and for the production of any
evidence appropriate to be considered. Thus the fact
that the original statements are taken ex parte becomes
of no moment. And while it is true that the state
engineer's report is accepted as evidence, although not
sworn to by him, it also is true that the measurements
and examinations shown therein are made and reported
in the discharge of his official duties and under the sanction of his oath of office, and that timely notice of the
date when they. are to begin is given to all claimants.
The report becomes a public document accessible to all
and is accepted as prima facie evidence, but not as
conclusive. In re Willow Creek, 74 Oregon, 592, 628.
Of the occasion for such a report, the Supreme Court
of the State says in that case, p. 613: "In a proceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

before the board, provision is made for an impartial
examination and measurement of the water in a stream,
of the ditches and canals, and of the land susceptible of
irrigation, and for the gathering of other essential data
by the state engineer, including the preparation of maps,
all to be made a matter of record in the office of the state
engineer, as a foundation for such hearing and to facilitate
a proper understanding of the rights of the parties
interested. Under the old procedure such information
was often omitted. When measurements were made by
the various parties to a suit they were nearly always
made by different methods and were conflicting. The
other evidence in regard thereto, being mere estimates,
rendered a determination extremely difficult for the
court and of questionable accuracy and value when
made." Considering the nature of the report and that
claimants may oppose it with other evidence, it is plain
that its use as evidence is not violative of due process.
Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 236 U. S. 412, 430.
The provision that the water shall be distributed in
conformity with th6 board's order pending the adjudication by the court has the sanction of many precedents in
the legislation of Congress and of the several States,
notably in the provision in the Interstate Commerce
Act directing that the orders of the commission shall be
effective from a date shortly after they are made, unless
their operation be restrained by injunction. These legislative precedents, while not controlling, are entitled to
much Weight, especially as they have been widely accepted
as valid. Although containing no provision for an injunction, the statute under consideration permits the
same result to be reached in another way, for it declares
that the operation of the board's order "may be stayed
in whole or in part" by giving a bond in such amount as
the judge of the court in which the proceeding is pending
may prescribe, conditioned for the payment of such dam-

MONTELIBANO v. LA COMPANIA TABACOS.
241 U. S.

455

Syllabus.

ages as may accrue by reason of the stay. It is not,
therefore, as if the requirement were absolute. As has
been seen, the order is made only after adequate notice
and full opportunity to be heard, and when made is, with
reason, deemed prima facie correct. It relates to flowing
water, to the use of which there are conflicting claims.
Unless diverted and used the water will pass on and be
lost. No claimant is in possession and all assert a right
to take from the common source. In this situation we
think it is within the power of the State to require that,
pending the final adjudication, the water shall be distributed, according to the board's order, unless a suitable bond be given to stay its operation. Such a requirement is not arbitrary, does not take from one and give to
another and is not otherwise offensive to a right conception of due process. Detroitand Mackinac Ry. v. Michigan
Railroad Commission, 240 U. S. 564; Wadley Southern
Ry. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 660; Montezuma Canal
v. Smithville Canal, 218 U. S. 371, 385.
Decree affirmed.

MONTELIBANO Y RAMOS v. LA COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS
DE FILIPINAS.
I
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 217. Submitted March 8, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

In an action of an equitable nature the proper method of review by
this court of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands under the act of July 1, 1902, § 10, is by appeal and not by
writ of error.
Where both courts below concurred in findings of fact and conclusions
of law, it is the duty of this court to affirm their judgment unless it
appears that they clearly erred; and so held in a case involving the

