NOR. PAC. RY. v. WALL.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

that it was carrying on business as it does, we suppose
that no one would contend that the plaintiff was given
the equal protection of the laws. We agree with the court
below that the act must fall as a whole, as it falls in the
sections without which there is no reason to suppose that
it would have been passed.
Decree affirmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. WALL,
ADMINISTRATOR.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 350. Argued December 1, 1915.-Decided April 24, 1916.
Laws, in force at the time and place of the making of a contract and
which affect its validity, performance and enforcement, enter into
and form a part of it, as if expressly referred to or incorporated
therein.
A bill of lading is a contract; and, if interstate, it is to be construed
in the light of the provision of the Carmack Amendment, which
prescribes how it shall be issued and makes the connecting carrier
the agent of the receiving carrier for the purpose of completing the
transportation and delivering the goods.
Whether in construing an interstate bill of lading issued under the
Carmack Amendment due effect is given to the latter is a Federal
question.
A stipulation in a bill of lading of an interstate shipment of cattle that
the shipper must, as a condition precedent to his right of recovery
for injury to the cattle while in transit, give notice thereof in
writing to some officer or station agent of the initial carrier before
the cattle are removed from the place of destination or mingled
with other live stock, is to be construed in the light of the Carmack Amendment making the connecting or delivering carrier
agent of the initial carrier; and notice given to the station agent or
officer of the former operates as notice to the latter, and the fact
that there is no officer or station agent primarily employed by the
initial carrier at the point of destination does not relieve the shipper from compliance with the stipulation.
50 Montana, 122, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the right of a shipper to re-

cover from the carrier damages for injury to cattle being
transported in interstate commerce owing to delay in
transit and resulting decrease in weight, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Charles Donnelly for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas J. Walsh, with whom Mr. Walter Aitkin
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action to recover for injuries to cattle
being transported in interstate commerce, the gravamen
of the complaint being that the cattle were unreasonably
delayed in transit and consequently were greatly reduced
in weight and emaciated in appearance.
The cattle were shipped in January, 1912, from Belgrade, Montana, to the Union Stock Yards at Chicago
over two connecting railroads-the Northern Pacific
and the Burlington-under a through bill of lading issued
by the initial carrier. The shipment was at a reduced
rate based upon the stipulations in the bill of lading.
The rate and the bill of lading had been regularly established and put in force under the Interstate Commerce
Act and its amendments. One stipulation was to the
effect that the shipper, as a condition precedent to his
right to recover for any injury to the cattle while in transit,
should give notice in writing of his claim to some officer
or station -agent "of said company" before the cattle
were removed from the place of destination or mingled
with other stock; and another was to the effect that the
terms of the bill of lading should inure to the benefit

of any connecting carrier over whose line the cattle should

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WALL.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pass in the course of their transportation. By an endorsement on the bill of lading the Burlington Company was
designated as the connecting carrier. The shipment was
accompanied by an attendant selected by the shipper
and authorized to represent him in all matters pertaining
to the general care and handling of the cattle. Upon
reaching their destination the cattle were delivered by
the Burlington Company to an agent of the shipper and
were sold, removed and mingled with other stock before
any notice was given of a claim for injury to them while
in transit.
This action was brought against the initial carrierthe Northern Pacific Company-and the damages sought
were for alleged injuries to the cattle while passing over
both roads. In its answer the defendant set up the stipulations before named; insisted. that they were established
under the Interstate Commerce Act and that a Montana
statute invalidating such stipulations was, as applied to
bills of lading in interstate commerce, in conflict with
the congressional enactment and void; alleged that no
notice of any claim for injury to the cattle had been given
"to any officer or station agent of the defendant, or to any
officer or station agent of the connecting carrier," until
after the cattle had been removed from the place of destination and mingled with other stock, and claimed that
by reason of the failure to give the stipulated notice the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover. In his reply the
plaintiff, while expressly admitting that he had not
complied with the stipulation relating to notice, denied
that it was established or effective under the Interstate
Commerce Act, insisted that it was unreasonable and
in contravention of the Montana statute, alleged that
compliance with the stipulation had been waived by the
defendant, and set forth at length and invoked the Carmack Amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act in
support of the effort to recover from the initial carrier

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

for the injuries occurring while the cattle were on the
line of the connecting carrier. Upon the trial, and after
the evidence was concluded, the defendant moved for a
directed verdict in its favor upon the ground that the
contract embodied in the bill of lading was valid, that
confessedly the notice "required by the contract" was
not given, and that there was no evidence showing a
waiver of the notice. The motion was denied upon the
ground that under the evidencb the question of waiver
was for the jury, and an exception was reserved by the
defendant. At its request the court in charging the jury
said: "One of the defenses relied upon by the defendant
is that no notice of claim for damages for loss or injury
to the stock in question was given by the plaintiff to
the defendant or to the connecting carrier, before the
stock was removed from the place of destination or mingled with other stock. This provision of said contract
is a reasonable one, binding upon the plaintiff, and-under
the admissions in his reply, prevents him from recovering
in this action, unless you find that . . . defendant
expressly or impliedly by its conduct waived the giving
of said notice in accordance with this provision of the
contract." The jury, evidently resolving the question
of waiver against the defendant, returned a verdict for
the plaintiff, and the judgment thereon was affirmed by
the Supreme Court .of the State. 50 Montana, 122.
From what has been said it is apparent not only that
the damages sought were for injuries occurring while the
cattle were being transported in interstate commerce
but also that both parties relied upon the Interstate
Commerce Act and its amendments-the plaintiff to
sustain his- right to recover for the injuries on the line
of the connecting carrier and the defendant to sustain
its defense based upon the stipulations in the bill of lading.
And it is plain that the trial court gave controlling effect
to that act and its amendments, for otherwise the instruc-

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WALL.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion upholding the validity of the stipulation. for notice
could not have been given, in the presence of the Montana
statute (Laws 1909, c. 138) declaring such a stipulation
void.
The Supreme Court, passing the question whether
notice had been waived, interpreted the stipulation as
requiring that the notice be given to an officer or station
agent primarily employed by the Northern Pacific Company, and thereby excluding notice to an officer or station
agent of the Burlington Company, and then held the
stipulation unreasonable and inoperative because no
officer or agent primarily employed by the Northern
Pacific Company was accessible at the place of destination. Whether in so interpreting the stipulation that
court gave proper effect to the Interstate Commerce Act
and its amendments is the Federal question pressed upon
our attention, and we think it is fairly presented by the
record. The shipment being interstate, that legislation
was controlling; the through bill of lading was issued
under it; the pleadings show that its application was
invoked; and in the answer, as also in the instruction
given at the defendant's request, there was a distinct
assertion that notice was not given "to any officer or
station agent of the defendant, or to any officer or station
agent of the connecting carrier," which meant that the
defendant was proceeding upon the theory that the
stipulation, when read in connection with the Carmack
Amendment, contemplated and recognized that notice
to an officer or agent of the connecting carrier-the Burlington Company-would suffice.
As this court often has held, the laws in force at the time
and place of the making of a contract, and which affect its
validity, performance and enforcement, enter into and form
a part of it, as if they were expressly referred to or incorporated in its terms. Von Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall.
535, 550; Walker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314, 317; Ed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

wards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595, 601. A bill of lading is a
contract and within this rule. The Carmack Amendment
to the Interstate Commerce Act (ยง 7, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, 593), which was in force when this bill of lading was
issued, directs a carrier receiving property for interstate
transportation to issue a through bill of lading therefor,
although the place of destination is on the line of another
carrier; subjects the receiving carrier to liability for any
injury to the property caused by it or any other carrier
in the course of the transportation, and requires a connecting carrier on whose line the property is injured to reimburse the receiving carrier where the latter is made to pay
for such injury. Thus, under the operation of the amendment, the connecting carrier becomes the agent of the
receiving carrier for the purpose of completing the transportation and delivering the property. Atlantic Coast
Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 196, 206; Galveston &c. Ry. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 491. This bill
of lading was issued under that statute and should be
interpreted in the light of it. Cleveland & St. Louis Ry.
v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588, 593. The shipment wds to
pass over both roads in reaching its destination; the
delivery at that place was to be made, as in fact it was,
by an officer or station agent of the connecting carrier;
and the stipulated notice was to be given before the cattle
were removed from the place of destination or mingled
with other stock, that is, while it was yet possible from an
inspection of them to ascertain whether the claim of injury,
if any, was well founded. In these circumstances it seems
plain that the stipulation meant and contemplated that
the notice might be given at the place of destination to an
officer or station agent of the connecting carrier, and that
notice to it, in view of its relation to the initial carrier,
should operate as notice to the latter. This interpretation
treats the stipulation as designed to be fair to both shipper
and carrier, permits it to serve a useful purpose and gives

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WALL.
241 U. S.

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

due effect to the statute under which it was issued. True,
the words "said company" in the stipulation, if read only
in connection with an introductory sentence in the bill
of lading, would seem to refer to the initial carrier alone,
but when they are read in connection with the statute
and other parts of the bill of lading, including the provision
that its terms and conditions "shall inure to the benefit
of" any connecting carrier, it is apparent that they embrace the carrier making the delivery as well as the initial
carrier, especially as the former is in legal contemplation
the agent of the latter.
The act of March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, altering the terms of the Carmack Amendment is without present bearing, because passed long after this shipment was
made.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of the State
failed to give proper effect to the Carmack Amendment
in interpreting the bill of lading and that the judgment
should be reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS with whom MR. JUSTICE

MCKENNA concurred, dissenting.
For two reasons I am unable to agree with the opinion
of the court.
First. If reiteration can establish a rule of law, it must
be taken as settled that in causes coming here by writs of
error from state courts of last resort we may not consider
Federal questions not specially set up below. And further, that such a question comes too late if raised for the
first time after final decision in the highest state court by
petition for rehearing unless this was actually entertained.
St. Louis & San FranciscoR. R. v. Shepherd, 240 U. S. 240,
241; McCorquodale v. Texas, 211 U. S. 432, 437.

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
McRkYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

The following recitals are parts of the bill of lading:
Par. 6. "The said shipper further agrees that as a condition precedent to his right to recover any damages for
loss or injury to any of said stock, he will give notice in
writing of his claim therefor to some officer or station
agent of the said Company before said stock has been
removed from the place of destination or mingled with
other stock."
Par. 9. "The terms, conditions and limitations hereby
imposed shall inure to the benefit of each and every carrier,
beyond the route of said Company, to which the said
property may come for purpose of transportation."
A rehearing was denied by the Supreme Court of Montana in this brief order: "Appellant's motion for a rehearing herein heretofore submitted is after due consideration
by the court denied." An elaborate written argument
filed there in support of the petition and incorporated in
the record, states:
"Appellant did not brief nor argue the reasonableness
of the provisions of paragraph 6 of said contract from the
view point considered by the court on page 3 to line 5 of
page 7 of the opinion, for the reason that no such question
was raised by the plaintiff in the court below. In fact the
only grounds upon which the defendant attacked said
provisions of the contract in his answer was that it 'is unreasonable, unjust, burdensome against the policy of the
law and contrary to the express provisions of chapter 138
of Session Laws of the State of Montana for 1909.' Not
until his brief was filed in this court did such question
appear inthe case.
'"In view of the provision of paragraph 9 of the contract,
also of plaintiff's position in the court below, and of the
fact that the defendant company has always considered
that a notice served upon 'some officer or station agent' of
the connecting carrier at point of delivery in the manner
required by paragraph 6 of the contract, was a sufficient

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WALL.
241 U. S.

McREYOLDS, J., dissenting.

notice to show a compliance with such provision in an
action brought against the initial carrier, we did not consider the question as presented for the first time in respondent's brief of any importance and did not even reply
thereto in our oral argument.
"Under section 9 of said contract the terms and conditions thereof inure to the benefit of the connecting carrier. Therefore, such notice should be given to some officer
or station agent of such carrier at point of delivery when
damages are claimed.
"The importance of this is apparent when considered
in connection with the Carmack Amendment to the Interstate Commerce Law."
The only ground for reversal now seriously relied. upon
is that the Carmack Amendment (June 29, 1906, ยง 7,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 593) made "the connecting carrier,
and therefore its agents, the agents of the initial carrier,"
and consequently the court btelow wrongly held, because
no officer or station agent primarily employed by Northern.
Pacific Railway was shown to have been in Chicago, paragraph six was unreasonable and inoperative, and notice
to a Burlington agent would not have been effective for
any purpose. I fail to find that this point was definitely
raised at any stage prior to the application for rehearing;
'and counsel for the railroad below seem to have been
equally unsuccessful. If they had already wittingly relied
upon it, they would hardly have burdened their argument
for rehearing with an excuse for failure so to do. Former
opinions imperatively demand that. the foundation for our
jurisdiction be laid in plain view and not around a corner
where only an esoteric eye can detect it. Seaboard Air
Line v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477, 487.
Second. "The bill of lading itself is an elaborate document, bearing on its face evidences of care and deliberation in the formation of the conditions of the liability of the
companies issuing it. The language is chosen by the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

panies for the purpose, among others, of limiting and diminishing their common law liabilities, and if there be
any doubt arising from the language used as to its proper
meaning or construction, the words should be construed
most strongly against the companies, because their officers
or agents prepared the instrument, and as the court is to
interpret such language, it is, as stated by Mr. Justice
Harlan, in delivering the opinion of the court in National
Bank v. InsuranceCo., 95 U. S. 673, 679: 'Both reasonable
and just that its own words should be construed most
strongly against itself."' Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Reiss, 183
U. S. 621, 626.
Apparently the bill under consideration followed a form
adopted before passage of the Carmack Amendment or
at least before this Was adequately understood. It is
dated "Belgrade, Montana, Station, January 2, 191.2,"
purports to be an "agreement, made the day above
stated between the Northern Pacific Railway Company,
hereinafter called the 'Company,' and R. J. Wall, hereinafter called the 'Shipper,"' and contains, in addition
to paragraphs 6 and 9 copied above, the following
ones:

Par. 7. "It is further agreed and provided that no suit
or action to recover any damages for loss or injury to any
of said stock, or for the recovery of any claim by virtue
of this contract, shall be sustained by any court against
said Company unless suit-or action shall be commenced
within sixty (60) days after the damage shall occur, and
on any suit or action commenced against said Company
after the expiration of said sixty (60) days, the lapse of
time shall be taken and deemed conclusive evidence
against the validity of said claim, any statute to the contrary notwithstanding."
Par. 8. The "said Company shall not be liable for the
non-delivery or loss of, nor for injuries suffered by any of
the stock beyond the line of its own railroad."

NOR. PAC. RY. e. WALL.
241 U. S.

McRmows, J., dissenting.

Commenting on paragraph 6, the Supreme Court of
Montana said (50 Montana, 127):
"If the paragraph above means anything, it required
the shipper to give notice in writing to an officer or station
agent of the Northern Pacific Company. Notice to an
agent of the Burlington road would not have been effective
for any purpose. The company mentioned in paragraph 6
is defined by the preamble to the contract to mean the
'Northern Pacific Railway Company.' Furthermore, if
this provision is valid, it must be so construed as to serve
some purpose. Its evident purpose was to enable. the
carrier to investigate the condition of the stock, and to
that end the shipper was required to keep them separate
until such investigation was made or a reasonable time
therefor had elapsed. By the facts before us the reasonableness of the provision is to be tested. The contract
is silent upon the question of service of the notice. If
personal service was necessary, the shipper was required
to hold the cattle at the Union Stock Yards until he could
find an officer or station agent of the Northern Pacific
Company. No particular officer or station agent is
designated, and if this provision is to be taken literally,
the shipper was required at his peril to assume the burden
of finding some person who answered the description given.
There is not a suggestion in the contract, in the pleadings
or the proof, that the Northern Paciiic Company had an
officer or station agent at Chicago, or nearer than St. Paul,
the eastern terminus of its road-more than 400 miles
away. If service could have been made by mail, plaintiff
would have been in no better position, though doubtless a
letter written to the station agent at Belgrade, and mailed
postpaid at Chicago, would have sufficed for a literal compliance with the terms of this provision. But in any event,
plaintiff would have had to bear the burden of keeping his
cattle on the cars or in the Stock Yards until the notice
had been received and a reasonable time for inspection

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

241 U. S.

had elapsed. If the paragraph in question be construed
to mean that a written notice mailed from Chicago to
any station agent of the Northern Pacific Company, even
the agent at Seattle, would suffice, it is senseless. If it is
construed to mean that the shipper should travel from
Chicago to St. Paul and make personal service of the notice upon an officer or station agent of the Northern Pacific
Company, then it is unreasonable to the point of being
unconscionable. Whether the company had an officer
or station agent at Chicago-at a point where it has no
road-upon whom service of this notice could have been
made, was a matter peculiarly within its own knowledge,
and for this reason the burden was upon it to make proof
of such fact."
Manifestly its language has given rise to a very grave
doubt; therefore I think the contract should be construed
most strongly against the company and with a view to
preserve shipper's rights. The construction placed upon
paragraph 6 by the state Supreme Court, when sitting
within surroundings designed to stimulate clear thinking,
is diametrically oppbsed to the one now adopted. In such
circumstances it appears to me hardly reasonable to say
that a stockman at a wayside Montana station was bound
instantly to apprehend the true interpretation, notwithtanding any mental quickening which he may have rec'eived from a "rough wind" and a modest thermometer
pointing to only "seven or eight degrees below zero."

I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE McKENA
concurs in this dissent for the second reason stated.

