OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

241 U. S.

LEVINDALE LEAD AND ZINC MINING COMPANY v. COLEMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 322. Argued April 25, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.
A statute should, if possible, be construed in the light of its obvious
policy; and as restrictions against alienation of-Indian allotments
evince a continuance of the policy of guardianship over Indians
which does not embrace persons not of Indian blood, it would require clear language to show an intent to impose restriction on
allotted lands of non-Indians even if inherited from Indians.
Restrictions, such as those contained in the Osage Indian Allotment
Act of 1906, do not run with the land until they attach, and then
only in accord with the intendment of the Act.
A legislative declaration of the intent of a previous act is not absolutely controlling; and in this case held, that later acts of Congress
in regard to Osage Indian allotments did not attempt to import into
the earlier act a restriction which lay wholly outside of its express
terms and the policy it was intended to execute.
The restriction on alienation provisions of the Osage Indian Allotment
Act of June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539, do not apply to lands, or
interests in lands, coming lawfully into ownership of white men who
are non-members of the Osage tribe.
43 Oklahoma, 13, reversed.

THE facts, which involve rights of a white heir of an
Osage Ldian to the allotment of the latter, and the construction of the Act of June 28, 1906, under which the

allotment was made, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. P. White for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Preston A. Shinn for defendant in error.

LEVINDALE LEAD CO. v. COLEMAN.
241 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

Charles Coleman, the defendant in error, brought this
suit to set aside a conveyance of an undivided interest in
lands inherited from his Indian wife and child who were
members of the Osage Tribe. Judgment was entered
annulling the conveyance upon the ground that it was
executed in violation of restrictions imposed by Congress.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State (43 Oklahoma, 13), and this writ of error has been
sued out.
The case was decided upon a motion for judgment on
the pleadings, and there were special findings of the facts
which the pleadings disclosed. It appears that the plaintiff, Charles Coleman, was a white man, lawfully married
to an Indian woman, Mary Chesewalla; that their child,
Joseph Coleman, was born on February 27, 1906, and
died on the same day, leaving his father and mother his
sole heirs; that his mother died intestate on February 28,
1906, leaving as her sole heirs Charles Coleman, Herbert
Chesewalla and Floyd Chesewalla; that both decedents
were duly enrolled as members of the Osage Tribe and
were entitled to allotments under the act of Congress of
June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539; and that, after their
death, allotments were made in their right to the heirs of
each respectively, the allotment deeds being approved by
the Secretary of the Interior and recorded in the year
1909. By the death of his wife and child the plaintiff
took title as heir to an undivided one-half interest in the
lands allotted in the right of the former, and to an undivided three-fourths interest in lands allotted in the
right of the latter. These lands have not been partitioned.
In February, 1909, Charles Coleman conveyed by warranty deed his undivided interest to the defendant (plaintiff in error) The Levindale Lead and Zinc Mining Company. It is further set forth that his wife had not received

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

a certificate of competency. There was no finding and
no basis in the record for a finding that Charles Coleman
was a member of the Osage Tribe by adoption, enrollment or otherwise.
The lands prior to the allotment were Indian lands
(Act of June 5, 1872, c. 310, 17 Stat. 228) and there is no
controversy as to the power of Congress in providing for
allotments to impose restrictions upon alienation. The
question is as to the construction of the provisions of the
allotment act of June 28, 1906.
That act provided, 34 Stat. 539, 540, that the roll of
the Osage Tribe as it existed on January 1, 1906, with the
additions specified, should be the roll of the tribe and constitute its 'legal membership.' Children born between
January 1, 1906, and July 1, 1907, to persons whose names
were on the roll on the first mentioned date, "including
the children of members of the tribe who have, or have had,
white husbands," were to be recognized as members for
the purposes of the division. (§ 1.) All lands were to
be divided "among the members of said tribe, giving to
each his or her fair share thereof in acres" as specifically
set forth; that is, "each member" as shown by the roll
was to be allowed to make three selections of 160 acres
each in the manner described. (§ 2.) Restrictions were
imposed as follows:
"Each member of said tribe shall be permitted to designate which of his three selections shall be a homestead,
and his certificate of allotment and deed shall designate
the same as a homestead, and the same shall be inalienable and nontaxable until otherwise provided by Act of
Congress. The other two selections of each member,
together with his share of the remaining lands allotted to
the member, shall be known as surplus land, and shall be
inalienable for twenty-five years, except as hereinafter
provided." (§ 2, Fourth.)
After 'each member' had made the three selections, the

LEVINDALE LEAD CO. v. COLEMAN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

remaining lands of the tribe, except as stated, were to be
divided "as equally as practicable among said members
by a commission to be appointed." (§ 2, Fifth.) The
Secretary of the Interior in his discretion, at the request
of any "adult member of the tribe" was to issue "to such
member a certificate of competency, authorizing him to
sell and convey any of the lands deeded him by reason of
this Act, except his homestead, which shall remain inalienable and nontaxable for a period of twenty-five years,
or during the life of the homestead allottee," if upon investigation "he shall find any such member fully competent" to care for his affairs. It was provided that upon
the issuance of such a certificate of competency the lands
of such 'member,' except homestead lands should "become subject to taxation" and that "such member,"
except as provided, should have the right to "manage,
control and dispose of his or her lands the same as any
citizen of the United States." It was further provided
that the surplus lands should be "nontaxable' for the
period of three years from the approval of the act "except where certificates of competency are issued or in
case of the death of the allottee, unless otherwise provided
by Congress." (§ 2, Seventh.) Oil, gas, coal or other
minerals "covered by the lands" were "reserved to the
Osage tribe for a period of twenty-five years." (Id.; § 3.)
All funds belonging to the tribe, and moneys accruing
to it were to be "held in trust by the United States for
the period of twenty-five years" from January 1, 1907,
except as provided. The funds of the tribe, and moneys
accruing from the sale of Kansas lands together with
those due upon claims against the United States, were to
be segregated and placed to the credit of the "individual
members" of the tribe "on a basis or a pro rata division"
or "to their heirs as hereinafter provided," and such
credit was to draw interest to be "paid quarterly to the
members entitled thereto"; and the disposition of royal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

ties from mineral leases was specially prescribed. (§ 4.)
At the expiration of twenty-five years from January 1,
1907, the lands, mineral interests, and moneys held in
trust by the United States were to be the absolute property of the "individual members" of the tribe, according
to the roll, "or their heirs, as herein provided" and deeds
were to be issued accordingly. (§ 5.) Sections 6 and 7
are as follows:
"Sec. 6. That the lands, moneys, and mineral interests,
herein provided for, of any deceased member of the Osage
tribe shall descend to his or her legal heirs, according to the
laws of the Territory of Oklahoma, or of the State in which
said reservation may be hereinafter incorporated, except
where the decedent leaves no issue, nor husband nor wife,
in which case said lands, moneys, and mineral interests,
must go to the mother and father equally.
"Sec. 7. That the lands herein provided for are set
aside for the sole use and benefit of the individual members
of the tribe entitled thereto, or to their heirs, as herein
provided; and said members, or their heirs, shall have the
right to use and to lease said lands for farming, grazing,
or any other purpose not otherwise specifically provided
for herein, and said members shall have full control of
the same, including the proceeds thereof: Provided, That
parents of minor members of the tribe shall have the control and use of said minors' lands, together with the
proceeds of the same, until said minors arrive at their
majority: And provided further, That all leases given on
said lands for the benefit of the individual members of
the tribe entitled thereto, or for their heirs, shall be subject only to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
Deeds to the Osage lands were to be executed by the
Principal Chief, but were not to be valid until approved by
the Secretary of the Interior (§ 8), and it was further
provided that whatever was necessary to carry into effect
the provisions of the Act should be done under the au-

LEVINDALE LEAD CO. v. COLEMAN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thority of this officer (§'12). Regulations have been
adopted by the Secretary of the Interior governing the
leasing (under §§ 7, 12) of lands "allotted to Osage Indians." These provide among other things that "lands
of deceased allottees may be leased by the heirs jointly,"
as stated. (Regulations 11, 12, approved October 25,
1910; 8, approved June 17, 1913.)
The provisions of the Allotment Act must be construed
in the light of the policy they were obviously intended to
execute. It was a policy relating to the welfare of Indians,-wards of the United States. The establishment
of restrictions against alienation "evinced the continuance, to this extent at least, of the guardianship which
the United States had exercised from the beginning."
Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, 436; United
States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 384; United States v.
Rickert, 188 U. S. 432, 437, 438; Tiger v. Western Investment
Co., 221 U. S. 286,.316; Williams v. Johnson, 239 U. S.414,
420. This policy did not embrace white men-persons
not of Indian blood-who were not as Indians under
national protection although they might inherit lands from
Indians; and, with respect to such persons, it would require clear language to show an intent to impose restrictions.
Taken in their natural sense, the provisions of the fourth
paragraph of § 2 apply only to allotments made to members of the tribe. There is nothing to suggest that a nonmember should designate a 'homestead,' and unless lands
were thus segregated the restrictions as to 'homesteads'
would not apply. With respect to 'surplus lands' it will
be observed that it is only selections of each 'member,'
and the share of remaining lands 'allotted to the member,'
which constitute lands so described and thus come under
the stated restrictions. It was early ruled administratively
that under § 6 the right to the member's share, though unallotted in his lifetime passed to his legal heirs as there

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

defined and this we assume to be the meaning of the
statute. But the fact that the non-member takes in the
right of the deceased member is not enough to subject
him to restrictions which are plainly imposed for the protection of members. It is urged that the restrictions, by
virtue of their terms, were to run with the land until they
expired by limitation or were removed (Bowling v. United
States, 233 U. S. 528), but restrictions would not run with
the land unless they had attached. And, even where they
had attached, they would run only according to the intendment of the statute. We find no indication of an
intent that they should apply to lands, or an interest in
lands, which had come lawfully into the ownership of
white men who were non-members of the tribe. Emphasis
is placed by the defendant in error on the provisions of
§ 7 as to leases; but it would be an inadmissible construction of this section to say that the word 'heirs' was there
used in contradistinction to 'members.' This provision
as to leases, in the light of the purpose of the act, had
reference we think to the 'individual members' who received allotments and the Indian heirs of such members.
The view we have taken of the inapplicability of the
restrictions upon alienation in a case like the present finds
support in the fact that there was no provision for giving
to non-members certificates of competency. Under the
seventh paragraph of § 2, any 'adult member' of the tribe,
although a full-blood Indian, who could satisfy the Secretary of the Interior of his ability to transact his own
business might obtain a certificate and thus be enabled to
dispose of his 'surplus land'; but a competent white man,
not a member, could not be relieved. It would seem to be
evident that such an incongruous result was not intended,
the language plainly showing that Indians alone were
deemed to be subjected to the restrictions.
It is insisted that subsequent legislation in pari materia
indicates the contrary. Reference is made to the acts

LEVINDALE LEAD CO. v. COLEMAN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of March 3, 1909, c. 256, 35 Stat. 778, and of April 18,
1912, 37 Stat. 86. The former does not aid this contention, but is rather opposed to it. The statute authorized
the Secretary of the Interior to sell "part or all of the surplus lands of any member" of the Osage tribe but contained
no authority to deal with lands of non-members. It will
also be observed that prior to this act there was a joint
resolution of February 27, 1909, No. 19, 35 Stat. 1167,
providing that "homesteads of members of the Osage
tribe" may consist of land designated from any one or
more "of their first three allotment selections"; this
does not suggest that non-members were supposed to
designate 'homesteads.' But it is the act of 1912 upon
which chief reliance is placed. This was "supplementary
to and amendatory of" the act of 1906, and provides,
among other things, in § 6 relating to the lands "of deceased Osage allottees" that "when the heirs of such deceased allottees have certificates of competency or are hot
members of the tribe, the restrictions on alienation are
hereby removed." We lay aside the suggestion that
"deceased Osage allottees" may be taken to mean only
members who received allotments in their own right while
living, expressing no opinion upon that point. For not
only is a legislative declaration of the intent of a previous
act not absolutely controlling, but we think that in the
present instance the purpose of Congress is manifest.
This suit had been decided in the District Court of the
State in December, 1910, and it had been there held that
the restriction applied to non-members. The case had
been appealed, but it may well be supposed that Congress
intended to remove the restriction upon a non-member if
*such a restriction could be deemed to exist. That, we are
satisfied, was the object of the provision, and it was not
an attempt to import into the earlier act a restriction
which lay wholly outside its express terms and the policy
of guardianship it was intended to execute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

We confifie ourselves to the single point presented.
There is no controversy whatever as to the authority of
the Secretary of the Interior, where there 'are undivided
interests belonging to Indians, adequately to protect
those interests according to the statutory provisions to
this end. Our conclusion simply is that the act of 1906
placed no restrictions upon the alienation of land, or undivided interests in land, of which white men who were
not members of the tribe became owners.
The-judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took

no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

PACIFIC LIVE STOCK COMPANY v. LEWIS, ET
AL., CONSTITUTING THE STATE WATER
BOARD OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 300. Argued March 16, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.
Nothing is accomplished by an unsuccessful attempt to remove an
administrative proceeding into the Federal court where the District
Court has by its remanding order adjudged that the removal is not
authorized.
Under § 28,Judicial Code, the order of the District Court remanding a
proceeding to the state court is final and conclusive; it is not subject to review either directly or indirectly.
The rule of retention of a cause by the first of two courts of concurrent
jurisdiction to the exclusion of other courts and the protection of its

