BROWN v. PACIFIC COAL CO.
241 U. S.

-Counsel for Parties.

BROWN v. PACIFIC COAST COAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 303. Argued March 14, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.
In a case where its jurisdiction rests on diverse citizenship, it is the
duty of the Federal court to follow the applicable decisions of the

state court.
The Supreme Court of the State of Washington, having in an earlier
and similar case to the one pending in the Federal court, decided that
under the Mining Act of that State there is a duty on the mine
owner to supply ventilation that will prevent accumulations of gas,
which duty cannot be delegated, and that the gas tester is a representative of the principal,and not.a fellow servant of other employees
engaged in mining, held, that it was the duty of the Circuit Court
of Appeals to have followed that ruling and to hold that the gas
tester was not a fellow servant.
Even though in the earlier case in the state court, the words of the state
Supreme Court might have been obiter dicta, if they stated the principle of the decision, it was the duty of the Federal court to follow
them, even though the state court may have previously held otherwise.
214.Fed. Rep. 255, reversed; 211 Fed. Rep. 869, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
of the Circuit of Appeals in an action for personal injuries, and the duty of the Federal court to follow the
applicable decisions of the .state court in such cases, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. R. Lea, with whom Mr. Charles F. Consaul
and Mr. Charles C. Heltman were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. C. H. Farrell, with whom Mr. W. B. Stratton,
.Mr. J. H. Kane and Mr. Stanley J. Padden were on the
brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action for personal injuries caused to the
petitioner, the plaintiff, a miner, by an explosion of gas
in a coal mine, in consequence, it is alleged, of the defendant's neglect of its duty so to ventilate the mine as
to make an explosion impossible. The trial judge left
to the jury questions of the. plaintiff's contributory negligence or assumption of risk, but instructed them that
the law required th,e defendant to provide a sufficient
amount of ventilation; that the duty of the inspection,
prevention and removal of any accumulation of gas was a
personal duty of the defendant that could not be delegated; and that an employee, one of whose duties was to
test for gas, was not a fellow servant of the miners so far
as he was engaged in the performance of that duty. There
was a verdict for the plaintiff which was set aside by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 211 Fed. Rep. 869; 128 C. C. A.
247. 214 Ped. Rep. 255; 130 C. C. A. 625.
The duty of the fire-boss who exploded the gas was to
test for gas as well as to fire the shots in blasting, which
last he was about to do. It is unnecessary to go into
further details, as the only matter that requires discussion
is whether the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in
reversing the judgment on the ground that this man
was a fellow servant of the plaintiff and that the defendant's duty to secure ventilation was not absolute. The
statute of 1897, which was in force at the time of the
accident, September 7, 1910, enacts that the owner or
operator of every coal mine 'shall provide in every coal
mine a good and sufficient amount of ventilation for such
persons and animals as may be employed therein,' fixing
a minimum amount, 'and said air must be made to circulate through the shafts, levels, stables, and working places
of each mine and on the traveling roads to and from all

BROWN v. PACIFIC COAL CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such working places.' Then the division of mines into
districts or splits and the number of men to be employed
in each are provided for, and then the act goes on 'Each
district or split shall be ventilated by a separate and distinct current of air, conducted from the down-cast through
said district, and thence direct to the up-cast. .
In all mines where fire-damp is generated, every working
place shall be examined every morning with a safety
lamp by a competent person, and a record of such examination shall be entered by the person making the same
in a book,' etc. Laws of 1897, c. 45, ยง 4. Bal. Wash.
Code, ยง 3165. Rem. & Bal. Code, ยง 7381.
In the case of a similar accident occurring under the
same law the Supreme Court said "the duty of inspection,
prevention, and removal of any accumulation of gas is
imposed on the coal company. This duty is personal,
and cannot be delegated. . . . The gas tester, under
the facts in this case, was not a fellow servant with the
plaintiff. He was the representative of principal duties
of the defendant." The refusal of the instruction that
the gas tester was a fellow servant with the plaintiff, a
miner, was upheld. Costa v. Pacific Coast Co., 26 Washington, 138, 142, 143. The language of this case was
quoted and the same principle applied in Czarecki v.
Seattle & San Francisco Ry. & Navigation Co., 30 Washington, 288, 294, 295. And the same words were repeated
by the judge to the, jury in the present case.
When this case came before the Circuit Court of Appeals it seems to have been thought that Costa v. Pacific
Coast Co. arose inder an earlier statute. Upon a petition
for rehearing the court merely stated that no decision
of the Supreme Court had been found that held the person required to examine the working places every morning to be the representative of the master, and that the
fire-boss must be regarded as a fellow servant with the
plaintiff. We are unable to reconcile this view with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

language that we have quoted. It now is suggested that
there is a distinction between the point decided there
and here, the failure there having been to warn the miner,
and that the remarks of the court were obiter dicta. We
shall go into no nice inquiry upon this point. The statements were statements of the principle of the decision and
it was the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals to follow
them. Still less does it matter in a case like this, if, as
is said, the latter court had decided otherwise at an earlier
time.
Concerning the fgcts to which the ruling here dealt
with applied, it is enough to say that the evidence warranted a finding by the jury that the defendant had neglected the duties absolutely imposed upon it, without
now going into the details of the different views that
might have been taken. The other matters that have
been argued here, as to the plaintiff's contributory negligence, etc., need not be mentioned further than to say
that we see no ground in them for a different result from
that which we have reached.
Judgment reversed.
Judgment of District Court afirmed.

SUPREME

LODGE, KNIGHTS
MIMS.

OF PYTHIAS

v.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 345.

Argued May 1, 2, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916..

Where the case necessarily turns on the construction of act of Congress, which is the charter of one of the parties, a Federal ques-

tion is presented, and this court has jurisdiction under ยง 237, Jud.

