OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

the Dominion of Canada a crime that is an offense under
the laws of the Dominion, as well as under those of Illinois
(2 Jones & Add. Ill. Stat. Ann., § 3892), and is covered by
the terms of the treaty, and that he is a fugitive from

justice, a fair observance of the obligations of the treaty
requires that he be surrendered.
221 U. S. 508, 512.

Glucksman v. Henkel,
Final order affirmed.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
DUNLEVY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 290.

Argued May 14, 15, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

A party to an action does not after final judgment still remain in court
and subject without further personal service to whatsoever orders
may be entered under the title of that cause.
Interpleader proceedings brought by a garnishee are not essential concomitants of the original action in which the judgment was rencer-d
on which the garnishment is based, but are collateral and requiie
personal service on the judgment debtor.
In Pennsylvania, a judgment debtor is not a party to a garnishment
proceeding to condemn a claim due him from a third person, nor is
he bound by a judgment discharging the garnishee.
Any personal judgment which a state court may render against one
not voluntarily submitting to its jurisdiction, and who is not a citizen of the State, nor served with process within its border, no matter
what the mode of service, is void because the court has no jurisdiction over his person.
214 Fed. Rep. 1, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the effect of a garnishee proceeding in one State and pleaded in an action in another
State, are stated in the opinion.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. DUNLEVY.
241 U. S.

: 519

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James H. McIntosh, with whom Mr. E. J. McCutchen, Mr. Warren Olney, Jr., Mr. Charles W. Willard
and Mr. J. M. Mannon, Jr., were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Nat Schmulowitz, with whom Mr. Frank W. Taft
and Mr. Clarence Coonan were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion iof the
I
court.
Respondent, Effie J. Gould Dunlevy, instituted this
suit in the Superior Court, Marin County, California,
January 14, 1910, against petitioner and Joseph W. Gould,
her father, to recover $2,479.70, the surrender value of a
policy on his life which she claimed had been assigned to
her in 1893, and both were duly served with process while
in that State. It was removed to the United States District Court, February 16, 1910, and there tried by the
judge in May, 1912, a jury having been expressly Waived.
Judgment for amount claimed was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 204 Fed. Rep. 670. 214 Fed. Rep. 1.
The insurance company by an amended answer filed
December 7, 1911, set up in defense (1) that no valid
assignment had been made, and (2) that Mrs. Dunlevy
was concluded by certain judicial proceedings in Pennsylvania wherein it had been garnished and the policy had
been adjudged to be the property of Gould. Invalidity of
the assignment is not now urged; but it is earnestly insisted that the Pennsylvania proceedings constituted a
bar.
In 1907 Boggs & Buhl recovered a valid personal judgment by default, after domiciiary service, against Mrs.
Dunlevy, in the Common Pleas Court at Pittsburgh, where
she then resided. During 1909, "'the tontine dividend
period" of the life policy having expired, the insurance

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

company became liable for $2,479.70 and this sum was
claimed both by Gould, a citizen of Pennsylvania, and his
daughter, who had removed to California. In November,
1909, Boggs & Buhl caused issue of an execution attachment on their judgment and both the insurance company
and Gould were summoned as garnishees. He appeared,
denied assignment of the policy and claimed the full
amount due thereon. On February 5, 1910,-after this
suit was begun in California-the company answered,
admitted its indebtedness, set up the conflicting claims to
the fund and prayed to he advised as to its rights. At
the same time it filed a petition asking for a rule upon the
claimants to show cause why they should not interplead
and thereby ascertain who was lawfully entitled to the
proceeds and further that it might be allowed to pay
amount due into court for benefit of proper party. An
order granted the requested rule and directed that notice
be given to Mrs. Dunlevy in California. This was done,
but she made no answer and did not appear. Later the
insurance company filed a second petition, and, upon
leave obtained thereunder, paid $2,479.70 into court,
March 21, 1910. All parties except Mrs. Dunlevy having
appeared, a feigned issue was framed and tried to determine validity of alleged transfer of the policy. The jury
found, October 1, 1910, there was no valid assignment and
thereupon under an order of court the fund was paid over
to Gould.
Beyond doubt, without the necessity of further personal service of process upon Mrs. Dunlevy, the Court
of Common Pleas at Pittsburgh had ample power through
garnishment proceedings to inquire whether she held a
valid claim against the insurance company and if found
to exist then to condemn and appropriate it so far as
necessary to discharge the original judgment. Although
herself outside the limits of the State such disposition of
the property would have been binding on her. Chicago,

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v.-DUNLEVY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

R. I. & P. Ry. v. Sturm, 174 U. S. 710; Harris v. Balk,
198 U. S. 215, 226, 227; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Deer, 200
U. S. 176; Balt. & Ohio R. R. v. Hostetter, 240 U. S. 620;
Shinn on Attachment and Garnishment, § 707. See
Brigham v. Fayerweather, 140 Massachusetts, 411, 413.
But the interpleader initiated by the company was an
altogether different matter. This was an attempt to
bring about a final and conclusive adjudication of her
personal rights, not merely to discover property and apply
it to debts. And unless in contemplation of law she was
before the court and required to respond to that issue,
its orders and judgments in respect thereto were not
binding on her. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.714; Shinn on
Attachment and Garnishment, § 674. See Cross v. Armstrong, 44 Oh. St. 613, 623, 625.
Counsel-maintain that having been duly summoned in
the original suit instituted by Boggs & Buhl in 1907 and
notwithstanding entry of final judgment therein, "Mrs.
Dunlevy was in the Pennsylvania court and was bound
by every order that court made whether she remained
within the jurisdiction of that court after it got jurisdiction over her person or not"; and hence, the argument is,
"When the company paid the money into court Where
she was it was just the same in legal effect as if it had
paid it to her." This position is supposed to be supported
by our opinion in Michigan Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S.
346, where it is said (p. 353): "If a judicial proceeding is
begun with jurisdiction over the person of the party concerned it is within the power of a State to bind him by
every subsequent order in the cause. Nations v. Johnson,
24 How. 195, 203, 204. This is true not only of ordinary
actions but of proceedings like the present. It is within
the power of a State to make the whole administration of
the estate a single proceeding, to provide that one who
has undertaken it within the jurisdiction shall be subject
to the order of the court in the matter until the adminis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

tration is closed by distribution, and, on the same principle, that he shall be required to account for and distribute all that he receives, by the order of the Probate
Court."
Of course the language quoted had reference to the
existing circumstances and must be construed accordingly.
The judgment under consideration was fairly Within the
reasonable anticipation of the executor when he submitted himself to the Probate Court. But a wholly
different and intolerable condition would result from
acceptance of the theory that after final judgment a defendant remains in court and subject to whatsoever
orders may be entered under title of the cause. See Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U. S. 141, 151; Freeman on Judgments, 4th ed., § 103. The interpleader proceedings were
not essential concomitants of the original action by Boggs
& Buhl against Dunlevy but plainly collateral and when
summoned to respond in that action she was not required
to anticipate them. Smith v. Woolfolk, 115 U. S.143, 148,
149; Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S.254, 269; Owens v.
Henry, 161 U. S. 642, 646; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409;
Freeman on Judgments, 4th ed., § 143.
It has been affirmatively held in Pennsylvania that a
judgment debtor is not a party to a garnishment proceeding to condemn a claim due him from a third person and
is not bound by a judgment discharging the garnishee
(Ruff v. Ruff, 85 Pa. St. 333); and this is the generally
accepted doctrine. Shinn on Attachment and Garnishment, § 725. Former opinions of this court uphold validity of such proceedings upon the theory that jurisdiction to condemn is acquired by service of effective process
upon the garnishee.
The established general rule is that any personal judgment which a state court may render against one who did
not voluntarily submit to its jurisdiction, and who is not.
a citizen of the State, nor served with process within its

DUEL v. HOLLINS.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

borders, no matter what the mode of service, 'is void,
because the court had no jurisdiction over his person.
Pennoyer v. Neff, supra; Freeman on Judgments, 4th ed.,
§ 120a; Black on Judgments, 2d ed., §§ 904 and .905.
We axe of opinion that the proceedings in the Pennsylvania court constituted no bar to the action in California and the judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.

DUEL v. HOLLINS.
WIENER, LEVY & CO. v. HOLLINS.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 352, 353.

Argued May 4, 5, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

A bankrupt firm of brokers having, prior to bankruptcy carried on
marginal transactions for several different customers in shares of
stock of the same corporation amounting in the aggregate to more
than the number of shares of that stock in their possession at the
time of the bankruptcy, and none of such shares being identified as
the particular shares carried for any of the respective customers, but
all of whom demanded their full quota of shares and offered to pay
the amount due thereon, held that:
Brokers and their customers stand in the relation of pledgee and
pledgor.
In dealings between brokers and customers stock certificates issued
by the same corporation lack individuality; they are, like receipts for
coin, to be treated as indistinguishable tokens of actual values.
As between themselves, after paying the amount due the broker on a
marginal transaction, the customer has a right to demand from the
broker delivery of stock purchased for his account and such a delivery may be made during insolvency without creating a preference.
The fact that the bankrupt broker in this case did not have sufficient shares of stock of a corporation on hand at the time of his

