55

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syflabus.

241 U.:S.

That the bill as thus construed states a cause of action
within the jurisdiction of the court below as a Federal
court is in substance conceded and is demonstrated by
the ruling in Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del Pozo, 236 U. S.
635, 643-644.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
erred in dismissing the cause for want of jurisdiction as a
Federal court, and its decree must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ON THE
RELATION OF KENNEDY v. BECKER, AS SHERIFF OF ERIE COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 666. Argued April 7, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916

Power to preserve fish and game within its border is inherent in the
sovereignty of the States subject to-any valid exercise of authority
under the provisions of the Federal Constitution.
The reservation to the Seneca Tribe of hunting and fishing privileges on
the lands conveyed to Robert Morris by the treaty of the Big Tree
of 1797 was one in common with the grantees and others to whom the
privilege might be extended, but subject to the necessary power of
appropriate regulation by the State having inherent sovereignty
over the land.
Tribal Seneca Indians are subject to the fish and game laws of the
State of New York as to lands ceded by the Tribe to Robert Morris
by the Big Tree Treaty of 1797 and which are not within the Seneca
Indian Reservation notwithstanding the reservation of hunting and
fishing contained in said Treaty.
The fact that the Indians in this case are 'wards of the United States un-

KENNEDY v. BECKER.
241 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

der the care of an Indian agent does not derogate from the authority
of the State to enforce its fish and game laws as against Indians on
territory within the State and outside of any Indian reservation.
215 N. Y. 42, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Big Tree

Treaty of 1797 between the Seneca Indians and Robert
Morris and the effect of a reservation of right to fish and
hunt on the ceded lands and also the power and sovereignty of the State of New York over the said lands, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. George P. Decker for plaintiff in error and also
Mr. Charles Warren, Assistant Attorney General of the
United States, with whom Mr. W. W. Dyer was on the
brief for the United States in support of the contentions
of plaintiff in error:
The clause of the treaty relating to fishing and hunting
rights is to be construed as reserving to the Indians a free
and perpetual right to take fish and game on the lands
ceded, at least for their own subsistence and by the means
and methods then known and practiced by them.
The Seneca and other New York tribal Indians are
wards, not of the State, but of the United States.
The hunting and fishing rights involved are a part of
the original Indian rights of occupancy, reserved in the
very instrument of cession, never relinquished, and continuously held under the ancient Indian title. The locus
in quo, therefore, always remained an Indian reservation
pro tanto.
The reserved rights of hunting and fishing are secured
to the Seneca Indians by the word of the United States
given at a public treaty, which is the supreme law of the
land.
The operation of the state fish and game laws was excluded by the exercise of Federal power. See the Hartford Convention; the Treaty of the Big Tree; the Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

241 U. S.

Intercourse Act of May 19, 1796, ยง 12; Extracts from
Stone's Life of Red Jacket, and the following cases: In re
Blackbird, 109 Fed. Rep. 139; Choctaw Nation v. United
States, 119 U. S. 1, 27; Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 40;
Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; Fellows v. Blacksmith,
19 How. 366; Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; Geofroy v.
Riggs, 133 U. S. 258; George v. Pierce,85 Misc. Rep. 105;
Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211; Johnson v. Gearlds, 234 U. S.
422; Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1; The Kansas Indians,5
Wall. 737, 760; In re Lincoln, 129 Fed. Rep. 247; The
New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761; Nor. Pac. Ry. v. United
States, 227 U. S. 355, 362, 367; Cusic v. Daly, 212 N. Y.
183; Perrinv. United States, 232 U..S. 478, 484; Sligh v.
Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 58; State v. Campbell, 53 Minnesota, 354; United States v. Forty-three Gallons of Whiskey,
93 U. S. 188; United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375,
384; United States v. Pelican, 232 U.. S. 442; United States
v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28; United States v. Winans, 198
U. S. 371; Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504; Winters v.
United States, 207 U. S. 564; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet.
515, 581.
Mr. HerbertB. Lee and Mr. Blaine F. Sturgis, with whom
Mr. E. E. Woodbury, Attorney General of the State of
New York, and Mr. A. Frank Jenks were on the brief,
for defendant in error:
New York State has jurisdiction to punish tribal Indians'
for violations of its laws enacted in the exercise of its
police power when such violations occur outside the limits
of their reservations.
The reservation of the privilege to fish and hunt on
the lands ceded to Robert Morris by the treaty of "Big
Tree" does not prevent the prosecution of TrilJal Indians
violating the Conservation Law on the lands covered
by such reservation. See The Hartford Convention of
December, 1786, and Clairmont v. United States, 225

KENNEDY v. BECKER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 551; Commonwealth v. Ager, 7 Cush. 53, 84; Compagnie Francaise &c. v. State Board of Health, 186 U. S.
380; Ex parte Tilden, 218 Fed. Rep. 920; Fletcher v. Peck,
6 Cranch, 87; Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258; Johnson v.
M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 543; New York &c. R. R. v. Bristol,
151 U. S. 556; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138;
Tucker's Limitation on Treaty-Making Power, 381;
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375; Ward v. Race
Horse, 163 U. S. 504.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court after reading the following memorandum:
This opinion by direction of the court had been prepared
by MR. JUSTICE HUGHES and was approved before his
resignation. After that event it was again considered and
was re-adopted.
Fayette Kennedy, Warren Kennedy, and Willis White,
Jr., three Seneca Indians, residing on the Cattaraugus
Reservation, under the charge of an Indian Agent of the
United States, were arrested for spearing fish in Eighteen
Mile Creek, in Erie County, State of New York, at a
place outside the Reservation, and there having certain
fish in their possession, in violation of ยง 176 of the Conservation Law of that State. A justice of the peace committed them to the custody of the, sheriff, and a writ of
habeas corpus was sued out upon the ground that the commitment was invalid. It was alleged that the persons arrested were tribal Indians, as above stated, and that the
place where the offense was committed was within the
territory included in"certain grants . . . under sanction of the United States of America, whereby
the right was reserved to the said Indians to fish in the
waters on and in said lands." The Supreme Court at
Special Term discharged the petitioners, holding that the
ancient grants, agreements and treaties mentioned, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

particularly the treaty made between the Seneca Nation of
Indians and Robert Morris in the year 1797, permitted
these Indians to fish in the waters in question "at will,
and at all seasons of the year, regardless of the provisions
of the game laws of the State of New York." The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, Fourth Department, reversed the order and remanded the three Indians
to custody (165 App. Div. 881); and the order of the Appellate Division was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
The court entertained the Federal question presented,
and decided that the state law, notwithstanding the treaty,
was applicable. 215 N. Y. 42.
Section 176 of the Conservation Law of New York
prohibits the taking of fish, or having the same in possession, except as permitted by the article of which it is a
part. The validity of these provisions with respect to
those subject to the jurisdiction of the State is not questioned. The controversy relates solely to the state power
over these Indians.
The argument for the plaintiffs in error has taken a wide
range and embraces an extended history of the dealings
with the Six Nations. We do not find it to be necessary
to review this interesting history as the question to be
determined is a narrow one. The locus in quo is within
the State of New York being within one mile from the
point where Eighteen Mile Creek empties into Lake Erie.
It is not within the territorial limits of the Indian Reservation on which the Senecas reside. It is within the territory which was ceded by the Seneca Nation to Robert
Morris by the treaty of the 'Big Tree,' of September 15,
1797 (7 Stat. 601), and the question turns upon the construction of this treaty, that is, on the consequences
which attached to the reservation therein of fishing and
hunting rights upon the lands then granted. These
lands were a part of the tract covered by the compact
made in 1786 between the State of New York and the

KENNEDY v. BECKER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Commonwealth of Massachusetts known as the Hartford Convention. (Journals of Congress, Vol. IV, p. 787.)
By the terms of this compact for the settlement of existing
controversies, Massachusetts ceded, granted and released
to New York all its "claim, right and title" to the "government, sovereignty and jurisdiction" of the lands,
while New York ceded, granted and released to Massachusetts "the. right of, predmption of the soil from the
native Indians, and all other the estate, right, title and
property" which the State of New York had. Subsequently Massachusetts sold to Robert Morris its "preemptive right." By ยง 12 of the Federal Indian Intercourse Act of May 19, 1796, c. 30, 1 Stat. 469, 472, it
was provided that no conveyance of lands "from any
Indian, or nation or tribe of Indians" should be valid
unless "the same be made by treaty, or convention, entered into pursuant to the constitution"; and this was
subject to a proviso as to the proposal and adjustment of
compensation by state agents in the presence and with
the approval of commissioners of the United States. The
lands in question were accordingly conveyed to Robert
Morris by the treaty above mentioned. From the preamble (as shown by the original on file in the State Department, a copy of which has been produced by the Government) it appears that the conveyance was made under
the authority of the United States, and in the presence of
the United States Commissioner, and the treaty was
proclaimed by the President after ratification by the
Senate on April 11,. 1798. The convention is in the form
of an indenture by which (identifying the tract as being
part of that embraced in the Hartford Convention)
these lands were granted by the sachems, chiefs and
warriors of the Seneca Nation to Robert Morris "his heirs
and assigns forever." The lands-which were soon resold
-thus passed by the conveyance into private ownership
and were subject to the jurisdiction and sovereignty of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

State of New York. The grant contained the following
reservation which is in question here:-" Also, excepting
and reserving to them, the said parties of the first part
and their heirs, the privilege of fishing and hunting on the
said tract of land hereby intended to be conveyed."
The right thus reserved was not an exclusive right.
Those to whom the lands Were ceded, and their grantees,
and all persons to whom the privilege might be given,
would be entitled to hunt and fish upon these lands, as
well as the Indians of this tribe. And, with respect to
this non-exclusive right of the latter, it is important to
observe the exact nature of the controversy. It is not
disputed that these Indians reserved the stated privilege
both as against their grantees and all who might become
owners of the ceded lands. We assume that they retained
an easement, or profit & prendre, to the extent defined;
that is not questioned. The right asserted in tl~is case
is against the State of New York. It is a right sought
to be maintained in derogation of the sovereignty of the
State. It is not a claim for the vindication of a right of
private property against any injurious discrimination, for
the regulations of the State apply to all persons equally.
It is the denial with respect to these Indians, and the exercise of the privilege reserved, of all state power of control
or reasonable regulation as to lands and waters otherwise
admittedly within the jurisdiction of the State.
It is not to be doubted that the power to preserve fish
and game within its borders is inherent in the sovereignty
of the State (Geer v. Connecticut, 161. U. S. 519; Ward v.
Racehorse, 163 U. S. 504, 507), stbject of course to any
valid exercise of authority under the provisions of the
Federal Constitution. It is not denied--save as to the
members of this tribe-that this inherent power extended
over the locus in quo and to all persons attempting there to
hunt or fish, whether they are owners of the lands or others.
The contention for the plaintiffs in error must, and doea,

KENNEDY v. BECKER.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

go to the extent of insisting that the effect of the reservation was to maintain in the tribe sovereignty quoad hoc.
As the plaintiffs in error put it: "The land itself became
thereby subject to a joint property ownership and the
dual sovereignty of the two peoples, white and red, to
fit the case intended, however infrequent such situation
was to be." We are unable to take this view. It is said
that the State would regulate the whites and that the
Indian tribe would regulate it members, but if neither
could exercise authority with respect to the other at the
locus in quo, either would be free to destroy the subject
of the power. Such a duality of sovereignty instead of
maintaining in each the essential power of preservation
would in fact deny it to both.
It has frequently been said that treaties with the Indians
should be construed in the sense in which the Indians
understood them. But it is idle to suppose that there was
any actual anticipation at the time the treaty was made
of the conditions now existing to which the legislation in
question was addressed. Adopted when game was plentiful-when the cultivation contemplated by the whites
was not expected to interfere with its abundance-it can
hardly be supposed that the thought of the Indians was
coneerned with the necessary exercise of inherent power
under modem conditions for the preservation of wild
life. But the existence of the sovereignty of the State
was well understood, and this conception involved all
that was necessarily implied in that sovereignty, whether
fully appreciated or not. We do not think that it is a
proper construction of the reservation in the conveyance
to regard it as an attempt either to reserve sovereign
prerogative or so to divide the inherent power of preservation as to make its competent exercise impossible.
Rather are we of the opinion that the clause is fully satisfied by considering it a reservation of a privilege of fishing
and hunting upon the granted lands in common with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

grantees, and others to whom the privilege might be extended, but subject nevertheless to that necessary power
of appropriate regulation, as to all those privileged, which
inhered in the, sovereignty of the State over the lands
where the privilege was exercised. This was clearly recognized in United States v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371, 384,
where the court in sustaining the fishing rights of the
Indians on the Columbia River, under the provisions of
the treaty between the United States and the Yakinma
Indians, ratified in 1859, said (referring to the authority
of the State of Washington): "Nor does it" (that is, the
right of 'taking fish at all usual and accustomed places')
"restrain the State unreasonably, if at all, in the regulation
of the right. It only fixes in the land such easements as
enable the right to be exercised."
We have assumed the applicability of the state law in
question, as its construction is determined by the decision
of the state court. We also assume that these Indians
are wards of the United States, under the care of an Indian agent, but this fact does not derogate from the
authority of the State, in a case like the present, to enforce. its laws at the locus in quo. Ward v. Racehorse,
supra; United States v. Winans, supra. There is no question of conflict with any legislation of Congress or with
action under its authority; for the case rests on the construction of the treaty. The only action of Federal authority, that is pertinent, is found in the convention itself.
It should be added that we have not considered any question relating to conduct or fishing rights upon territory, not
ceded, which is comprised within the Indian Reservation;
nor is it necessary to deal with other matters which have
been discussed in argument touching the relation of the
State of New York to the Indians within its borders.
We find no error in the judgment of the state court and
it is accordingly affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

