OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

.1 241 U. S.

Lafayette, 163 U. S. 456, 467. Frazer v. Bigelow Carpet
Co., 141 Massachusetts, 126. The judgment upon the
appeal will be affirmed and the writ of error dismissed.
De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 303. Gsell v. Insular

Collector of Customs, 239 U. S. 93.
Writ of error dismissed.
Judgment affirmed.

JOHNSON, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF WARREN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, v. ROOT
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 308.

Argued April 18, 1916.-Decided May 1, 1916.

An agreement was made by way of compromise more than four months
before the petition was filed to pay from a fund of which the banktupt was entitled to the residue all lienable claims, including claims
of one who had waived the right to file liens, but had subsequently
filed claiming the right so to do owing to failure of bankrupt to fulfil
contract, and to whom payments were made from the fund within
four months of the filing of the petition which the trustee brought
suit to recover as preferential. Held that the earlier agreement
created an equitable lien in favor of all parties thereto having color
of right, and the payments thereunder did not become preferential
because the amounts were not ascertained and liquidated until
within the four-month period.
219 Fed. Rep. 397, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the right of a trustee in bankruptcy to recover an alleged preferential payment made

by the bankrupt within four months of the filing of the
petition under an agreement made more than four months

before the filing, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

The same conditions applied to the original corporation,
and the plaintiff testifies that he understood them. He
says in so many words that he knew that the only source
of revenue to meet his and other policies was from assessments of the insured, and that if, after a proper rate was
fixed for a membership of five thousand, the membership
fell to two thousand, the rate would have to be increased
if the obligations were to be met. The statute and the
words of the law of the company under which the plaintiff entered the Fourth Class should be construed in the
light of these considerations. In determining his rights
it is important to bear in mind that there was no specific
promise to him like the promise to pay in the certificate
but that his whole reliance is upon a law of the corporation, and that he had notice that all laws of the corporation were liable to be repealed. The only language in
the certificate bearing on the matter pointed to possible
changes, one condition being the payment of all monthly
payments 'as required.' It was obvious and understood
that to pay a benefit an increase in the assessment might
be necessary. In bur opinion the present charter like
the first must be construed to authorize such an increase
and the clause in the law of 1884 relied upon-that the
payments should continue the same so long as the membership continued-was not a contract but was a regulation subject to the possibility inherent in the case. More
than ambiguous words in an amendable law would be
needed to establish a departure from the ground on which
the relation of the parties obviously stood and to create
a privilege that attacked the corporation in its very life.
Compare the language in Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237
U. S. 531, 542, and the same case below, sub. nom Reynolds v. Royal Arcanum, 192 Massachusetts, 150, 157.
The persons incorporated in 1894 were described as
officers and members of the Supreme Lodge then existing,
that is, of a voluntary association, and it was the rights

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MIMS.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

motion is denied. Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S.
246, 258. There is no ground for treating the plaintiff
as not having come into the new company by virtue of
ยง 3. That section provided for his doing so and when he
was treated and acted as a member the presumption is
conclusive that'he did so in pursuance of the law that
authorized it.
We assume without argument that by ยง 3 of the charter
and his assent thereto the plaintiff became a member of the
organization with whatever rights he might have as such.
It is not to be conceived however that the charter was
intended to create a privileged class or that the right
of the corporation to amend its laws was less in his case
than in that of one joining after 1894. As to later members we can have no doubt, notwithstanding the differonce of opinion in state courts, that the right to amend
extends to a change in the rates to be paid. Persons who
join institutions of this sort are not dealing at arm's
length with a stranger whose mode of providing for payment does not concern them, but only his promise to
pay. They are joining a club the members of which have
to pay any benefit that any member can receive. The
corporation is simply the machine for collection and distribution. Its charter expressly provides by ยง 5 that it
'shall not engage in any business for gain; the purposes
of said corporation being fraternal and benevolent.' It
is manifest therefore that it would be a perversion of its
purposes, if through some ambiguity of phrase the necessary source of benefits were closed in favor of certain
members while their right to insist upon payment remained. The essence of the arrangement was that the
members took the risk of events, and if the assessments
levied at a certain time were insufficient to pay a benefit
of a certain amount, whether from diminution of members
or any other cause, either they must pay more or the
beneficiary take less.

JOHNSON v. ROOT MFG. CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

written subcontract with the Root Manufacturing Company for materials, in which the Root Company in the
fullest terms renounced all lien on its own behalf and
contracted that all under it should do the same. Monthly
payments were to be made on account and final payment
within forty days after the contract was "fulfilled."
In 1911 the Root Company notified the railroad that
it was not being paid and that it would not furnish more
material unless the railroad would see that it was paid.
The railroad gave the assurance and the Root Company continued to furnish the materials called for by
its contract. Seemingly the payments continued to be
unsatisfactory and on November 18, 1911, after the Root
Company had performed its contract there was unpaid
$12,895.34. On November 25, 1911, the Root Company
filed statutory notices of its intention to hold a lien upon
the railroad's property ror the amount then due. On
January 12, 1912,. after conferences of all parties concerned, a contract was made between the railroad, the
Warren Company and its sureties, reciting controversyas to whether the Warren Company's contract had been
performed, the filing of claims for liens and attachment
sffuits for more than -the sum admitted by the railroad
to be due, and the railroad's assertion of its right against
the surety companies., This contract fixed $42,000 as
a sum to be paid by the railroad in full settlement of the
mutual claims between it and the Warren Company,
and provided that with $20,000 to be furnished by the
surety companies the sum should be put into the hands
of named trustees 'to be used in paying all. lienable
claims' growing out of the construction contract.. If
the fund was not sufficient to pay lienable claims in full,
the surety companies were to furnish the additional
money necessary. After all lienable claims were paid,
the balance, if any, of the fund was to be paid first to
reimburse the surety companies for their contribution,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

and after that to the Warren Company, subject to such
attachments as might be filed against the sum.
On April 10, 1912, a written contract was made between the railroad, the sureties, the Warren Company
and the Root Company, which recited the claim of the
Root Company and that the railroad had money in its
hands held back under its contract with the Warren
Company for the purpose of protecting the road against
liens, and agreed that $6,447.67 should be paid to the
Root Company by way of compromise, that the Root
Company should assign its claim to the trustee under
the former instrument, surrendering to the Warren Company notes for sixty per cent. of its claim, and that the
trustee should reassign to the Root Company the unpaid
portion of its claim when attachments against the fund
had been disposed of. The payment was made the same
day and the Root Company executed a release as agreed.
The sum was a larger percentage than will be received
by the unsecured creditors of the Warren Company but
a smaller one than that received by any other subcontractors with a lieh. The petition in bankruptcy was
filed on July 18, 1912, and the above payment was a
preference if it stood as a payment to an unsecured creditor in the circumstances on the date when it was made.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the instrument
of January 12 created an equitable lien that justified the
payment, although it was of opinion that the lien asserted
by the Root Company could not have been enforced.
The plaintiff in error contends that the provision in favor
of 'lienable claims' was confined to those that were
secured by a valid lien. We express no opinion as to
whether the lien of the Root Company asserted against
the property of the railroad could have been defeated
by its contract witlh the Warren Company notwithstanding the Warren Company's default. It is enough that
we agree with the ultimate view of the Circuit Court of

JOHNSON v. ROOT MFG. CO.
241 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals. The agreement of January 12 was intended for
practical purposes, to clear the railroad property from
claims. It contemplated possible controversies as it
provided for costs, but it did not require that every disputed lien should be fought out to the end. It was understood by the parties to extend to the compromise of
claims that stood upon debatable ground, as'was shown
by the agreement under which the payment was made.
It set aside a specific fund in a third hand to that end.
All the parties acted in good faith. The $42,000 credited
to the Warren Company as retained by the railroad was
nearly twice what the railroad admitted to. be due, apart
from the compromise by which it secured the application
of that sum to clearing its land. We are of opinion that
there is no reasonable doubt that all parties were justified
in the course adopted, that the instrument of January 12
created an equitable lien in favor of all alleged liens which
the parties should deem to have color of right, and that
the fund being thus appropriated and set aside it does
not matter that the formal ascertainment of the specific
beneficiary was made within four months of the bankruptcy proceedings. It was well understood before. The
Root Company took part in the preliminary discussions.
and there can be no doubt that it was expected by all
on January 12 that its claim, h6wever disputed, would
have to be dealt with when the fund came to be paid out.
Decree affirmed.

