UNITED STATES v. NICE.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. NICE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 681.

Argued April 24, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

The General Allotment Act of 1887 discloses that the tribal relation
of the Indians, while ultimately to be broken up, was not to be dissolved by the making or taking of allotments; and subsequent
legislation shows repeated instances in which the tribal relation
of allottee Indians was recognized as continuing during the trust

period.
Congress has power to regulate or prohibit traffic in intoxicating liquor
with tribal Indians within a State, whether upon or off an Indian

reservation.
When Indians are prepared to exercise the privileges and bear the
burdens of one sui juris, tribal relations may be dissolved and the
national guardianship ended, but the time and manner of ending the
guardianship rests with Congress.
Legislation affecting the Indians is to be construed in their interest
and a purpose to make a radical departure is not lightly to be inferred.
Words in a statute, although general, must be read in the light of the
statute as a whole and with due regard to the situation in which they

are to be applied.
Under the General Allotment Act of 1887 and the act of March 2,
1889, making allotments of lands in the Rosebud Reservation,
tribal relations and government wardship were not disturbed by the
allotments or the trust patents; and during the trust period Congress
has power to regulate or prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor to
Allottee Indians,and so held as to the act of January 30, 1897, c. 109,
29 Stat. 506.
In view of many enactments of Congress since the decision of this
court in Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488, reflecting the intent of Congress in regard to sale of intoxicating liquor to Indians,this court is
constrained to and does overrule that decision.

facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of the provisions of the act of January 30,
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for the United States.

241 U. S.

1897, prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors to allottee
Indians, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for the United
States:
The Government contends that the Pelican Case, 232
U. S. 214, decided in 1914, is inconsistent with the Heff
Case, 197 U. S. 488, and must be deemed to overrule it.
In the Pelican Case it was alleged that murder of an Indian
had been committed by a white man in Indian country.
Unless the crime took place in Indian country it was not
punishable by Federal law, since Cnngress, though having
the power to punish murder of an Indian ward in any
locality, had only partially exercised its power, and had
confined its legislation to murder in the Indian country.
Unless the murder was of an Indian ward of the Government, the crime was not punishable by Federal law, since
the state laws extended to crimes committed even in
Indian country by a white man (or non-Indian) against
another white man or non-Indian), and Congress had
no power to punish such crimes. The murdered Indian
was an allottee having the same status as the Indian in
the Heff Case and in the case at bar. This court held (1)
that the allotted land where the murder was committed
was Indian country; (2) that the murdered man was an
Indian ward under protectibn of the Government, and
that the Federal and not the state law applied to
him.
IThe Government now contends that
if an allottee
Indian is still capable of protection by Federal law against
murder, as a ward, he is capable of protection, as a ward,
by Federal law against sale of liquor.
If this court shall hold that the Pelican and Heff Cases
cannot be reconciled, the Government submits that it
should reconsider and overrule the Heff Case.
It is the contention of the Government in this case that

UNITED STATES v. NICE.
241 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

allottee Indians, even after the Allotment Act of 1887,
still remained members of Indian tribes; that the Indian
Liquor Act of January 30, 1897, was a valid exercise of the
power of Congress under the commerce clause, and not
an exercise of police power, and that Congress by the
Allotment Act of 1887 did not in fact relinquish, and had
no power in law, to relinquish, to the State, its exclusive
constitutional regulation of commerce with the Indian
tribes and their members.
The power of Congress to regulate commerce with the
Indian tribes is exclusive.
Commerce "with the Indian tribes" includes commerce with the individual members of a tribe.
The act of January 30, 1887, is a regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes.
The history of Federal legislation prohibiting sale of
liquor to Indians shows that the Heff Case was wrong in
treating the act of 1897 merely as an exercise of the police
power. It was enacted under the commerce clause of
the Constitution; and the power to regulate trade with
the Indian tribes belongs exclusively to Congress as long
as any Indian tribal status exists. The Heff Case is inconsistent with United States v. Holliday.
The tribal relations of the Sioux Indians, in fact, still
continue. It has also been shown that the Indian in the
case at bar is a member of the Sioux Tribe, and in fact
under the care of an Indian agent.
It is for Congress and not for this court to say when
the tribal existence shall be deemed to have terminated.
Congress when it terminates tribal status, does so in
express terms.
The grant of citizenship does not ipso facto terminate
tribal status. An Indian allottee, even though a citizen,
is still an Indian, and an Indian ward as well.
The General Allotment Act of 1887, conferring citizenship on allottee Indians and subjecting allottees to state

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

241 U. S.

laws, did not abolish tribes nor deprive Congress of power
to regulate commerce with tribal allottees.
The act of 1887 did not repeal in express terms Rev.
Stat., § 2139, by which statute Congress was exercising
its constitutional power to regulate commerce with the
Indians; and even if it did so repeal, it could not debar
Congress from enacting similar legislation in the future.
Congress has no authority to delegate a power vested
by the Constitution in it exclusively.
Even if Congress, by the act of 1887, intended to adopt
existing state laws upon the subject of the liquor traffic,
and thus by implication to abandon its own regulation
(a seemingly untenable implication), nevertheless it retained the power to exercise control over regulation of
commerce with the Indian tribes, and this power it exercised by passing the liquor-traffic acts of 1892 and
1897.
Congress, by the act of 1887, clearly did not terminate
the tribal relationship or status of the allottee Indians.
Hence it had no power irrevocably to commit the regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes into the hands
of the States. And when by the act of 1897 it exercised
power to regulate, it had the right to do so. Numerous
authorities support these contentions.
Mr. 0. D. Olmstead, with whom Mr. W. B. Backus and
Mr. W. J. Hooper were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
The decision of the District Court was based on the
construction given to the statute under which the indictment was drawn in In re Heff, 197 U. S. 48. The defendant
in error stands on the decision in that case, and respectfully contends that this decision correctly construes the
statute, and that, thereunder, he is not guilty of an offense.

UNITED STATES v. NICE.
.241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a prosecution for selling whiskey and other
intoxicating liquors to an Indian in violation of the act of
January 30, 1897, c. 109, 29 Stat. 506. According to the
indictment, the sale was made August 9, 1914, in Tripp
County, South Dakota; the Indian was a member of the
Sioux tribe, a ward of the United States and under the
charge of an Indian agent; and the United States was still
holding in trust the title to land which had been allotted
to him April 29, 1902. A demurrer was sustained
and the indictment dismissed on the ground that the
statute, in so far as it purports to embrace such a case,
is invalid, because in excess of the power of Congress.
The case is here on' direct writ of error under the
Criminal Appeals Act, March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34
Stat. 1246.
By the act of 1897 the sale of intoxicating liquor to
"any Indian to whom allotment of land has been made
while the title to the same shall be held in trust by the
Government, or to any Indian a ward of the Government
under charge of any Indian superintendent or agent, or
any Indian, including mixed bloods, over whom the Government, through its, departments, exercises guardianship," is denounced as a punishable offense.
The allotment to this Indian was made from the tribal
lands in the Rosebud Reservation, in South Dakota, under
the act of March 2, 1889, c. 405, 25 Stat. 888, the eleventh
section (p. 891) of which provided that each allotment
should be evidenced by a patent, inaptly so called, declaring that for a period of twenty-five years-and for a
further period if the President should so direct-the United
States would hold the allotted land in trust for the sole use
and benefit of the allottee, or, in case of his death, of his
heirs, and at the endef that period would convey the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
.Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

same to him or his heirs in fee, discharged of the trust and
free of all charge or encumbrance; that any lease or conveyance of the land, or contract touching the same, made
during the trust period, should be null and void, and that
each allottee should "be entitled to all the rights and
privileges and be subject to all the provisions" of § 6
of the General Allotment Act of February 8, 1887, c. 119,
24 Stat. 388. The act of 1889 recognized the existence
of the tribe, as such, and plainly disclosed that the tribal
relation, although ultimately to be dissolved, was not to
be terminated by tlie making or taking of allotments. In
the acts of March 3, 1899, c. 450, 30 Stat. 1362, and
March 2, 1907, c. 2536, 34 Stat. 1230, that relation was
recognized as still continuing, and nothing is found elsewhere indicating that it was to terminate short of the
expiration of the trust period.
By the General Allotment Act of 1887 provision was
made for allotting lands in any tribal reservation in
severalty to members of the tribe, for issuing to each allottee a trust patent similar to that just described and
with a like restraint upon alienation, and for conveying
the fee to the allottee or his heirs at the end of the trust
period. Its sixth section, to which particular reference
was made in § 11 of the act of 1889, declared that, upon
the completion of the allotments and the patenting of the
lands, the allottees should have "the benefit of and be
subject to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the State or
Territory" of their residence, and that all Indians born in
the United States who were recipients of allotments under
"this act, or under any law or treaty," should be citizens
of the United States and entitled to all the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens. This act, like that
of 1889, disclosed that the tribal relation, while ultimately
to be broken up, was not to be dissolved by the making
or taking of allotments, and subsequent legislation shows
repeated instances in which the tribal relation of Indians

UNITED STATES v. NICE.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

having allotments under the act was recognized during
the trust period as still continuing.
With this statement of the case, we come to the questions
presented for decision, which are these: What was the
status of this Indian at the time the whiskey and other
liquors are alleged to have been sold to him? And is it
within the power of Congress to regulate or prohibit
the sale of intoxicating liquor to Indians in his situation?
The power of Congress to regulate or prohibit traffic
in intoxicating liquor with tribal Indians within a State,
whether upon or off an Indian reservation, is well settled.
It has long been exercised and has repeatedly been sustained by this court. Its source is two-fold; first, the
clause in the Constitution expressly investing Congress
with authority "to regulate commerce . .
. with
the Indian tribes", and, second, the dependent relation of
such tribes to the United States. Of the first it was said
in United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407i 417: "Commerce
with the Indian tribes, means commerce with the individuals composing those tribes. .
.
(p. 418).
The locality of the traffic can have nothing to do with
the power. The right to exercise it in reference to any
Indian tribe, or any person who is a member of such
tribe, is absolute, without reference to the locality of the
traffic, or the locality of the tribe, or of a member of the
tribe with whom it is carried on. . . . (p. 419).
This power residing in Congress, that body is necessarily
supreme in its exercise." And of the second it was said
in United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383: "These
Indian tribes are the wards of the Nation. They are communities dependent on the United States. .
.
From
their very weakness and helplessness, so largely due to
the course of dealing of the Federal Government with
them and the treaties in which it has been promised, there
arises the duty of protection, and with it the power."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

What was said in these cases has been repeated and applied
in many others. 1
Of course, when the Indians are prepared to exercise the
privileges and bear the burdens of one sui juris, the tribal
relation may be dissolved and the national guardian.
ship brought to an end, but it rests with Congress to de-

termine when and how this shall be done, and whether
the emancipation shall at first be complete or only partial.
Citizenship is not incompatible with tribal existence or

continued guardianship, and so may be conferred without
completely emancipating the Indians or placing them
beyond the reach of congressional regulations adopted for
their protection. 2 Thus in United States v. Holliday, a
prosecution for selling spirituous liquor to a tribal Indian
in Michigan when not on a reservation, the contention
that he had become a citizen was dismissed as "immaterial"; in Hallowell v. United States, a prosecution for taking
whiskey upon an allotment held by a tribal Indian in
Nebraska, the fact that he had been made a citizen was
held not to take the case out of the congressional power
of regulation; and in United States v. Sandoval, a prosecution for introducing intoxicating liquors into an Indian
pueblo in New Mexico, it was held that whether the In' United States v. 48 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188; Dick v. United
States, 208 U. S. 340; United States v. Sutton, 215 U. S. 291; Hallowell
v. United States, 221 U. S. 317; Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663; United
States v. Wright, 229 U. S. 226; United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S.
28; United States v. Pelican, 232 U. S. 442; Perrin v. United States,
232 U. S. 478; Johnson v. Gearlds, 234 U. S. 422; Joplin Mercantile
Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 531, 545.
I United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 308; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432, 445;
United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278; Tiger v. Western Investment
Co., 221 U. S. 286, 311-316; Hallowell v. United States, 221 U. S. 317,
324; United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28, 48; Eells v. Ross, 64 Fed.
Rep. 417; Farrell v. United States, 110 Fed. Rep. 942; Mulligan v.
United States, 120 Fed. Rep. 98.

UNITED STATES v. NICE.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dians of the pueblo were citizens need not be considered,
because that would not take from Congress the power to
prohibit the introduction of such liquors among them.
The ultimate question then is, whether § 6 of the act
of 1887-the section as originally enacted-was intended
to dissolve the tribal relation and terminate the national
guardianship upon the making of the allotments and the
issue of the trust patents, without waiting for the expiration of the trust period. According to a familiar rule,
legislation affecting the Indians is to be construed in
their interest and a purpose to make a radical departure is
not lightly to be inferred. Upon examining the whole
act, as must be done, it seems certain that the dissolution
of the tribal relation was in contemplation; but that this
was not to occur when the allotments Were completed and
the trust patents issued is made very plain. To illustrate:
Section 5 expressly authorizes negotiations with the tribe,
either before or after the allotments are completed, for
the purchase of so much of the surplus lands "as such
tribe shall, from time to time, consent to sell", directs
that the purchase money be held in the Treasury " for
the sole use of the tribe", and requires that the same,
with the interest thereon, "shall be at all times subject
to appropriation by Congress for the education and civilization of such tribe . . . or the members thereof."
This provision for holding and using these proceeds, like
that withholding the title to the allotted lands for twentyfive years and rendering them inalienable during that
period, makes strongly against the claim that the national
guardianship was to be presently terminated. The two
together show that the Government was retaining control
of the property of these Indians, and the one relating to
the use by Congress of their moneys in their "education
and civilization" implies the retention of a control reaching far beyond their property.
As pointing to a different intention, reliance is had

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

upon the provision that when the allotments are completed and the trust patents issued the allottees "shall
have the benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil
and criminal, of. the State" of their residence. But what
laws was this provision intended to embrace? Was it
all the laws of the State, or only such as could be applied
to tribal Indians consistently with the Constitution and
the legislation of Congress? The words, although general, must be read in the light of the act as a whole and
with due regard to the situation in which they were to be
applied. That they were to be taken with some implied
limitations, and not literally, is obvious. The act made
each allottee incapable during the trust period of making
any lease or conveyance of the allotted land, or any contract touching the same, and, of course, there was no
intention that this should be affected by the laws of the
State. The act also disclosed in an unmistakable way
that the education and civilization of the allottees and
their children were to be under the direction of Congress,
and plainly the laws of the State were not to have any
bearing upon the execution of any direction Congress
might give in this matter. The Constitution invested
Congress with power to regulate traffic in intoxicating
liquors with the Indian tribes, meaning with the individuals composing them. That was a continuing power
of which Congress could not divest itself. It could be
exerted at any time and in various forms during the continuance of the tribal relation, and clearly there was no
purpose to lay any obstacle in the way of enforcing the
existing congressional regulations upon this subject or
of adopting and enforcing new ones if deemed advisable.
The act of 1887 came under consideration in United
States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432, a case involving the power
of the State of South Dakota to tax allottees under that
act, according to, the laws of the State, upon their allotments, the permanent improvements thereon and the

UNITED STATES v. NICE.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

horses, cattle and other personal property issued to them
by the United States and used on their allotments, and
this court, after reviewing the provisions of the act and
saying, p. 437, "These Indians are yet wards of the Nation,
in a condition of pupilage or dependency, and have not
been discharged from that condition", held that the State
was without power to tax the lands and other property,
because the same were being held and used in carrying
out a policy of the Government in respect of its dependent
wards, and that the United States had such an interest
in the controversy as entitled it to maintain a bill to
restrain the collection of the taxes.
.In addition to 'the fact that both acts-the general
one of 1887 and the special one of 1889-disclose that
the tribal relation and the wardship of the Indians were
not to be disturbed by the allotments and trust patents,
we find that both Congress and the administrative officers
of the Government have proceeded upon that theory.
This is shown in a long series of appropriation and other
acts and in the annual reports of the Indian Office.
As, therefore, these allottees remain tribal Indians and
under national guardianship, the power of Congress to
regulate or prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor to
them, as is done by the act of 1897, is not debatable.
We recognize that a different construction was placed
upon § 6 of the act of 1887 in Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488,
but after reixamining the question in the light of other
provisions in the act and of many later enactments clearly
reflecting what was intended by, Congress, we are constrained to hold that the decision in that case is not well
grounded, and it is accordingly overruled.
Judgment reversed.

