OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which declares that
native born and naturalized citizens of the United States
shall be citizens of the State wherein they reside. Nor
has Congress said that it shall be regarded as possessing
state citizenship for jurisdictional purposes, as is done in
respect of national banks by ยง24, par. 16, of the Judicial
Code. In short, there is no ground upon which the company can be deemed a citizen of Texas, and this being so,
the suit is not one between citizens of different States.
Decree affirmed.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. DE ATLEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 274. -Argued March 10, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.
The Employers' Liability Act abrogated the common-law fellow servant rule by placing negligence of a co-employee upon the same basis
,as negligence of the employer.
In saving the defence of assumption of risk in cases other than those
where the carrier's violation of a statute enacted for the safety of
employees contributed to' the injury or death, the Employers' Liability Act places a co-employee's negligence, where it is the ground
of the action, in the same relation as the employer's own negligence

would stand to the question whether a plaintiff is to be deemed to
have assumed the risk.
A railroad employee having voluntarily entered an employment requiring him on proper occasions to board a moving train assumes
the risk normally incident thereto other than such risk as may arise
from the failure of the engineer to use due care to operate the train
at a moderate rate of speed so as to enable his co-employee to board
it without undue peril.
Such an employee may presume the engineer will exercise due care

for his safety and does not assume the risk attributable to operation
at unduly high speed until made aware of danger unless the undue

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. DE ATLEY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

speed and consequent danger are so obvious that an ordinarily
careful person in his situation would observe the speed and appreciate the danger.
An employee is not bound to exercise care to discover extraordinary
dangers arising from the negligence of the employer or of those
for whose conduct the employer is responsible, but may assume
that the employer or his agents have exercised proper care with
respect to his safety until notified to the contrary, unless the want
of care and the danger are so obvious that an ordinarily careful
person under the circumstances would observe and appreciate them.
Where an action under the Employers' Liability Act is tried in a state
court local rules of practice and procedure are applicable, and if
the state appellate court holds that the trial court failed to follow
such a rule relating to an instruction, but affirmed on the ground
that there was no question for the jury respecting the question on
which the instruction was asked, and in fact there was such a question, it is incumbent on this court to review such decision.
159 Kentucky, 687, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
in an action in the state court for personal injuries under
the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. L. Worthington, Mr. W. D. Cochran and Mr. LeWright Browning for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Allan D. Cole, with whom Mr. H. W. Cole was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
.MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this action, which was brought in a state court under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, .1908
(c. 149, 35 Stat. 65), the following facts appeared or might
reasonably be inferred from the evidence most favorable
to defendant in error (plaintiff below), in the light of
which the' initial question touching the validity of the
judgment in his favor must be determined:
On January 22, 1911, plaintiff was in the employ of
defendant and acting as head brakeman on train No. 95=a fast west-bound interstate freight train. When the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

train reached a station called Springdale, about six miles
east of Maysville, in Kentucky, the train engineer directed
plaintiff to go to a nearby railway telephone, call up the
operator, and ascertain the whereabouts of train No. 1,
which was a fast west-bound passenger train; the object
being to determine whether it was safe for No. 95 to proceed to Maysville ahead of it. Plaintiff was unable to
understand the operator and so reported to the engineer.
He then got into the cab of the locomotive and the train
proceeded to the coal docks, about one mile east of Maysville and about 460 yards east of a telegraph station in a
signal tower known as the F. G. Cabin, where it stopped
for coal and water. Plaintiff was directed by the engineer
to go forward to F. G. Cabin and ascertain from the operator the whereabouts of train No. 1. Plaintiff went to the
tower, and was there advised that his train had time to
reach Maysville. He immediately descended to the
platform in front of the tower and beside the track, and
saw that his train was approaching. He waited for it,
and when it reached the platform he attempted to board
the engine. He could not accurately judge the speed of
the train, but it appeared to him to be going slowly enough
for him to get aboard it. He caught hold of the grab iron
and put one foot on the step, and then the speed of the
train combined with his weight caused his foot to slip
and loosened his hold, so that he fell beneath the .wheels
of the tender and his arm was cut off. He had been employed as brakeman for about six weeks, and before that
had made two round-trips over the road for the purpose
of becoming acquainted with his duties. During the
time of his employment he had frequently been called
upon, under orders of the train engineer, to leave the
train and go forward to signal towers for orders or information and then mount the train as it came moving by.
On the occasion of the accident the train was running
about twelve miles per hour.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. DE ATLEY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The case went to the jury under instructions making
defendant's liability dependent upon whether the engineer,
with knowledge of plaintiff's presence at the telegraph
tower upon business connected with the operation of
the train, and with knowledge of his purpose to board
the train, negligently operated the train at such a rate
of speed as to make plaintiff's attempt to board it unusually hazardous. There was a verdict for plaintiff
and the resulting judgment was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky. 159 Kentucky, 687.
Upon the present writ of error, it is not disputed that
there was sufficient evidence of the negligence of the
engineer to require the submission of the case to the jury.
It is argued that there was no substantial evidence to
support the conclusion that such negligence was the
proximate cause of the injury; but this is so clearly untenable as to require no discussion. The remaining questions turn upon the application of the law respecting
assumption of risk.
It is insisted that even conceding the train was operated
at a negligent rate of speed in view of plaintiff's purpose
to board it, yet he assumed the risk of injury involved
in the attempt. The act of Congress, by making the
carrier liable for an employee's injury "resulting in whole
or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents
or employees" of the carrier, abrogated the common-law
rule known as the fellow-servant doctrine by placing the
negligence of a co-employee upon the same basis as the
negligence of the employer. At the same time, in saving
the defense of assumption of risk in cases other than those
where the violation by the carrier of a statute enacted
for the safety of employees may contribute to the injury
or death of an employee (Seaboard Air Line v. Horton,
233 U. S. 492, 502), the Act placed a co-employee's negligence, where it is the ground of the action, in the same
relation as the employer's own negligence would stand

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

to the question whether a plaintiff is to be deemed to
have assumed the risk.
On the facts of the case before us, therefore, plaintiff
having voluntarily entered into an employment that required him on proper occasion to board a moving train,
he assumed the risk of injury normally incident to that
operation, other than such as might arise from the failure
of the locomotive engineer to operate the train with due
care to maintain a moderate rate of speed in order to enable plaintiff to board it without undue peril to himself.

But plaintiff had the right to presume that the engineer
would exercise reasonable care for his safety, and cannot
be held to have assumed the risk attributable to the operation of the train at an unusually high and dangerous rate
of speed, until made aware of the danger, unless the speed
and the consequent danger were so obvious that an ordinarily careful person in his situation would have observed
the one and appreciated the other. Gila Valley Ry. Co. v.
Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 101; Seaboard Air Line v. Horton,
233 U. S. 492, 504.
It is argued that so far as the question of assumed risks
is concerned, it makes no difference, in the case of a brake-

man about to board a moving train, whether it is operated
at a low or at a high rate of speed; that if the train is
moving slowly the risk is an ordinary one incident to the
business of railroading; while if it is moving rapidly the
risk is open, obvious and apparent. Were we to consider
only extreme cases, such as were instanced in argument,
the point might be conceded; that is, that mounting a
train operated at one mile per hour is an ordinary risk,
while mounting a train operated at fifty miles per hour
presents a risk which, although extraordinary, is open,
obvious and apparent. But these extremes do not present
an apt illustration. A speed very much below fifty miles
would endanger the brakeman's safety, at the same time
being much less apparent.

If those operating the train

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. DE ATLEY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in question knew that plaintiff intended to board it at
that point-and the verdict is to that effect-the jury
was warranted in finding that plaintiff had a right to
expect that the train would be moving at a moderate
rate of speed such as would enable an ordinarily careful
brakeman to get on with reasonable safety; and this upon
the ground that as head-brakeman plaintiff had the
right-indeed, that it was his duty-to get upon the
engine, since otherwise the train would be left without a
head brakeman and the engineer without the information
required for the safe operation of the train; and that
plaintiff had no notice nor any opportunity to determine
with reasonable certainty what the speed of the train was,
or that it was too great for his safety, until the engine
had practically reached him. It cannot be said, as matter
of law, that a speed of twelve miles per hour would necessarily be obvious to him as a dangerous speed, before he
made the attempt to board the train.
It is insisted that the true test is, not whether
the employee did, in fact, know the speed of the train and appreciate the danger, but whether he ought to have known and
comprehended; whether, in effect, he ought to have anticipated and taken precautions to discover the danger.
This is inconsistent with the rule repeatedly laid down
and uniformly adhered to by this court. According to
our decisions, the settled rule is, not that it is the duty of
an employee to exercise care to discover extraordinary
dangers that may arise from the negligence of the employer or of those -for whose conduct the employer is
responsible, but that the employee may assume that the
employer or his agents have exercised proper care with
respect to his safety until notified to the contrary, unless
the want of care and the danger arising from it are so
obvious that an ordinarily careful person, under the circumstances, would observe and appreciate them. Gila Val-ley Ry. Co. v. Hall, SeaboardAir Line v. Horton, ubi.supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

We conclude that there was no error in refusing to
pdremptorily instruct the jury to return a verdict in

favor of defendant.
Error is assigned to the refusal of the trial court to
instruct the jury as follows: That when plaintiff entered
defendant's service as brakeman he assumed all the ordinary risks and hazards of that employment, and if the
jury should believe from the evidence that his injuries
were the natural and direct result of any of such risks
or hazards, they must find for the defendant. The instruction thus requested was defective, and there was no
error in refusing to give it in this form, since it embodied
no definition of "ordinary risks and hazards," nor any
qualification appropriate to the particular facts of the
case. The gravamen of plaintiff's complaint, as developed
at the trial, and the sole theory upon which the case was
submitted to the jury, was that the negligence of the
engineer in operating the train at an unduly high rate of
speed created an unusual and extraordinary hazard. An

instruction upon the question of assumption of risk, dealing solely with the ordinary hazards of the employment,
and not pointing out that a different rule must be applied
with respect to an extraordinary risk attributable to the
engineer's negligence, would probably have confused and
misled the jury.
But it appears that in Kentucky there is an established
rule of practice, that if instructions are offered upon any
issue respecting which the jury should be instructed, but
they are incorrect in form or substance, it is the duty
of the trial court to prepare or direct the preparation of a
proper instruction upon the point in the place of the defective ones. Louisville & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Harrod,
115 Kentucky, 877, 882; West Kentucky Coal Co. v. Davis,
138 Kentucky, 667, 674; Louisville, H. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Roberts, 144 Kentucky, 820, 824.
Although the present action was based upon a Federal

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. DE ATLEY.
241 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

statute, it was triable and tried in a state court, hence
local rules of practice and procedure were applicable.
Central Vermont Ry. v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 511; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Bombolis, this day decided, ante, p. 211. The Kentucky Court of Appeals assumed for the-purposes of the decision that the case was
one where the trial court ought to have followed the local
practice and prepared or directed the preparation of a
proper instruction covering the question of assumption
of risk, and it sustained the judgment only upon the
ground that there was no question for the jury respecting
it. Whether there was, is a question of law, and of course,
in this case, a Federal question; and since the Court of
Appeals assumed to decide it, it is incumbent upon us to
review the decision. North CarolinaR. R. Co. v. Zachary,
232 U. S. 248, 257.
We are unable to concur in the view that there was no
question for the jury. Whether the risk was an extraordinary risk depended upon whether the speed of the
train was greater than plaintiff reasonably might have
anticipated; and this rested upon the same considerations
that were determinative of the question of the engineer's
negligence. If the jury should find, as in fact they did
find, that the speed of the train was unduly great, so
that the risk 'of boarding the engine was an extraordinary
risk, the question whether plaintiff assumed it then
depended upon whether he was aware that the speed was
excessive and appreciated the extraordinary danger, or,
if not, then upon whether the undue speed and the consequent danger to him were so obvious that an ordinarily prudent person in his situation would have realized
and appreciated them. The Court of Appeals reasoned
that plaintiff's duties required him to be upon the passing
train; that if he failed to board it he would be left behind;
that he had a right to assume the engineer would run the
train at a speed that would enable him to get on in safety;

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

that he was facing the train, which was going directly
toward him; that, as a matter of common knowledge, one
standing in that position cannot form an accurate judgment of its speed until it comes quite near to him; and
that his opportunity to observe the speed was limited
to the brief space of time that elapsed between the passing
of the front end of the engine and the cab, where it was
his purpose to get on; and the court determined that,
under such circumstances, "it is 'well-nigh impossible
to tell the difference between a rate of from four to six
miles an hour, when an ordinarily prudent brakeman
might get on with reasonable safety, and a rate of from
ten to twelve miles an hour, when it would be dangerous
for him to do so," and that "all the circumstances tend
to show that knowledge of the speed of the train came
to him so suddenly and unexpectedly that he did not
have an opportunity to realize and appreciate the danger
of getting on." Conceding the force of the reasoning, we
are bound to say that, in our opinion, it cannot be said,
as matter of law, to be so incontrovertible that reasonable
minds might not differ about the conclusion that should
be reached. We therefore hold that the question of assumption of risk was one proper for submission to the
jury, and, assuming as the court assumed that the local
practice required the preparation of a proper instruction
covering the topic, in the place of the defective instruction
that was offered, there was error in affirming the judgment of the trial court.
Judgment reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA. and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES
dissent.

