OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

thought better to rehabilitate the class rather than to
allow their certificates to become waste paper. At all
events that was the prevailing view in the republic to
which the plaintiff belonged, and as we have said the
charter authorized it to be enrced. It is unnecessary
to discuss the options that were offered in the alternative,
but it is proper to remember that for many years the
plaintiff has been insured, and although by what he is
not likely to regard as bad fortune his beneficiary has
not profited by it, she would have if he had died. As he
happily has lived, he has to bear the burdens incident to
the nature of the enterprise into which he went open eyed.
Judgment reversed.

SOUTHERN SURETY COMPANY v. STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 124. Submitted December 9, 1915.-Decided June 12, 1916.
By reason of the conditions arising out of the presence of the Five
Civilized Tribes no organized territorial government was ever established in the Indian Territory; and, in the absence of an organized
local government, prosecutions for crime were, regardless of their
nature, commenced aid prosecuted in the name of the United States.
Adultery is an offense against the marriage relation and belongs to
the class of subjects which each State controls in its own way.
Adultery is a punishable offense only when the common or statute
law of the State so makes it, and where punishable, it is cognizable
only in the courts of the State.
Forts, arsenals and like places within the exterior limits of a State, but
over which exclusive jurisdiction has been ceded to the United
States, are not regarded as a part of the State but are excepted out of

SOUTHERN SURETY CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
241 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

Qu&nre whether Congress can deal with the crime of adultery committed
by tribal Indians within a State.
Under §§ 16 and 20 of the Oklahoma Enabling Act and schedule 28
of the constitution of Oklahoma, the State took the place of the
United States in regard to a prosecution for adultery, neither of the
parties thereto being Indians, commenced in Indian Territory in one
of the temporary courts of the'United States, and all essential
parts of the prosecution including the bail bond of which the United
States was obligee passed to the State with power of enforcement
thereof.
34 Oklahoma, 781, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Oklahoma Enabling Act and the jurisdiction of the state court
*of cases formerly pending in the temporary courts of
Indian Territory, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. S. Arnold for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. P. Freding, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, Mr. R. E. Wood and Mr. Smith C. Matson,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered tbe opinion

of the court.
This is an actron on a bail bond given by an accused
held upon a charge of adultery to await the action of the
grand jury at McAlester in the Indian Territory. The
bond was given shortly before Oklahoma became a State,
named the United States as the obligee and called for the
accused's appearance before the temporary court of McAlester at the next term and from term to term until
discharged. When the courts of the new State were organized an indictment for the adultery was returned
against the accused in the state court at McAlester. He
id not appear, a forfeiture was declared and the State
sued on the bond, the surety alone being reached by the
process. There was a judgment for the State, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

was affirmed, 34 Oklahoma, 781, and the surety sued out
this writ of error.
The Federal questions presented involve the construction and application of the Enabling Act and are,
first, whetherafter the admission of the State the further
proceedings upon the charge of adultery were to be had
in a Federal court or in a state court, and, second, whether
by operation of law the State became the beneficiary
of the bond and entitled to sue on it.
By reason of the conditions arising out of the presence
of the Five Civilized Tribes no organized territorial government was ever established in the Indian Territory. Up to
the time it became a part of the State of Oklahoma it
was governed under the immediate direction of Congress,
which legislated for it in respect of many matters of
local or domestic concern which in a State are regulated
by the state legislature, and also applied to it many laws
dealing with subjects which under the Constitution are
within Federal rather than state control. In what was
done Congress did not contemplate that this situation
'should be of long duration, but on the contrary that the
Territory should be prepared for early inclusion in a State.
Courts designated as "United States courts" were temporarily established and invested with a considerable measure
of civil and criminal jurisdiction, and there was also provision for beginning public prosecutions before subordinate
magistrates. There being no organized local government,
such prosecutions, regardless of their nature, were commenced and conducted in the name of the United States,
and in taking bail bonds it was named as the obligee.
The Enabling Act, June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267;
March 4, 1907, c. 2911, ibid. 1286, provided that the new
State should embrace the Indian Territory as well as the
Territory of Oklahoma. It contemplated that the Stato,
by its constitution, would establish a system of courts of
its own, and provided for dividing the State into two dis-

SOUTHERN SURETY CO. v. OKLAHOMA.

585

Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

tricts and creating therein United States courts like those
in other States. The temporary courts were to go out of
existence and this made it necessary to provide for the
disposition of the business pending before them in various
stages. To that end the following provisions, among

others not material here, were embodied in an amendment to the act, 34 Stat. 1286, 1287:
"Sec. 16.

.

.

.

Prosecutions for all crimes and of-

fenses committed within the Territory of Oklahoma or
in the Indian Territory, pending in the district courts
of the Territory of Oklahoma or in the United States
courts in the Indian Territory upon the admission of such
Territories as a State, which, had they been committed
within a State, would have been cognizable in the Federal
courts, shall be transferred to and be proceeded with in
the United States circuit or district court established by
this Act for the district in which the offenses were committed, in the same manner and with the same effect
as if they had been committed within a State."
"Sec. 20. That all causes, proceedings, and matters,
civil or criminal, pending in the district courts of Oklahoma Territory, or in the United States courts in the
Indian Territory, at the time said Territory become a
State, not transferred to the United States circuit or
district courts in the State of Oklahoma, shall be proceeded with, held, and determined by the courts of said
State, the successors of said district courts of the Territory of Oklahoma, and the United States courts in the
Indian Territory;

.

.

.

All criminal cases pending

in the United States courts in the Indian Territory, not
transferred to the United States circuit or district courts in
the State of Oklahoma, shall be prosecuted to a final determination in the State courts of Oklahoma under the
laws now in force in that Territory."
Section 28 of the schedule to the state constitution referred to these and other closely related provisions and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

said, they "are hereby accepted and the jurisdiction of
the cases enumerated therein is hereby assumed by the
courts of the State."
Thus by the concurrent action of Congress and the State
all prosecutions, pending in the temporary courts of the
Indian Territory, for offenses which would not have been
cognizable in a court of the-United States had they been
committed within a State, were to be proceeded with in
the courts of the State, as successors to the temporary
courts. In other words, the test of the jurisdiction of the
state courts was to be the same that would have applied
had the Indian Territory been a State when the offenses
were comnnitted. In this view it is plain that the prosecution in question was rightly proceeded with in the state
court. Adultery is an offense against the marriage relation and belongs to the class of subjects which each State
controls in its own way. It is a punishable offense only
whereithe common or statute law of the State makes t
such, and where punishable, it is cognizable only in the
courts of the State. Of course, we exclude from present
consideration forts, arsenals and like places within the
exterior limits of a State, but over which exclusive jurisdiction has been ceded to the United States, because
they are regarded, not as part of the State, but as excepted
out of it. And we pass the question of the power of Congress'to deal with such offenses in respect of tribal Indians within a State, because the statute under which this
prosecution arose was general in its terms, and because
it is not claimed that either of the participants in the
adulterous act was an Indian.
Some reliance is placed upon § 14 of the Enabling Act,
which refers in part to offenses committed prior to the
State's admission, but of this section it is enough for present purposes to say that when it is read in connection
with the provisions of §§ 16 and 20"before quoted it is
apparent that it was intended to mark the line separating

SOUTHERN SURETY CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
241 U. S.

587

Opinion of the- Court.

the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in the two districts,
as between themselves, and not the line separating their
jurisdiction from that of the state courts.
Because no indictment was returned in the temporary
court at McAlester before the State was admitted, it is
contended that this prosecution was not "pending" in
that court in the sense of §§ 16 and 20. These sections included all pending "causes, proceedings, and matters,"
as well as "prosecutions" and "cases," and evidently
were designed to be very comprehensive. The accused
not only was held by a magistrate to await the action of
the grand jury at the next term of the temporary court,
but gave bail for his appearance in the court at that term.
After this was done we think a prosecution or proceeding
was pending in the court in the sense of the statute. That
no indictment was returned in that court is explained by
the fact that the. court, through the State's admission,
went out of existence before an indictment could be
found and returned in regular course.
. The Enabling Act and the state constitution united in
declaring that the state courts, in respect of the prosecutions which were to be transferred to them, should be
the successors of the temporary courts. The bail bond
was given several months after the act and the state constitution were adopted. Indeed, the State's admission
was imminent at the time. So, the bond must be taken
as given with the approaching change in mind and as
meaning that the accused's appearance should be in the
state court as the legal successor of the temporary court,
if the latter should go out of existence before the time for
appearance arrived. The law existing when a contract
is made and affecting its performance becomes a part of
it. Northern PacificRy. Co. v. Wall, ante, p. 87.
The Enabling Act, when taken in connection with the
schedule to the state constitution, leaves no doubt that
the State was to take the place of the United States in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

241 U. S.

dealing with and conducting this prosecution. The bail
bond was essentially a part of the proceeding that was
transferred and was without force or value in any other
connection. So, when the power and duty resting upon
the United States were passed to the State there went
with them the right to use and enforce the bond as the
United States might have done, had the proceeding remained in its control; in other words, the State became
by operation of law the beneficiary of the bond, and was
entitled to sue on it when its condition was broken.
Judgment affirmed.

DAYTON, TRUSTEE, IETC. v. STANARD, TREASURER OF PUEBLO COUNTY, COLORADO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 404.

Submittal January 7, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

Under § 64a of the Bankruptcy Act the holders of tax certificates who
have paid taxes and assessments on property of the bankrupt at tax
sales of such property, which sales have been declared invalid, are
entitled to be reimbursed the amount paid, on cancellation of their
certificates, out of the general fund of the bankrupt's estate, with
legal interest, but not with the larger interest and penalties imposed
by statute in tax sale redemptions.
220 Fed. Rep. 441, modified and affirmed.

facts, which involve the rights, under § 64a of the
Bankruptcy Act, of the holders of tax sale certificates
of land of the bankrupt, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Harvey Riddell for petitioner.
Mr. Horace Phelps for respondents.

