AMERICAN WELL WORKS v. LAYNE.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

Complaint is made that jurisdiction has not been assumed over some other concerns that stand on the same
footing as the plaintiff. But there can be no pretence that
the act is a disguised attempt to create preferences or
that the principle of Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356,
applies. The ground alleged by the Commission is that
it did not consider that the omitted concerns did business
sufficiently large in volume to come within the meaning
of the act. There is nothing to impeach the good faith
of the Commission or to give the plaintiff just cause for
complaint. The decree so far as it asserts the jurisdiction
of the Commission is affirmed, but it must be modified
so as to restrain an inquiry into the rates charged by the
plaintiff at its garage, or the exercise of jurisdiction over
the same.
Decree modified as above set forth.

AMERICAN WELL WORKS COMPANY v. LAYNE
AND BOWLER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 376.

Argued.May 5, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

A suit for damages to business caused by a threat to sue under the
patent law is not in itself a suit under the patent law, of which the
state court cannot take jurisdiction.
Whether a wrong is committed by one making statements to effect
that an article sold by another infringes the former's patent depends
upon the law of the State where the act is done and not upon the
patent law of the United States; and, in this case held that the state

court had jurisdiction of a suit for libel or slander based on such
statements.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. David A. Gates,for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Paul Synnestvedt, with whom Mr. J. M. Moore and
Mr. Coke K. Burns were on the brief, for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit begun in a state court, removed to the
United States Court, and then, on motion to remand by
the plaintiff, dismissed by the latter court, on the ground
that the cause of action arose under the patent laws of
the United States, that the state court had no jurisdiction,
and that therefore the one to which it was removed had
none. There is a proper certificate and the case comes
here direct from the District Court.
Of course the question depends upon the plaintiff's
declaration. The Fhirv. Kohler Die Co., 228 U. S. 22, 25.
That may be summed up in a few words. The plaintiff
alleges that it owns, manufactures and sells a certain
pump, has or has applied for a patent for it, and that the
pump is known as the best in the market. It then alleges
that the defendants have falsely and maliciously libeled
and slandered the plaintiff's title to the pump by stating
that the pump and certain parts thereof are infringements upon the defendant's puxnp and certain parts
thereof and that without probable cause they have
brought suits against some parties who are using the
plaintiff's pump and that they are threatening suits against
all who use it. The allegation of the defendants' libel or
slander is repeated in slightly varying form but it all comes
to statements to various people that the plaintiff was infringing the defendants' patent and that the defendant

AMERICAN WELL WORKS v. LAYNE.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would sue both seller and buyer if the plaintiff's pump was
used. Actual damage to the plaintiff in its business is
alleged to the extent of $50,000 and punitive damages to
the same amount are asked.
It is evident that the claim for damages is based upon
conduct, or, more specifically, language, tending to persuade the public to withdraw its custom from the plaintiff and having that effect to its damage. Such conduct
having such effect is equally actionable whether it produces the result by persuasion, by threats or by falsehood,
Moran v. Dunphy, 177 Massachusetts, 485, 487, and it
is enough to allege and prove the conduct and effect, leaving the defendant to justify if he can. If the conduct
complained of is persuasion, it may be justified by the
fact that the defendant is a competitor, or by good faith
and reasonable grounds. If it is a statement of fact, it
may be justified, absolutely or with qualifications, by
proof that the statement is true. But all such justifications are defences and raise issues that are no part of the
plaintiff's case. In the present instance it is part of the
plaintiff's case that it had a business to be damaged;
whether built up by patents or without them does not
matter. It is no part of it to prove anything concerning
the defendants' patent or that the plaintiff did not infringe .the same--still less to prove anything concerning
any patent of its own. The material statement complained of is that the plaintiff infringes-which may be
true notwithstanding the plaintiff's patent. That is
merely a piece of evidence. Furthermore, the damage
alleged presumably is rather the consequence of the
threat to sue than of the statement that the plaintiff's
pump infringed the defendants' rights.
A suit for damages to business caused by a threat to
sue under the patent law is not itself a suit under the
patent law. And the same is true when the damage is
caused by a statement of fact-that the defendant has a

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

patent which is infringed. What makes the defendants'
act a wrong is its manifest tendency to injure the plaintiff's business and the wrong is the same whatever the
means by which it is accomplished. But whether it is a
wrong or not depends upon the law of the State where the
act is done, not upon the patent law, and therefore the
suit arises under the law of the State. A suit arises under
the law that creates the cause of action. The fact that
the justification may involve the validity and infringement of a patent is no more material to the question
under what law the suit is brought than it would be in
an action of contract. If the State adopted for civil
proceedings the saying of the old criminal law: the greater
the truth the greater the libel, the validity of the patent
would not come in question at all. In Massachusetts the
truth would not be a defence if the statement was made
from disinterested malevolence. Rev. Laws, c. 173, ยง 91.
The State is master of the whole matter, and if it saw
fit to do away with actions of this type altogether, no
one, we imagine, would suppose that they still could be
maintained under the patent laws of the United States.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents, being of the opinion
that the case involves a direct and substantial controversy

under the patent laws.

