UNITED STATES v. LOMBARDO.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

the case be reversed only so far as the statute was construed and remanded for action upon the other causes
assigned for demurrer, involving, as they say, the sufficiency of the indictment as a criminal pleading. The
difficulty is to indicate a distinction. We can only say
we have no intention to control the District Court in
its construction of the indictment, and we have no doubt
the learned court will be able to adjust its action to this
opinion. United States v. Portale, 235 U. S. 27, 31.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in

the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. LOMBARDO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 830. Submitted April 10, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.
Where a criminal statute does not define a word used therein, its
.etymology must be considered and its ordinary meaning applied.
The word file means to deliver to the office indicated and to send to
such office through the mail.
Under § 6 of the White' Slave Traffic Act the required certificate must
be filed in the office of the Commissioner of Immigration, and the
offense of not filing is not committed in another district where the
person is harbored, nor has the District Court of the United States
for that district jurisdiction of the offense.
Such an offense is not a continuing offense which, under § 42 of the
Judicial Code (§ 731, Rev. Stat.), can be punished in either of more
than one district.
This court will not, in order to accommodate the venue of a particular
offense, introduce confusion into the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 V. S.

The proper and reasonable construction of a criminal statute must
not be refused for fear of delay in prosecution of offenders; if the
statute as so construed might embarrass prosecutions it may be
corrected by legislation.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of § 6 of the White Slave Traffic Act, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United

States.
There was no appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error under the Criminal Appeals Act (March 2, 1907,
c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246) to review a decision of the Districc
Court for the Western District of Washington (228 Fed.
Rep. 980) sustaining a demurrer to an indictment folinded
on the "White Slave Traffic Act" (June 25, 1910, c. 395,
36 Stat. 825, 826).
Section 6 of that act provides that every one "who shall
keep, maintain, control, support or harbor in any house or
place, for the purpose of prostitution, . . . any alien
woman . . . within three years after she shall have
entered the United States . . . shall file with the
Commissioner General of Immigration a statement in
writing setting forth the name of such alien woman,
the place at which she is kept, and all facts as to the
date of her entry into the United States, the port through
which she entered, her age, nationality, and parentage,
and concerning her procuration to come to this country,
within the knowledge of such person; and any person who
shall fail within 30 days after such persond shall commence
to keep, etc. . . . any alien woman, . . . to file

UNITED STATES v. LOMBARDO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such statement concerning such alien woman,
with the Commissioner General of Immigration, or who
shall knowingly and wilfully state falsely, or fail to disclose
in such statemnent any fact within his knowledge or belief
with reference to the age, nationality, or parentage of any
such alien woman, . .
or concerning her procuration to come to this country, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, etc.
The statement is not excused because it may have incriminating character, but it is provided that the person
making it shall not be prosecuted or subjected to any
penalty or forfeiture under any law of the United States
for or on account of any transaction, matter, or thing
concerning which he may truthfully report in such statement as required by the provisions of the act.
The indictment charged that one Jessie Milos, an alien
woman and a citizen and subject of the Kingdom of Great
Britain, -had entered the United States in the month of
May, 1914, and that Angeline Lombardo, knowing these
facts, did, in a house in the City of Seattle, Northern
Division of the Western District of Washington, keep,
maintain, control and harbor Jessie Milos for the purpose
of prostitution and for other immoral purposes, and unlawfully, knowingly and wilfully failed to file with the
Commissioner General of Immigration a statement in
writing as required by the statute, or any statement concerning Jessie Milos.
It was alleged that the United States and Great Britain
are parties to an agreement or project or arrangement for
the suppression of the white slave traffic adopted July 25,
1902.
There-were two grounds of demurrer: (1) Section 6 of
the White Slave Act is unconstitutional in that it contravenes rights guaranteed by the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
(2) The court was without jurisdiction of the subject-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

matter as the prosecution is in contravention of rights
guaianteed by the Sixth Amendment.
The District Court sustained the demurrer on both
grounds. We, however, shall confine our decision to the
second ground as that attacked the jurisdiction of the
court in that the offense was not committed in the district
in which the indictment was found. Passing on it the
court said:
"The gist of tie offense is the failure 'to file with'the
Commissioner General of Immigration' a statement, etc.
By the act of March 3, 1891, chap. 551, sec. 7, page 1085,
26 Stat. at Large, as amended by the act of March 2,
1895, chap. 177, 28 Stat., page 780, the office of the Commissioner of Immigration was created and his office fixed
at Washington, D. C. The Government contends that
the offense was a continuing one and extended from this
district to Washington, D. C., and .that the filing of the
statement need not be at the office in Washington, but
may be deposited in the post office of the United States,
addressed to the Commissioner General, and this forwarding through the usual course of mail should be considered
as 'filing,' and that the failure to post within thirty days
would conmmence the offense which would be continuous.
This contention cannot be reconciled with the language
employed in the act. The word 'file' was not defined by
Congress. No definition having been given, the etymology
of the word must be considered and ordinary meaning
applied. The word 'file' is derived from the Latin word
'filum,' and relates to the ancient practice of placing
papers on a thread or wire for safe keeping and ready
reference. Filing, it must be observed, is not complete
until the document is delivered and received. 'Shall file'
means to deliver to the office and not send through the
United States mails. Gates v. State, 128 N. Y. Court of
Appeals, 221. A paper is filed when it is delivered to the
proper official and by him received and filed. Bouvier

UNITED STATES v. LOMBARDO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Law Dictionary; White v. Stark, i34 California, 178;
Westcott v. Eccles, 3 Utah, 258; In re Van Varcke, 94 Fed.
Rep. 352; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Phiney, 76 Fed. Rep.
618. Anything short of delivery would leave the filing a
disputable fact, and that would not be consistent with the
spirit of the act."
The Government in its argument here contests the views
of the District Court, repeats its contention that the offense was begun in the State of Washington, and relies
on § 42 of the Judicial Code, substantially reproducing
§ 731 of the Revised Statutes. It provides as follows:
"When any offense against the United States is begun
in one judicial district and completed in another, it shall
be deemed to have been committed in either, and may be
dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined, and punished
in either district, in the same manner as if it had been
actually and wholly committed therein."
The Government also cites a number of cases which it
urges support the application of the statute to the case
at bar. We are unable so to regard the cases or to give
the statute the application contended for. Nor does the
case call for elaborate discussion. Indeed, it would be
difficult to add anything to the reasoning of Judge Neterer
in the District Court.
Undoubtedly where a crime consists of distinct parts
which have different localities the whole may be tried
where any part can be proved to have been done; or where
it may be said there is a continuously moving act commencing with the offender and hence ultimately consummated through him, as the mailing of a letter; or where
there is a confederation in purpose between two or more
persons, its execution being by acts elsewhere, as in conspiracy.
It may be that where there is a general duty it may be
considered as insistent both where the "actor" is and the
"subject" is, to borrow the Government's apt designa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

tions, as in the case of the duty of a father to support his
children; and if the duty have criminal sanction it may be
enforced in either place. The principle is not applicable
where there is a place explicitly designated hy jaw, as
in§ 6.
The Government, however, contends that "with few
exceptions every crime has continuity. But the law, being essentially practical, does not regard every crime as
continuous for the purpose of jurisdiction. . . . For
practical purposes it usually suffices to punish where the
actor began, or where the subject suffered the intended
result."
If these propositions be granted we do not see that
they carry us far in determining where a violation of § 6
is begun or completed, nor do we appreciate the criticism
of the decision of the court below that it "failed to distinguish between the 'beginning' and the 'completion'
of the offense; giving the words 'shall file,' etc., a meaning so narrow as to destroy the section." But this is
assertion. A court is constrained by the meaning of the
words of a statute. They mark the extent of its power,
and our attention has not been called to any case which
decides that the requirement of a statute, whether to
secure or preserve a right or to avoid the guilt of a crime,
that a paper shall be filed with a particular officer, is
satisfied by a deposit in the post office at some distant
place. To so hold would create revolutions in the procedure of the law and the regulation of rights. In instances
it might, indeed, be convenient; in others, and most
others, it would result in confusioir and controversies;
and we would have the clash of oral testimonies for the
certain evidence of the paper in the files. We hesitate,
in order to accommodate the venue of a particular offense,
to introduce such confusion. And would it not, besides,
in particular cases preclude the possibility of a conviction,
putting evidence entirely in the hands of the defendant?

McFARLAND v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

And there are other considerations. If depositing in the
post office of the statement prescribed be required by
the statute it, of course, would satisfy the statute, but to
what instant of time would it be referred and at what
risk the time or delays of transportation?
There need not be a prolonged embarrassment in the
prosecution of offenders as the Government fears. If
§ 6 is deemed defective it can be corrected by legislation.

Judgment atfrmed.

McFARLAND, SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS OF LOUISIANA, v. AMERICAN SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 847.

Argued April 11, 12, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.

Act No. 10 of the Extra Session of the General Assembly of Louisiana
for 1915, relating to the business of refining sugar and creating the
rebuttable presumption that any person systematically paying
in that State a less price for sugar than he pays in any other State
is a party to a monopoly or conspiracy in restraint of trade, held
unconstitutional under the equal protection and due process provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment; the classification therein, if not
confined to a single party, being so arbitrary as to be beyond possible justice, and the presumptions created having no foundation
except on intent to destroy.
While the legislature may go far in raising presumptions and changing
the burden of proof, there must be rational connection between the
fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed.
It is not within the province of the legislature to declare an individual
guilty, or presumptively guilty, of a crime.
A statute must fall as a whole, if it falls in sections without which
there is no reason to suppose it would have been passed.
229 Fed. Rep. 284, affirmed.

