RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM.
241 U. S.

403

Syllabus.

RUSSO-CHINESE BANK v. NATIONAL BANK OF
COMMERCE OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 244. Argued April 13, 14, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.
In an action by a bank in Port Arthur to recover money, remitted by it
to a bank in Seattle for a draft secured by shipping documents sent
to it for collection by the Seattle Bank, and which the Port Arthur
Bank declared had not been,paid, but for which it remitted on agreement of the Seattle bank to refund in case non-payment was proved,
the jury found a general verdict in favor of the Seattle Bank and also
a special finding to the effect that the Port Arthur Bank did receive
payment for the draft. in question; such special finding was based
on testimony to effect that the Port Arthur Bank permitted the
consignee to take possession of the goods covered by the documents
attached to the draft on his agreeing to deposit the proceeds thereof
as sold, and an instruction to the effect that such action on the part of
a bank receiving a draft for collection constituted a payment in law;
judgment being entered thereon and affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, this court reviewing on certorari hekl that:
The fair import of the instructions of the trial judge in their
entirety, being that the finding of payment was to be reached only
in case the value of the goods was not less than the amount of the
draft, there was no error therein.
Where a bank, holding a draft for collection with documents
annexed and with instructions to deliver the documents only on
payment, allows the drawee to take the goods covered by the documents on his promises to sell and accoupt for proceeds, it amounts
to a misappropriation of the property and liability to account for
its value immediately arises.
There was no error in charging that the collecting bank became
invested withthe ownership of the goods and could not be excused
from obligation to account by declaring' that the goods had dis-

appeared without its knowledge, the charge not being to effect
that the relation of vendor and vendee did exist, but that the relation of principal and agent did exist, and, as such agent, the col-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Petitioner.

241 U. S.

lecting bank was obligated to act in good faith to protect the rights
of the owner of the draft.
The special finding being supported by adequate evidence is controlling.
Even if a bank, sending a draft for collection, suffers no loss on
account of its guaranty from the original owner, it may, in view
of its relation to commercial paper, demand, as principal, an accounting from its correspondent, and resist an action to recover
back the money which it received upon the draft.
206 Fed. Rep. 646, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve questions relating to a transaction between two banks, regarding draftsand documents
annexed thereto, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Warren Gregory, with whom Mr. W. H. Chickering
and Mr. George H. Whipple were on the brief, for petitioner:
The instruction that permission given Clarkson & Co.
to take the flour constituted a payment of the draft is
manifestly erroneous.
The court in declaring that certain acts would constitute
payment of the draft practically directed a special verdict.
The trial court proceeded upon the assumption that
there was a novation; and the pleadings do not count on a
novation nor was the case tried on the theory of novation.
The conduct of the parties is inconsistent with such
theory.
If the Port Arthur-branch did, contrary to instructions,
permit Clarkson to take over the flour, it may have been
responsible to the extent of the security released, but the
jury is entitled to pass upon the question as to the value of
the flour taken and there is no evidence that any of the
flour was actually taken.
The only fair intendment of the instruction leads to an
absurdity.
The trial court had in mind that it was not the release
of the security that would pay the debt pro tanto, but the
application of the proceeds.

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM.
241 U. S.

405

Argument for Petitioner.

The error of the trial court was only emphasized by
another instruction given and the special verdict did not
cure the error, but was authority for the special verdict.
The instruction that the collecting bank became invested with title and ownership of the flour, and its obligation in this regard, is erroneous. The refusal to charge
that the duty of collecting bank was one of agent was error.
The Port Arthur branch was not the owner of the flour
but its relationship was principal and agent, as is shown
by the documents.
The instructions of the trial court placed on the Port
Arthur bank the same obligations as if it had agreed to
buy the flour from the Seattle bank.
The instructions of the trial court would place on the
Port Arthur branch a responsibility foreign to banks
handling documents for collection.
'The draft in question was accepted by Clarkson & Co.,
and they became the principal debtors.
The court erred in permitting evidence of a so-called
custom concerning the duties of a collecting bank.
Usage or custom cannot be invoked in contradiction of
an express contract.
Certain of the testimony of witnesses Davidson and
Short was prejudicial to petitioner.
The respondent has not been damaged by any acts of
negligence on the part of petitioner.
In support of these contentions see Alden v. Camden
Anchor-Rockland Mach., 78 Atl. Rep. 977; American
Thresherman v. Motor Co., 141 N. W. Rep. 210; Armour &
Co. v. Russell, 144 Fed. Rep. 614-616; Atchison, T. & S.
F. Ry. v. McClurg, 59 Fed. Rep. 860; Balbach v. Frelinghuysen, 15 Fed. Rep. 675; Bancroft v. Bancroft, 110 California, 374; Bank v. Monongahela Bank, 126 Fed. Rep.
436; Barton Seed Co. v. Mercantile Bank, 160 S. W. Rep.
848; Boston & Albany R. R. v. O'Reilly, 158 U. S. 334;
Charles v. Carter, 36 S. W. Rep. 396; Commercial Bank v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

First State Bank, 153 S. W. Rep. 1175; Commercial Nat.
Bank v. Armstrong, 39 Fed. Rep. 684; Deery v. Cray, 5
Wall. 795; Dickerson v. Wason, 47 N. Y. 439; Elm Lumber
Co. v. Childerhose, 83 S. E. Rep. 22; Gregg v. Bank of
Columbia, 52 S. E. Rep. 195; Hambro v. Casey, 110 U. S.
216; Hunt v. Nevers, 32 Massachusetts, 504; Hyde V.
Booraem, 16 Pet. 169; Ladd Bank v. Commercial Bank,
130 Pac. Rep. 975; LeCoux v. Eden, 2 Doug. 594; Midland
Nat. Bank v. Brightwell, 49 S. W. Rep. 994; Nat. Bank v.
Merchants' Bank, 91 U. S. 92; Nebraska &c. v. FirstNat.
Bank, 110 N. W. Rep. 1019; Pac. Brokerage Co. v. Rushfeldt, 171 S. W. Rep. 976; Scott v. Ocean Bank, 23 N. Y.
289; Second Nat. Bank v. Bank of Alma, 138 S. W. Rep.
472; Smith v. Nat. Bank, 191 Fed. Rep. 226; Tyson v.
Western Nat. Bank, 26 Atl. Rep. 520; Union Bank v.
Stafford, 12 How. 327; Warren v. Suffolk Bank, 10 Cushing,
582; Wharton v. Walker, 4 B. & C. 164; Wisconsin Bank
v. Bank of North America, 21 Upper Canada Rep. 284;
21 Amer. & Eng. Enc. of Law, p. 661; Grant on Banking,
6th ed., p. 53; Morse on Banking, 4th ed., §§ 217, 223;
Randolph on Commercial Paper, 2d ed., § 795; Cal. Civil
Code, § 1531.
Mr. E. S. McCord, with whom M.. J. A. Kerr was ou
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

The Russo-Chinese Bank brought this action to recover
back money which it had paid to the National Bank of
Commerce of Seattle. Judgment of non-suit was entered
on the first trial and was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 187 Fed. Rep. 80. On the second trial,
there was a verdict for the defendant and the judgment
entered accordingly was affirmed. 206 Fed. Rep. 646.
The case comes here on certiorari.

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM. 407
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are these: In December, 1903, the Centennial
Mill Company, of Seattle, shipped by the steamship
'Hyades' of the 'Puget Sound-Oriental Line' 35,312
quarter sacks of flour to be transported to Port Arthur,
or Dalny, and to be there delivered "unto shipper's
order or to his or their assigns (Notify Clarkson & Co.)."
In accordance with the usual course of business the Centennial Mill Company drew its draft, dated December 11,
1903, on Clarkson & Co., for $36,194.80, payable ninety
days after sight, to the order of the National Bank of
Commerce (with exchange and collection charges) and, attaching thereto the original, and duplicate of the bill of
lading for the shipment above described, (which was endorsed in blank) the policy of insurance, and bill of sale
to Clarkson & Co., delivered the draft of the National
Bank of Commerce, of Seattle, which paid the amount
of the draft to the Mill Company. This bank then forwarded the draft, with the documents, to the Port Arthur branch of the Russo-Chinese Bank for collection,
stating in the letter of transmittal: "Documents are
to be delivered on payment." The letter, with the draft
and documents, was received on January 22, 1904.1 In
acknowledging receipt, the Russo-Chinese Bank used
the usual form of letter which stated that specific instructions must be given concerning disposition of bills and
documents, and storage of goods, in case the draft were
dishonored. No such instructions were given. The draft
was presented for acceptance on January 23, 1904, and
was accepted on January 30, 1904 by Clarkson & Co.,
and the Seattle bank was notified accordingly. The acceptance fixed April 30, 1904, as the due date, according
to the tenor of the draft, and on the expiration of two
days' grace allowed by the Russian law it was protested
on May 3, 1904. There was evidence that the draft with
1 For

convenience, we give the dates 'New Style.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

deed of protest was mailed to the Seattle bank on May 26,
1904; and there was counter testimony that it never was
received.
The Russo-Japanese War was formally declared on February 10, 1904. From February 9 there was a stringent
water blockade of Port Arthur and about May 3 the
investment was made complete by the Japanese land
forces. Port Arthur fell on January 2, 1905, and thereupon the Japanese authorities took possession of all the
books and documents of the Russo-Chinese Bank at Port
Arthur; these were rqtained until March, 1906, when they
were returned to the bank and taken to its home office at
St. Petersburg.
Clarkson & Co., an importing firm having its principal
place of business at Vladivostok and a branch office at
Port Arthur, were also the agents at the latter place of
the steamship company which carried the flour. On
April 29, 1904, the Port Arthur branch of the RussoChinese Bank wrote to the Shanghai branch of the bank
(in answer to an inquiry requested by a representative
of the Centennial Mill Company) that the bank had "all
shipping documents" and added: "The flour relative to
the first three bills" (including the one in question) "is
in the hands of Clarkson & Co. and has been sold by them.
They promised to take up the bills as soon as they get the
money of their sale . . . Bill No. 1559/7035" (that
is, the draft here involved) "is due tomorrow and shall be
protested if not paid." It was further stated that the
fact that Clarkson & Co. had obtained possession of the
goods, although the bill of lading was held by the bank,
was due to their being the steamship agents, and could
not be prevented. On July 7, 1904, the Seattle bank
wrote to the Russo-Chinese Bank at St. Petersburg
that Clarkson had advised the drawer that this draft,
and others, had been paid before maturity. The RussoChinese Bank replied, in substance, that it was not in a

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM. 409
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

position to trace the matter but would investigate it as
soon as possible. There was further correspondence in
which the Seattle bank set forth its information as to
the payment of the draft and the Russo-Chinese Bank
reiterated its inability to ascertain the facts. Finally, in
response to the demand of the Seattle bank for the return
of the bill of lading attached to the draft, or a remittance
of its amount, the Russo-Chinese Bank, St. Petersburg,
under date of November 9, 1904, forwarded to the Seattle
bank a cheque for $36,013.70 (being $36,194.80 the face
of the draft less commission and charges) and added:
"It remains, of course, however understood that in case
your-above remittance proves not to have been paid for
by Clarkson & Co. you are heldt responsible to refund the
amount of our today's cheque."
The Seattle bank
(December 5) acknowledged receipt pointing out that a
balance of $2,298.49 was still needed to make payment of
principal and interest in full, and stating: "We on our
part agree upon return to us of both sets of bills, showing
that the draft has not been paid, to reimburse you in the
sum paid us, provided, that we were in no wise injured
by the fact that your Port Arthur Branch has indefinitely
held the bills after their maturity, at which time they could
have been returned to us and we could have collected
from the Steamship Company."
On December 29,
1904, the Russo-Chinese Bank, St. Petersburg, enclosed
cheque for the balance requested, and said: "It remains
understood that in case your above remittance proves
not to have been paid, you declare yourselves ready to
refund us these $2,298.49 with the $36,013.70, sent on
27/9 November plus accrued interest." And in reply the
Seattle bank agreed "that guarantee contained in our
letter of December 5 shall also cover this amount."
When the Russo-Chinese Bank obtained from the Japanese authorities the books and documents, it ascertained
that the draft in question had been protested for non-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

payment, and had been mailed to the Seattle bank. Thereupon, on June 27, 1906, the Russo-Chinese Bank demanded
the refunding of the money paid to cover the draft. The
demand was refused and this action was brought.
It was alleged in the complaint that the payment to
the Seattle bank had been made upon condition that
"if it should thereafter be ascertained that said draft
had not been paid," the money should be refunded, and
that there had been no payment in fact. The defendant
denied that the condition was as stated and alleged that
it had agreed to reimburse the plaintiff upon the return
'of both sets of bills' and a showing that the draft 'had
not been paid,' provided the defendant was in no wise
injured by the negligenceqof the plaintiff in the performance of its duties. It was further averred, among other
things, that the draft had been paid in full by Clarkson &
Co.; that it was the duty of the plaintiff not to permit
the flour represented by the bill of lading to be appropriated by Clarkson & Co.; and that if the proceeds of the
sale of the flour were not applied to the payment of the
draft the failure was due to the plaintiff's carelessness and
breach of duty. The plaintiff in its reply denied these
averments and alleged affirmatively that Clarkson & Co.
were the agents of the steamship company and that it
was well known to the defendant that upon arrival the
flour would be delivered into their keeping as such.agents
whether the draft was paid or not, and that the appropriation of the flour by them before payment was a matter
not within plaintiff's control.
The judgment of non-suit on the first trial, because of a
failure to show the return of the draft and accompanying
documents and thus to prove the breach of an express
promise, was reversed upon the ground that the complaint
stated a cause of action upon an implied agreement to
restore money paid under mistake of fact. 187 Fed. Rep.,
p. 86.

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM.
241 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

On the second trial the jury found a general verdict in
favor of the defendant and also returned a special finding
as follows:
"We
. find that the Port Arthur Branch of the
Russo-Chinese Bank did receive the payment of the draft
dated December 11, 1903, on account of which the plaintiff made the remittance to the defendant alleged in the
complaint."
The Court of Appeals held that, notwithstanding the
protest of the draft and the other evidence introduced by
the plaintiff to show that it had not been paid, this special
finding had sufficient support. In its succinct review of
the evidence the court said, 206 Fed. Rep. 651:
"The flour in question was carried to Port Arthur by
the ship Hyades, which reached -there about the middle of
January, 1904. The evidence also shows that Clarkson &
Co. were large customers of the bank. The succeeding
ship of the steamship company, also carrying flour among
other things, reached Port Arthur about the 7th of February, 1904. Short" (assistant manager of Clarkson &
Co. until, as he said, February 4, 1904) "testified, among
other things, that when the Hyades arrived with the
35,312 quarter sacks of flour in question, there were but
from 6,000 to 8,000 sacks in Clarkson & Co.'s warehouse,
and that when that shipment arrived he went to the Port
Arthur bank on behalf of Clarkson & Co. to accept the
draft drawn for the purchase price of it, and did so; that
when he accepted the draft Mr. Ofsiankin," (manager of
the Russo-Chinese Bank at Port Arthur) "on behalf of the
bank, authorized Clarkson & Co. to take immediate possession of the flour and sell it, and that he (Short) on behalf
of that firm gave the bank what he designates as a 'letter
of guaranty,' and what Davidson" (then, as he testified,
manager of Clarkson & Co. at Port Arthur) "in his deposition designates as one of 'hypothecation,' recognizing
the flour as the property of the bank until paid for, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. 8.

agreeing to pay over to the bank the proceeds thereof
until full payment was made; that the letter was 'the
regular form of bank guaranty; it was a printed form,' said
the witness. And both Short and Davidson testified that
what was done in the matter of the shipment here in question was in accordance with a long-established custom
between the Port Arthur bank and Clarkson & Co.; Short
testifying that: 'From the year 1900 the same rule existed.
We always gave the bank a letter of guaranty against-a
letter of guaranty to take delivery of the cargo, and the
cargo belonged to them until it was paid for, and we sold
it out and deposited the money in the bank from time to
time as Clarkson & Co. got it in.'-Davidson in his deposition corroborates the testimony of Short in that regard,.. . . Short testified that upon the acceptance
by Clarkson & Co. of the draft in question, and the
delivery by that firm to the Port Arthur bank of the
documents mentioned, Clarkson & Co. took possession of
the 35,312 quarter sacks of flour, and that they thereupon
commenced selling it, and paying into the bank the proceeds thereof, is a fair inference from his testimony, as
well as that of Davidson.-It appears from the latter's
testimony that by reason of orders of the Russian military
authorities he was compelled to leave Port Arthur, and
did so on the 17th of February, 1904." After referring to
the fact that Davidson was evidently confident that the
steamer that brought the flour was the 'Pleiades' (the
steamer that arrived in February after the 'Hyades')
the court continued, p. 652:-"but the flour itself, the
witness distinctly testified, was sold by him before leaving
Port Arthur to the firm of Ginsburg & Co., which he
testified was a large Russian firm doing an extensive
business with the Port Arthur bank, and with its principal
place of business at that place, and which sale he testified
he had to make in order to protect Clarkson & Co. against
the war conditions then prevailing. His testimony is, in

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM. 413
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

part, that he arranged with Ginsburg & Co. to pay a part
of the money for which he sold the flour into the Port
Arthur bank, and to take a draft from that company
on Shanghai in his favor, which he intended to pay
into Clarkson & Co.'s branch at that place, and that he
took the head of the firm, Ginsburg, to the Port Arthur
bank, and explained to. the manager of that bank the terms
of the sale, to which he agreed.-Short testified that the
Pleiades arrived at Port Arthur about the 7th of February,
and that he himself left there on board of that vessel, and
that not more than 1,500 or 2,000 sacks of flour were
landed at Port Arthur from that ship, so that the jury
might well have concluded that the 35,000 or 40,000 sacks
of flour which Davidson thought were brought by the
Pleiades was the consignment of flour that the Hyades,
carried to that port a few weeks before. As a matter of
course that, and all other inconsistencies in the testimony
of the various witnesses, as well as their veracity, were
matters for the determination of the jury, in the light of
all of the facts and circumstances of the case. Moreover,
there was testimony tending to- show that from the 1st
of January, 1904, to November 23d of the same year,
Clarkson & Co. paid into the Port Arthur bank 126,928
rubles and 97 kopeks." 206 Fed. Rep., pp. 651-653.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the special
finding of the jury was adequately supported. Error is
assigned with respect to the following instruction to the
jury:
"If you find from the evidence in this case that plaintiff
permitted Clarkson Company to take over the flour under
such an arrangement as the defendant claims with the
stipulation that the plaintiff was the owner of the flour
and with the agreement that Clarkson & Company would
account to the plaintiff for the proceeds of the sale of the
flour, then I instruct you that such action on the part of the
plaintiff constitutes in law a payment of the draft in ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

tion and the plaintiff cannot recover and your verdict
must be for the defendant."
It is said by the petitioner that "if we assume that the
Port Arthur branch did, contrary to its instructions, permit Clarkson to take over the flour, then to the extent of
the value of the security that was thereby released it may
have been responsible." But, it is argued that "although
the bank did without warrant release the security," still
no damage resulted to the Seattle bank if Clarkson & Co.
were in fact able to pay their draft, and that there was
abundant evidence that Clarkson's financial standing in
Port Arthur at this time was good; and that in any event
the debt could not be deemed to be paid to a greater
extent than the value of the property. The trial court, it
is insisted, in effect, directed a finding of payment, if the
jury found that the agreement was made as described,
regardless of this value.
This criticism of the instruction fails, we think, to take
proper account of its context. Immediately following the
words quoted, the court said:
"It is a general rule of law that.where collateral security
is received for a debt with power to convert the security
into money, this is specifically applicable to the payment of such debt; the same person being the party to pay
and receive, no act is necessary and the law makes the
application. If the proceeds equal or exceed the amount
of the debt it is de facto paid; no action would lie for it,
and proof of these facts would support the defense of
payment. And if you find from the evidence in this case
that the plaintiff did consent to Clarkson taking over the
flour in question and consented to the sale of the same
by Clarkson & Company, and then Clarkson & Company
sold the flour in question and paid over the proceeds
thereof to the plaintiff, then such payment of the proceeds
of the sale of such flour to the plaintiff operated as a payment of the draft in question,-provided the proceeds

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM.
241 U. S.

415

Opinion of the Court.

of the sale of the flour equaled the amount of the draft;
and if such proceeds did not equal or exceed the amount
of the debt then it was a payment pro tanto-that is a
payment of so much of the said draft as the proceeds of
the sale of the flour would pay of the same; and this is
the law, notwithstanding the fact that plaintiff may have
received the proceeds of the sale of said flour and placed
the same to the credit of Clarkson & Company in its
bank, and permitted Clarkso4 & Company to use said
funds for other purposes."
In this, the trial judge made his meaning sufficiently
clear. If the proceeds of the sale under the agreement
were to be payment only if they 'equaled the amount of
the draft' and otherwise were to be 'payment pro tanto,'
plainly the agreement itself was not to be treated as constituting payment regardless of the value of the flour.
Taking the instructions on this point in their entirety
we think that their fair import was that the finding of
payment in consequence of the stated arrangement was
to be reached only in case the value of the flour was not
less than the amount of the draft.
Moreover, the record does not disclose a controversy
as to the value of the flour. The evidence as to this
amply supported a finding that the flour was at least
worth the amount of the draft, and indeed it could not
be said that a different conclusion would have had adequate support in the proof. Mr. Friedburg, officer of
the Russo-Chinese Bank, testified that he did-not know
'the price of the flour,' but that so far as he knew "during
the siege of Port Arthur the price of flour was a little
higher than before the outbreak of the war, but there was a
lot of flour int the go-downs of the Government and no
scarcity was felt of it." Mr. Clarkson testified, referring
to the Ginsburg sale: "The first I heard was that the
flour had been sold at two roubles a sack. I firmly believe
at that time, that as war had, broken out, the flour that

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

was in Port Arthur at the time was worth fully Rbls.
3.00 a sack, consequently I considered that any sale made
at Rbls. 2. was at least one rouble below the market value.
To the best of my knowledge and belief the selling price
before hostilities commenced was from Rbls. 2.50 to
Rbls. 2.60 a sack. . . . Acting under instructions
from me, the bank in Port Arthur refused to let Ginsburg
& Company have the flour at Rbls. 2.00, whereupon Ginsburg & Company agreed to pay Rbls. 2.40." Mr. Short
when asked 'the market price of the flour' at the time he
left said "it was selling from two forty to two sixty-five
roubles a sack." Mr. Davidson testified that there was
"no market price of flour at that time," but when asked
whether "there were not two separate bills of sale" made
by him to Ginsburg & Company for that flour; "one at 2.
roubles and the other at 2.40 roubles" he answered that
it was "quite true there were two prices" arranged. by
him and that "the lower price was sufficient to meet the
draft." He added: "I made the sale to Ginsburg & Company at what I considered a fair market value under the
circumstances, namely, that I had to leave Port Arthur
and that there was no one there I considered eligible to
succeed me. The profit was 20 to 25 per cent., as near
as I can remember." It cannot be said that the evidence
warranted a finding that the value of the flour was less
than the amount of the draft.'
The Russo-Chinese Bank received the draft, with documents attached, for collection. It was instructed that
"Documents are to be delivered on payment." It was
on these terms that it was entrusted with the bill of lading,
endorsed in blank, which represented the flour. It was
its plain duty not to permit Clarkson & Co., upon whom
the draft was drawn, to have the control and disposition
of the flour until the draft was paid. See National Bank
v. City Bank, 103 U. S. 668, 670, 671. It is no answer to
say that Clarksoni & Co. were the agents of the steamship

RUSSO-CHINESE BK. v. NAT'L BK. OF COM.
241 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

company, for, while they might be able to obtain custody
of the flour, it would only be in their capacity as such
agents and without the right of disposition. Nor was the
case altered by the acceptance of the draft, for the condition attached to the delivery of the flour with the jus
disponendi was payment, not acceptance. If, in these
circumstances, the bank entered into an agreement with
Clarkson & Co., as was testified, that the latter were to
take over the flour and sell it, promising to account for
the proceeds, this was manifestly a misappropriation of
the property and there arose in consequence liability to
account for its value. This action was brought by the
Russo-Chinese Bank to recover money which it had paid
to the Seattle bank, and, with respect neither to the express promise to refund nor the promise implied in law,
can it be said that the plaintiff was entitled to succeed
if at the time of the payment to the Seattle bank it paid
merely what it owed. There is no theory which permits
it to recover, save that it paid under a mistake of fact,
that is, that upon the actual facts it was not liable to make
the payment it did make. If, however, it appeared that
the value of the flour was equal to the amount of the draft,
and it was found that the bank contrary to its instructions had permitted Clarkson & Co. to take and dispose
of the flour, it would necessarily follow that the RussoChinese Bank was accountable to the Seattle bank to
the amount of the draft and was in the same position, so
far as the right of the Seattle bank against it was concerned, as if it had received the avails of the draft. It
could not by an agreement in violation of its duty, invest
Clarkson & Co. with the right of disposition, without
accountability. The instruction, to which we have referred, affords no ground for reversal.
Error is also assigned with respect to the instruction
to the jury that the Russo-Chinese Bank became invested
with the title and ownership of the flour and that it could

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 TI. S.

not be excused from an obligation to account by saying
that the flour had disappeared without its knowledge.
It is argued that the relation between the banks was that
of principal and agent, not of vendor and vendee; that it
took the draft for collection. But the charge, as we view
it, was not to the effect that the relation of vendor and
vendee was created, but on the contrary it was distinctly
stated to the jury that the Russo-Chinese Bank 'was
obligated as an agent to act in good faith and protect the
rights of the National Bank of Comffierce in the collection of the draft,' and that as 'the agent' for the owner it
'was obligated to account for the amount of the draft,
to account for the security which the bill of lading constituted.' In view of the special finding that the draft
had been paid it is not necessary to inquire as to whether
there would otherwjse have been liability on the part of
the plaintiff because of a failure to exercise reasonable care.
The special finding, supported by adequate evidence, was
based under the instructions of the court upon the transaction with Clarkson & Co. to which we have referred, and
it must be deemed' controlling. We find no instruction
with reference to that transaction, or its legal effect if found
to be as testified, which was prejudicial to the plaintiff.
Complaint is also made with respect to certain requests
for instructions and rulings on the admission of evidence,
but they are wholly without merit and it is unnecessary
to review them. It is said that the Seattle bank suffered
no loss because it had a guaranty from the Centennial
Mill Company, but the Seattle bank in view of its relation to the commercial paper involved was entitled to
demand an accounting from its correspondent, and on
the same ground to resist this action for the recovery
back of the money which it had received upon the-draft.
As we discover no error in the record, the judgment
must be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

