OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

241 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. NEW SOUTH FARM AND
HOME COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 808. Argued April 7, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.
While the fraudulent advertisements covered by the provisions of
§ 215, Criminal Code, prohibiting using the mails for advertisements,
may not include those which merely puff the article to be sold by
exaggerating its qualities, it does prohibit using the mails for fraudulent statements assigning to such article qualities which it does not
possess.
An article alone is not necessarily the inducement and compensation
for its purchase, but the use to which it may be put and the purpose
it may serve; and there is deception and fraud within the meaning
of § 215, Criminal Code, when the article is not of the character represented and hefice does not serve the purpose.
Persons employing such representations, if they are false, are engaged
in a scheme to defraud within the meaning of § 215, Criminal Code.
The demurrer to an indictment under § 215, Criminal Code, having
been sustained and the Government having appealed under the
Criminal Appeals Act, and the appellee having contended that the
court below passed only on the sufficiency of the indictment, and
did not consider the statute, held that, although such contentions
did involve a consideration of the indictment, they involved also the
construction of the statute; but, in reversing the District Court as
to its action in sustaining the demurrer, this court has no intention
of controlling the District Court in its construction of the indictment and so remands the case,
THE

facts, which involvte the construction and applica-

tion of § 215 of the Federal Criminal Code, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States.

Mr. W. Knox Haynes for defendants in error.

UNITED STATES v. NEW SOUTH FARM.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.

This writ of error is directed to a decision of the District
Court sustaining a demurrer to an indictment and is
prosecuted under the Criminal Appeals Act, it being contended by the Government that the decision involved the
construction of §215 of the Criminal Code. The opposing
contention is that the court passed only on the sufficiency
of the indictment as a criminal pleading and that, therefore, the writ of error should be dismissed. The contentions are repeated here, and make the issue. They
necessarily require a consideration of the indictment.
It is constituted of three counts. Their foundation is
§ 215, supra, which, so far as material, reads as follows:
"Whoever,

having devised

.

.

.

any scheme

or

artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by
means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or
promises,

.

.

.

shall, for the purpose of executing

such scheme or artifice, or attempting so to do, place, or
cause to be placed, any letter, . . . circular,
or advertisement, . . . in any post office,

to be sent or delivered by the post office establishment of
the United States, ... " etc.
The section is a somewhat enlarged successor of §5480,
Revised Statutes, which provides: "If any person having devised . . . any scheme or artifice to defraud, . . . shall, in and for executing such scheme or
.
artifice, or attempting so to do, place any letter

etc.
As showing a violation of § 215 the first count of the
indictment charged the following facts, which we state
narratively: The individual defendants are directors and
stockholders of the New South Farm & Home Company,
a corporation engaged in selling approximately 142,000
acres of land, referred to as the Burbank-Ocala colony and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

the Florida-Palatka colony, situated in Putnani, Marion
and Clay counties, Florida. They devised a scheme to
defraud certain persons, who were named, and other persons, of their money and property, with the intention to
convert the same to the use and gain of the defendants and
the corporation, by means of correspondence and communications through the post office establishment of the
United States and by means of oral and verbal communications, by offering to sell to such persons, and inducing them
to purchase, certain 10-acre farms upon certain terms
through false and fraudulent representations concerning
the title, fertility, value, drainage, location, environs, and
survey of the farms and the improvements made or to be
made thereon.
The representations were these: The lands and farms
were not swampy; the largest ocean steamers operating
between New York and Jacksonville could load at Palatka;
a family could make enough on one farm during the first
year to support itself and save money; three crops a year
could be grown; every month in the year was a growing
month, that is, some farm or truck product could be raised
during each month of the year; the farms were surrounded
with orange and citrus fruit groves and vegetable truck
farms; the farms had fine roads running through them,
were high and well drained and on the whole like the lands
,of Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois; artesian wells were
scattered about on the farms or "could be obtained by
going down 100 feet"; the land was divided into 160-acre
tracts; roads were being built around each 160-acre tract
and each 10-acre farm would face on a road, and ditches
were being dug so that each farm would be drained; many
miles of fence had been erected and hundreds of homes
and many school houses had been built; the school houses
were more than comfortably filled with pupils, and more
schools would have to be built to take care of the rapid
growth of the colonists settling upon the farms; corn-

UNITED STATES v. NEW SOUTH FARM.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fortable hotels had been built upon the lands and farms
and improvements of all kinds were going forward at a
wonderful rate; lumber was cheap and homes could be
built without nearly so great expense as in most places in
Florida and at about one-half of the expense the same
would cost in the North; the Title Guarantee Company of
Jacksonville, Florida, would guarantee the title, with
which company the New South Farm & Home Company
had made arrangements so that purchasers might know
that their investments were safe; the farms were cut over
and ready to go upon at once and there were no timber
leases upon the lands; the defendants were not land
brokers or speculators; the New South Farm & Home
Company owned the land outright, the title having been
approved by the best attorneys, and any one buying a
farm could depend upon securing a clear title as the
company was selling something it owned itself; the farms
were free from mosquitoes, malaria, and insects 6f all
kinds and were below the frost line; the company had
secured telephone connections with Palatka and With
local exchanges at other places (they are named) which
would place every farm "in direct touch with the community at all times;" the lands and farms were located
high and dry and in a section well drained; hundreds of
people had settled on them and at the little city of Burbank the lands and farms had increased-doubled, trebled
and quadrupled-in price, and the same was true of the
lands owned by the company at Silver City, and a thousand settlers were on the lands who could sell them at a
large profit; land selling at $30 an'acre would be worth in
two years $200 and $300 per acre; well-stocked stores and
factories were located upon the lands and they were the
best located and the most fertile lands in America, and
Luther Burbank had been arranged with for "the exclusive right for the production of certain of his farm products"; there would be installed a Burbank producing

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

station on the lands and farms and the purchasers of the
latter would share in the profits of the station, the director
of which would be available for the needs of the purchasers;
one could get out of a Pullman car on the farms, use a long
distance telephone, have the daily paper, rural free delivery and all the comforts of home.
There were other representations of fact, and, to give
emphasis to those which we have enumerated, it was
charged that the pictures in the publications sent out by
the defendants represented the true conditions to be seen
on the farms.
All of the representations were explicitly repeated and
charged to be false; that defendants well knew them to be
so and intended by them to deceive the persons to be defrauded and to induce such persons to part with their
money and property in the purchase of the farms.
That the representations were made and communicated
by the defendants to the persons intended to be defrauded
through and by means of oral statements, circulars, maps,
advertisements, photographs, etc., so worded, drawn,
constructed, presented and expressed as to deceive; but all
too voluminous to be set forth in the indictment, wherefore the grand jurors omitted them.
That the defendants deposited in the United States
mail at Jacksonville and Palatka, in the Southern District
of Florida, certain publications known as "The New
Florida" and "Ten Acres and Freedom" and certain
other letters, prints, pamphlets, magazines and publications containing the false representations set out above,
which were addressed to the persons intended to be defrauded and on which legal United States postage had
been paid.
The second count charged the defendants with entering
into a conspiracy to commit the offense described in the
first count and repeated its allegations and representations, varied only to meet the difference in the crime

UNITED STATES v. NEW SOUTH FARM.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged. In other words, there were allegations which
charged that the conspiracy was to be accomplished by
the representations enumerated in the first count, that
they were false and known to be so and made with the
same fraudulent purpose and to be accomplished by the
use of the United States mails. Two letters from the
company, signed by defendant Seig as president, were
set out in the indictment.
The third count was also like the first in its general
charges and designated by name the persons that were
intended to be defrauded. The same representations
were charged to have been made "by publishing and
causing and procuring to be published divers prints,
papers, pamphlets, booklets, circulars, and divers advertisements." The falsity of the representations was declared, and that the scheme of fraud was to be accomplished by the use of the United States mails. A letter
was quoted.
The defendants demurred to the indictment. The
demurrer is a very voluminous document and practically
defies condensation. It charges that the indictment
does not, nor does any count of it, "aver and charge any
offense against the United States," that each and every
count thereof is insufficient in that they do not, nor does
either of them, aver the facts constituting a scheme to
defraud; that each and every count is insufficient for
repugnancy, uncertainty, ambiguity and evasiveness;
and that each and every count is insufficient for want
of distinct and adequate specifications of the particulars
wherein the several representations, called in the count
false representations, were false.
The demurrer then attacks each count separately,
and- with much elaboration and with repetition of the
allegations of the indictment sets out with particularity
wherein no offense against the United States was charged.
The court sustained the demurrer, resting its decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 V. 8.

upon the second and third grounds of demurrer which,
we have seen, charged that neither the indictment nor
any of its counts averred or charged an offense against
the United States or averred facts which constituted a
scheme to defraud. It was said, "The scheme to defraud is alleged in the first and third counts, and the
conspiracy count also sets out the same scheme. So that
if the scheme to defraud set out in each of said counts
is not such a scheme as is punishable under the law, the
entire indictment must fail."
Describing the representations, the court said they
"are, as to the quality of the land, climate, crops to be
raised, advantages to be obtained, and promises of improvement, etc." And further: "There is no denial of
the ,facts of the ownership of the lands, although there
is a denial that all the titles were perfect. Nor is there
denial that the land was worth fully as much as was to be
obtained therefor. For aught that appears in the indictment the lands to be obtained were worth fully as much
as was to be paid by the parties purchasing; that the
parties engaged in the sale were legitimately engaged in
the sale of the lands."
The court regarded the business as legitimate and held
that the statute was not violated by puffing the qualities
of the article sold in advertising it. In other words, as
the court expressed it, "raising the expectations of the
purchaser, but giving that purchaser value received for
his money, but not fulfilling those expectations," was
not an offense against the statute. And, further, the
court said that the deduction from the authorities referred to by counsel "is that the scheme must be one to
defraud the party or by false promises, pretenses, etc.,
deprive him of money or property without adequate
value. Mere puffing or exaggeration of qualities, usefulness, opportunities or value of an article of commerce,
where the purchaser gets the article intended to be pur-

UNITED STATES v. NEW SOUTH FARM.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

chased and the value of the article is measured by the
price paid, do not constitute the false, representations,
promises, etc., denounced by the statute."
We have made these excerpts from thd opinion, of "the
court the better to handle the contentions of the parties,
which, as we have seen, are quite accurately opposed,
the Government asserting that the court construed the
statute and thereby justifying its appeal to this court;
the defendants insisting the court construed only the
indictment as a pleading and that therefore this court
is without jurisdiction.
We concur in the view of the Government. The court,
we think, construed the statuteiand misapprehended its
import. Mere puffing, indeed, might not be within its
meaning. (of this, however, no Qpinion need be expressed),
that is, the mere exaggeration of the qualities which the
article has; but when a proposed seller goes beyond that,
assigns to the article qualities which it does not possess,
does not simply magnify in opinion the advantages which
it has but invents ad antages and falsely asserts their
existence. he transcends the limits of "puffing" and
engages in false representations and pretenses. An article
alone is not necessarily the inducement and compensation
for its purchase. It is in the use to which it may be put,
the purpose it may serve; and there is deception and fraud
when the article is not of the character or kind represented
and hence does not serre the purpose. And when the
pretenses or representations or promises which execute
the deception and fraud are false they become the scheme
or artifice which the statute denounces. Harrisv. Rosenberger (C. C. A., 8th Cir.), 145 Fed. Rep. 449; O'Harav.
United States (C. C. A., 6th Cir.), 129 Fed. Rep. 551, 555;
Colburn v. United States (C. C. A., 8th Cir.), 223 Fed.
Rep. 590; Wilson v. United States (C. C. A., 2nd Cir.),
190 Fed. Rep. 427. See also United States v. Barnow,
239 U. S. 74. Especially is this true in the purchase of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

small tracts for homes, and upon this, if the allegations
of the indictment are true, the defendants touched every
string of desire by false statements, and sounded every
note that could excite and delude. We need not repeat
the representations; and they were made graphic, it is
alleged, by pictures and photographs.
Indeed, if it could be admitted that the article offered
for sale and its price could be balanced the one against
the other, the price necessarily would be the expression
of value and be constituted of all the attributes of the
article, intrinsic and extrinsic; and it needs no comment
to show that a 10-acre farm with the character, environments, and facilities described, its price doubling, trebling
and quadrupling within a year, has a seduction more
powerful than one not advancing in value, but, it may be,
receding, that is of swampy, not of high-land, character,
without fertility, hotels, roads, artesian wells, citrus
groves, Pullman cars, steamship and other faciliti.,s
which the literature of defendants describes and the indictment alleges.
We can entertain no doubt that those employing such
representations, if they are false, have engaged in a scheme
to defraud. The defendants did not seem to be afraid
of repelling by excess, and extravagance was even used
in a personal communication. In a letter which was set
out in the indictment it was said: "Our settlers are arriving daily and occupying their farms. The land is being
rapidly cleared, crops are being planted, houses erected,
stores built, and, on a whole, it is impossible for us to set
forth in a letter to you exactly how stupendous is the
work that is going on there. Without a question of a
doubt the Florida Palatka Colony is enjoying the greatest
prosperity."
Against these considerations defendants contend that
there was, notwithstanding, only a construction of the
indictment, but ask that, if we are of a different view,

UNITED STATES v. LOMBARDO.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

the case be reversed only so far as the statute was construed and remanded for action upon the other causes
assigned for demurrer, involving, as they say, the sufficiency of the indictment as a criminal pleading. The
difficulty is to indicate a distinction. We can only say
we have no intention to control the District Court in
its construction of the indictment, and we have no doubt
the learned court will be able to adjust its action to this
opinion. United States v. Portale, 235 U. S. 27, 31.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in

the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. LOMBARDO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 830. Submitted April 10, 1916.-Decided April 24, 1916.
Where a criminal statute does not define a word used therein, its
.etymology must be considered and its ordinary meaning applied.
The word file means to deliver to the office indicated and to send to
such office through the mail.
Under § 6 of the White' Slave Traffic Act the required certificate must
be filed in the office of the Commissioner of Immigration, and the
offense of not filing is not committed in another district where the
person is harbored, nor has the District Court of the United States
for that district jurisdiction of the offense.
Such an offense is not a continuing offense which, under § 42 of the
Judicial Code (§ 731, Rev. Stat.), can be punished in either of more
than one district.
This court will not, in order to accommodate the venue of a particular
offense, introduce confusion into the law.

