CHES. & OHIO RY. v. CARNAHAN.
241 U. S.

241

Syllabus.

of risk by deceased were satisfied. Gila Valley Ry. v.
Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 102.
We have considered the evidence and we cannot say
that the conclusion was palpably erroneous, and following
the rule expressed in Great Northern Ry. v. Knapp, 240
U. S. 464, 466, and as having analogy, Chicago Junction
Ry. v. King, 222 U. S. 222, we announce our concurrence
without discussion.
It is further contended "that as a matter of law, the
common-law assumption of risk is not a defense in bar of
an action under the act of Congress." The contention
is untenable. Jacobs v. Southern Ry., ante, p. 229.
Judgment afflrmed.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
CARNAHAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 743. Argued April 19, 20, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. v. Bombolis, ante, p. 211, followed to
effect that the contention that in trial of cases under the Employers'
Liability Act the parties are entitled under the Seventh Amendment to a common-law jury of twelve men is untenable.
When the evidence shows that there will be future effects from an
injury, an instruction which justifies their inclusion in the award for
damages is not error.
Where the court explicitly enjoins the jury that there must be a proximate and causal relation between the damages and the negligence of
the defendant and refers to the amount stated in the declaration as a
limitation on the amount that can be awarded, and there is no misunderstanding as to the purpose of such reference, there is no error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for personal injuries under the Employers'
Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. David H. Leake, with whom Mr. Walter Leake
was on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.'
Mr. C. W. Allen and Mr. H. W. Walsh filed a brief for
defendant in error.'
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error to review a judgment in favor of defendant in
error for $25,000 damages for injuries sustained through
the asserted negligence of plaintiff in error.
The action was at law under the Employers' Liability
Actof Congress. April 22,1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; April 5,
1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291. In accordance with the state
law it was tried to a jury of seven. This is assigned as
error. The only other assignment is upon an instruction
of the court as to the elements of damage. There is no
dispute as to the fact of injury or that it was received in
interstate commerce and by the negligence of plaintiff
in error.
(1) The first assignment of error is based upon a
challenge by the railway company to the array of jurors
on the ground that the jury was not summoned, selected,
formed and constituted as provided by the Constitution
of the United States. In other words, the contention is
"that in the trial of cases under the Employers' Liability
Act of Congress the parties are entitled to a commonlaw jury of twelve men, as provided for by the Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
The assignment is without foundation. Minn. & St.
Louis R. R. v. Bombolis, decided this day ante, p. 211.
1See note on p. 212, ante.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. CARNAHAN.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(2) The instruction which is the basis of the second
assignment of error is as follows:
"The court instructs the jury that if they believe from
a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant is
liable, to the plaintiff in this action, then in assessing
damages against the defendant, they may take into consideration the pain and suffering of the plaintiff, his mental
anguish, the bodily injury sustained by him, his pecuniary
loss, his loss of power and capacity for work and its effect
upon his future, not however, in excess of $35,000.00, as
to them may seem just and fair."
It is objected (a) that the instruction permitted a recovery in damages not only for those which proximately
resulted from the injury but also for "its effects upon
the future," which involved a consideration of consequences which might be essentially speculative and remote. (b) The instruction directed the jury that the
damages might be in such sum not in excess of $35,000
as to them might seem just and fair. By the instruction
the court called the attention of the jury to a certain
sum and gave judicial approval of it, giving them to
understand that they could give such sum as they might
deem just and fair, without regard to the damages the
evidence might prove.
The injury received is pertinent to the consideration
of the instruction. In the collision of two trains defendant in error, who was a fireman, "was caught" (we quote
from the opinion of the Supreme Court) "from his knee
of his right leg down, between the tank on the tender and
the boiler head in the cab of his engine, and remained
pinned in that position for forty-five or fifty minutes
before he was extricated by the efforts of his fellow workmen. His leg was so badly mashed and burned that it
eventually had to be amputated at a point between the
knee and the thigh, and it is for these injuries and his
consequent sufferings that he sues to recover damages."

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

The Supreme Court expressed the view that the speculation of future results which the railway company professed to apprehend was not left by the instruction for
the jury to indulge, nor did the instruction commit the
amount of damages to the conjecture of the jury independently of the evidence in the case. The contention
made here was explicitly rejected, viz., that the instruction permitted the jury to take into consideration the
"possible future physical effects from the injury, such as
future suffering in the absence of evidence as to the probability of such."' The court remarked that it would be a
strained construction of the language of the instruction "to
hold that it referred to future suffering and that damages
not the proximate result of the injuries received were included under" it, and that, besides, such conclusion was
precluded by an instruction given at the request of the
railway company, which was "that in order for the plaintiff to recover in this case he must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the injuries he sustained were
the direct and proximate result of the negligence of the
defendant."
The comment of the court is accurate and we can add
nothing to it. The principle is established that when the
evidence in a case shows that there will be future effects
from an injury an instruction which justifies an inclusion
of them in an award of damages is not error. Washington & Georgetown R. R. v. Harmon, 147 U. S. 571; McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600.
It is also objected that the instruction "allowed the
jury to indulge in speculation and conjecture; invited
their attention to the sum of $35,000 and allowed the
jury to give such sum as damages as to them might 'seem
just and fair' without stating that the damages could be
only such as were proved by the evidence to have proximately resulted from the negligent act complained of."
The objection is untenable. As we have seen the court

PACIFIC MAIL S. S. CO. v. SCHMIDT.
241 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

explicitly enjoined upon the jury that there must be a
proximate and causal relation between the damages and
the negligence of the company and the reference to the
sum of $35,000 was a limitation of the amount stated in
the declaration. There could have been no misunderstanding of the purpose of the instruction.

Norfolk &

West. R. R. v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114, 119.
Judgment affirmed.

PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY v.
SCHMIDT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 323.

Argued April 25, 26, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.

Where the writ of certiorari was granted to review the question of law,
and evidently would not have been granted simply to reopen the
inquiry into the facts, this court will assume the lower courts were
right where they agreed upon the construction of the facts even
though otherwise it might hesitate to do so.
This court will not assume that Congress intended to cut off an opportunity to revise doubtful questions of law and fact by imposing
a penalty for reasonable delay in payment caused by an appeal based
on sufficient cause.
Under ยง 4529, Rev. Stat., as amended December 1, 1898, a shipowner
is not liable for the penalty for delay in payment of a seaman's
wages during the period between judgnaent in the District Court
and affirmance thereof by the Circuit Court of Appeals where, as
in this case, there was reasonable cause for prosecuting the appeal.
214 Fed. Rep. 513, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and applica-

tion of Rev. Stat., ยง 4529, as amended by the Act of December 21, 1898, are stated in the opinion.

