OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

241 U. S.

OSBORNE, RECEIVER OF THE CHATTANOOGA
SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY, v. GRAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 373.

Argued April 3, 1916.-Decided April 17, 1916,

In an action by representatives of an employee for his death, from
negligence of an interstate carrier by rail, defendants are entitled to
insist upon the applicable Federal Law as the exclusive measure of
liability, whether plaintiff presents his case under the Federal or
state law.
In the absence of a showing bringing the injury within the Federal
act, the question whether the declaration permits a recovery at
common law is a state, and not a Federal, question.
Where there is no evidence showing that the deceased was engaged in
interstate commerce when killed, the court cannot supply the deficiency by taking judicial notice of that fact,basing its knowledge
on facts such as that the location of the accident was near the border
of the State and the direction from which the cars came.
An interstate carrier, defendant in an action for death of an employee,
is bound to know the actual movement of its trains and whether
they were interstate, and if it fails to inform the court on this point,
it cannot complain that it is deprived of a Federal right because the
court does not take judicial notice of facts bearing thereon.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict under
the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William L. Frierson, with whom Mr. Lewis M.
Coleman was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Where it appears either in the declaration or in the proof
that the accident occurred in interstate commerce, the

Act of Congress controls and, in case of death, a widow
cannot recover in her own name.

Wabash R. R. v. Hayes,

234 U. S. 86; Toledo &c. R. R. v. Slavin, 236 U. S. 454.

OSBORNE v. GRAY.
241 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The amendment of the amended declaration amended
both counts and, therefore, there was no count which did
not allege interstate commerce or under which a widow
could recover in her own name.
The view expressed by the state court that only the
second count was amended is not conclusive on this court.
Light Co. v. Newport, 151 U. S. 537; Covington Turnpike
Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 595; Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S.
663; Boyd v. Nebraska, 143 U. S. 135; Vandalia R. R. v.
Indiana, 207 U. S. 367.
From the facts which were established by evidence introduced before the jury, and from general knowledge the
trial court was bound to know judicially and this court
will know that the Chattanooga Southern Railroad extends from Chattanooga to the Georgia state line, and
then through the State of Georgia and to Gadsden in Alabama; that Chattanooga is only about four or five miles
from the Georgia state line and its suburb of Alton Park,
immediately south of it, is almost on the state line. Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Pet. 324; United States v. La Vengeance, 3 DalU. 297; United States v. Lawton, 5 How. 26;
Watts v. Lindsey, 7 Wheat. 162; McNitt v. Turner, 16
Wall. 352; Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 How. 561; United
States v. Thornton, 160 U. S. 458-9; Waters-PierceOil Co.
v. DeSelms, 212 U. S. 159; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania,
171 U. S. 9-10; New Mexico v. Denver &c. R. R., 203 U. S.
38; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 516-17; Gibson v. Stevens, 8
How. 399; Brown v. Spillman, 155 U. S. 665; United States
v. Trans-MissouriR. R., 166 U. S. 290; Louisville Trust Co.
v. Louisville &c. R. R.; 174 U. S. 674; Black Diamond Co. v.
Excelsior.Co., 156 U. S. 611; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S.
52; Greenleaf on Evidence (15th ed.), ยง 6; Thorson v. Peterson, 9 Fed. Rep. 517; Gilbert v. Moline, 19 Iowa, 319; Coover
v. Davenport, 1 Heisk. (Tenn.) 368; St. Louis v. Magness,
68 Arkansas, 289; Perry v. State, 113 Georgia, 938; Harvey
v. Oklahoma, 11 Oklahoma, 156; Harvey v. Wayne, 72

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Maine, 430; Bailey v. Birkhofer, 123 Iowa, 59; Bond v.
Perkins, 4 Heisk. (Tenn.) 364; Bruson v. Clark, 151
Illinois, 495; Pearce v. Langfit, 101 Pa. St. 507; Blumenthal v. Pacific Meat Co., 12 Washington, 332; Seigbert
v. Stiles, 39 Wisconsin, 533; Chamberlayne on Mod. Law
of Evidence, 741; Hobbs v. Memphis &c., 9 Heisk. (Tenn.)
874; State v. Railroad, 212 Missouri, 677; Gulf &c. R. R.
v. State, 72 Texas, 404; 16 Cyc. 861; Miller v. Texas &c.
R. R., 83 Texas, 518; Smith v. Flournoy, 47 Alabama, 345.
The opinion of the Court of Civil Appeals shows that
the allegation which that court found to be supported
by the evidence and upon which it based its judgment, is
in the second and not in the first count.
Mr. B. E. Tatum, with whom Mr. Felix D. Lynch,
Mr. George W. Chamlee, Mr. Joe V. Williams and Mr. P. H.
Thach were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought, in the year 1908, by Jennie B.
Gray to recover damages for the death of her husband
who was employed in the operation of the railroad of
which the .plaintiff in error and another were receivers.
The original declaration sought recovery for negligence,
at common law, and did not allege that the deceased was
injured while engaged in interstate commerce. The
plaintiff was permitted to file an additional count and
this was subsequently amended so as to allege the interstate character of the employment of the deceased at
the time of his injury. The -ction was first tried in
November, 1912; the jury rendered a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff for $10,000 and judgment was entered accordingly. Thereupon, the trial judge granted a new
trial upon the ground that he had erred in his instructions

OSBORNE v. GRAY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the jury with respect to the burden of proof. At the
second trial, in 1913, a verdict was directed for the defendants (the plaintiffs in error) and judgment in their
favor was entered. The Court of Civil Appeals reversed
this judgment and reinstated the judgment entered upon
the verdict at the first trial. The Court of Civil Appeals
did not consider the record of the second trial but was of
the opinion that the verdict first rendered in favor of the
plaintiff should not have been set aside. This decision
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, without
opinion.
The plaintiff ir error presents for our consideration
these assignments of error: (1) That the court erred in not
holding that both counts of the declaration stated a case
controlled by the Federal Employers' Liability Act and
that, therefore, the widow could not recover in a suit
begun in her own name; and (2) That the court erred in
not holding that the evidence on the first trial made a
case within the Federal Act.
' In support of the first assignment, it is insisted that the
amendment inserting the allegation that the injury was
sustained while the decedent was engaged in interstate
commerce amended both counts of. the declaration. The
state court treated it as an amendment of the second
count and thus the declaration on which' the case was
tried was deemed to contain two counts, "one under the
common law of Tennessee and the other charging negligence under the Employers' Liability Act." From a
Federal standpoint, the question is not important, for
if it had been shown' that the injury had been received
in interstate commerce, the defendants would have been
entitled to insist upon the applicable Federal law as
the exclusive measure of their liability, and they would
not have lost this right merely because the plaintiff had.
seen fit to present the claim 'in an alternative way' by
means of separate counts. Wabash R. R. v. Hayes, 234

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

U. S. 86, 90. And in the absence of a showing bringing
the injury within the Federal Act, the question whether
the declaration permitted a recovery at common law
was a state question.
It was distinctly stated by the Court of Civil Appeals
that if the proof showed "that the deceased was engaged
in interstate commerce when he was injured," the court
would "be compelled to hold that the trial judge was not
in error in setting aside the verdict." But it was found
that there was no basis in the evidence for such a conclusion and the second assignment of error challenges
this ruling. The Court of Civil Appeals thus stated the
facts:
"The proof indicates that the deceased came into
Alton Park on a passenger train, and, as a part of this
train there were three cars loaded with peaches. These
cars were taken out of the passenger train at Alton Park,
when the train went on to Chattanooga depot. After
these fruit cars were taken out of the passenger train, the
deceased was directed by one of his superiors, to have them
re-iced and then taken to Cravens and delivered to the
N., C. & St. L. Railroad Company. The proof does not
show that the passenger train on which" the deceased
came into Alton Park, and a part of which the fruit cars
were, came from another State, and in fact fails to show
where it came from. The proof likewise fails to show how
far through, or into what part of Tennessee the railroad of
defendant company is located, and to what point it
operates trains. . . . The fruit cars which he was
oxdered to take and deliver to the Nashville road, so far
as his record discloses, were taken out of a passenger
train in Alton Park. The proof does not indicate where
they came from, whether from another State, or whether
they were picked up in Tennessee. . . . We do not
know where the passenger train came from, nor where
these fruit cars came from; all we do know is, they were

OSBORNE v. GRAY.
241 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

cut out of the passenger train at Alton Park, and the
deceased was ordered to take them down into Chattanooga and deliver them to the N., C. & St. L. R. R. Co.
That being true, the deceased and these cars were engaged in intra-state commerce when he received his fatal
injury, and not in interstate commerce."
The evidence has not been printed, but by stipulation
between the parties it is agreed that the testimony also
showed that the passenger train in question had left
Chattanooga at seven o'clock in the morning of the day
of the accident and that it had come into Alton Park
from the south, on its return trip , late in the afternoon.
But this still leaves undisclosed the origin and destination
of the cars in the movement of Which the decedent was
employed.
It is apparent that there was no evidence requiring the
conclusion that the deceased was engaged in interstate
commerce at the time of his injury, and we are asked to
supply the deficiency by taking judicial notice that the
cars came from without the State. This contention we
are unable to sustain. The make-up of trains and the
movement of cars are not matters which we may assume
to know without evidence. The state court, with its
intimate knowledge of the local situation, thought that
such an assumption on its part would be wholly unwarranted and we cannot say that it erred in this view. The
fact that Chattanooga and its suburb, Alton Park, were
near the state line did not establish that the cars had
crossed it. The defendants knew the actual movement
of the cars, and failing to inform the court upon this
point cannot complain that they have been deprived of a
Federal right.
Judgment affirmed.

