OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

241 U. S.

G. & C. MERRIAM COMPANY v. SAALFIELD AND
OGILVIE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 178.

Argued January 14, 17, 1916.-Decided April 17, 1916.

Whetheru the District Court has acquired jurisdiction over the person
of defendant may be reviewed by this court on direct appeal under
§ 238, Judicial Code.
An affidavit of one not a party to an action showing on its face that
it was to be used only as evidence for defendants, held in this case
not to be construed as an appearance by the party making it.
Only a final judgment is res judicata as between the parties; nor is a
decree res judicata as against a third party participating in the defense unless it is so far final as to be res judicataagainst the defendant himself.
Even though one not a party to the action might be estopped by final
decree if and when made, he cannot be brought into the suit by
ancillary proceedings before final decree as if he were already es-

topped.
One not a defendant, but who is estopped by the decree because of
having exercised control of the defense and who is not a resident of
the district, cannot be brought into the action by the filing of a supplemental bill and mere notice to, and substituted service on, him
without service of original process within the district.
Such a supplemental bill is not dependent on or ancillary to the original
suit, in the sense that jurisdiction of it follows jurisdiction of the
original cause.
The doctrine of res judicata furnishes a rule for the decision of a subsequent case between the same parties or their privies respecting the
same cause of action, and only applies when the subsequent action
has been brought.

facts, which. involve the jurisdiction of this court
on appeal from the District Court under § 238, Judicial
Code, and the jurisdiction of the District Court to make
THE

MERRIAM v. SAALFIELD.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and enforce a decree based on substituted service of
process, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William B. Hale, with whom Mr. James A. Ford
was on the brief, for appellant:
Ogilvie was privy to the original suit, and was an
actual, although not an ostensible, party thereto, in such
a real sense that the decree will be res judicata against
him.
The District Court erred in declining jurisdiction upon
the sole ground that Ogilvie's defense of the suit was unknown to petitioner until after the interlocutory decree,
and that, therefore, Ogilvie was not bound.
The District Court for the Northern District of Ohio,
Eastern Division, had jurisdiction of Ogilvie notwithstanding he resides in the Southern District of New York,
because: he submitted to the jurisdiction and waived objections, by voluntarily coming in and defending the suit;
and the supplemental bill is a dependent and ancillary
proceeding.
Substituted service, or mere actual notice, is sufficient
to subject a party to the jurisdiction of. the court in any
ancillary proceeding and sufficient service was had in this
case.

Ogilvie's affidavit in opposition to the motion for an
injunction upon the supplemental bill, argues the case
upon the merits, and subjects him to the jurisdiction of
the court.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, with whom Mr. Challen B. Ellis was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUS CE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a direct appeal from the District, Court under
§ 238, Jud. Code, upon the sole question of the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of that court to make and enforce a final decree in personam against appellee, George W. Ogilvie. The decree
was founded upon a supplemental bill making Ogilvie a
party to a suit already pending, and upon substituted
service of process on persons said to represent him as
attorneys in the "State of Ohio, he being a citizen and
resident of the State of New York, and not having been
personally served.
The facts are as follows: In December 1908, appellant
filed its original bill against Saalfield in the then Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Ohio, for relief against unfair competition in the business
of publishing and selling dictionaries. Saalfield was duly
served with process, appeared, and made defense. The
Circuit Court having dismissed the bill, the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed the decree (190 Fed. Rep. 927; 198
Fed. Rep. 369), and remanded the cause with direction for
an injunction and an accounting in conformity with its
opinion. The District Court made a decree in accordance
with the mandate September 11, 1912, with an order of
reference for the accounting. Thereafter and on December 16, 1912, the supplemental bill was filed, setting up in
substance that since the entry of the decree of September 11 complainant had discovered, and it charged the
fact to be, that Ogilvie had from the beginning actively
conducted, controlled, and directed the defense of the suit,
having selected, retained, and paid, as solicitors and
counsel for defendant Saalfield, the firm of Weed, Miller
and Nason, of Cleveland; Ohio, and Mr. George F. Bean,
of Boston,, Massachusetts, who, in pursuance of said retainer, appeared on behalf of Saalfield, but acted for and
under instructions of Ogilvie; that in fact'Ogilvie was the
proprietor of the dictionaries involved in the suit, which
were published and sold for his benefit and profit by
Saalfield under a contract providing for the payment of
royalties to Ogilvie; that pending the suit Saalfield had

MERRIAM v. SAALFIELD.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transferred and assigned to the Saalfield Publishing Company, a corporation, his business of publishing and selling
the dictionaries; that the company, as successor of and
claiming through and under Saalfield, was bound by all the
proceedings in the suit, and that it was then carrying on
the business, under contract with Ogilvie; and that by
reason of the facts mentioned Ogilvie had made himself
privy to the suit, and an actual though not a nominal
party thereto, and was -bound by the proceedings and
decree therein. Appropriate relief was prayed against
Saalfield, the Saalfield Publishing Company, and Ogilvie.
Upon the filing of the supplemental bill and an affidavit
setting forth that Ogilvie was a non-resident of the Northern District of Ohio, and that as alleged in the supplemental bill the firm of Weed, Miller and Nason; of Cleveland, and George F. Bean, of Boston, Massachusetts,
who had appeared respectively as solicitors and counsel
for defendant Saalfield in the defense of the suit, were in
fact retained and employed by Ogilvie for that purpose and
paid by him and acted under his instructions and directions, complainant moved, for and obtained an order
authorizing substituted service of process against Ogilvie,
to: be made within the District upon the Cleveland attor•neys, and in the District of Massachusetts upon George
F. Bean. Service was made accordingly, and the process
returned; and it appearing from an'affidavit made by
defendant, Ogilvie, and filed in the cause on February 22,
1913, that he had had actual notice of the supplemental
bill) an .interlocutory decree pro confesso was entered, and
this was followed, on October 16, 1913, by a final decree
for the recovery against him of profits amounting with
interest to $81,312.78, besides costs. Thereafter Ogilvie,
by solicitors appearing specially for the purpose, moved to
quash the service of the writ of subpoena issued against
him and to set aside all proceedings based thereon. The
District Court, having heard testimony, granted ,the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

motion, and at the same time denied a petition filed by
complainant for enforcement of the final decree against
Ogilvie; and from final orders entered for carrying into
effect this decision, complainant has appealed to this
court.
There is a motion to dismiss, based upon the familiar
ground that the "jurisdiction of the court" referred to
in § 238, Jud. Code, means its jurisdiction as a Federal
court, and not its general jurisdiction as a judicial tribunal; the insistence being that the contention of complainant below presented no more than a general question of procedure in equity, and not one peculiar to the
District Court as a Federal court. But the distinction
referred to bears upon the nature of the jurisdiction exercised or refused to be exercised after a valid service of
process upon the defendant, and does not affect the question whether the court has acquired jurisdiction over the
person, which is the one here involved. This question
may be reviewed on direct appeal. Shepard v. Adams,
168 U. S. 618, 623; Remington v. Cent. Pac. R. R., 198
U. S. 95, 99; Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co.,
198 U. S. 424, 434; Commercial Accident Co. v. Davis,
213 U. S. 245, 256; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 437, 440; Herndon-CarterCo. v. Norris &
Co., 224 U. S.496, 498. In Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523,
the decision that was held not reviewable, on direct appeal was rerdered upon a plea to the jurisdiction of the
court over the subject-matter. In Courtney v. Pradt,
196 U. S. 89, the suit had been removed from a Kentucky
state court to the United States Circuit Court, where
Pradt filed a special demurrer, assigning as causes that
the court had not jurisdiction of the person or of the
subject-matter. The court dismissed the suit for want
of jurisdiction, and it appeared from its opinion that this
was done because Pradt, who was sued as executor, was
appointed as such in Wisconsin, and a suit against a Wis-

MERRIAM v. SAALFIELD.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

consin executor could not be maintained in the Kentucky
state court, nor in the Federal court. The question of
jurisdiction was not certified 'to this court, and the appeal was therefore dismissed. These cases are plainly
distinguishable. The present motion to dismiss must be
denied.
Appellant's case upon the merits is rested upon the
theory that Ogilvie was privy to the original suit against
Saalfield, and an actual though not an ostensible party
thereto, in such a real sense that the final decree therein
would be res judicata against him; that the District Court
had jurisdiction to entertain the suit as against him notwithstanding he resided outside the district, because by
voluntarily coming in and defending for Saalfield he had
submitted to the jurisdiction and waived the objection,
and because the supplemental bill was a dependent and
ancillary proceeding, and therefore properly brought in
the district wherein the original proceeding was pending; and, finally, that because of its being an ancillary
proceeding, substituted service upon the solicitors representing Ogilvie in the original proceeding was sufficient to subject him to the jurisdiction for the purposes
of the supplemental bill. There is a faint attempt to
sustain the jurisdiction on the theory that Ogilvie's affidavit, filed February 22, 1913, as mentioned in the interlocutory decree pro confesso, amounted to a general appearance, because it was submitted in opposition to a
motion for injunction on the supplemental bill, and because it "argued the case upon the merits." This may
be overruled at once. The affidavit shows on its face
that it was to be used only as evidence for defendants
Saalfield and the Publishing Company, and was not to
be construed as an appearance by Ogilvie.
The District Court, while raising some question whether
the solicitors and counsel who had appeared for Saalfield
at Ogilvie's expense had not concluded their services in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Ogilvie's behalf prior to the filing of the supplemental
bill, yet rested its decision substantially upon the ground
that complainant did not know that Ogilvie had any connection with Saalfield or the Saalfield Publishing Company until after the making of the decree of September 11,
1912, upon the going down of the mandate from the Circuit Court of Appeals; and that for this reason Ogilvie
could not have taken advantage of that decree had it
been adverse to complainant, and therefore was not
estopped by it, since estoppels must be mutual.
In so holding, the court applied the doctrine that has
been laid down in a number of cases, that a third party
does not become bound by a decree because of his participation in the defense unless his conduct in that regard
was open and avowed or otherwise known to the opposite
party, so that the latter would have been concluded by
an adverse judgment. See Andrews v. National Pipe
Works, 76 Fed. Rep. 166, 173; Lane v. Welds, 99 Fed.
Rep. 286, 288. We need not consider the soundness of
the doctrine, for appellant does not question it, insisting
only that it is not applicable here because Ogilvie's control of the defense made in Saalfield's name became known
to appellant during the progress of the suit, and before
final decree; it being contended that the decree of September 11, 1912, was interlocutory and not final.
But it is familiar law that only a final judgment is res
judicata as between the parties. And it is evident that a
decree cannot be res judicata as against a third party
participating in the defense unless it is so far final as to
be res judicata against the defendant himself. Hence,
if the decree of September 11 was not final as between
appellant and Saalfield, it cannot be resjudicataas against
Ogilvie; and thus the fundamental ground for proceeding
against the latter by supplemental bill with substituted
service of process disappears. This sufficiently shows the
weakness of appellant's position, which, upon analysis, is

MERRIAM v. SAALFIELD.

241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found to be this: that upon the theory that Ogilvie would
be estopped by a final decree if and when made, it sought
to bring him into "the suit, before final decree, as if he
were already estopped. However convenient this might
be to a complainant in appellant's position, it is inconsistent with elementary principles.
But, assuming for argument's sake that the decree was
final, and that Ogilvie was fully estopped by it because
of having taken charge and exercised control of Saalfield's defense thr6ugh solicitors and counsel retained and
paid by himself; and assuming that their employment
had not been terminated at the time the supplemental
bill was filed; the question of the sufficiency of the proceedings taken by way of substituted service to bring
Ogilvie within the jurisdiction of the court still remains,
and this depends upon whether the supplemental bill is
a dependent and ancillary proceeding, jurisdiction of
which follows jurisdiction of the original cause and may
be exerted upon mere notice to the party without service
of original process within the district. It seems to be
thought that because Ogilvie was identified in interest
with the defendant in the original suit and had and
exercised the right to make defense and control the proceedings and appeal from the decree, he may be treated
for all purposes as an actual party to the record. But
this by no means follows. The doctrine of res judicata
furnishes a rule for the decision of a subsequent case
between the same parties or their privies respecting the
same cause of action. Obviously, the rule for decision
applies only when the subsequent action has been brought.
So far as the supplemental bill seeks to bring in Ogilvie
as a new party and obtain relief against him it is not, in
any proper sense, dependent upon or ancillary to the
original" suit against Saalfield. It is not analogous to a
suit for an injunction against the prosecution of a previous
suit or the enforcement of a judgment therein. It has not

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

for its object some further dealing with the same subjectmatter. Ogilvie is not in the position of one who, pending a suit about property, has acquired an interest, in the
subject-matter. The object of the original bill was to
obtain an injunction and recover profits from Saalfield;
that of the supplemental bill is to obtain an injunction
and an accounting of profits against Ogilvie respecting
the same transactions. But the merits are not to be
adjudicated against him until he is brought into court,
and as against him the supplemental bill is an original,
not an ancillary, proceeding. In Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 1,
one Graham had recovered a judgment at law in an
action of ejectment against the complainants, Clarke
and others, in the United States Circuit Court, jurisdiction depending upon diversity of citizenship. Graham
having died, the defendant, Dunn, held the land recovered in trust under his will. Clarke and others filed
their bill in the same court, praying for an injunction
against the judgment and for a decree that the land in
controversy be reconveyed. All the complainants and
defendants were residents of the same State (Ohio).
This court said: "No doubt is entertained by the court,
that jurisdiction of the case may be sustained, so far as
to stay-execution on the judgment at law against Dunn.
He is the representative of Graham; and although he is
a citizen of Ohio, yet this fact, under the circumstances,
will not deprive this court of an equitable control over
the judgment. But beyond this, the decree of this court
cannot extend. Of the action at law, the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction; and no change in the residence or condition of the parties can take away a jurisdiction which
has once attached. If Graham had lived, the Circuit
Court might have issued an injunction to his judgment
at law, without a personal service of process, except on
his counsel; and as Dunn is his representative, the court
may do the same thing, as against him. The injunction

MERRIAM v. SAALFIELD.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bill is not considered an original bill between the same
parties, as at law: but, if other parties are made in the
bill, and different interests involved, it must be considered, to that extent at least, an original bill; and the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must depend upon the
citizenship of the parties. In the present case, several
persons are made defendants who were not parties or
privies to the suit at law, and no jurisdiction as to them
can be exercised, by this or the Circuit Court." So far
as it shows the distinction between an original bill and
one that is not to be so considered, the case is in point
upon the present question. The reference to "privies"
must be taken in connection with the subject-matter,
which in that case was the ownership of land.
No case to which we are referred, nor any other that
we have found,I goes to the extent of sustaining as an
ancillary proceeding a bill interposed for the purpose of
obtaining a decree in personam against a party upon the
ground that he had participated in the defense of a previous action against another party so as to become bound
upon the doctrine of res judicata. Kelley v. T. L. Smith
Co. (C. C. A., 7th), 196 Fed. Rep. 466, is referred to. In
that case Kelley, a citizen of New York, and McConnell,
a citizen of Illinois, had commenced an action in a Wisconsin state court to compel the secretary of the Smith
1See Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, 633; Freeman v.
Howe, 24 How. 450, 460; Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, 285;
Clarke v. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164, 171; Webb v. Barnwall, 116 U. S.
193, 197; Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176, 179; Dewey v. West Fairmont Gas Coal Co., 123 U. S. 329, 333; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 131,
144; Morgan's Co. v. Texas Central Ry., 137 U. S. 171, 201; Byers v.
McAuley, 149 U. S. 608, 614; Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S. 401, 413;
White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36, 39; Carey v. Houston & Texas Ry., 161
U. S. 115, 130; Waibash R. R. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S.38, 54; Cortes
Co. v. Thannhauser, 9 Fed. Rep. 226; Crellin v. Ely, 13 Fed. Rep. 420;
Abraham v. North German Fire Ins. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 731; Gasquet v.
Fidelity Trust Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 80.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Company to transfer certain shares of stock standing in
Kelley's name to McConnell, as his assignee. A firm of
Milwaukee attorneys brought the action, and an attorney
connected with that firm was in possession of the certificate
as agent of McConnell. Thereupon the Company and its
secretary filed in the United States Circuit Court a bill
asserting that the equitable title to the shares was involved
in a suit already pending in that court, to which the company was a party defendant; that thus different parties,
in different courts, were insisting that complainants
transfer the same shares to each, and if complainants
should comply with the demand of either they would be
unable to transfer the shares to the other if so ordered by a
court decree, and that they had no interest in the shares,
and were willing to transfer them to the party found to be
the owner. On the showing that Kelley and McConnell
were not to be found in the district, and that the stock
certificate was within the district, in the hands of their
attorneys and agent having authority to assert and preserve their rights, the court ordered the subpcena and the
notice of applicatioft for an interlocutory injunction to be
served, and they were served, upon said attorneys and
agent. The Circuit Court overruled a demurrer, and the
Court of Appeals sustained this decree, not, however,
upon the ground that the suit was an ancillary proceeding
in aid of the court's jurisdiction in a pending suit, but upon
the ground that as an independent and original bill it
presented a subject cognizable in a Circuit Court of the
United States, and that although jurisdiction in personam
could not be acquired by service of process under Equity
Rule 13, because of the absence of the defendants, substituted service was permissible under the then Equity
Rule 90, by analogy to the English practice. Without
intimating any view as to the correctness of this reasoning, it is sufficient to say that the decision has no pertinency to the question here presented.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. RIGSBY.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

Upon these grounds, we are of opinion that substituted
service of process against Ogilvie was inadmissible, and
that the District Court did not err in quashing the service
and setting aside the proceedings based thereon, nor in
refusing appellant's petition for enforcement of the decree
against hum.

Final orders affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
RIGSBY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 523.

Argued February 21, 1916.-Decided April 17, 1916.

Disregard of the Safety Appliance Act is a wrongful act; and, where it
results in damage to one of the class for whose especial benefit it
was enacted, the right to recover the damages from the party in default is implied.--ubijus ibi remedium.
An employee of a railroad company has a right of action against the
company for damages sustained by reason of defective appliances
in violation of the Safety Appliance Act even though he was engaged
at the time in intrastate, and not interstate, commerce.
Congress may, in the exercise of the plenary power to regulate commerce between the States, require installation of safety appliances
on cars used on highways of interstate commerce irrespective of the
use made of any particular car at any particular time.
When Congress enters a field of regulation within its paramount authority, state regulation of that subject-matter is excluded; and
so held that, without leave of Congress, a State can no more make
or enforce laws inconsistent with the Federal Safety Act giving
redress for injuries to workmen or travelers occasioned by absence
or insecurity of such safety devices than it can prescribe the character
of the appliances.
The right of private action by an employee injured while engaged in
duties unconnected with interstate commerce, but injured by a
defect in a safety appliance required by act of Congress, has such
relation to the operation of such act as a regulation of interstate
commerce that it is within the constitutional grant of authority to
Congress over that subject,

