OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

241 U. S.

dealing with and conducting this prosecution. The bail
bond was essentially a part of the proceeding that was
transferred and was without force or value in any other
connection. So, when the power and duty resting upon
the United States were passed to the State there went
with them the right to use and enforce the bond as the
United States might have done, had the proceeding remained in its control; in other words, the State became
by operation of law the beneficiary of the bond, and was
entitled to sue on it when its condition was broken.
Judgment affirmed.

DAYTON, TRUSTEE, IETC. v. STANARD, TREASURER OF PUEBLO COUNTY, COLORADO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 404.

Submittal January 7, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

Under ยง 64a of the Bankruptcy Act the holders of tax certificates who
have paid taxes and assessments on property of the bankrupt at tax
sales of such property, which sales have been declared invalid, are
entitled to be reimbursed the amount paid, on cancellation of their
certificates, out of the general fund of the bankrupt's estate, with
legal interest, but not with the larger interest and penalties imposed
by statute in tax sale redemptions.
220 Fed. Rep. 441, modified and affirmed.

facts, which involve the rights, under ยง 64a of the
Bankruptcy Act, of the holders of tax sale certificates
of land of the bankrupt, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Harvey Riddell for petitioner.
Mr. Horace Phelps for respondents.

DAYTON v. PUEBLO COUNTY.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a controversy growing out of the sale for taxes
and special assessments of divers tracts of real property
belonging to a bankrupt estate then in the course of administration in a court of bankruptcy. The property
was in custodia legis and was sold without leave of court.
Because of this the court held the sales invalid and entered
a decree canceling the certificates of purchase and enjoining the County Treasurer from issuing tax deeds thereon.
Thus far there is no room to complain. Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52; Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S. 126; In re
Tyler, 149 U. S. 164; In re Eppstein, 156 Fed. Rep. 42.
The court further directed in its decree that the several
tracts be sold by the trustee free from any lien for the
taxes and assessments, and that the holders of the certificates of purchase be severally reimbursed out of the
proceeds of the respective tracts, but not out of the general
assets, for the taxes and special assessments paid thereon,
with the interest and penalties which accrued prior to the
time the trustee took possession. Upon appeal to the
Court of Appeals that court modified the decree by requiring that the certificate holders be reimbursed for the
amounts paid at such sales and for subsequent taxes,
together with interest thereon, "as provided by the laws
of Colorado on redemption from tax sales of land," the
same to be paid "out of the general fund, regardless of
the amount which the property may bring at bankruptcy
sale." 220 Fed. Rep. 441.
The trustee urges, first, that the certificate holders
should not be reimbursed at all; second, that, if reimbursed, they should not be allowed any interest or penalties other than such as accrued prior to the time when
the trustee qualified and took possession, and, third,
that they should not be reimbursed out of the general

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

assets, but only out of the proceeds of the trustee's sale
of the tracts for which they severally had certificates.
Considering the plain provision in ยง 64a of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 (30 Stat. 544), that "the court shall
order the trustee to pay all taxes legally due and owing by
the bankrupt . . . in advance of the payment of
dividends to creditors," we entertain no doubt of the
propriety of requiring that the certificate holders, who
had paid the taxes and assessments at the sales, be reimbursed upon the, cancellation of their certificates, or
of requiring that the reimbursement be out of the general
assets. The taxes and assessments were not merely
charges upon the tracts that were sold, but against the
general estate as well.
And while we are of opinion that the certificate holders
were entitled to interest upon the amounts paid at the
ordinary legal rate, applicable in the absenbe of an expregs
contract, we think they were not entitled to the larger
interest required to be paid on redemption from tax sales.
They were not in a position to stand upon the terms of
the redemption statute, for the sales were invalid, and
the only recognition which they could ask was such as
resulted from an application of equitable principles to
their situation. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is modified to conform to what is here said respecting
the allowance of interest. In other respects it is affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.

