OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

tive to do more than emphasize the necessity for the
liquidation. There is no element of deception or exorbitance and although the case seems a hard one we see
no ground upon which the claimant can escape from the
terms to which he has agreed. United States v. Bethlehem
Steel Co., 205 U. S. 105, 119.
Judgment affirmed.

GEORGIA, FLORIDA & ALABAMA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. BLISH MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT -OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 292.

Argued March 15, 1916.-Decided May 8, 1916.

The bill of lading of an interstate shipment.issued by the initial carrier
contained a stipulation that claims for failure to make delivery must
be made in writing, to the carrier at point of delivery within a specified p6riod otherwise carrier not liable; there was a delivery, but it
was made contrary to instructions, and the shipper telegraphed the
terminal carrier that it made claim for entire value at invoice price.
Held that:
Under the Carmack Amendment the connecting carrier was not
relieved from liability, but the bill of lading required to be issued
by the initial carrier upon an interstate shipment governs the entire transportation and fixes the obligations of all participating
:carriers to the extent that its terms are applicable and valid.
the question of proper construction of the bill of lading of an
interstate shipment is a Federal question.
Multitudinous transactions of a carrier justify the requirement
of written notice of misdeiveries of merchandise and claims
against it even with respect to its own operations.
The Carmack Amendment casts upon the initial carrier responsibility with respect to the entire transportatioli; and i case
of misdelivery by the terminal carrier the initial carrier is liable.
A provision in an interstate bill of lading is to be construed

GEORGIA, FLA. & ALA. RY. v. BLISH CO.
241 U. S.

191

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the sqme as to the connecting-or terminal carrier as it is to be construed as to the initial -carrier, as the obligations of thb latter-are
measured by the terms of the bill of lading.
Where the bill of lading of an interstate shipment requires notice
of claim for misdelivery, such notice must be given before action
can be brought against the terminal carrier making the, misdelivery complaiied of.
The effect of such stipulation cannot be escaped by form of
action; and if a suit cannot be maintained for damages against
the delivering carrier without the required notice, it cannot be
maintained for conversion.
Parties to the contract of an interstate shipment by rail. made
pursuant to the Act to Regulate Commerce cannot waive its
terms; nor can the carrier by its conduct give the shipper the
right to ignore such terms and hold the carrier to a different responsibility than that fixed by the agreement made under the
published tariffs and regulations.
Where a provision in a bill of lading for an interstate shipment
is applicable and valid effect must be given thereto.
The stipulation in this case was satisfied by the telegram from
the shipper to the terminal carrier, it appearing that there was no
such variance from a claim for value of the shipment as .to be
misleading and no prejudice resulted; such a stipulation being addressed to a practical exigency must be construed in a practical
way and does not require a particular form of 'notice.
15 Ga. App. 142, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the rights and duties of carriers and shippers under the Carmack Amendment, are

stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. S. Hawes, with whom Mr. Alexander Akerman
and Mr. Charles Akerman were on the brief, for plaintiff

in error.
Mr. A. L. Miller and Mr. E. M. Donalson for defendant
in error submitted:
There was no Federal question construed or decided
by the Geolgia court.
Even though a Federal question had been presented

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

and construed and a construction of the same were necessary to determine the cause, the remedy was not
exclusively against the initial carrier; the contract of
carriage did not provide that the shipper must give a
written notice to the carrier who abandoned the contract
and converted the property, but only provided that this
written notice must be given in the event of loss or damage
in order to recover; though a written claim were demanded, in order to recover for a conversion, such claim
was made within a few days after the railway company
converted the flour.
MR.

JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Blish Milling Company brought this action in
trover against the Georgia, Florida & Alabama Railway
Company and recovered judgment which was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals of Georgia. 15 Ga. App. 142. The
facts are these:
On May 13, 1910, the Blish Milling Company shipped
from Seymour, Indiana, to Bainbridge, Georgia, a carload
of flour consigned to its own order with direction to notify
Draper-Garrett Grocery Company at Bainbridge, The
bill of lading was issued by the Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern Railroad Company. The shipper's sight draft
upon the Draper-Garrett Grocery Company, for $1,109.89
covering the price of the flour with a carrying charge,
was attached to the bill of lading and forwarded to a
bank in Bainbridge for collection. The flour was transferred to another car by the Central of Georgia Railway
Company, a connecting carrier, and reached Bainbridge
on June 2, 1910, over the line of the Georgia, Florida &
Alabama Railway Company, the plaintiff in error, in
accordance with routing. The plaintiff in error, without
requiring payment of the draft and surrender of the bill

GEORGIA, FLA. & ALA. RY. v. BLISH CO.
241 U. S.

193

Opinion of the Court.

of lading (which were ultimately returned to the Blish
Milling Company), delivered the car to the DraperGarrett Grocery Company immediately on its arrival
by placing it on the side track of that company. In the
course of unloading the grocery company discovered
that some of the flour was wet and thereupon reloaded
the part removed and returned the flour to the plaintiff
in error. The subsequent course of events is thus stated
by the Court of Appeals (Id., pp. 144, 145):
"The railway company" (that is, the plaintiff in error)
"retook possession of the car and unloaded it, and in a
few days sold, as perishable property, a part of the
flour alleged to be damaged, and on December 23, 1910,
sold the remainder. On June 3, 1910, after the grocery
company had turned the flour back to the railway company, B. C. Prince, traffic manager of the Georgia,
Florida & Alabama Railway Company, telegraphed to
the Blish Milling Company as follows: 'Flour order notify
Draper-Garrett Grocery Company refused account damage. Hold at your risk and expense. Advise disposition.'
On the next day the milling company replied by telegraphing to Prince, 'Sending our representative there.
What is nature of damage?' To this Prince replied:
'Flour transferred in route. Slight damage by water,
apparently rough handling. When will your representative reach Bainbridge?' The Blish Milling Company
replied that their man would be there that night or the
next day. On June 7 (after the milling company's representative had reached Bainbridge and conferred with the
agents of the railway company and with the grocery
company) the milling company sent a final telegram,
saying, 'We will make claim against railroad for entire
contents of car at invoice price. Must refuse shipment
as we can not handle.' It appears, from the evidence of
Mr. Draper, that the price of flour declined after his order
was given and before the flour reached Bainbridge. There

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

is conflict in the evidence as to a tender of the flour by
the railway company to the milling company's representative. According to some of the testimony, about 18 barrels of the flour had been sold by the railway company
before the alleged tender was made, and therefore it was
not within the power of the carrier to tender the shipment
in its entirety.'; The verdict in favor of the Milling
Company was for $1,084.50 from which the Court of
Appeals required a deduction of the amount of the unpaid
freight which was, held to have been erroneously included.

With other defenses, the Railway Company pleaded
that the shipper had failed to comply with the following
provision of the bill of lading, issued by the initial carrier:
"Claims for loss, damage, or delay must be made in writing to the carrier at the point of delivery or at the point
of origin within four months after the delivery of the
property, or, in case of failure to make delivery, then
within, four months after a reasonable time for delivery
has elapsed. Unless claims are so made, the carrier shall
not be liable." This defense was overruled. The Court
of Appeals stated that "so far as appears from the record,
no claim was filed by the shipper," but deemed the provision to be inapplicable. Id., p. 149.
There are only two questions presented here, and these
are thus set forth in the brief of the plaintiff in error:
"1st. That the plaintiff's exclusive remedy was against
the initial carrier, the Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern
Railroad Company, under the Carmack Amendment
of Section Twenty of the Hepburn Bill.
"2nd. That under the stipulation in the bill of lading
providing for the filing of claims for loss or damage the
action was barred."
The first contention is met by repeated decisions of
this court. The connecting carrier is 'not relieved from
liability by the Carmack Amendment, but the bill of

laing required to be issued by the initial carrier upon

GEORGIA, FLA. & ALA. RY. v. BLISH CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of

195

the Court.

an interstate shipment governs the entire transportation
and thus fixes the obligations of all participating carriers
to the extent that the terms of the bill of lading are applicable and valid. "The liability of any carrier in the
route over which the articles were routed, for loss or
damage, is that imposed by the act as measured by the
original contract of shipment so far as it is valid under
the act." Kansas Southern Ry. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639,
648. See Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491,
507, 508; C. C. & St. L. Ry. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588,
591; Southern Railway v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632, 637;
Northern Pacific Ry. v. Wall, ante, p. 87.
These decisions also establish that the question as to
the proper construction of the bill of lading is a Federal
question. The clause with respect to the notice of claimsupon which the plaintiff in error relies in its second contention-specifically covers "failure to make delivery."
It is said that this is not to be deemed to include a case
where there was not only failure to deliver to the consignee but actual delivery to another or delivery in violation of instructions. But 'delivery' must mean delivery
as required by the contract, and the terms of the stipulation are comprehensive,-fully adequate in their literal
and natural meaning to cover all cases where the delivery
has not been made as required. When the goods have
been misdelivered there is as clearly a 'failure to make
delivery' as when the goods have been lost or destroyed;
and it is quite as competent in the one case as in the
other for the parties to agree upon reasonable -notice of
the claim as a condition of liability. It may be urged
that the carrier is bound to know whether it has delivered
to the right person or according to instructions. This
argument, however, even with respect to the particular
carrier which makes a misdelivery, loses sight of the
practical object in view. In fact, the transactions of a
railroad company are multitudinous and are carried on

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

through numerous employees of various grades. Ordinarily the managing officers, and those responsible for
the settlement and contest of claims, would be without
actual knowledge of the facts of a particular transaction.
The purpose of the stipulation is not to escape liability
but to facilitate prompt investigation. And, to this end,
it is a precaution of obvious wisdom, and in no respect
repugnant to public policy, that the carrier by its contracts should require reasonable notice of all claims against
it even with respect to its own operations.
There is, however, a further and controlling consideration. We are dealing with a clause in a bill of lading
issued by the initial carrier. The statute casts upon the
initial carrier responsibility with respect to the entire
transportation,. The aim was to establish unity of responsibility (Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219
U. S. 186, 199-203; N. Y., P. & N. R. R. v. Peninsula
Produce Exchange, 240 U. S. 34, 38), and the words of
the statute are comprehensive enough to embrace responsibility for all losses resulting from any failure to
discharge a carrier's duty as to any part of the agreed
transportation which, as defined in the Federal Act, includes delivery. It is not to be doubted that if, in the
case of an interstate shipment under a through bill of
lading, the terminal carrier makes a misdelivery, the
initial carrier is liable; and when it inserts in its bill of
lading a provision requiring reasonable notice of claims
"in case of failure to make delivery" the fair meaning of
the stipulation is that it includes fll cases of such failure,
as well those due to misdelivery as those due to the loss
of the goods. But the provision in question is not to be
construed in one way with respect to the initial carrier
and in another with respect to the connecting or terminal
carrier. As we have said, the latter takes the goods
under the bill of lading issued by the initial carrier, and
its obligations are measured by its terms (Kansas Southern

GEORGIA, FLA. & ALA. RY. v. BLISH CO.
241 U. S.

197

Opinion of the Court.

Ry. v. Carl, supra; Southern Railway v. Prescott, supra);
and if the clause must be deemed to cover a case of misdelivery when the action is brought against the initial
carrier, it must equally have that effect in the case of
the terminal carrier which in the contemplation of the
parties was to make the delivery. The clause gave abundant opportunity for presenting claims and we regard
it as both applicable and valid.
In this view, it necessarily follows that the effect of
the stipulation could not be escaped by the mere form of
the action. The action is in trover, but as the state
court said, "if we look beyond its technical denomination,
the scope and effect of the action is nothing more than
that of an action for damages against the delivering
carrier." 15 Ga. App., p. 147. It is urged, however,
that the carrier in making the misdelivery converted the
flour and thus abandoned the contract. But the parties
could not waive the terms of the contract under which
the shipment was made pursuant to the Federal Act;
nor could the carrier by its conduct give the shipper the
right to ignore these terms which were applicable to that
conduct and hold the carrier to a diffekent responsibility
from that fixed by the agreement made under the published tariffs and regulations.' A different view would
antagonize the plain policy of the Act and open the door
to the very abuses at which the Act was aimed. Chi.
& AIt. R. R. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 153, 166; Kansas Southern
Ry. v. Carl, supra; A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Robinson, 233
U. S. 173, 181; Southern Ry. v. Prescott,supra. We are not
concerned in the present case with any question save as
to the applicability of the provision, and its validity,
and as we find it to be both applicable and valid, effect
must be given to it.
But, while this is so, we think that the plaintiff in error
is not entitled to succeed in its ultimate contention under
the stipulation for the reason that it appears that notice

198 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of the claim was in fact given. It is true that in the
statement made by the Court of Appeals it is said that
so far as appears from the record "no claim was filed by
the shipper." We must assume, however, that this was
in effect a construction of the provision as requiring a
more formal notice than that which was actually sent.
For the court had already set forth the uncontroverted
facts in detail showing that the shipper (having made an
investigation in response to the communication Of the
traffic manager of the Railway Company) had telegraphed
to the latter, on June 7, 1910, only five days after the
arrival of the goods at destination, as follows: "We
will make claim against railroad for entire contents of
car at invoice price. Must refuse shipment as we can not
handle." In the preceding telegrams, which passed between the parties and are detailed by the state court in
stating the facts, the shipment had been adequately
identified, so that this final telegram taken with the
others established beyond question the particular shipment to which the claim referred and was in substance
the making of a clAim within the meaning of the stipulation,-the Qbject of which was to secure reasonable
notice. We think that it sufficiently apprised the carrier
of the character of the claim, for while it stated that the
claim was for the entire contents of the car 'at invoice
price' this did not constitute such a variance from the
claim for the value of the flour as to be misleading; and
it is plain that no prejudice resulted. Granting that
the stipulation is applicable and valid, it does not require
documents in a particular form. It is addressed to a
practical exigency and it is to be construed in a practical
way. The stipulation required that the claim should be
made in writing, but a telegram which in itself or taken
with other telegrams contained an adequate statement
must be deemed to satisfy this requirement. See Ryan
v. United States, 136 U. S. 68, .83; Kleinhans. v. Jones,

STOWE v. HARVEY.
241 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

68 Fed. Rep. 742, 745; Godwin v. Francis,L. R. 5 C. P.
295; Queen v. Riley [1896], 1 Q. B. 309, 314, 321; Howley
v. Whipple, 48 N. H. 487, 488; State v. Holmes, 56 Iowa,
588, 590.
Judgment affirmed.

STOWE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF HARVEY, v. HARVEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 329.

Argued April 27, 28, 1916.-Decided May 8, 1916.

In this case the substantial controversy was whether a transfer made
by the bankrupt to his wife of certain valuable certificates of stock
was-made before or after insolvency; and, notwithstanding doubts
engendered by conflicting statements and questionable circumstances
and the different conclusion reached by the trial court, this court
agrees with the conclusion reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals
that the gift was made during the period of solvency.
In California, where the bankrupt resided, title to stock may be transferred by delivery of certificates and the corporate books are not
for public information.
219 Fed. Rep. 17, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the legality of a transfer of
assets made by the bankrupt more than four months prior
to the filing of the petition, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. E. Shaw, with whom Mr. Bert Schlesinger, Mr.
Edwin H. Williams and Mr. Edward M. Cleary were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Charles S. Wheeler, with whom Mr. John F. Bowie
was on the brief, for appellee.

