CINCINNATI & TEX. PAC. RY. v. RANKIN.
241 U. S.

319

Statemeat of the Case.

CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS & TEXAS PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY v. RANKIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 59. Argued November 5, 1915.-Decided May 22, 1916.
Where the state court has treated the instrument involved as properly
in evidence and has undertaken to determine its validity and effect,
this court need, not consider mooted questions of pleading as to
whether such instrument was properly before the court.
Rights and liabilities of parties to an interstate shipment by rail depend upon Acts of Congress, the bill of lading, and common-law
principles as acceptedand applied in Federal tribunals.
The interpretation and effect of a bill of lading of an interstate shipment may present a Federal question even though there is not affirmative proof that the carrier has filed tariff schedules in compliance
with the Act to Regulate Commerce.
It will not be presumed, in absence of affirmative proof to the contrary, that an interstate carrier is conducting its affairs in violation
of law. The presumption that all things required by lasare rightly
done applies unless the circumstances of the case overturn it.
Where a carrier by rail offers rates for'interstate shipments fairly based
upon valuation, it may limit its liability by special contract.
Recitals in a bill of lading, signed by both carrier and shipper, that
lawful alternate rates based on valuations were offered, constitute
admissions by the shipper and prima facie evidence of choice, and
cast on the shipper the burden of proof to contradict his own admissions.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Act
to Regulate Commerce and the Carmack Amendment
thereto, as applied to a shipment of cattle under a bill of
lading containing stipulations for limited liability, are
stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Mr. James J. Lynch, with whom Mr. Michael M. Allison,
Mr. Isaac G. Phillips and Mr. Edward Colston were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. B. Miller and Mr. Charles C. Fox for defendant
inerror.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Defendants in error, experienced shippers, on November 6, 1911, delivered to plaintiff railway at Danville,
Kentucky, a car of mules, nineteen of which they owned,
for transportation to Atlanta, Georgia. They signed
and accepted a through bill of lading, the pertinent portions of which follow:
"Contract for Limited Liability in the Transportation of
Live Stock at Reduced Rates."
"3. Limit of value. That this agreement is subject to
the following terms and conditions, which the said shipper
accepts as just and ieasonable, and which he admits having
read and having had explained to him by the agent of the
said carrier, viz:
That the published freight rates on live stock of said
carrier are, in all cases, based on the following maximum
calculations, which are as high as the profit in the freight
rates will admit of the carrier assuming responsibility for:
Horses or Mules, not exceeding $75.00 each
That the tariff regulations of said carrier provide that
for every increase of one hundred per cent, or fraction
thereof, in the above valuations, there shall be an increase
of fifty per cent in the freight rate; and That the said
shipper in order to avail himself of said published freight
rates, agrees that said carrier shall not, in any case of loss

CINCINNATI & TEX. PAG. RY. v. RANKIN.
241 U. S.

321

Opinion of the Court.

or damage to said live stock, be liable for any sum in
excess of the actual. value of said stock at the place and
date of shipment, nor for any amount in excess of the
values stated above, which are hereby agreed to be not
less than the just and true values of the animal-, unless
an additional amount is herein stated and paid for."
"4. Guaranteed freight rate. That the rate of freight
guaranteed by said carrier, in view of the above stipulated
to
per
from
valuations is $-and that said shipper accepts this rate of freight, and
agrees to' pay same at destination in connection with
the charges advanced by said carrier, as indicated above,
and any other legitimate charges which said carrier may
advance for account of said shipper between point of shipment and destination for feed, water, etc."
A wreck occurred at Dayton, Tennessee; some of the
animals were killed; others were injured and afterwards
sold by plaintiff in error; and shippers brought this suit
in the Circuit Court, Hamilton County, Tennessee, to
recover $4,750-$250 per head.
The declaration contains two counts. The first-a
common law count on a general contract of affreightment-alleges delivery with agreement to pay full freight
charges and that the carrier accepted and agreed to transport safely but failed so to do. The second sets up execution and delivery of the bill of lading annexed as an
exhibit, but declares shippers knew nothing of the limited
liability provision therein; and further "that the whole
of said paper, and especially the $75 limitation, is void
and of no effect and is not operative or binding on them
or either of them," because (1) executed in Kentucky,
under whose laws it is void, (2) unreasonable and unjust,
(3) no other contract of transportation was offered and
shippers were not aware that the transportation was to
take place at reduced rates and under stipulations for
limited liability, (4) there was no consideration, (5) the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

parties were not on equal terms. It also denounces as
untrue statements in clause 3 of the bill concerning
published freight rates and tariff regulations.
The railway filed nine pleas, two *neral-"not guilty"
and "that it did not breach the contract of carriage" as
alleged-and seven special ones. Among other things,
the company avers in the latter: That it had duly filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission and had.
published and kept open for inspection schedules of joint
rates between Danville, Kentucky, and Atlanta; they
contained classifications of freigh in force and stated
separately all terminal and other charges and provided
that carload rates upon horises and mules where valued
not above $75 each should be $95 per car and for every
increase of one hundred per cent. or fraction thereof there
should be an increase of fifty per cent. in rate; plaintiffs
knew the company's freight rate was based upon specified
values and that it stood ready to transport at increased
valuation and rate, and, knowing these facts, they declared the value specified and thereby obtained the cheaper
rate of $95 per car. 'That the receipt or bill of lading duly
signed by shippers fixes a maximum value; contains definite recitals (set out above) in respect of rates, etc.,
and "with all the provisions thereof, is valid and binding
upon the plaintiffs and the defendant when applied to
interstate shipments which are governed by the Acts of
Congress of February 4, 1887, and June 29, 1906, and
defendant pleads and relies upon the same as a complete
bar to any recovery (in excess of $75.00) for such mules
as were actually killed and such ones as were actually
damaged to the amount of $75.00."
Issue being joined the cause was tried to a jury. D. F.
Rankin, testifying for himself, declared the mules were
worth from $230 to $240 each; described the circumstances
surrounding shipment, identified exhibited bill of lading
as signed and accepted by him but stated he did not read

CINCINNATI & TEX. PAC.- RY. v. RANKIN.
241 U. S.

323

Opinion of the Court.

it and nothing was said about rates and that he was not
aware of the $75 limitation; admitted he had shipped
stock over same route before, paying $95 per car; and asserted he had seen no printed tariff rates from Danville
to Atlanta. The bill so identified was treated through-out the trial as properly in evidence; but no duly filed and
applicable rate schedules were presented, nor did the
railway introduce any evidence to support its special
pleas.
The trial judge held:
The one controlling point in this case is as to whether
or not there is a presumption in favor of the defendant's
compliance with the law whereby it seeks by its action
to escape from liability.'
o
"There is no doubt in the mind of the Court but that if
the railroad were charged with a violation of the provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act, a presumption in favor
of its compliance would arise; but where the railroad, as
in this case sets up, as a matter of defense, its compliance
with the provisions of that Act, the Court is of the opinion
that there is no presumption in its favor, and that the
burden of proof is on the defendant to show a substantial
compliance with the provisions of the Act."
"It therefore follows that under the facts in this case,
the undisputed facts and the decisions of our courts on
this subject, that the court is of the opinion that the contract in this case is invalid and the question goes to the
jury as to the negligence of the-defendant on this shipment of stock."
And he charged the jury:
"If you find from the proof in this case that the plaintiff
did deliver in good condition 19 mules to the defendant
to be transported to Atlanta, Ga., and that there was an
accident, a collision on the railroad, then the burden is
upon the Railway Company to show that it has not been
guilty of any negligence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

'If the defendant company shows you by the greater
weight or the preponderance of the evidence its freedom
from negligence, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
"If you reach the conclusion that the plaintiff has made
out his case and is entitled to recover for the value of the
19 mules, then he would be entitled to recover the value
of the mules at the place of their destination, in this case,
Atlanta, Georgia, according to their value, at the time
they would have been delivered but for the negligence of
the carrier, less whatever transportation charges there
would have been on this car of stock.
"It is also in the discretion of the jury to award interest
on any recovery from the time of the loss up to the present
time."
"Negligence is the want or lack of exercise of
that degree of care which the particular circumstances
demands. In this case the carrier is held to the highest
degree. of care for the safe transportation of the animals."
Judgment upon a verdict for $4,180-$220 per headand $328.82 interest, was affirmed by the Court of Civil
Appeals, and the Supreme Court approved this action
without opinion.
The Court of Civil Appeals inter alia declared:
"It hardly appears debatable to us, that it was incumbent upon the railroad company, in this case, in the present
state of the pleadings, to show by proof that it had met
the requirements of the Interstate Commerce Act, and
this burden it failed to carry, and having failed to do so it
cannot rely upon presumption.
"Having reached this conclusion, it remains to be determined what are the rights and liabilities of these parties,
under the contract of carriage in this case. There being
nothing in the record to show that the rate of freight
charged by the company was approved and authorized
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, we must determine the rights of these parties upon the theory that no

CINCINNATI & TEX. PAC. RY. v. RANKIN.
241 U. S.

325

Opinion of the Court.

such rate was ever filed with the Commission, or approved
or authorized by it, and that the rate and contract made
in this case was without the authority and outside of the
act of Congress, invoked by this defendant; or, in other
words, so far as the Interstate Commerce Act is concerned,
this railroad company has made the contract in violation
of its provisions.
"There is no proof that the railroad company had any
other rate than the one charged plaintiffs for this shipment
between Danville, Ky., and Atlanta, Georgia. There is
no proof that it offered to plaintiffs, at the time it issued
to them its bill of lading, a contract with unlimited liability or, in other words, a common law liability.
f . . .If the company had any other rate than the
one it agreed for the transportation of this freight, it did
not disclose that fact to the shipper nor did it have any
rate whatever posted in, or about, its office. If it had a
shipping contract with unlimited liability it did not choose
between the two, and, from the undisputed facts developed
in this record, it is clear to our minds this contract is void
and the limited liability clause therein cannot be relied
upon by the company as a bar to the recovery of full value
of each animal shipped. If, however, the defendant had
shown, by proof, that the rate charged by it for this
freight had been filed with and approved by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and that it had posted the rate
as required by the act of Congress, then a rate of freight
based upon the valuation fixed in the bill of lading would
have limited plaintiffs' right to recover to the value fixed
in the contract."
Plaintiff in error, maintains, first, that not having been
negligent it i's
not liable for any sum; and, second, that
in any event it is protected by a valid limitation in the
bill of lading.
Counsel concede liability of a common carrier under the
long recognized common law rule not only for negligence

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

but also as an insurer and that unless the Carmack Amendment (copied in margin) 1 has changed this rule the railway
is responsible for damages not exceeding specified value.
But they insist that in Adam8 Express Co. v. Croninger,
226 U. S. 491, we held this amendment restricts a carrier's
liability to loss "caused by it." And, consequently, they
say, the trial court erred when it charged: "In this case the
carrier is held to the highest degree of care for the safe
transportation of the animals."
Construing the Carmack Amendment, we said through
Mr. Justice Lurton in the case cited, 226 U. S. pp. 506507: "The liability thus imposed is limited to 'any loss,
injury or damage caused by it or a succeeding carrier to
whom the property may be delivered,' and plainly implies
a liability for some default in its common law duty as a
common carrier." Properly understood neither this nor
any other of our opinions holds that this amendment has
changed the common law doctrine theretofore approved
by us in respect of a carrier's liability for loss occurring
on its own line.
The state courts,' treating the bill of lading as properly
in evidence, undertook to determine its validity and effect.
We need not, therefore, consider the mooted questions of
pleading. The shipment being interstate, rights and liabilities of the parties depend upon acts of Congress, the bill
"

'That

any common carrier, railroad, or transportation company

receiving property for transportation from a point in one State to a
point in another State shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor and
shall be liable to the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury to such property caused by it or by any common carrier, railroad,
or transportation company to which such property may be delivered
or over whose line or lines such property may pass, and no contract,
receipt, rule, or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad,
or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed: Provi&d, That nothing in this section shall deprive any holder of such
receipt or bill of lading of any remedy or right of action which he has
under existing law.

.

.

2" (Ch. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 595.)

CINCINNATI & TEX. PAC. RY. v. RANKIN.
241 U. S.

327

Opinion of the Court.

of lading, and common law rules as accepted and applied
in Federal tribunals. Cleveland & St. Louis Ry. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588; Southern Express Co. v. Byers, 240
U. S. 612, and cases cited; Southern Ry. v. Prescott, 240
U. S. 632.
We cannot assent to the theory apparently adopted
below that the interpretation and effect of a bill of lading
issued by a railroad in connection with an interstate shipment present no Federal question unless there is affirmative proof showing actual compliance with the Interstate
Commerce Act. It cannot be assumed, merely because
the contrary has not been established by proof, that an
interstate carrier is conducting its affairs in violation of
law. Such a carrier must comply with strict requirements
of the Federal statutes or become subject to heavy penalties, and in respect of transactions in the ordinary course
of business it is entitled to the presumption of right conduct. The law "presumes that every man, in his private
and official character, does his duty, until the contrary
is proved; it will presume that all things are rightly done,
unless the circumstances of the case overturn this presumption, according to the maxim, omnia presumuntur rite et
solemniter esse acta, donec probetur contrarium." Bank of
the United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 69-70; Knox
County v. Ninth NationalBank, 147 U. S. 91, 97; Maricopa
& Phoenix R. R. v. Arizona, 156 U. S. 347, 351; Sun
Publishing Assn. v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642, 649.
Under our former opinions the settled doctrine is that
where alternate rates fairly based upon valuation are
offered a railroad may limit its liability by special contract.
Pierce Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 236 U. S. 278, 283.
The essential choice of rates must be made to appear before a carrier can successfully claim the benefit of such a
limitation and relief from full liability. And as no interstate rates are lawful unless duly filed with the Commission, it may become necessary for the carrier to prove its

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

schedules in order to make out the requisite choice. But
where a bill of lading, signed by both parties, recites that
lawful alternate rates based on specified values were
offered, such recitals constitute admissions by the shipper
and sufficient prima facie evidence of choice. If in such a
case the shipper wishes to contradict his own admissions,
the burden of proof is upon him. York Co. v. CentralR. R.,
3 Wall. 107, 113; The Delaware, 14 Wall. 579, 601; Hart
v. PennsylvaniaRailroad, 112 U. S. 331, 337; Cau v. Texas
& PacificRy., 194 U. S. 427, 431; Squire v. New York Central R. R., 98 Massachusetts, 239, 248; Wabash R. R. v.
Curtis, 134 Ill. App. 409, 412; Hutchinson on Carriers,
3d ed., ยง 475.
The bill of lading in question is plainly entitled "Contract for Limited Liability in the Transportation of Live
Stock at Reduced Rates" and contains the conspicuous
provisions concerning published rates, tariff regulations,
choice offered the shipper and limit upon the carrier's
liability, etc., above set out. In view of these recitals
and admissions, the limitation of liability must be treated
as prima facie valid, and, consequently, the trial court
erred in holding it void as a matter of law and permitting
a recovery for full value of the animals.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
to the Supreme Court of Tennessee for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

