OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO

AND NORTHWESTERN
COMPANY v. BOWER.

241 U. S.

RAILWAY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEBRASKA.

No. 301. Argued Mareh 16, 17, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.
While the employer is under a duty to exercise ordinary care to supply
machinery and appliances reasonably safe and suitable for the use
of the employee, he is not required to furnish the latest, best, and
safest, or to discard standard appliances upon the discovery of later
improvements, provided those in use are reasonably safe and suit-

able.
Subject to this rule, the question whether the appliance which caused

the injury in this case, and which was not of the latest type, was
reasonably safe and suitable, was properly submitted to the jury.
Assumption by a locomotive engineer of the ordinary risk of using a
lubricator glass when subjected to a normal bursting strain, does
not import assumption of an increased and latent danger attributable to the employer's negligence in maintaining the appliance upon
an engine carrying an undue pressure.
96 Nebraska, 419, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment

for damages for personal injuries in an action under the
Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. A. McLaughlin with whom Mr. William G.
Wheeler, and Mr. Wymer Dressler were on the brief, for

plaintiff in error.
Mr. Michael F. Harringtonfor the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

We have here under review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska affirming a judgment in favor of de-

CHI. AND NORTHWESTERN RY. v. BOWER.
241 U. S.

471

Opinion of the Court.

fendant in error in an action based upon the Federal
Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908 (c. 149, 35
Stat. 65), for the loss of an eye caused by the breaking of a
lubricator glass on a locomotive engine upon which he
was at work as engineer in the employ of plaintiff in error.
96 Nebraska, 419.
No question is made but that the cause of action arose
in interstate commerce so as to bring the case within the
Federal act. The facts upon which the question of liability depends are these: The plaintiff in the action (defendant in error) was an experienced locomotive engineer.
At the time of his injury, which occurred at night in the
month of November, 1910, he had just oiled his engine,
taken it from the round-house, and placed it upon the
outgoing track in readiness for his run. The engine was
equipped with a Nathan lubricator, an appliance containing oil for the steam cylinders. and the air pump, the oil
being conducted to and within the parts where needed
under steam pressure from the boiler. In order to give
the engineer a view of the interior of the apparatus,
and thus enable him to see that the oil was dropping,
three cylindrical glass tubes were attached, one carrying
the oil for each steam cylinder and one for the air pump.
Each of these glasses was surrounded with a shield of
perforated metal in two parts hinged together and lightly
clamped upon the glass tube by means of a spring to hold
it in place. When the lubricator was in operation, the
tubes were required to sustain the same steam pressure
as the boiler. These tubular glasses would sometimes
break. This was most liable to occur: (1) when a glass
was newly installed and before it had been properly tempered; (2) when it was subjected to a sudden change of
temperature, as when steam was admitted to it while cold;
and (3) they would after six or seven weeks' use sometimes
"wear thin" and break for this reason. The metal shield
was designed in part at least to prevent injury to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

engineer from flying pieces in case the glass should break.
This type of lubricator had been in use for over twenty
years and had been used upon all defendant's engines
down to a time between three and four years prior to the
accident. Then a new type known as the Bull's Eye
came into use and was recognized as a better appliance
because, being unbreakable, it was safer for the engineer,
and at the same time obviated the loss of time and delay
of trains attributable to breakage of lubricators of the
Nathan type; and defendant began to instal Bull's Eye
lubricators in place ,of the older type upon engines already in use and to place them upon all new engines.
During the earlier period of the use of the Nathan and
before the construction of locomotives of classes Q and R,
the engines carried only 140 to 150 pounds boiler pressure,
while engines of the classes mentioned carried 190 pounds.
An experienced witness called by defendant testified that
at the time of the trial (about a year after the accident),
approximately 25 per cent. of the engines were still using
the Nathan lubricator and 75 per cent. were equipped
with the Bull's Eye; that the Bull's Eye was and had been
for three or four years recognized as "the proper appliance"; that the Nathan was dangerous to the men, and
that the change was being made partly because of this and
partly because the breaking of the old style lubricator
sometimes delayed trains.
Plaintiff testified that during most of the time for the
past 20 years he had operated locomotives equipped with
Nathan lubricators having tubular glasses, but not all
of these were high-pressure engines. The engine on which
he was injured was of Class R, and carried a boiler pressute of 190 pounds. He had operated it for about two
months prior to the time of his injury. During his experience of 20 years,. lubricator glasses had broken with
him on three previous occasions, the last being about
three weeks before the occurrence in question. At this

CHI. AND NORTHWESTERN RY. v. BOWER. 473
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

time he asked that a Bull's Eye be substituted on his
engine. He testified that this was not because he considered the old lubricator dangerous, but because he
wanted to save time on the road in the event of a breakdown. He also testified that he knew that when a new
glass was put into a Nathan lubricator it was liable to
burst if the steam was turned on suddenly, or if steam was
turned on quickly in cold weather, and that on the occasion in question, following the correct practice, he first
partially opened the throttles, admitting the steam to the
tubes to warm them, afterwards fully opening the throttles,
and that it was about seven minutes after this was done
that the explosion occurred.
The trial court submitted the case to the jury with instructions to the effect that the burden of proof was upon
plaintiff to show that defendant had carelessly and negligently maintained the shield and spring and glass in the
lubricator in a weak and dangerous condition, that the
lubricator glass was not of sufficient strength for use upon
the engine in question or any other engine carrying 190
pounds of steam, and that this fact was known to defendant, or that its experience with said glass and lubricator
had been such that it ought to have known that the same
was insufficient and dangerous; and that if they believed
from a preponderance of the evidence that defendant was
thus negligent, and that plaintiff was injured as a result
of it, they should find for the plaintiff, otherwise for the
defendant.
The principal controversy is as to whether the evidence
was sufficient to go to the jury upon the question of defendant's negligence in furnishing the locomotive in
question with a lubricator having tubular glasses as described.
The rule of law is: That the employer is under a duty
to exercise ordinary care to supply machinery and appliances reasonably safe and suitable for the use of the em-

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

ployee, but is not required to furnish the latest, best, and
safest appliances, or to discard standard appliances upon
the discovery of later improvements, provided those in
use are reasonably safe and suitable. Washington &c.
R. R. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570; Patton v. Tex. &
Pac. Ry., 179 U. S. 658, 664. In our opinion, a correct
application of this rule required the present case to be
submitted to the jury. Properly limiting the inquiry
(and, as we have seen, the trial court did so limit it,)
there was no question of attributing negligence to an employer for merely f~iling to promptly instal the latest,
best, and safest appliance; it was a question of keeping an
older type of appliance in use after its insufficiency had
been demonstrated by experience, and perhaps under
conditions materially different from those which had obtained when its use began, in the face of notice that it
was not reasonably safe and suitable. It was reasonably
inferable from the evidence that defendant's experience
had shown that a glass tube capable of withstanding the
lower pressures of 140 to 150 pounds could not be relied
upon to withstand a pressure of 190 pounds, and that the
difficulty could not be obviated, as was attempted, by
using thicker glass for the tubes, because its very thickness
increased the danger of *bursting when steam was first
admitted; there being evidence from a witness called by
defendant that the older.type of lubricator was a dangerous instrument to be used upon a high-pressure boiler
and that they broke rather frequently; that it was for this
reason, in part, that defendant had introduced the Bull's
Eye, beginning three or four years before the accident,
installing them first upon high-pressure engines of the Q
and R classes, and having already placed them upon a
majority of defendant's engines of all sizes. In this state
of the evidence it could not be said, as matter of law, that
defendant was free from negligence in delaying so long to
instal a Bull's Eye lubricator upon the engine in question.

CHI. AND. NORTHWESTERN RY. v. BOWER. 475
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The only other question relates to whether plaintiff
assumed the risk of performing his duty upon a locomotive
equipped with the Nathan lubricator. Instructions were
given to the jury upon the subject, but they are open to
some criticism which perhaps can be obviated only by
holding, as the Supreme Court of Nebraska held, that
there was nothing in the evidence that would sustain a
finding that plaintiff assumed the risk.
The crucial question is whether he knew or had sufficient
notice of the increased danger attributable to the employer's negligence. Plaintiff testified without contradiction that it was his understanding-he had been "always
taught to believe "-that the Nathan lubricator would
stand the boiler pressure of 190 pounds. Assuming, as the
undisputed evidence shows he had a right to assume, that
the glass was being subjected to no greater bursting strain
than it was designed to withstand, he still knew that,
under special circumstances that have been pointed out,
there was danger of a glass bursting unless precautions
were taken. Any risk of this character, unaffected by his
employer's negligence, he undoubtedly assumed, as a risk
ordinarily incident to the occupation hb pursued. But
this throws no light upon his right to recover, because if he
was subjected to no greater risk than that just now indicated, the employer was not negligent and there was no
ground of recovery. Under the trial court's instructions,
the jury must be presumed to have found that the Nathan
lubricator glasses had been shown by experience to be
incapable of withstanding a pressure of 190 pounds, that
defendant knew of this, and nevertheless negligently
maintained such glasses upon plaintiff's engine. There
was present, therefore, an extraordinary danger, not
normally incident to plaintiff's employment; it was in its
nature latent, and not obvious; and there is no evidence in
the record that plaintiff had received any notice or warning of the increased hazard attributable to his employer's

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

negligence. In short, while he knew there were certain
dangers naturally incident to the use of tubular glasses
upon the lubricator, there is nothing to show that he knew
or had any ground to believe that his employer had been
wanting in the exercise of proper care for his safety, or
that because of such want of care the danger to him was
greater than it ought to have been. Without this, he
could not be held to have assumed the increased risk.
Gila Valley Ry. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 101; Seaboard Air
Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 504.
1
Judgment affirmed.

SAN ANTONIO & ARANSAS PASS RAILWAY COMPANY v. WAGNER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 311.

Submitted April 14, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

Where the highest court of the State refuses to review the judgment
of the intermediate appellate court of the State, it is to the latter
court that the writ of error runs from this court.
Omission to plead or prove that plaintiff's injury occurred in interstate commerce not having been made the basis of any assignment
of error, held, in this case, in view of the state of the record, not to be
a ground for reversal.
Amendment to the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1903 enlarged
the scope of the act so as to embrace all vehicles used on any railway that is a highway of interstate commerce whether employed
at the time or not in interstate commerce.
The Safety Appliance Act requires locomotives to be equipped with automatic couplers and its protection extends to employees when coupling, as well as uncoupling, cars. Johnson v. Sodhern Pacific Co.,
196 U. S. 1.
Quxre, whether the failure of a coupler to work at any time does not
sustain a charge that the Safety Appliance Act has been violated.
See Chicago & Rock Island Ry. v. Brown, 229 U. S. 317.

