LANCASTER v. KATHLEEN OIL CO.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

to respond to any decree which might be rendered against
them. To avoid, however, all miscarriage of right from
any possible, though improbable, change of conditions,
without going into detail or stating the considerations
which control our conclusion on the subject, we content
ourselves with saying, first, that as to the Steamship
Company we are of the opinion that on the failure to make
the amount of the decree against Hogan & Sons, the libellant will be entitled to recover over against that company
to the amount of $100, to which its liability was limited
as stated in the bill of lading under which the shipment
was made; second, that even looking upon the Express
Company as a forwarder, under the circumstances of the
case and the terms of the bill of lading under which the
car was shipped by that company, the trial court rightly
held it liable and that recovery against it on failure to
enforce the decree against Hogan & Sons will also obtain.
It follows that the decree below must be reversed and
the cause remanded to the trial court with directions to
set aside its decree in so far as it dismissed the Steamship
Company from the case and to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

LANCASTER v. KATHLEEN OIL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 336.

Submitted April 26, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916.

As one not in possession may not maintain an action to quiet title,
and, as in Oklahoma, one may not maintain a suit in ejectment as
lessee under an oil or gas mining lease, an adequate remedy at law

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

does not exist in this case; and therefore equity has jurisdiction of a
suit brought by the holder of an oil and gas lease on lands in
Oklahoma to restrain those claiming under another lease from interfering with the property.
If such leases cover Indian allottee land and have been approved by
the Secretary of the Interior the case arises Under the laws of the
United States and a Federal court has jurisdiction.
A suit by one lessee against another, the prayer of the complaint in
which is not only recovery of possession of the property but also an
injunction restraining defendant from asserting rights under his
lease, cannot be regarded as a mere suit for ejectment; and if the bill
clearly shows that both plaintiff and defendant claim under leases
of Indian lands, the validity of which depends upon the construction
of Acts of Congress and the effect of hpproval given by the Secretary of the Interior, the case is one arising under the laws of the
United States of which the District Court has jurisdiction.
In such a case the statements of the bill can determine the jurisdiction
of the District Court as they are not mere anticipatory statements
of a possible defense to be set up by defendant.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court of a suit involving the validity of gas and oil leaseb
on lands of allottee Indians, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William F. Tucker and Mr. Hulette F. Aby for

appellants..
Mr. George S. Ramsey, Mr. Edward H. Chandler, Mr.
Edgar A. de Meules, Mr. Malcolm E. Rosser and Mr. Sol
H. Kuffman for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
This direct appeal is prosecuted to reverse the decree
of the court below dismissing the suit on the ground that
the bill alleged no cause of action within the jurisdiction
of the court as a Federal court.
Briefly summarized, the bill alleged that in 1903 Lizzie
Brown received from the United States a patent to certain

LANCASTER v. KATHLEEN OIL CO.
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

described land in Oklahoma as her homestead allotment as
a member of the Creek tribe of Indians; that she died
in March, 1912, leaving surviving as her sole heirs her
husband, Josiah Brown, and four minor children, all of
whom were made defendants. It was alleged that Brown,
the father, was appointed guardian of. the children and
that in April, 1912, he and the children as owners in fee
of the land in question made an oil and gas mining
lease to the plaintiffs which was recorded April 18, 1912;
that notwithstanding this lease about two months later,
that is, June 2, 1912, Brown on his own behalf and as
guardian made an oil and gas mining lease covering the
identical land to the Kathleen Oil Company, also made
a defendant, which lease was approved by the Secretary
of the Interior and was duly recorded. It was alleged
that plaintiffs entered upon the land under their lease
prepared to drill for oil, but, learning of the subsequent
lease to the Kathleen Oil Company, withdrew and made
an application to the Secretary of the Interior to cancel
his approval of that lease, which was denied. It was
averred that the Kathleen Oil Company had entered into
its lease with full knowledge of the prior lease to the plaintiffs, but that it had nevertheless gone into possession
and was operating under its lease and was producing
and selling oil and gas. The bill then alleged that the
plaintiffs' lease, although not-approved by the Secretary,
was valid, and that the subsequent lease to the defendant
company which was approved by the Secretary of the Interior was void because by the act of Congress of May 27,
1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, the land of Lizzie Brown descended to her heirs free from any restriction against
leasing the same for oil and gas mining purposes, and
because if that act did impose restrictions as to such a
lease, it was void for repugnancy to the Constitution of
the United States. The prayer was that the defendant
company be enjoined from entering on the land and from

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

continuing to operate under its lease, that all the defendants be restrained from interfering in any manner with
the plaintiffs in conducting operations under their lease

and from asserting or claiming any right to the oil and
gas deposits under the land or the right to mine and remove the same, and that the defendant company ac4ount
to the plaintiffs for the gas and oil which it bad removed.
The defendants moved to dismiss on the ground that
the court was without jurisdiction as a Federal court
to entertain the cause. The motion was granted and a
decree of dismissal entered, and for the purpose of this
direct appeal the court certified under the statute that
the dismissal had been ordered because "the essential
and appropriate allegations of the cause of action asserted
in said bill of complaint did not disclose a case arising
under the Constitution or a law or treaty of the United
States."
As it is apparent that the court below erred if the allegations concerning the validity of the lease of the plaintiffs, and the invalidity of that of the defendant company
were material to the cause of action stated in the bill, we
come at once to that question. In support of the proposition that such allegations were not material, it is argued
that the suit was the equivalent of an action at law in
ejectment to recover possession of the leased premises,
but was brought in equity 1ecause under the law of Oklkhoma a lessee of an oil and gas mining lease under the
circumstances here disclosed had no right to sue in ejectment. Kolachny v. Galbraith,26 Oklahoma, 772. Further
it is said that as in a suit in ejectment it is only necessary
to allege a right'of possession by the plaintiff and a wrongful possession by the defendant, averments by, anticipation of assumed defects in the plaintiffs' title to be alleged
by the defendant and of the causes which would be relied
upon to establish want of title in the defendant. are not
relevant or essential and are to be disregarded in determin-

LANCASTER v. KATHLEEN OIL CO.
241 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

ing the question of the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court. This it is said was expressly decided in Taylor v.
Anderson, 234 U. S. 74, and that case is relied upon as conclusive of this controversy.
But without questioning in the slightest degree the doctrine expounded Gr the conclusion reached in the Taylor
Case, we think it can here have no application, since we
are of the opinion that the assumption that the cause
of action al'eged in the bill under consideration is the
equivalent of a suit in ejectment is wholly without foundation. We say this because the prayer of the bill makes
it clear that the object of the suit was not only the reoovery of possession, but also an injunction forever restraining the defendant company from asserting any
rights under its lease and from interfering with the rights
of the plaintiffs under their lease. Such relief, it is apparent, could be granted only after determining the rights
of the parties under their respective leases which would
require a construction of the act of Congress referred to
as well as a decision concerning the authority of the Secretary of the Interior in approving the defendant company's
lease and the effect to be given to such approval.
It is said, however, if the bill be thus construed, the
suit is in substance one to quiet title and under the well
settled rule such a suit can be brought only by one in
possession. Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146; Boston
&c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632. But
this contention overlooks the reason upon which the rule
is based, as pointed out in the cases relied upon, which
is that one out of possession has an adequate remedy at
law by a suit in ejectment. As it is conceded that the
legal remedy was not here available, and that there was
hence jurisdiction in a court of equity to determine the
right of possession, it is clear that the rule has no application and that the court had equitable jurisdiction to determine all the issues presented by the bill.

55

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syflabus.

241 U.:S.

That the bill as thus construed states a cause of action
within the jurisdiction of the court below as a Federal
court is in substance conceded and is demonstrated by
the ruling in Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del Pozo, 236 U. S.
635, 643-644.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
erred in dismissing the cause for want of jurisdiction as a
Federal court, and its decree must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ON THE
RELATION OF KENNEDY v. BECKER, AS SHERIFF OF ERIE COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 666. Argued April 7, 1916.-Decided June 12, 1916

Power to preserve fish and game within its border is inherent in the
sovereignty of the States subject to-any valid exercise of authority
under the provisions of the Federal Constitution.
The reservation to the Seneca Tribe of hunting and fishing privileges on
the lands conveyed to Robert Morris by the treaty of the Big Tree
of 1797 was one in common with the grantees and others to whom the
privilege might be extended, but subject to the necessary power of
appropriate regulation by the State having inherent sovereignty
over the land.
Tribal Seneca Indians are subject to the fish and game laws of the
State of New York as to lands ceded by the Tribe to Robert Morris
by the Big Tree Treaty of 1797 and which are not within the Seneca
Indian Reservation notwithstanding the reservation of hunting and
fishing contained in said Treaty.
The fact that the Indians in this case are 'wards of the United States un-

