STOWE v. HARVEY.
241 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

68 Fed. Rep. 742, 745; Godwin v. Francis,L. R. 5 C. P.
295; Queen v. Riley [1896], 1 Q. B. 309, 314, 321; Howley
v. Whipple, 48 N. H. 487, 488; State v. Holmes, 56 Iowa,
588, 590.
Judgment affirmed.

STOWE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF HARVEY, v. HARVEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 329.

Argued April 27, 28, 1916.-Decided May 8, 1916.

In this case the substantial controversy was whether a transfer made
by the bankrupt to his wife of certain valuable certificates of stock
was-made before or after insolvency; and, notwithstanding doubts
engendered by conflicting statements and questionable circumstances
and the different conclusion reached by the trial court, this court
agrees with the conclusion reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals
that the gift was made during the period of solvency.
In California, where the bankrupt resided, title to stock may be transferred by delivery of certificates and the corporate books are not
for public information.
219 Fed. Rep. 17, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the legality of a transfer of
assets made by the bankrupt more than four months prior
to the filing of the petition, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. E. Shaw, with whom Mr. Bert Schlesinger, Mr.
Edwin H. Williams and Mr. Edward M. Cleary were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Charles S. Wheeler, with whom Mr. John F. Bowie
was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Oburt.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

241 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
J. Downey Harvey of San Francisco was adjudged a
bankrupt November 17, 1911. Appellant having become
trustee of the estate instituted this proceeding to set
aside a transfer by the bankrupt to his wife-defendant
in error-of certain stock in Shore Line Investment
Company because made without consideration and with
intent to delay and defraud his creditors. The complaint
alleges that the gift was made and stock transferred in
November, 1909, when it is admitted Harvey was insolvent. Mrs. Harvey maintains that her husband gave
the stock and actually delivered the properly endorsed
certificate to her in 1905, during all of which year his
solvency is conceded. The substantial controversy
throughout has been upon the question of fact thus raised.
Having heard witnesses, the trial court held the tramfer was made in 1909 and rendered a decree in favor of
the trustee. The Circuit Court of Appeals after a careful
review of the evidence, reached a contrary conclusion.
219 Fed. Rep. 17. We are now asked to reverse its decree
and sustain the trial court.
Notwithstanding doubts necessarily engendered by
some conflicting statements and questionable circumstances, upon consideration of the whole record we think
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is correct.
Appellant also suggests (a) that the gift is void because
Mrs. Harvey permitted her husband for more than four
years to retain apparent title to the stock and hold himself out as its real owner; and (b) that there was no actual
and continuous change of possession as required by the
state statute against fraudulent conveyances. In reply
to these suggestions it seems only necessary to cite National Bank v. Western Pacific Ry., 157 California, 573,
581, which announces as settled doctrine in California

LANE v. MICKADIET.
241 U. S.

Syllabus.

that title to stock may be transferred by delivery of certificates and corporate books are not for public information.
'The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
"
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. MICKADIET AND
TIEBAULT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 449. Argued April 10, 1916.-Decided May 22, 1916.
The general rule that courts have no power to interfere with the performance by the Land Department of the administrative duties devolving upon it, although they may, when the functions of the Department are at end, correct, as between proper parties, errors of
law committed by the Department in such administration, held to
be applicable in this case, as no exception exists to take it out of
the rule.
Under the acts of May 8, 1906 and June 25, 1910, the Secretary of the
Interior has exclusive authority and jurisdiction to determine the
heirs of an allottee Indian who are entitled to succeed to the allotment made to him under the act of February 8, 1887, in case of his
death during the restricted period; and this authority includes the
right to reopen and review a previous administrative order on proper
charges of newly discovered evidence or fraud while the property is
still under administrative control.
A court has no power to issue a writ of mandamus to control the conduct of the Secretary of the Interior concerning a matter within
his administrative authority.
43 App. D. C. 414, reversed.

