MONTELIBANO v. LA COMPANIA TABACOS.
241 U. S.

455

Syllabus.

ages as may accrue by reason of the stay. It is not,
therefore, as if the requirement were absolute. As has
been seen, the order is made only after adequate notice
and full opportunity to be heard, and when made is, with
reason, deemed prima facie correct. It relates to flowing
water, to the use of which there are conflicting claims.
Unless diverted and used the water will pass on and be
lost. No claimant is in possession and all assert a right
to take from the common source. In this situation we
think it is within the power of the State to require that,
pending the final adjudication, the water shall be distributed, according to the board's order, unless a suitable bond be given to stay its operation. Such a requirement is not arbitrary, does not take from one and give to
another and is not otherwise offensive to a right conception of due process. Detroitand Mackinac Ry. v. Michigan
Railroad Commission, 240 U. S. 564; Wadley Southern
Ry. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 660; Montezuma Canal
v. Smithville Canal, 218 U. S. 371, 385.
Decree affirmed.

MONTELIBANO Y RAMOS v. LA COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS
DE FILIPINAS.
I
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 217. Submitted March 8, 1916.-Decided June 5, 1916.

In an action of an equitable nature the proper method of review by
this court of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands under the act of July 1, 1902, ยง 10, is by appeal and not by
writ of error.
Where both courts below concurred in findings of fact and conclusions
of law, it is the duty of this court to affirm their judgment unless it
appears that they clearly erred; and so held in a case involving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

construction of, and transactions under, an agreement special in form,
whose true construction was in controversy.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands and the validity of a judgment of that court
in an action on contract between private parties, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harry W. Van Dyke for appellants and plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. C. L. Bouv4 for appellees and defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced by-appellants on the fourth
day of March, 1911, in the Court of First Instance of the
City of Manila. It was in its nature a suit in equity.
The whole controversy turns upon the construction of
certain instruments in writing, the provisions of which
will be outlined in stating the case. The complaint averred
that on October 25, 1905, the parties entered into a written contract whereby the Tobacco Company, through a
representative, "delivers to Don Alejandro Montelibano
for the purpose of collection, under the conditions hereinafter expressed, the following credits." There followed
a detailed statement of the credits, mentioning the names
of the debtors and the amount due from each, the aggregate being P.179,177.86. The company guaranteed the
existence and legitimacy of the credits, but not the solvency of the debtors. Montelibano obligated himself
to pay to the company as the value of the credits the sum
P.130,000 in instalments of P.20,000 in the month of
December in each of the years 1906, 1907, 1908, and 1909,
and the balance of P.50,000 in December, 1910. It was
agreed that if he should pay the P.130,000 at the times
provided "all the credits and documents of the debtors

MONTELIBANO v. LA COMPANIA TABACOS. 457
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which are now delivered to him as specifically stated in
paragraph one, will be transferred to him, and consequently Don Alejandro Montelibano agreed to pay in
cash to the Compania General de Tabacos de Filipinas
in the instalments set out the sum of one hundred and
thirty thousand pesos, in order to acquire the ownership
of the rest of the credits." All cancellations of credits
were to be made by the company upon the proposal of
Don Alejandro, "the latter, however, being authorized
to issue partial receipts for whatever sums he may collect."
The company was not to advance to him any sum for use
in the collection of the credits, nor to accept responsibility
for actions instituted by him for their collection, "said
party accepting whatever responsibilities may arise by
reason of his negotiations." The company conferred upon
him authority to conduct upon his own responsibility
all negotiations by him deemed requisite for the collection of the credits; "and in the event of any judicial action being instituted, the company shall sell to Mr. Montelibano the credit which is the object of such litigation."
The contract was publicly ratified by Montelibano and
his wife, who is the other appellant, on the tenth day of
November following its date, and in the ratification the
instrument, besides being copied at large, was described
as the document "in which the said company ceded to
the said Mr. Montelibano all the credits set forth in the
same to the end that the cessionary might carry into
effect the collection from all the debtors of the company
of the debts set forth in the inserted document, the total
amount of which aggregates the sum of one hundred and
seventy-nine thousand one hundred and seventy-seven
pesos and eighty-six centavos, by means of the authority
conferred by said company upon said Mr. Montelibano
to enable him to carry out upon his own responsibility
all the negotiations he might deem necessary for the collection of the credits mentioned, and that in the event

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

of any judicial action being instituted the company would
cede in sale to Mr. Montelibano the credit which was the
object of said litigation." The wife joined in the contract
and the ratification in order to pledge certain real estate
owned by her as security for the performance of the contract by her husband.
The complaint averred that appellants had taken all
steps possible to carry into effect the collection of the
credits, but had only been able to collect amounts aggregating P.29,491.04; that the remaining credits set forth
in the first clause of the contract did not exist in the
amount therein stated, and were not legitimate in their
nature, and for this reason, in spite of plaintiff's efforts
to collect them it had been impossible to do so. Plaintiffs
claimed that defendant company was responsible to the
plaintiffs for damages in the sum of P.129,734.29, and
prayed that they might recover this amount, and that the
contract of October 25, 1905, and the mortgages given to
secure it might be cancelled.
The appellee filed an answer and a cross-complaint
setting up the contract of October 25, 1905, and the
ratification of November 10, and also an agreement
afterwards made between the parties"under date December 7, 1908, supplemental to and modifying in certain
respects the previous contract; setting up that defendant
had complied with all the terms and conditions of these
contracts on its part to be perforined; that Montelibano
had paid defendant only P.20,736.95 on account of the
instalments agreed to -be paid "under the provisions of
said contracts whereby the said plaintiff had the option
of purchasing and acquiring the ownership of said credits
for the sum of P.130,000"; that after the expiration of
the term of the option, when he was by the terms and
conditions of the contracts obligated to account for all
sums of principal and interest collected on account of said
credits and to return to defendant all credits remaining

MONTELIBANO v. LA COMPANIA TABACOS. 459
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

uncollected, defendant demanded of said plaintiff an
accounting of his transaction in connection with the
credits as agent of the defendant and payment of all
sums of principal and interest collected, but he refused to
comply with the demand to pay over any sum collected
by him, to render accounts, or in any manner to comply
with his obligations under the contracts. Defendant
prayed that the action of plaintiffs be dismissed; that
the plaintiff Alejandro Montelibano be required to
render an accounting of the sums collected by him, of the
credits remaining uncollected, and of all his transactions
under the contracts, and that judgment be rendered in
favor of defendant and against the plaintiff Alejandro
for the sum found to be due; that a receiver be appointed
to care for the uncollected credits and the mortgaged
property; and for other relief.
Before trial plaintiffs asked for a dismissal of the
action. Their motion to this effect was denied, and the
case came on for hearing upon defendant's prayer for
affirmative relief and for an accounting and damages.
The trial court treated the contract as turning over the
credits to Montelibano for collection for defendant's
account, subject to an option to purchase the entire
amount of credits for the sum of P.130,000, payable in
instalments strictly as prescribed by the contract; found
that he had not only failed to pay the stipulated instalments in order to avail himself of the option, but had not
turned over or accounted for the amount actually collected by him; that he had collected P.61,715.98, and
paid over only P.20;736.95,-leaving a balance collected
by him and undelivered to the defendant of P.40,979.03,
in addition to which certain claims against Emilio Escay
and Quirino Gamboa had been prosecuted to judgment
and execution and the property of the debtors acquired
by Montelibano through the execution sales, and that
these properties were held by Montelibano in trust for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

company. "The conclusions are that the plaintiff having
failed to perform the contract on his part the defendant
is entitled to a return of his [its] property in so far as it can
be returned and to judgment for the value of the balance
which can not be returned, which value must be determined as the proceeds which the plaintiff received from
such claims, together with legal interest upon the amount
of cash received by the plaintiff upon such claims from the
time of the commencement of this action, which was by filing the complaint herein on the 4th day of March, 1911."
Judgment was therefore entered in favor of the defendant and against the plaintiff Montelibano for the sum of
P.40,979.03, less P.22,086.43 (the amount of the Escay
debt) if defendant 'should seek to recover the Escay
property from plaintiff, with interest from March 4,
1911, the date of the commencement of the action; also
for the possession and delivery of. certain enumerated
credits aggregating P.103,645.70; also for the Escay
property, and in case delivery thereof could not be had,
the sum of P.40,000, the value thereof, provided defendant did not elect to take the full judgment for money
collected as above stated, and if such election should be
made then this clause in relation to the return of the
property to be annulled; also for the property known as
the Gamboa property, or in case delivery thereof could
not be had, the sum of P.6,178.10; and for the costs.
The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands affirmed
this judgment, holding that the title to the credits never
passed to the plaintiff Alejandro Montelibano; that they
were delivered into his possession for collection, with an
agreement that he could become the owner thereof by
paying P.130,000 in the manner specified; that none of
these payments having been made as agreed, the credits
remained the property of the defendant company, and a
refusal to deliver them was properly the basis of a demand
for affirmative relief.

MONTELIBANO v. LA COMPANIA TABACOS. 461
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Coart.

The case comes to this court under ยง 10 of the act of
July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, 695, on account of the
amount in controversy. The action being of an equitable
nature, the proper method of review is by appeal, and
the writ of error will be dismissed. De la Rama v. De la
Rama, 201 U. S.303, 309; Gsell v. Insular Customs Collector, 239 U. S.93; De la Rama v. De la Rama, ante, pp.
154, 160.
The principal contention of appellants, and. the one
upon which all others turn, is that the Court of First
Instance and the Supreme Court of the Islands erred in
holding that, under the terms of the contracts of October 25, 1905, and December 7, 1908, the credits involved
were delivered to the appellant Alejandro Montelibano
not as purchaser but merely as agent for purposes of
collection, with an option to purchase that was not carried out, and that therefore the Tobacco Company was
entitled to the proceeds so far as collected and a return of
the uncollected credits or their value. In support of this
there is an elaborate argument respecting the construction of the instruments in question. It concedes that
many of their clauses are consistent with the view that
Montelibano had but an option to purchase the credits,
and that if this option were not accepted he was to account to the company for all that he collected; but it is
argued that other clauses and the general intent of the
agreements are to the contrary. It would be tedious to
recite the argument in detail, and we content ourselves
with saying that it has not convinced us that the courts
below clearly erred; and since they concurred in their
findings both upon questions of fact and upon questions
of-law, it is our duty to affirm their judgment. Ker v.
Couden, 223 U. S, 268, 279; Villanueva v. Villanueva,
239 U. S.293, 299.
Writ of error dismissed.
Decree affirmed on the appeal.

