CHI., BURLINGTON & Q. R. R. v. HARRINGTON.

177

Syllabus.

241 U. S.

of construction locality and design gave it a distinctively
maritime relation. When completed and in use, its injury
by a colliding ship would interfere, or tend to interfere,
with its service to navigation; and, while still incomplete,
such an injury would tend to postpone that service. We
know of no substantial reason why the jurisdiction of the
admiralty should be sustained in the one case and denied
in the other.
With respect to the temporary platform, it is to be
observed that this was a mere incident to the structure
and as such the jurisdiction would extend to the claim
for the damage to it.
The decree, so far as it dismissed the libel for want of
jurisdiction, is reversed, and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. HARRINGTON.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS

CITY COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 853. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted April 17, 1916.-Decided
May 1,1916.

Unless the injured employee of an interstate and intrastate carrier is
engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the injury, the
Federal Employers' Liability Act does not apply; and it is immaterial
whether such employee had previously been, or in the immediate
future was to be, engaged therein.
An employee of a carrier engaged in removing coal from storage tracks

to coal chutes is not engaged in interstate commerce, even though'
the coal had been previously brought from another State and was
to be used by locomotives in interstate hauls. Del., Lack. & West
R. R. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

The Federal Employers' Liability Act refers to interstate commerce
in a practical sense; and the test is whether the employee at the
time of the injury was engaged in interstate transportation, or in
work so closely related thereto as to be practically a part thereof.
Shanks v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 239 U. S. 556.
180 S. W. Rep. 443, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
for damages recovered by the representative of an employee of an interstate carrier in the state court and under
the state law, are stated in the opinion.

.Mr. J. G. L. Harvey for defendant in error in support
of the motion.
Mr. William Warner, Mr. Oliver H. Dean, Mr. William
D. McLeod, Mr. 0. M. Spencer and Mr. H. M. Langworthy
for plaintiff in error in opposition thereto.
MR. JUSTicm HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
Margaret. Harrington brought this action to recover
damages for the death of her husband, Patrick Harrington, a switchman employed bythe plaintiff in error. She
obtained judgment under the state law, the plaintiff in
error contending unsuccessfully that the decedent was
engaged in interstate commerce and that the case was
governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act. 180
S. W. Rep. 443. The state court said, in its statement of
facts:
"Defendant owns and operates a system of railroads
covering this and a number of other western States and
is a common carrier of both interstate and intrastate
traffic. Its terminal yards at Kansas City are in Missouri
and are an important center for the handling of both
kinds of business originating upon and confined to defendant's lines, as well as for the interchange of business
with other interstate railroads. Locomotives and cars

CHI., BURLINGTON & Q. R. R. v. HARRINGTON.
241 U. S.

179

Opinion of the Court.

used in both kinds of traffic are received, sent out, cared
for and repaired in the yards. The switching crew of
which Harrington was a member did not work outside
of this State and was engaged, at the time of his death,
in switching coal belonging to defendant, and which had
been standing on a storage track for some time, to the
coal shed, where it was to be placed in bins or chutes and
supplied, as needed, to locomotives of all classes, some of
which were engaged or about to be engaged in interstate
and others in intrastate traffic.-It may be conceded, as
argued by defendant, that none of its locomotives or
cars was set apart for service only in-intrastate commerce.
Defendant operated local trains from Kansas City to
terminal points in this State which carried only intrastate commerce, but the locomotives and cars of such
trains were subject to be diverted to other trains engaged
in interstate commerce."
The plaintiff in error takes exception to the statement
in part, asserting that there was no evidence that any
of the locomotives, which were supplied with fuel from
the coal chutes, were engaged exclusively in intrastate
commerce, or that any of the defendant's trains within
the State were engaged exclusively in that commerce.
For the present purpose, we may assume the fact to be
as stated by the plaintiff in error, and we may also assume,
as it insists, that there was no evidence that the coal had
been brought from mines within the State of Missouri
or from mines owned by the plaintiff in error. With
the movement of the coal to the storage tracks, however,
we are not concerned; that movement had long since
ended, as it is admitted that the coal was owned by the
Company and "had been in storage in its storage tracks
for a week or more prior to the time it was being switqhed
into the coal chutes oni the morning of the accident."
So, also, as the question is with respect to the employment of the decedent at the time of the injury (Illinois

180 ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

Central R. R. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478), it is not important whether he had previously been engaged in interstate commerce, or that it was contemplated that he
would be so engaged after his immediate duty had been
performed. That duty was solely in connection with
the removal of the coal from the storage tracks to the
coal shed, or chutes, and the only ground for invoking
the Federal Act is that the coal thus placed was to be
used by locomotives in interstate hauls.
As we have pointed out, the Federal Act speaks of
interstate commerce in a practical sense suited to the
occasion and "the true test of employment in such commerce in the sense intended is, was the employ6 at the
time of the injury engaged in interstate transportation
or in work so closely related to it as to be practically a
part of it." Shanks v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 239
U. S. 556, 558, and cases there cited. Manifestly, there
was no such close or direct relation to interstate trans-'
portation in the taking of the coal to the coal chutes.
This was nothing more than the putting of the coal supply
in a convenient place from which it could be taken as
required for use. It has been held that an employee of
the carrier while he is mining coal in the carrier's colliery
intended to be used by its interstate locomotives is not
engaged in interstate commerce within the meaning of
the Federal Act (Del., Lack. & West. R. R. v. Yurkonis,
238 U. S. 439), and there is no distinction in principle
between the two cases. In Great Northern Ry. v. Knapp,
240 U. S. 464, the question whether the employee was
engaged in interstate commerce was not presented, as
the application of the Federal statute was conceded in
the state court.
Judgment affirmed.

