MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN.
241 U. S.

613

Syllabus.

pellant on that day. The fundamental ground of af'
estoppel is wanting, and we need not weigh other considerations that might operate against it.
The judgment of conviction having been vacated by
an order of the court made within the scope of its power
and jurisdiction, there remains no legal foundation for
the commitment issued on March 20, 1915, and appellant
is entitled to be discharged from custody.
Final order reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. HILTON-GREEN, EXECUTORS OF
WIGGINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 126.

Argued December 9, 1915.-Decided June 12, 1916.

Material representations in an application for life insurance which are

incorrect, if known to be untrue by the assured when made, and
nothing else appearing, invalidate the policy issued by the insurer
relying on such representations, without further proof of actual
conscious design to defraud.
The general rule, which imputes an agent's knowledge to the principal,
does not apply when the third party knows there is no foundation
for the ordinary presumption, and he is acquainted with circumstances plainly indicating that the agent will not advise the principal.
The rule imputing agents' knowledge to the principal is intended to protect those exercising good faith and not as a shield for unfair dealing.

OCTOBER TERM, i915.

I Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

While § 2765, Florida Statutes, undertakes to designate as agents of
insurance companies certain persons, in fact, acting for such companies in §omb particulars, it does not fix the scope of their authority
as between the company and third persons, and does not raise special
agents with limited authority into general ones with unlimited power4
One consciously permitting an application containing material misrepresentations to be presented by subordinate agents to officers of a
life insurance company, under circumstances which he knows
negatives any probability of the actual facts being revealed, and later
accepting policies which he knew were issued in reliance upon statements both false and material, can claim nothing under such policies.
An applicant for insurance should exercise toward the company the
ame good faith which he may rightfully demand from it; the relationship demands fair dealing by both parties.
211 Fed. Rep. 31, reversed.

THE facts, which ievolve the construction and effect
of an application for life insurance policy containing false
statements, and the liability of the company issuing policies in reliance thereon, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. FrederickL. Allen, with whom Mr. Emmett Wilson,
Mr. PhilipD. Bealland Mr. Murray Downs, for petitioner.
Mr. W. A. Blount, with whom Mr. A. C. Blount and
Mr. B. F. Carter were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.

Respondents sued to recover upon four policies, not
different except as to numbers, for $7,662.00 each and
dated December 16, 1908, on the life of their testator
Wiggins, who died March 26, 1910. By various pleas
the insurance company set up that the application upon
which policies were based contai'ned material representations both false and fraudulent. In reply the executors
denied truth of each plea and also alleged that if the appli-

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN.
241 U. S.

615

Opinion of the Court.

cation contained any misrepresentations the actual circumstances were known to company when policies issued.
Two separate application blanks, each plainly printed
upon a large single sheet, were filled out and presented.
They are substantially identical except medical examiner's report upon one, dated December 15, 1908, is signed
by Geo. C. Kilpatrick, M. D., in two places, while the
other, dated December 16, 1908, is twice signed by J. S.
Turberville, M. 1). (Under the company's rules where
insurance applied for amounted to $30,000 two medical
examinations were required.)
At the top of each sheet the following appears: "THIS
APPLICATION made to the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York is the basis and a part of a proposed contract of insurance, subject to the charter of
the company and the laws of the State of New York. I
hereby agree that all the following statements and answers, and all those that I make to the company's medical
examiner, in continuation of this application; are by me
warranted to be true, and are offered to the company
as a consideration of the contract, which I hereby agree
to accept, and which shall not take effect unless and until
the first premium shall have been paid, during my continuance in good health, and unless also the policy shall
have been signed by the president and secretary and
countersigned by the registrar of the company and issued
during my continuance in good health; unless a binding
receipt has been issued as hereinafter provided."
Immediately thereafter are statements concerning
assured's address, occupation, birth, character of policy
desired, etc., and finally this, alleged and shown to be
untrue: "22. I have never made an application for life
insurance to any company or association upon which a
policy has not been issued on the plan and premium rate
originally applied for, except as to the following companies or associations: None, and no such application

.616

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

is now pending or awaiting decision." And this part
of the paper concludes:
"Dated at Pine Barren, Fla. Dec. 15, 1908.
Signature of person whose
life is proposed for in- CILBEY L. WIGGINS
I
surance,
I have known the above named applicant for six years
and saw him sign this application. I have issued binding
receipt No.-.
J. D. TORREY
Soliciting Agent,
[by rubber stamp]
J. D. TORREY, MANAGER,
MOBILE, ALA."
On lower* portion of the same page, under caption
"Medical Examiner's Report," are sundry statements, ostensibly by applicant, concerning his health, history, etc.among them the following, alleged and shown to be untrue,
"3..(a) What illnesses, diseases, or accidents have you
had since childhood? Pneumonia. Number of attacks:
One. Date of each: 1899. Duration: 30 days. Severity:
Not severe. Results: Complete recovery."
"4. State every physician whom you have consulted
in the past five years. None."
"8. Have you undergone any surgical operation? No."
"13. (a) Have you ever been under treatment at any
asylum, cure, hospital or sanitarium. No."
"16. Have you ever been examined for a policy in any
company or association which was not issued as applied
for? No."
This division ends thus:
"Dated at Pine Barren, I certify that my answers to
State of Florida the 15 day the foregoing questions are
of December 1908
correctly recorded by the
Witness:
Medical Examiner.
GEO. C. KILPATRICK, M. D. CILBEY L. WIGGINS
Signature of person examined."

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN.
241 U. S.

617

Opinion of the Court.

At the top of reverse page, under "Medical Examiner's
Report (Continued) ", there are many answers purporting
to be replies to inquiries propounded by medical examiner
concerning applicant's figure, apparent age, measurements, pulse, results of physical examination and personal
investigations, etc. And then the following:
"I certify that I have made
this examination at Pine Barren, Fla., on this 15 day of
December, 1908, and that GEO. C. KILPATRICK, M. D.

the foregoing questions have
been put, and the answers
of the applicant recorded as
stated.

Medical Examiner."

The four policies, after being signed in New York by the
president, secretary, and registrar of the company, were
delivered to assured in Florida. Among others, they contain these clauses:
"This policy and the application herefor, copy of which
is indorsed hereon or attached hereto, constitutes the
entire contract between the parties hereto. All statements
made by the insured shall, in the absence of fraud, be
deemed representations and not warranties, and no such
statement of the insured shall avoid or be used in defense
to a claim under this policy unless contained in the written
application herefor, a copy of which is indorsed hereon or
attached hereto." "Agents are not authorized to modify
this policy or to extend the time for paying a premium."
During summer of 1907 assured suffered serious pains
in his head and, after.consulting more than one physician,
went to a sanitarium at Montgomery, Alabama, and Was'
there operated on for a cystic enlargement of the lower
jaw caused by an impacted wisdom tooth. He was confined to the sanitarium for ten days and remained under

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

immediate care of a physician from July 16th to August 13th, 1907.
Early in November, 1908, he applied to Prudertial
Insurance Company of America through J. C. Hogue, a
special agent operating under J. R. Tapia, its manager at
Mobile, Alabama, for insurance amounting to $40,000.
The application was accompanied, according to its requirements, by two medical reports dated November 3d
and 4th, signed respectively by Dr. J. C. McLeod and
Dr. Geo. C. Kilpatrick. Several weeks later the company
indicated unwillingness to accept risk because of location
but the application although marked "withdrawn" was
retained. At this time Wiggins had $30,000 insurance
with the Prudential, $20,000 with the Equitable, and
$5,000 with fraternal insurance companies.
The application of petitioner now under consideration
resulted from earnest and persistent solicitation by the
same J. C. Hogue. The circumstances under which
papers were prepared and signed are not entirely clear; but
it appears without contradiction that they were not
signed by assured in Torrey's presence--there was no
personal acquaintance between the two men. Also that
neither medical report was signed by assured in presence
of Dr. Geo. C. Kilpatrick or Dr. J. S. Turberville; and
that neither physician made the personal examination
certified by him. The physicians filled the blanks and
signed their names at Hogue's request and because of his
representations. Through Torrey, petitioner's district
manager at Mobile, the application was forwarded to New
York, and, relying upon its statements, officers there
issued policies and sent them to assured with copies of
application papers which by reference were incorporated
therein. So far as appears, assured accepted them without
objection and paid the premiums.
An effort was made to show that facts concerning Wiggins' medical history, former unsuccessful application to

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN.
241 U. S.

619

Opinion of the Court.

Prudential and circumstances surrounding transactions
now in question were known by Hogue, the medical
examiners, or Torrey, each of whom it is claimed was
petitioner's agent.
Assured was sixty-one years of age, president of a lumber
company, apparently a man of considerable wealth, and
experienced in insurance matters.
At conclusion of evidence counsel for insuftuce company
asked a directed verdict-. This was refused; and the court
in effect instructed the jury: That in order for company
successfully to defend upon ground of false statements
these must have been material and made by Wiggins with
knowledge of their falsity and with a fraudulent purposethat is, with intent to deceive. That if they believed it
knew of their falsity when application was accepted, no
defense could be based upon them. That it knew the
actual facts if the jury "should find that an agent whose
knowledge would be the knowledge of the defendant did
so know." But if the jury found that falsity of statements was within knowledge of Hogue and Torrey and
medical examiners and further found an understanding,
tacit or express, between Wiggins and said agents to
procure the policies by collusive co6peration to conceal the
truth, there could be no recovery. Excerpts which follow
fairly indicate general import of charge:
"The contract of insurance in this case as expressed by
the policies, embraces the statements and representations
of Wiggins, the deceased, made to the agent, Hogue, or to
Kilpatrick, or Turberville, the medical examiners. Such
statements were required to be truthfully made, and was a
condition for the issuance of the contract, and this contract provides that all statements made by the insured
shall, in the absence of fraud, be deemed representations,
and not warranties. Whether the representations made
by Wiggins in his application for insurance had been
rejected; or whether he had been treated in a cure, san-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court..

241 U. S.

itarium or hospital; or whether he had undergone a surgical operation; or whether he had had any illness or
disease; or whether he had consulted a physician for his
health,. to serve as a defense by the company to this action,
depends on whether such statements were knowingly
false and fraudulently made.
"If Wiggins knew they were false, and that he made
them with the fraudulent purpose of obtaining the policy
of insurance, then such statements would avoid the policy
and would serve as a good defense by the company; provided, that the company at the time it accepted the
application of the deceased as an insurance risk, had no
knowledge of the falsity of the statements and representations made by Wiggins in his application for insurance.
"The knowledge of the agent of the insurance company
would be the knowledge of the company, and if the agent
representing the company in taking the application, or the
statements of the medical examiners had knowledge of the
falsity of the statements, then the insurance company
would be estQpped from setting up such false statements
or misrepresentations of which they had knowledge before
the issuance of the policy as a defense to this action.
"If you find from the evidence that the statements of
Wiggins in the several matters inquired about his health
and operation and treatment in a sanitarium were false,
and further find that the agents Hogue, and Torrey and
Turberville knew they were false, and you further find
from the evidence that there was an understanding, tacit
or expressed, between Wiggins and the said agents to
procure the policies by collusive co-operation to conceal
the truth from the company as to the several matters inquired about, then such conduct upon the part of Wiggins
would avoid the policies, and the plaintiffs could not recover in this action."
Petitioner made timely objections and presented special

.MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN.
241 U. S.

621

Opinion of the Court.

requests, setting forth its theory, which were denied. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment upon verdict for respondents. Among other things it said (211
Fed. Rep. 31, 34-35):
"That, under the language of the policies involved in
this suit, the defendant, to avoid the policies for false
representations, must establish their falsity, materiality,
and the knowledge of the insured, actual or imputed, of
their falsity.
"This leaves for consideration the representation of the
insured that he had been examined by Dr. Turberville,
defendant's medical examiner, and that the answers recorded by the medical examiner in his report were correct.
In truth, there was no such examination had, and the
insured must have known that there was none, and the
representation that there had been one was a material
one. So with regard to the representatiorl of the insured
that there had been no previous application for insurance
made by him and rejected or not passed upon favorably by
the insurance company. This was untrue, must have been
known to have been untrue by the insured when he made
it, and it was material. Either of these two last representations would be sufficient to avoid the policies, unless
the defendant is estopped to rely upon them, by reason of
its knowledge of their falsity. It had such knowledge, if
at all, because of the knowledge of its agents and examiners, who handled the matter for it."
And further (p. 37): "The sta ute [§ 2765, General Statutes of Florida-copied in marg.n] I prescribes that every
'"2765. Agents.-Any person or firm in this State, who receives or
receipts for any money on account of or for any contract of insurance
made by him or them, or for such insurance company, association, firm
or individual, aforesaid, or who receives or receipts for money from
other persons to be transmitted to any such company, association,
firm or individual, aforesaid, for a policy of insurance, or any renewal

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S.

person who receives money 'for an insurance company in
payment of a contract of insurance, or who directly or indirectly causes to be made any contract of insurance,
shall be deemed to all intents and purposes an agent or
representative of such company. Under this description,
we think Torrey, the defendant's Mobile manager, Hogue,
the soliciting agent, and the two medical exami~ners were
agents of the defendant to all intents and purposes, and so,
for the purpose of charging it with notice of what they
knew, when the policies were written."
All parties treat the policies as Florida contracts. The
medical examiners' reports are plainly integral parts of
application and by apt words the latter became an essential constituent of the policies.
Considered in most favorable light possible, the above
quoted incorrect statements in the application are material representations; and, nothing else appearing, -if
known to be untrue by assured when. made, invalidate
the policy without further proof of actual conscious design to defraud. Moulor v. Am. Life Ins. Co., 111 U. S.
335, 345; Phwnix Life Ins. Co. v. Raddin, 120 U. S. 183,
189; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Moore, 231 U. S. 543, 556-557;
May on Insurance, 4th ed., § 181.
The general rule which imputes an agent's knowledge
to the principal is well established. The underlying
reason for it is that an innocent third party may properly
presume the agent will perform his duty and report all
facts which affect the principal's interest. But this general rule does not apply when the third party knows
thereof, although such policy of insurance is not signed by him or them,
as agent or representative of such company, association, firm or individual, or who in any wise, directly or indirectly makes or causes to
be made, any contract of insurance for or on account of such insurance
company, association, firm or individual, shall be deemed to all intents
and purposes an agent or representative of such company, association,
firm or individual."

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. HILTON-GREEN. 623
241 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there is no foundation for the ordinary presumptionwhen he is acquainted with circumstances plainly indicating that the agent will not advise his principal. The
rule is intended to protect those who exercise good faith
and not as a shield for unfair dealing. The DistilledSpirits,
11 Wall. 356, 367; American Surety Co. v. Pauly, 170
U. S. 133, 156; American Nati. Bank v. Miller, 229 U. S.
.517, 521, 522; Mechem on Agency, 2d ed., § 1815.
Section 2765 of the Florida statutes, ante, undertakes
to designate as agents certain persons who in fact act for
an insurance company in some particular; but it does not
fix the scope of their authority as between the company
and third persons and. certainly does not raise special
agents with limited authority into general ones possessing unlimited power. We assume Hogue, Torrey and the
medical examiners were in fact designated agents of the
company with power to bind it within their apparent
authority; and in such circumstances the statute does not
affect their true relationship to the parties. See Continental Ins. Co. v. Chamberlain, 132 U. S. 304, 310;
New York Life Ins. Co. v. Russell, 77 Fed. Rep. 94, 103;
Wood v. Firemen's Insurance Co., 126 Massachusetts,
316, 319; John R. Davis Lumber Co. v. Hartford Fire Ins.
Co., 95 Wisconsin, 226, 234-235.
The assured at the least consciously permitted an application containing material misrepresentations to be presented by subordinate agents to officers of the insurance
company under circumstances which he knew negatived
any probability that the actual facts would be revealed;
and later he accepted policies which he must have understood were issued in reliance upon statements both false
and material. He could claim nothing because of such
information in -the keeping of unfaithful subordinates.
Moreover, the false representations accompanied and were
essential parts of the policies finally accepted. He did
not repudiate, and 'therefore adopted and approved, the

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

241 U. S.

representations upon which they were based. Beyond
doubt an applicant for insurance should exercise toward
the company the same good faith which may be rightly
demanded of it. The relationship demands fair dealing
by both parties. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Fletcher, 117
U. S. 519, 529, 533, 534; Assurance Co. v. Building Association, 183 U. S. 308, 361; 'U. S. Life Ins. Co. v. Smith,
92 Fed. Rep. 503.
Considered with proper understanding of the law, there
is no evidence to support a verdict against petitioner and
the trial court should have directed one in its favor.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of App6als is reversed
and the cause remanded to the United States District
Court, Northern District of Florida, for further proceedings in accordance With this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

HOLMES v. CONWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 335. Argued May 1, 1916.-Dcided June 12, 1916.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not control mere forms of procedure in state courts or regulate practice
therein.
All the requirements of the due process provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment are complied with, provided the person condemned has
sufficient notice and is afforded adequate opportunity to defend.
An attorney having obtained certain funds from the clerk of the court,
the court in a summary proceeding directed him, after a full hearing
to restore the same; on appeal this order was affirmed, and on re-

