OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. ROBERTSON
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 94-251. Argued February 27, 1995-Decided May 1, 1995
Respondent Robertson's investment in his Alaska gold mine of the proceeds from his unlawful narcotics activities prompted a federal indictment for violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act (RICO), which makes it a crime for any person to use or invest any
income derived from a pattern of racketeering activity in the "acquisition of any interest in, or the establishment or operation of, any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate
... commerce," 18 U. S. C. § 1962(a). Robertson was convicted on this
charge, but the Court of Appeals reversed, concluding that the Government had failed to introduce sufficient evidence that the gold mine
(the RICO "enterprise") was "engaged in or affect[ed] interstate
commerce."
Held Robertson's gold mine comes within § 1962(a)'s jurisdictional reach.
At trial, the Government proved, inter alia, that Robertson purchased
equipment and supplies in California and transported them to Alaska
for use in the mine, brought workers from outside Alaska to work in the
mine, and transported 15% of the mine's output out of Alaska. These
activities assuredly brought the mine within § 1962(a)'s criterion of "an
enterprise ... engaged in ... interstate ... commerce." See, e. g.,
United States v. American Building Maintenance Industries,422 U. S.
271, 283. Because the proof thus focused on interstate activities rather
than intrastateactivities having interstate effects, this Court need not
decide whether the activities substantially affected interstate commerce
under, e. g., Wickard v. Filburn,317 U. S. 111, 127-128.
15 F. 3d 862, reversed.

Miguel A. Estradaargued the cause for the United States.
With him on the briefs were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General Harris,and Michael R. Dreeben, Acting Deputy Solicitor General.
Glenn Stewart Warren, by appointment of the Court, 513
U. S. 985, argued the cause and filed a brief for respondent.*
*Jon May and Ephraim Margolin filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

UNITED STATES v. ROBERTSON
Per Curiam
PER CURIAM.

Respondent, Juan Paul Robertson, was charged with
various narcotics offenses, and with violating § 1962(a) of
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO), 18 U. S. C. § 1961 et seq. (1988 ed. and Supp. V), by
investing the proceeds of those unlawful activities in the "acquisition of any interest in, or the establishment or operation
of, any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of
which affect, interstate or foreign commerce." § 1962(a).
He was convicted on some of the narcotics counts, and on the
RICO count by reason of his investment in a certain gold
mine. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit reversed the RICO conviction on the ground that the
Government had failed to introduce sufficient evidence proving that the gold mine was "engaged in or affect[ed] interstate commerce." 15 F. 3d 862, 868 (1994). We granted the
United States' petition for certiorari. 513 U. S. 945 (1994).
The facts relevant to the "engaged in or affecting interstate commerce" issue were as follows: Some time in 1985,
Robertson entered into a partnership agreement with another man, whereby he agreed to finance a gold mining operation in Alaska. In fulfillment of this obligation, Robertson,
who resided in Arizona, made a cash payment of $125,000 for
placer gold mining claims near Fairbanks. He paid approximately $100,000 (in cash) for mining equipment and supplies,
some of which were purchased in Los Angeles and transported to Alaska for use in the mine. Robertson also hired
and paid the expenses for seven out-of-state employees to
travel to Alaska to work in the mine. The partnership dissolved during the first mining season, but Robertson continued to operate the mine through 1987 as a sole proprietorship. He again hired a number of employees from outside
Alaska to work in the mine. During its operating life, the
mine produced between $200,000 and $290,000 worth of gold,
most of which was sold to refiners within Alaska, although

Cite as: 514 U. S. 669 (1995)
Per Curiam

Robertson personally transported approximately $30,000
worth of gold out of the State.
Most of the parties' arguments, here and in the Ninth Circuit, were addressed to the question whether the activities
of the gold mine "affected" interstate commerce. We have
concluded we do not have to consider that point. The "affecting commerce" test was developed in our jurisprudence
to define the extent of Congress' power over purely intrastate commercial activities that nonetheless have substantial
interstate effects. See, e. g., Wickard v. Filburn, 317 U. S.
111 (1942). The proof at Robertson's trial, however, focused
largely on the interstate activities of Robertson's mine. For
example, the Government proved that Robertson purchased
at least $100,000 worth of equipment and supplies for use in
the mine. Contrary to the Court of Appeals' suggestion, all
of those items were not purchased locally ("drawn generally
from the stream of interstate commerce," 15 F. 3d, at 869
(internal quotation marks omitted)); the Government proved
that some of them were purchased in California and transported to Alaska for use in the mine's operations. Cf.
United States v. American Building Maintenance Industries, 422 U. S. 271, 285 (1975) (allegation that company had
made local purchases of equipment and supplies that were
merely manufactured out of state was insufficient to show
that company was "engaged in commerce" within the meaning of §7 of the Clayton Act). The Government also proved
that, on more than one occasion, Robertson sought workers
from out of state and brought them to Alaska to work in the
mine. Cf. id., at 274. Furthermore, Robertson, the mine's
sole proprietor, took $30,000 worth of gold, or 15% of the
mine's total output, with him out of the State.
Whether or not these activities met (and whether or not,
to bring the gold mine within the "affecting commerce" provision of RICO, they would have to meet) the requirement of
substantially affecting interstate commerce, they assuredly

672

UNITED STATES v. ROBERTSON
Per Curiam

brought the gold mine within § 1962(a)'s alternative criterion
of "any enterprise ...engaged in ... interstate or foreign
commerce." As we said in American Building Maintenance, a corporation is generally "engaged 'in commerce'
when it is itself "directly engaged in the production, distribution, or acquisition of goods or services in interstate
commerce." Id., at 283. See also Gulf Oil Corp. v. Copp
Paving Co., 419 U. S. 186, 195 (1974).
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.

