AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure
were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
27, 1995, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ยง2072, and were reported to Congress by
THE CIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1138. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2074, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and
the amendments thereto, see 389 U. S. 1063, 398 U. S. 971, 401 U. S.
1029, 406 U. S. 1005, 441 U. S. 973, 475 U. S. 1153, 490 U. S. 1125, 500 U. S.
1007, 507 U. S. 1059, and 511 U. S. 1155.

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

27, 1995

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States, I
have the honor to submit to the Congress the amendments
to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States pursuant
to Section 2072 of Title 28, United States Code. To maintain
uniformity between revised and unrevised Rules, the Court
has edited the amendments transmitted to the Supreme
Court by the Judicial Conference of the United States to use
the word "shall" in a consistent manner.
The rules are accompanied by an excerpt from the report
of the Judicial Conference of the United States' Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure and that Committee's
Advisory Committee Notes. In order to minimize confusion,
a footnote noting the changes made by the Supreme Court
has been added to the marked-up version of the proposed
amendments that accompanies the Advisory Committee
Notes.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

1138

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 27, 1995
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure be, and
they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments
to Appellate Rules 4, 8, 10, and 47.
[See infra, pp. 1141-1143.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Appellate Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1995,
and shall govern all proceedings in appellate cases thereafter
commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in appellate cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and hereby is, authorized
to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments to
the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2072 of Title 28, United States
Code.

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE
Rule 4. Appeal as of right-when taken.
(a) Appeal in a civil case.
(4) If any party files a timely motion of a type specified immediately below, the time for appeal for all parties runs from the entry of the order disposing of the
last such motion outstanding. This provision applies
to a timely motion under the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure:
(A) for judgment under Rule 50(b);
(B) to amend or make additional findings of fact
under Rule 52(b), whether or not granting the motion would alter the judgment;
(C) to alter or amend the judgment under Rule
59;
(D) for attorney's fees under Rule 54 if a district
court under Rule 58 extends the time for appeal;
(E) for a new trial under Rule 59; or
(F) for relief under Rule 60 if the motion is filed
no later than 10 days after the entry of judgment.
A notice of appeal fied after announcement or entry of the
judgment but before disposition of any of the above motions
is ineffective to appeal from the judgment or order, or part
thereof, specified in the notice of appeal, until the entry of
the order disposing of the last such motion outstanding. Appellate review of an order disposing of any of the above motions requires the party, in compliance with Appellate Rule
3(c), to amend a previously filed notice of appeal. A party
intending to challenge an alteration or amendment of the
judgment shall file a notice, or amended notice, of appeal
1141

1142

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

within the time prescribed by this Rule 4 measured from
the entry of the order disposing of the last such motion outstanding. No additional fees will be required for fling
an amended notice.
Rule 8. Stay or injunctionpending appeal.
(c) Stay in a criminal case.-A stay in a criminal case
shall be had in accordance with the provisions of Rule 38 of
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
Rule 10. The record on appeal.
(a) Composition of the record on appeal.-The record on
appeal consists of the original papers and exhibits filed in
the district court, the transcript of proceedings, if any, and a
certified copy of the docket entries prepared by the clerk of
the district court.
(b) The transcript of proceedings; duty of appellant to
order; notice to appellee if partial transcriptis ordered.
(1) Within 10 days after filing the notice of appeal or
entry of an order disposing of the last timely motion
outstanding of a type specified in Rule 4(a)(4), whichever
is later, the appellant shall order from the reporter a
transcript of such parts of the proceedings not already
on file as the appellant deems necessary, subject to local
rules of the courts of appeals. The order shall be in
writing and within the same period a copy shall be ified
with the clerk of the district court. If funding is to
come from the United States under the Criminal Justice
Act, the order shall so state. If no such parts of the
proceedings are to be ordered, within the same period
the appellant shall file a certificate to that effect.
Rule 47. Rules of a court of appeals.
(a) Local rules.
(1) Each court of appeals acting by a majority of its
judges in regular active service may, after giving appro-

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

1143

priate public notice and opportunity for comment, make
and amend rules governing its practice. A generally
applicable direction to a party or a lawyer regarding
practice before a court shall be in a local rule rather
than an internal operating procedure or standing order.
A local rule shall be consistent with-but not duplicative
of-Acts of Congress and rules adopted under 28 U. S. C.
ยง2072 and shall conform to any uniform numbering system prescribed by the Judicial Conference of the United
States. The clerk of each court of appeals shall send
the Administrative Office of the United States Courts a
copy of each local rule and internal operating procedure
when it is promulgated or amended.
(2) A local rule imposing a requirement of form shall
not be enforced in a manner that causes a party to lose
rights because of a nonwillful failure to comply with
the requirement.
(b) Procedure when there is no controlling law.-A court
of appeals may regulate practice in a particular case in any
manner consistent with federal law, these rules, and local
rules of the circuit. No sanction or other disadvantage may
be imposed for noncompliance with any requirement not in
federal law, federal rules, or the local circuit rules unless the
alleged violator has been furnished in the particular case
with actual notice of the requirement.

