OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Per Curiam

WHITAKER v. SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA,
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY (MERRILL REESE,
INC., REAL PARTY IN INTEREST)
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 94-7743.

Decided April 17, 1995

Since 1987, pro se petitioner Whitaker has filed 24 claims for relief, including 18 petitions for certiorari, all of which have been denied without recorded dissent. Earlier this Term, this Court directed the Clerk
of the Court not to accept further petitions for extraordinary writs from
Whitaker in noncriminal matters unless he pays the required docketing fee and submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33, In re
Whitaker, 513 U. S. 1, 2, and warned Whitaker about his frequent filing
patterns with respect to petitions for writ of certiorari, ibid.
Held: Pursuant to this Court's Rule 39.8, Whitaker is denied leave to
proceed in forma pauperis in the instant case, and the Clerk is instructed not to accept any further petitions for certiorari from him
in noncriminal matters unless he pays the required docketing fee and
submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33. Like other similar
orders this Court has issued, see, e. g., In re Sassower, 510 U. S. 4, this
order will allow the Court to devote its limited resources to the claims
of petitioners who have not abused the Court's process.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Fred Whitaker has filed a petition for
writ of certiorari and requests leave to proceed in forma
pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. Pursuant to Rule
39.8, we deny petitioner's request to proceed in forma pauperis.* Petitioner is allowed until May 8, 1995, to pay the
docketing fees required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition
in compliance with this Court's Rule 33. For the reasons
explained below, we also direct the Clerk of the Court not to
*Rule 39.8 provides: "If satisfied that a petition for a writ of certiorari,
jurisdictional statement, or petition for an extraordinary writ, as the case
may be, is frivolous or malicious, the Court may deny a motion for leave
to proceed in forma pauperis."

Cite as: 514 U. S. 208 (1995)
Per Curiam

accept any further petitions for certiorari from petitioner in
noncriminal matters unless he pays the docketing fees required by Rule 38 and submits his petition in compliance
with Rule 33.
Petitioner is a prolific filer in this Court. Since 1987, he
has filed 24 petitions for relief, including 6 petitions for
extraordinary relief and 18 petitions for certiorari. Fifteen
of the twenty-four petitions have been filed in the last four
Terms, and we have denied all 24 petitions without recorded
dissent. We also have denied petitioner leave to proceed
in forma pauperis pursuant to Rule 39.8 of this Court for
the last three petitions in which he has sought extraordinary
relief. See In re Whitaker, 513 U. S. 1 (1994); In re Whitaker, 511 U. S. 1105 (1994); In re Whitaker, 506 U. S.983
(1992). And earlier this Term, we directed the Clerk of
the Court "not to accept any further petitions for extraordinary writs from petitioner in noncriminal matters unless he
pays the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and submits
his petition in compliance with Rule 33." 513 U. S., at 2.
Though we warned petitioner at that time about his "frequent filing patterns with respect to petitions for writ of
certiorari," ibid., we limited our sanction to petitions for extraordinary writs.
We now find it necessary to extend that sanction to petitions for certiorari filed by petitioner. In what appears to
be an attempt to circumvent this Court's prior order, petitioner has labeled his instant petition a "petition for writ of
certiorari" even though it would seem to be more aptly
termed a "petition for an extraordinary writ": He argues
that the California Supreme Court erred in denying his petition for review of a California Court of Appeals order
which denied his petition for writ of mandate/prohibition
seeking to compel a California trial judge to make a particular ruling in a civil action filed by petitioner. And the legal
arguments petitioner makes in his instant "petition for writ
of certiorari" are, just as those made in his previous 18 pe-

210

WHITAKER v. SUPERIOR COURT OF CAL.,
SAN FRANCISCO CTY.
STEVENS, J., dissenting

titions for certiorari, frivolous. As we told petitioner earlier this Term, "[t]he goal of fairly dispensing justice . . .
is compromised when the Court is forced to devote its limited resources to the processing of repetitious and frivolous
requests." Ibid. (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted).
Petitioner's abuse of petitions for certiorari has occurred
only in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accordingly. This order therefore will not prevent petitioner from
filing a petition for certiorari to challenge criminal sanctions
that might be imposed upon him. But like other similar orders we have issued, see In re Sassower, 510 U. S. 4 (1993);
Day v. Day, 510 U. S. 1 (1993); Demos v. Storrie, 507 U. S.
290 (1993); Martinv. Districtof Columbia Court of Appeals,
506 U. S. 1 (1992), this order will allow the Court to devote
its limited resources to the claims of petitioners who have
not abused our process.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

dissenting.

A simple denial would adequately serve the laudable goal
of conserving the Court's "limited resources." Ante this
page. See generally In re Whitaker, 513 U. S. 1, 3 (1994)
(STEVENS, J., dissenting).
I respectfully dissent.

