DECEMBER TER.M, 1853.

635

Doe et al. v. Braden.

ing to practise champerty, in a form and to an extent not heretofore
devised. If four could assign, and their claims be combined in
one suit, by the assignee, so could as many hundreds. To sanction the validity of an assignment to a non-resident of property
adversely held, and let him sustain a suit for it, would throw
open the United States courts to every matter of litigation where
property was in dispute exceeding the value of five hundred
dollars.
I feel quite confident that the Constitution did not contemplate this mode of acquiring jurisdiction to the courts of the
Union, and am -of opinion, that the judgment of the Circuit
Court sustaining the plea ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I also dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, and
concur in the views so conclusively taken of it by my brother
Catron.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this cause be, and
the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court for
further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opiniont of this court.

JOHN DOE,

ON THE DEM ISE OF LOT CLARK, DAvID CLARKSON,
JOSEPH D. BEERS, ANDREW TALCOTT, BRANTZ MAYER, AND
HARRIET HACKLEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH ADDISON

BRADEN.
In the ratification, by the King of Spain, of the treaty by which Florida was ceded to
the United States, it was admitted that certain grants of land in Florida. amongst
which was one to the Duke of Alagon, were annulled and declared void.
A written declaration, annexed to a treaty at the time of its ratification, is as obligatory as if the provision had been inserted in the body of the treaty itself.
Whether or not the King of Spain had power, according to the Constitution of Spain,
to annul this grant, is a political and not a judicial question, and was -decided when
the treaty was made and ratified.

636

SUPREMIE

COURT.

Doe et al. v. Braden.
A deed made by the duke to a citizen of the United States, during the interval between the signature and ratification of the treaty, cannot be recognized as colveying any title whatever. The land remained under the jurisdiction of Spain
until the annulment of the grant.

THis case came up, by writ of error, from the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Florida.
It was an ejectment brought by the lessee of Clark and the
other plaintiffs in error-against Braden, to recover all that tract
or parcel of land in Florida, which is described as follows,
namely: Beginning at the mouth of the river heretofore called
or known as the Amanina, where it enters the sea, to wit, at the
point of the twenty-eighth degree and tw tny-fifth minute of
nolth latitude, and running along the right bank of that river to
its head spring or main fountain source; thence by a right line
to the nearest point of the river St. John; then ascending said
river St. John, along its left bank, to the lake Macaco; then
from the most southern extremity of that lake, by a right line,
to the head of the river heretofore known or called the Ilijuelas;
and then descending along that river's right bank to its mouth
in the sea; thence continuing along the coast of the sea, including all the adjacent islands, to the mouth of the river Amanina, the beginning point aforesaid, containing twelve millions
of acres of land.
The cause went on regularly by'the appearance of the defendant, the confession of lease, entry, and ouster, and the ad.
mission of counsel on behalf of the United States to defend the
suit.
In May, 1852, the case came up for trial at the city of St.
Augustine.
The counsel for the plaintiff offered in evidence the following
duly verified papers:
1. A memorial of the Duke of Alagon. to the King of Spain,
dated 12th July, 1817, praying the king to be pleased to grant
him the uncultivated lands not already granted, in East Florida,
situated between the banks of the river Santa Ludi(a and San
Juan, as far as their mouths into the sea, and the coast of the
gulf of Florida and its adjacent islands, with the mouth of the
river Hijuelos by the twenty-sixth degree of latitude, following
along the left bank of said river up to its source, drawing thence
a line to lake Ma.aco, descending thence by the way of the
river San Juan to lake Valdez, and draving another line from
the extreme north part of said latter lake to the source of the
river Amanina, thence pursuing the right bank of said river to
its mouth by the 28th or 25th degrees of 'latitude, and continuing
along the coast of the sea with all its adjacent islands, to the
mouth of the river Hijuelos, in full property for himself and his

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

637

Doe et al. v. Braden.

heirs, and permitting him the importation of negroes free of
duty to work and cultivate said lands, a favor which he hopes
to obtain fr6m the innate benevolence of your Majesty, whose
precious life may God preserve many years, as he prays.
MADRID, 12th July, 1817.
2. The order of the King upon the above, addressed to the
royal and supreme council of the Indies, as follows:
His Majesty having taken cognizance of the contents therein,
and in consideration of the distinguished merit of this individual,
and of his well known zeal for the royal service, and likewise in
consideration of the advantages which will result to the State
by the increase of the population and civilization of the aforesaid territories, which he solicits, he has deigned to resolve, that
the same be communicated to the supreme council, declaring
to them that the favor which he solicits is granted to him, provided the same be not contrary to the laws; all of which I communicate to your Excellency by his royal order for your information and that of the council, and for the other necessary ends.
God preserve your Excellency many years.
PALACE, December 17th, 1817.

3. A cedula, issued by the extinct council of the Indies, addressed to the governor, captain-general of the island of Cuba
and its district, to the intendant of the army and royal exchequer
of the Havana and its districts, and to the governor of the Florida. This document bore date on the 6th of February, 1818.
and after reciting the petition and grant, concluded as follows:
Wherefore I command and require you, by this my royal
cedula, that in conformity with the laws touching this matter,
effectually to aid the execution of said gift, taking all the measures proper to carry it into effect without prejudice to the rights
of a third party; and in order that the said Duke of Alagon may
be'enabled to put into execution his design, agreeably in every
respect to my benevolent wishes, in furtherance of the agriculture and commerce of said possessions, which demand a popu.
lation proportioned to the fertility of the soil and the defence
and security of the coast, reporting hereafter successively the
progress that may be made; it being understood that the importation of negroes, comprehended in said gift, is to be made,
as far as the traffic in them is concerned, in conformity with the
regulations prescribed in my royal order of the nineteenth of
December ultimo, for such is my will; and that account be
taken of this royal order in the contaduria-general of the Indies.
Given at the palace, this sixth day of February, one thousand
eight hundred and eighteen.
4. A power of attorney from the Duke of Alagon to Don
Nicholas Garrido, dated 27th of February, 1818.
VOL XVI.

54

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Doe et a1. v. Braden.

5. A decree of Coppinger, governor of Florida, dated 27th
of June, 1818, putting Garrido into possession of the land
claimed.
6. A deed of conveyance, dated 29th of May, 1819, from the
Duke of Alagon to Richard S. Hackley, of Richmond, Virginia.
This deed conveyed a, part of the lands in question to Richard
S. Hackley and company, for the purpose of immediately opening, clearing, and settling them.
7. The deposition of Ann Rachel Hart, of Baltimore, Maryland, that Richard S. Hackley was a native-born 'citizen of the
United States.
8. A deed from Richard S. Hackley, dated 14th of September, 1836, to Joseph D. Beers, Lot Clark, and David Clarkson,
the lessors of the plaintiff.
9. An admission by the counsel for the -United States that
Braden, the defendant, was in possession of 5S7iw acres of land,
lying on the Manatee river, in the present county of Hillsborough, which was covered by the foregoing titles, and was of the
value of two thousand dollars and upwards.
The defendant, to prove the issue on his part, read in evidence certified copies of patents for his land from the United
States.
A great number of other documents and testimony were
offered by the defendant and plaintiff, but a particular notice of
them is not deemed necessary in the present report.
* On the conclusion of the argument, the court instructed the
jury as follows:
1st. The foundation of the plaintiff's title is the concession
or order of the King of Spain of the 17th of December, 1817,
and the cedula or royal order of the 6th of February, 1818,
which, together, constitute the grant or concession to the
Duke of Alagon to the lands in quesfon. Whether the order
of the 17th of December, 1817, was complete in itself, and
amounted to a grant, I deem it unimportant to inquire, because
it was reaffirmed and made operative by the cedula or royal
order of the 6th of February, 1818, which related back to the
order of the 17th of December, 1817; and hence that may be
considered the date of the' concession, explained and rendered
more full and perfect by the order of the 3th of February, 1818,
and it is so considered for the purposes of this suit.
these two orders together, it is manifest, from their
tenor and spirit, and it is more particularly apparent from.the
orders and proceedings of the king and the council of the
Indies, in the early part of 1818, that one object and intent, and
one condition of the grant or concession to Alagon, and one of
the principal inducements on the part of the king to make the
STaking

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

639

Doe et al. v. Braden.

grant, was the colonization and settlement of the country, and
the agricultural and commercial advantages which it was supposed would arise to the province therefrom. And it is equally
clear that the grant was made subject to the laws of Spain, and
particularly subject to such laws of the Indies as were applicable to the case; and that the Duke of Alagon, in his proceedings to carry into effect the objects of the grant, and to avail
himself of its benefits, was bound to conform to those laws.
The testimony goes to show not only what those laws were,
but that early in 1818, and before the Duke of Alagon had sold
or conveyed any of these lands, his attention was distinctly
called to them by the king and the council of the Indies, or by
the proper officials of the Spanish government, and that every
effort was made on the part of the King of Spain to insure the
due observance of them by the Duke of Alagon; and that he
was especially cautioned and advised that he could not by law,
and would not be permitted to alienate the lands, or any part
of them, particularly to strangers or foreigners. After this, and
before any treaty had been ratified and confirmed between the
United States and Spain, and while the province of East Florida
was still under the dominion of Spain, and subjedt to the laws
of Spain, the deed of May, 1819, was executdd by Alagon to
Richard S. Hackley.
Second. Therefore, if the jury are satisfied that the laws of
Spain and the Indies were such as have been read-to them, and
that*it was not lawful for a Spanish subject to sell or transfer
lands to a stranger or foreigner, then this deed of May, 1819,
from Alagon to Hackley, was in violation of law and void, and
conferred no title upon Hackley.
The Duke of Alagon could not (if those laws have been correctly and satisfactorily proved) legally make any such conveyance; and had he attempted so to do here in the province of
East' Elorida, where it ought to have been done if at all, he
would have been prevented by the governor from doing it; and
no notary here could have executed the papers without violation
of law and of the royal order.
The same objection applies to the deed of conveyance to
Hackley of the J0th of June, 1820. That.conveyance was likewise in violation of law, and against the express injunctions of
the king. It was made in Madrid instead of the province of
East FIQrida, and while the Spanish law was in-full force and
effect here.
Third; The court is further of opinion, that the grant to the
Duke of Alagon was in fact formally annulled. by the king on
the final ratification of the treaty, by and with the consent of
the cortes, as appears from the evidence in the case; and

640

SUPREME COURT.
Doe et'al. v. Bradern.

whether this revocation or annulment of the grant by the king
and cortes was founded upon the fact that Alagon had justly
forfeited all right to the lands by disregarding the objects and
conditions of the grant, and by attempting to transfer the lands
to a foreigner, or upon the right of eminent domain, and upon
the ground that it was necessary, in order to complete the iTeaty,
and therefore for the public good and general welfare of the
nation, to resume or revoke the grant, it was in either case a
rightful and legitimate use of sovereign power, and one which
cannot be questioned in a court of justice.
Fourth. The court is further of the opinion, that even if the
grant was not rightfully annulled by the treaty, yet it is not a
grant which, by the terms of the treaty, would stand ratified
and confirmed, or which the United States are bound to confirm,
although made before the 24th of January, 1818: that the
United States are bound tn ratify and confirm it only to 'the
same extent that it would have been valid if the territory had
remained under the dominion of Spain; and it is manifest, from
the evidence in the case, that if the treaty had not been made,
the grant would not have been held vaLid by the Spanish governmen + ; it was in fact revoked and annulled by the king and
cortes. The United States, therefore, are not bound either by
the rules of public law, by the universal principles of right and
justice, or by the terms of the eighth article of the treaty, to
recognize or confirm it.
Fifth. The court is further of the opinion, that inasmuch as
this claim under the grant to the Duke of Alagon has never
been recognized and confirmed by the United States, or by any
board of commissioners or court authorized by Congress to adjudicate or decide upon the validity of the grant, it is therefore
a claim "not recognized or confirmed," and within the meaning
of the first section of the act of Congress of 3d March, 1807,
(r'elating to settlements, &c., on the public lands: 2d vol.
Stathtes at Large of the U. S. page 44-,) and that the claimants, therefore, havre only an equitable or inchoate title at best,
and have not the right to take possession; but, on the contrary,
are expressly forbidden so to do until their title has been confirmed. Consequently, that not having the right of possession,
or the complete legal title, they cannot sustain an action of
ejectment; that their only redress is by application to the political power or legislative department of the government; that
the courts of justice cannot furnish it without a violation of
law.
These points being fully conclusive as to the rights of the
parties, the court deems it unnecessary to notice other points
raised in the course of~the trial and arguments.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1863.

Doe et al. v. Braden.

From these views of the court, however, the jury are bound
to find a verdict for the defendant, and are so instructed accordingly.
To all of which charge, and each and every paragraph or section of the same, the plaintiffs' counsel excepted, and prayed
their exception to be noted in the words following:
To all and every part of which instructions and directions, so
far as adverse to the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs except, and especially to each and all of the directions and propositions and
points contained in each of the articles or paragraphs of said
instructions numbered, respectively, in the said instructions, 1,
(one,) 2, (two,) 3, (three,) 4, (four,) and 5, (five.)
And the plaintiff prays the court to sign and seal this his bill
of exceptions, which is accordingly done this twenty-fourth day
of lay, eighteen hundred and fifty-two.
(Signed)
L H. BRONSON, ., dge. [SEAL.]
Upon this exception, the case came up to this court, and was
argued by Mr. M1layer, and 3t. JohAnson for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Cushing (Attorney-General) for the defendant.

ir. .Afayer prefaced his argument with a narrative, and *inasmuch as a part of that historical narrative contained the foundation of one of his points, it is necessary to insert it, namely:
The royal order (constituting the grant to Alagon) of 17th
December, 1817, declares that" His Majesty having taken cognizance of the contents, [of the petition of the duke,] and in
consideration of the distinguished merit of this individual, and
of his well-known zeal for the royal service, and likewise in consideration of the advantages which will result to the State by
the increase of the population and civilization of the aforesaid
territories which he solicits, he has deigned to resolve that the
same be communicated to the supreme council, declaring t6
them that the favor which he solicits ig granted to him, provided
the same be not contrary to the laws." This order is addressed
to the president of the council Of the Indies.
It may be here remarked that.when this order was passed,
and for more than two years afterwards, the King of Spain was
absolute monarch, the cortes for that period not existing; but
at the ratification by him of the treaty the cortes had already
been in renewed power for full seven months. Upon that ratification the sanction of the cortes was obtained for, and only
for the 2d and 3d articles of the treaty, which yielded the Spanish
territory; and it was asked because by the constitution the
king could not alone alienate any part of the Spanish territory,
nor any national property, but for the alienation needed the
consent of the cortes. Constitution, title 4, c. 1, art. 172,

SUPREM1E
Doe et -a.

COURT.

v. Braden.

§§4, 7. Describing the king as a constitutional monarch, we further may advert to the 10th section of the same article of the constitution; that declaring that "he shall not take the property of
any parson or corporation, nor hinder or impede the free possession, use, and benefit thereof," -and the same section proceeds to prescribe that "if at any time it shall be necessary for
an object of acknowledged public utility to take the property
of an individual; nevertheless, it shall not be done, unless he be
at the same time indemnified and a fair equivalent be given him
upon a sufficient inquiry made by fit and proper men."
The ancient laws of Spain on the general rights of property
have always been authoritative as if constitutional rules; and,
upholding the sanctity of private property against the royal
encroachment, the Laws of Spain and the Indies, Book 3, tit. 5,
Law ., ordain that "those things which the king gives to any
one cannot be taken from him either by the king or any one
else without some fault of his; and he to whom they are given
-3'hall dispose of them at his will, as of any other thing belonging
to him.
The points made by 5r. ill:ayer, were the following:
1. The royal acts (the order of 17th December, 1817, upon
the duke's petition of the preceding July, and the cedula or
missive to the captain-general of Cuba of 6th February, 1818,)
constitute a grant, and an assurance of the legal estate in the.
lands, and taking date from the 17th December, 1817. That
being the effective date of the grant, it is not affected by the
th article of the treaty with Spain, which condemns only
grants of date after the 24th January, 18L8. The grant was
consummated by all the formal possessions that it can be pretended the Spanish law demanded; and the possessory ceremony was by that law authorized through an attorney, on this
occasion Garrido, whose c6nferred powers are fully testified.
Moreover, this attorney was empowered to sell and settle and imr
prove the granted lands in execution of the purpose declared by
the duke's petition as his view in asking the grant. And the
action of Garrido in this latter branch of his agency (shown in
the testimony of the defendant himself) -proves all diligence
and bona fides in fulfilling what the petition indicated as the
grantee's design. All in that respect was done that could within
the brief period have been exacted, assuming the expression of
purpose by the petitioner to have the effect, when shown to
have induced the grant, to make thi grant conditional, and that
even precedently so. But the -grantwas not under a condition,
either precedent or subsequent. The declaration of purpose in
the petition for a grant from Spain, when the grant itself does
not, upon that declarationi, introduce it as a condition in terms,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

643

Doe et al. v. Braden.

is not, as this court has determined, to be treated as a condition
of any Idnd. The crown shows its content with the general
assur ance offered by the grantee, and rests upon his good faith;
and so implies by not converting the general pledge or promise
into terms of condition. If, however, a condition (for settling
and improving the land) is to be implied, it can be but a condition subsequent, and, agreeably to this court's adjudication, the
fulfilment of the duty was prevented, and therefore excused, by
the succeeding and so early transfer of the sovereignty of the
region from Spain to the United States. And when a grant is
conditional, and the condition has been performed, or has ceased
to bind, the grant is deemed absolute ab initio.
(31r. tayer then proceeded to show, by reference to authorities, that the grant was founded on sufficient consideration.)
II. The deed of Alagon to Hackley bears ddte the 29th of
May, 1819, and, so, after the ratification by the United States
of the treaty with Spain. The treaty was ratified anew by our
government after Spain's ratification, and was reratifted merely
because it was necessary to waive the limitation of six months
specified in the treaty for the exchange of ratifications. It was
the original treaty, bearing date' the 22d of Februa r, 1819, that
was ratified. The proprietary rights of the United States took
date from the date of the treaty, and, on the consummate ratification, related to that period. No control of Spain is to be
deemed to have rested in her after the treaty's date over the territories of Florida as a domain, or tor any purpose of legislation,
or of administration, referable to her interest, or within her polity, municipal or foreign. The validity of that deed, as to
Hackley's capacity, being a foreigner, to take it was, consequently, beyond any regulation of Spain, nio matter how ancient,
save only contingently, in the event of the treaty not being definitely ratified.
III. This treaty with Spain in the consideration of the 8th
article, and of the clauses of territorial cession, has been by the
Supreme Court always determined to design no departure from
the great principle of civilized justice, and of modern international law, that in no transfer of a territory can any domain be
passed or be accepted from the ceding nation than what belongs
to the government - the public property. That property alone,
ard the sovereignty of the transferred region, are the only legitimate objects of such international transactions, and the sovereignty is to be esteemed the primary object. The court has
said that the express terms of this treaty deferring to private
rights, were not needed for thus limiting-the treaty's scope; and
the 8th article is not to be regarded as enlarging the cession of
property. In other words that article, even as to grants sub-

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe et al. v. Braden.

sequent to 24th of January, 1818, must be construed in subserviency to the sanctity that our own public law accords to the
rights of contract and private property. 8 :Peters, 445, 449, 450;
Aredondo's Case, 6 lb. 735, 736; Percheman's Case, 7 Ib. 86;
9 Ib. 133, 169, 170; 14 Ib. 349; 8 Howard, 306, 307; Terrett
v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43.
These cases affirm, too, the reformed doctrine of international
law, that even by conquest the lands of individuals shall not be
wrested from them, and in no respect are to be yielded even to
the rights of war. Much les are they, then, to be conceded
to the exactions of diplomatic bargaining. We may add to
these authorities (not nowv adverting to all the"treatises on international law where they enjoin the same doctrine) 1 Pet. 517;
12 Ib. 410, 511; 8 Wheat 464; 4 -b. f18; 4 Cranch, 323;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Ib. 87; Wheat. Nat. Law 269, b. 2, ch. § 16.
All real property taken in war is entitled to postliminy.
IV. These views, under our third head, lead to the conclusion
that no grants of Spain, in her Florida region, of portions already
conceded to individuals, could be asked to be annulled; or could
be accepted by our government from Spain, if even her king
had had despotic power to thus despoil without redress (which immunity and irremediableness of wrong defines despotic
government) - except only where the individual interest could
be shown to have expired from default justly imputable, and
going to the forfeiture of the rights. Such a default would be
the failure to fulfil conditions of the grants. It will be seen,
that in the correspondence of our government prior to the treaty,
and in the expostulations that followed our ratification of it
throughout the negotiation, which the executive, unprompted by
the Senate's counsel or instructions, and so without full warrant,
we might say; embarked in, the vacating of grants of Spain
actually made, (no matter of what extent,) was not claimed
save upon the ground of their conditions having been violated,
or having failed to be fulfilled. The gratuitous character of
grants was not made the plea; and as little was, or could the
area of the grants be the pretext; in both particulars the sovereignty of Spain giving her absolute discretion, and her policy,
already adverted to, placing her liberallty beyond suspicion in
these territorial appropriations. Consistently then with what
was assumed as the only basis of the pretension, as well as looking to the only grounds that could find shetter in the pure pub.
lb law of the era, no grants could under the treaty have been
designed for denunciation, except those that were extinct for
violation of their conditions% Let the expository terms used by
the king in his ratification be deemed then more than what it
merely is, (and it is merely the expression of an opinion, and a

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

Doe et al. v. Braden.

comment on the treaty text,) and let it be dignified, or aggravated,
as a decree of forfeiture or of confiscation, and yet it must be
interpreted relatively to the grounds 'upon which we, or rather
the executive, claimed the annulment to be just, and not as if
we demanded it as a royal despotic assumption. It is well to
remark here, (as bearing on the idea that may be urged.that
Spain yielded the sacrifice of the Alagon g, nt, under a pressure,
as dire as if under belligerent durance,) that the instructions to
our minister at Madrid, which our quotation. on this head embrace, show that the exaction of the annulment vas meant to
be experimental, and that the terms were not to lie insisted on
if the Spanish government were found impracticable when remonstrated with. It -will be perceived by the court that Don
Onis, the Spanish Minister here, in-his communication to our
Secretary did,-true to the principle that the afinulment of no
grants was to be arbitrary, and that'no absolute power was assumed thus to reside in the Spanish crown,- declared that if
he had even known that the grant .to Alagon (and the other
obnoxious grants) bore date before the 24th of January, 1818,
he would not have assented to their being declared void - that
i , merely on an assumption of'a particular date, for sweeping
nullification, careless of the infirmity or the vigor of the grantee's rights or pretensions.
That the ratification of our g ivernment, which took place
immediately on the signature of the treaty, was regarded as
definitive, and not as contingent-upon any expansion (by Rider
or by royal rescript or opinion) of the terms of the treaty, is
evident from the fact which the succeeding correspondence and
instructions show, that the immediate occupation of the ceded
territory was claimed under the auspices of the treaty. In the
testimony of our opponents, we have in the case the Executive
Journal of the Senate, relative to the treaty already referred to
by us, showing the original and very prompt ratification by us
of the treaty, and so giving its due weight and peculiar character to the diplomatic movement following the ratification. Beside the passages mentioned of the Senate Executive Journal,
we refer, with regard to the positions just submitted, to the following portions of the "State Papers," in the 4th volume,
pp. 465, 509,532,627,652, 653,658, 659, 66, 683, 684, 687, 689.
With this grfrnt, then, no condition having been violated and
no default to inflict forfeiture having occurred, it follows that
the claim of Mr. Hackley could not have- become void within
the actual meaning of the parties to the treaty, even giving, to
the king's declaratory ratification the exireme office of a decree
of 'annulment, and supposing that his prerogative gave him
power for such action.

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe ot al. v. Braden.

V. It cannot be said that the annulment may be justified
upon imputable fraud of Spain, assuming even that the grant
was made after, instead, as is the. fact, cf being made before,
(and of pending before the king more than six months) the
period of proposing the cession; more than a year elapsing
further before the treaty was concluded. Under the theory of
that imputation, the king's special ratification would be a concession of the fraud, and a decree not only against the grant,
but against the honor of the crown. Fraud is not ascribable to
a sovereign State, in her compacts with otaer powers; and particularly not as to a subject of concession, over which her dominion was legally absolute until that subject actually, by her own
act, the result of her own pleasure, were severed from her possessions.
This court has deemed the supreme right of disposal in the
Spanish crown; or in any government having power to alienate
the domain of the State, too positive and absolute to allow
complaint of any act within that power, no matter even how
reasonable it be to infer that it was in anticipation of a surrender of sovereignty of the region, and designed to lessen the
public domain of the succeeding sovereign. United States v.
Clarke, 8 Peters, 463. That decision in effhct affirms that fraud
is' not to be inferred, nor is chargeable against any act of a sovereign power, if merely it be cordinate with the sovereign legal
rights and control. 15 Peters, 595; 11 Wheat. 359; 7 Cranch,
130.
VI. The grant could not have been amended by the right of
eminent domain residing in the king. The constitution of
Spain declares, art. 172, tit. 4x c. 1, § 10, that the king "shall
not take the property of any person or corporation, nor hinder
or impede the free possession, use, and benefit thereof, and if at
any time it shall be necessary for an object of acknowledged
public utility to take the property of an individual, nevertheless
it shall not be done unless he be at the same time indemnified,
and a fair equivalent be given him upon a sufficient inquiry
made by fit and proper men." No indemniiication is pretended
to have been here at any time provided fo:. this deprivation of
property, and no establishment of the necessity, nor of the object of "public utility" is testified from the only appropriate
arbiter, the legislative authority of Spain, coinposed of cortes
as well as king, in which legislature resided the representative
sovereignty of Spain. This determination of the urgency of
the'object for which the private property is to be granted by this
eminent domain, is 'by all political law assigned to the sovereignty. It is emphatically so appropriated by the Spanish
constituti ni. Art. 3, tif. 1, c. 1, declares that "the sovereignty

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

647

Doe ot al. v. Braden.

resides essentially in the nation," and by art. 15, tit. 2, c. 3,
the legislative power belongs to the cortes together with the
VII. Thus showing the limitation of the royal power and
how special, and narrpwed was, as shown even by the king's
act~of ratification, the action of the cortes as to the cession, and
how that action, allowing pnly public estate to be coded and
excluding from cession private property, did, in effect, contradiet the king's surrender (if his act be so construed) of the lands
of Alagon and make his brovisions in his ratification repugnant
to the act and will of his constitutional partners in the sovereignty of Spain. What effect can be assigned to that ratification in its denunciation of the grant to the duke? Recurring
to the constitutional inhibitions upon the kin.'s interference
with private property, quoted under the preceding heads, and
to the ancient laws we have cited, of, equal obligation, we are
at a loss to apprehend where, in himself, and in clear contradiction of the view, and even the determination of the cortes, there
can be found a warrant for his repudiation of the grant, regarding now his act as a decree of annulment or of confiscation?
Divorced from the public domain, for all power'of alienation,
by the positive interdict of the constitution, and forbidden, beside, by the superadded terms of the constitution from alienating "any portion of the Spanish territory," "however small,"
and whether public or private, and these limitations of prerogative and respect for private property solemnly consecrated by
the king's oath; and, again, art. 4 of the constitution declaring that "the nation is bound to maintain and protect by vise
and equitable laws the civil liberty, property, and other legal
rights of the individuals who compose it," it seems only necessary to show that the constitution of Spain was in force when
this ratification occurred, to have the king's condemnation of
our grant dismissed as a mere nullity. But it pretends not to
be a decree or ordinance annulling the grant. It takes the treaty
as a text, and appends, by making the denunciation, only a
version of the treaty itself, or records testimony as to an "understanding," that by the very treaty has failed to be carried out,
and whose basis the eighth article of the treaty shows to be erroneous. Viewed as an opinion, (however it be a royal emanation,) it can have no effect. As testimony to explain, or rather
to prevail in contradicting the treaty, it must likewise be unavailing. The declaration could legitimately serve but one
purpose and as a memorial of fact; and that is to found a
claim by the United States against Spain for indemnification,
for parting with property which she taught the United States to
believe would pass to her in the general cession of territory.

648

SUPREME COURT.
Doe et al. v. Braden.

We dcnx- that even the king and cortes, in combined legislative actiun, or under any title of power, could have annulled the
grant. And we are in that aspect of the case independent of
the testimony, given by our adversary, that the giant was not
annulled by concurrence of the cortes, and that the king's act
had in no respect their sanction. The Spanish constitution
vests no such power in the cortes and king even united to confiscate private property, unless indeed it were admissible under the
prerogative of "eminent domain," an interpretation which we
have shown to be here inapplicable. Can it be pretended that
the king alone, divorced as he was from the power to alienate
any portion of the public domain, and, more than that, any
"potion of the Spanish territory," or inteifere with private property, whether in the title to it or the use of it, could effect
that by his decree, which, if legitimately practicable at all by
the state, could be effected by only the sovereignty of the country, and that formed of the cortes and himself?
7 Cranch, 134,136. There this court defines legislative power;
and denounces as alien to it, and as despotic, all pretension by
a legislative authority to annul private rights, especially without
compensation.
But we refer, as conclusive against the power to annul, in
king, or in king and cortes, to the effect of the treaty's relation
to its date, as stated at page 31 hereof.
VIIL Conceding to the ratification th3 character of a decree and the king's constitutional power to pass it, can the United States accept the land thus taken arbitrarily from an individual and enjoy the sacrifice of private rights? If under other
circumstances it could be accepted, can it be after all that has
transpired in relation to this grant, and especially after our ratifying this treaty -before
this American citizen, Mr. Hackley,
received his con'-eyance - without then intimating a complaint,
much less interposing a protest, against the grant to Alagon but lulling the world into the impression that private property
was to be held sacred, and that (whatever might have been tie
suggestions, hostile to it, in course of the r.egotiation) the grant
of Alagon was, by the limitation of date proclaimed in the treaty, left inviolate and committed to its intrinsic merits?
Our principles of public law reject the proffer of such an addition to the treaty domain; and by that law, as we recognize
it under our peculiar political institutions, ihis case and the force
of the king's act of confiscation are to be judged. If we cannot, because contrary to those principles, *sanction the right to
have decreed this regal spoil, how can the right to it be enforced
by the Ufiited States, and, if so, how then can any pretension
be effective as a defence founded on such a supposed right?

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Doe ct al. v. Braden.

Story's Confl. L. §§ 244, 326, and the cases there cited; 15 Pet.
595; 1 Gallis. Rep. 375; Fletcher v. Peck, 7 Cranch, 132, 133,
135.
If this view be true generally, as to all contracts and pretensions of foreign source, repugnant to our maxims of political and
social justice, it applies here most conclusively to this case of a
naiive American citizen, as Mr. Hackley is proved to have been.
7 Cranch, 138, 139. He was protected by the Constitution of
the United States, and (as the Supreme Court, in the case cited,
says) "by the gendral principles common to our free institutions."
IX. It has been assumed by us that this is not a case for
political action of our government, but for the judicial power
directly. This, in the case of our complete grant, since the cases
of Perehman, in 7 Peters, and of Aredondo, in 6 Peters, and of
United. States v. Wiggins, 14 Pet. 349, is unquestionable. Nor
have we made any remarks as to the sufficiency of authentication of our documentary testimony; that being in our opinion
unnecessary after the decision by this court on that head. Among
those decisions we may refer to 14 Pet. 345, 346.

.lir. Cashig (Attorney-Gencral) rested his case upon the following point:
That the annulment of the grant to the Duke of Alagon, declared by the treaty of cession of the Floridas, is binding and
absolutely conclusive upon all the departments of the government and upon the people of the United States.
By the Constitution of the United States, the political power
of making treaties is vested in the President of the United States
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, (art. 2, § 2.)
" And all treaties made, or which shall be made, under'the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the
land." Art. 6, para. 2.
Hence it follows that thIe treaty of cession of the Floridas,
having been duly ratified, proclaimed, and published in the statute ook, operates of itself, in respect of these three annulled
grants, as a supreme law.
The Congress of the United States passed the act of the 3d
of March; 1821, to carry into execution the treaty between the
United States and Spain, concluded at Washington on the 22d
day of February, 1819, (3 Stat. at Large, by Little & Brown,
637, c. 39.) The first section authorized the President to take
possession of and occupy the "territories of East and West
Florida and the appendages and appurtenances thereof; and
to transport the officers and soldiers of the King of Spain, being
VOL.

XVI.

55

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe et al. v. Braden.

-

there, 4to' the Havana, agreeably to the stipulations of the treaty
between the United States and Spain, concluded atWashington on the 22d day of February, in the year 1819, providing for
the cession of said territories to the United States." The same
act organized a territorial government, and extended the laws
of the United States for collection of the revenue, and prohibiting the importation of persons of color over the said ceded territories.
The legislative and the executive departments of the United
States government, in the exercise of their political powers, and
his Catholic Majesty, in the exercise of hii political power, have
explicitly annulled the grant to the Duke of Alagon.
The explanation of the 8th article, so made before the ratifications of the treaty, upon which explanation the treaty was accepted and ratified by the President and Senate of the United
States, and upon which explanation the ratifcations were exchanged between the two contracting powers, is as much a part
of the eighth article, and as much a part of the treaty, as any
other of the articles.
That explanation and express annulment of the grant to the
Duke of Alagon, so affected by the political powers of the government of the United States, is binding upon, and to be followed by, the judicial department. Foster & Elam v. Neilson,
2 Peters, 307, 309, 312, 313 ; Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 516, 517,
518, 519,,521; United States v. Reynes, S Howard, 153, 154.
These three cases were decided upon the cession by Spain to
the United States of the Floridas; the private claims asserted
in those cases were granted by Spain after the treaty of San
Ildefonso, of 1800, after the cession of Louisiana to the United
States by the treaty of Paris of 1803, and before the 24th of
January, 1818. They were located between the rivers Iberville
and Perdido, in the parish of Feliciana. within the disputed
limits between Louisiana and West Florida, which had been
repeatedly discussed, with talent and research, by the governments of the United States and Spain.
The private claimants insisted1st. Upon the right of Spain to the disputed territory, and
invoked the decision of this court upon the true construction
of the treaty of San fldefonso, of the 1st of October, 1800, by
which Spain retroceded Louisiana to France, aod of the treaty
of Paris of 30th of April, 1803, by which France ceded Louisiana to the United States.
2d. That their claims, granted by Spadn before the 24th of
January, 1818, were expressly confirmed by the first member
of the dighth article of the treaty of 1819, for the cession of
the Floridas to the United States.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

651

Doe et al. v. Braden.

3d. That the explanatory clause, contained in the ratification
of the treaty, forms a part of the eighth article, and that the
article so explained should be understood as if it had been written thus: " All the grants of land made before the 24th of
January, 1818, by his Catholic Majesty, or his lawful authorities
in the said territories, ceded by his Majesty to the United States,
except those made to the Duke of Alagon, the Count of Puilonrostro, and Don Pedro de Vargas, shall be ratified and confirmed, &c."
To the first position; this court answered, (2 Peters, 307,)
"The judiciary is not that department of the goverinent to
which the assertion of its interests against foreign powers is
confided, and its duty commonly is to decide upon individual
rights according to those principles which the political departments of the nation have established. If the course of the
nation has been a plain one, its courts would hesitate to pronounce it erroneous.
"We think then, however individual judges might construe
the treaty of San Ildefonso, it 'is the province of the court to
conform its decisions to the will of the legislature, if that will
has been clearly expressed."
The court then cited the acts of Congress showing that the
United States had, before the ratification of the treaty for the
cession of the Floridas, distinctly declared that the boundary
of Louisiana, as acquired under the treaties of San fldefonso,
of 1800, and of Paris of 1803, extended east as far as to the
river Perdido - had taken actual possession of territory according to such declaration of the boundary of Louisiana as acquired by the treaties of San fldefonso, of 1800, and of Paris,
of 1803- and had annexed a part of the disputed territory to
the State of Louisiana. Whereupon this court said, (2 Peters,
209,) "If those departments which are intrusted with the foreign
intercourse of the nation, which assert and maintain its interests
against foreign powers, have unequivocally asserted its rights
of dominion over a country of which it is in possession, and
which it claims under a treaty; if the legislature has acted on
the construction thus asserted, it is not in our own courts
that this construction is to be denied. A question like this,
respecting the boundaries of nations, is, as has been truly said,
more a political than a legal question, and in its discussion the
courts of every country must respect the pronounced will of the
legislature."
To the second position, this court answered, (2 Peters, 310,
311,) That his Catholic Majesty, by the second article of the
treaty, ceded to the United States "all the territories which belong to him," situated to the eastward of the river Mississippi,

652

SUPREME COURT.
Doe et al. v. Braden.

known by the name of East and West Florida; that the words
"which belong to him," limit the extent of the cession; that
the United States cannot be considered as admitting by this
"article that the territory which, at the signature of the treaty,
composed a part of the State of Louisiana, rightfully belonged
to his Catholic Majesty; that these terms were probably selected
so as not to compromit the dignity of either government, and
which each might understand consistently -with its former pretensions; that the sixth article, stipulating for incorporating the
inhabitants of the ceded territories into the Union of the United
States, is coextensive with the cession, and did not include the
territory which was then a part of the State of Louisiana, which
was already a member of the American confederacy; that the
eighth article of the treaty must be understood as limited to
grants made by his Catholic Majesty within the ceded territory,
that is, within "the territories which belong to him."
To the' third proposition this court answered, (2 Peters, 312,)
(IButan explanation of the eighth article has been given by the
parties which (it is supposed) may vary this construction. It
was discovered that three large grants, which had been supposed
at the signature of the treaty to have been made subsequent to
the 24th of January, 1818, bore a date anterior to that period.
Considering these grants as fraudulent, the United States insisted on an expfess declaration annulling them. This demand
was resisted by Spain; and the ratification of the treaty was
for some time suspended. At length his Catholic Majesty
yielded, and the following clause was intrcduced into his ratification: 'Desirous at the same time of avoiding any doubt or
ambiguity concerning the meaning of the eighth article of the
treaty,' &c., (quoting the residue of the kings ratification.)
One of these grants, that to Vargas, lies west of the Perdido.
"It has been argued, and with great force, that this explanation forms a part of the article. It may be considered as if introduced into it as a proviso or exception to the stipulation in
favor of grants anterior to the 24th January-, 1818."
" ....... These three large grants be..ng made about the
same time, under circumstances strongly indicative of unfairness,
and two of them lying east of the Perdido," (and the third also
being as to a part east of the Perdido,) might be objected to on
the ground of fraud common to them all; without implying any
opinion that one of them, which was for lands lying within the
United States, and most probably sold by the government, could
have .been otherVise confirmed. The government might well
insist on closing all controversy relating- to these grants, which
might so materially interfere with its own rights and policy in
its future disposition of the ceded lands, and not allow them to

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

653

Doe et al. v. Braden.

become the subject of judicial investigation; while other grants,
though deemed by it to be invalid, might be left to the ordinary
course of the'law ......
"An extreme solicitude to provide against injury or inconvenience, from the known existence of such large grants, by.insisting upon a declaration of their absolute nullity, can, in their
opinion, furnish no satisfactory proof that the government meant
to recognize the small grants as valid, which in every previous
act and struggle it had proclaimed to be void, as being for lands
within the American teriitory."
Th- principles so adjudged in 1829, in Foster & Elam v.
Neilson, x re affirmed, in Garcia i,. Lee, in 1838, and again in
1850, in United States 'v. Reynes, before cited.
The treaty ceding the Floridas to the United States, as explained in the ratification, expressly annuls the grants to the
Duke of Alagon; the Count of Pufionrostro, and Don Pedro de
Vargas; -in this express declaration and understanding, it was
accepted and ratified by the President and Senate of the United
States; in this sense the ratifications were exchanged between
the two contracting nations; in this understanding the Congress
passed various statutes, whereof only two need be particularly
noticed here. The first is "An act for ascertaining claims and
titles to land within the territory of Florida," approved 8th May,
1822, (3 Stat. a Large by Little & Brown, p. 709, c. 129,) the
fourth section of which alludes to the claims rejected by the
treaty, and excepts them from the powers of the commissioners,
as herein before quoted. Tle other is "An act supplementary
to the several acts providing for the settlement and confirmation
of private land claims in Florida," approved 23d May, 1828, (4
Stat. at Large by Littl3 & Brown, 284,) the sixth section whercof authorized claimants to lands in Florida, not decided and
finally settled under the provisions of this act, &c., to present
their cases by petition to the judiciary, to try the validity of
their claims: "Provided, that nothing in this section contained
shall be construed to authorize said judges to take cognizance
of any claim annulled by the said treaty, or the decree ratifying
the same by the King of Spain, nor any claim not presented to
the commissioners, or register and receiver, in conformity to thc
several acts of Congress, providing for the settlement of private
land claims in Florida."
The explanation of the 8th article of the treaty, so made and
contained in the ratifications as exchanged between the two
governments, forms a part of the 8th article. In that the legislative, the executive, and the judicial departments of the United States have -hitherto concurred.
The grants by his Catholic Majesty to the Duke of Alagon,
55

*

SUPREM1E

COURr.

Doe et al. v. Braden.

the Count of Pufionrostro, and Don Pedro de Vargas, are annulled by the treaty.
The plaintiff in ejectment, produces, in evidence, this annul.
led Spanish grant to the Duke of Alagon as the foundation of
his title to the land demanded, as the fulcrum of his action
against the adverse possessor.
Upon the plaintiff's own evidence, upon his showing of the
facts, the supreme law of the land pronounces that he has no
title, no just cause of action.
All subsequent and subsidiary questions are vain.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivercd the opinion of the court.
This controversy has arisen out of the treaty with Spain by
which Florida was ceded to the United States.
The suit is brought by the plaintiff in, error against the defendant to recover certain lands in the State of Florida. It is
an action of ejectment. And the plaintiff claims title under a
grant fiQm the King of Spain to the Duke of Alagon. This is
the foundation of his title. And if this grant is null and void
by the laws of the United States, the action cannot be maintained.
The treaty in question was negotidted at Washington, by Mr.
Adams, then. Secretary of State, and Don Louis De Onis, the
Spanish Minister. It was signed on the 22d1 of February, 1819;
.and by-its terms the ratifications were to be exchanged within
'six months from its date.
. It appears, from the treaty, that the negotiations commenced
on the 24th of January, 1818, by a proposition from the Spanish
government to cede the Floridas to the United States. The
grant to the Duke of Alagon bevrs date February 6th, in the
same year, and consequently was made after the King of Spain
had authorized his minister to negotiate a teaty for the cession
of th; territory, and after the negotiation had actually commenced. It embraces ten or twelve millions of acres.
The fact that this grant had been made came to the knowledge of the secretary, pending the .negotiation; and he also
learned that two other grants- one to the Count of Purionrostro, and the other to Don Pedro de Vargas, each containing
some millions of acres, had also been made under like circumstances. These three, grants covered 'all c-r nearly all of the
public domain in the territory proposed to be ceded. And the
secretary naturally and justly considered that grants of this
description made while the negotiation was pending, and'with,
out the knowledge or consent of the United States, were acts of
bad faith on the part of Spain, and would be highly injurious to
the interests of the United States, if Florida became a part of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

655

Doe et al. v. Braden.

their territory. For the possession and ownaership of such vast
tracts of country by three individiials would be altogether incon-sistent with the principles and policy on which this government
is founded. It would have greatly retarded its settlement, and
diminished its value to the citizens of the United States. For
no one could have become a landholder in this new territory
without the permission of these individuals, and upon such conditions and at such prices as they might choose to exact.
Acting upon these considerations, the secretary insisted that
if the negotiations resulted in a treaty of cession, an article
should be inserted by which these three grants, and any others
made under similar circumstances, should be annulled by the
Spanish government.
Thd demand was so obviously just, and the conduct of Spain
in this respect so evidently indefensible, that after much hesita.
tion it was acceded to, and the 8th article introduced into the
treaty to accomplish the -object. By this article "all grants
made since the 24th of January, 1818, when the first proposal
on the part of his Catholic Majesty for the cession of the Floridas was made, are thereby declared and agreed to be null and
void;" and all grants made before' that day, are confirmed.
With this provision in it, the treaty was submitted to the
"Senate,who advised and consented to its ratification on the 24th
of February, 1819, and it was accordingly ratified by the President.
Before, however, the ratifications were exchanged, the Secretary of State was informed that the Duke of Alagon intended
to rely on a ro) 1 order, of December 17, 1817, (which is recited in the grant hereinbefore mentioned,) as s~ifficient to convey to him the land from that date; and upon that ground
claimed that his title was confirmed and not annulled by the
treaty.
The secretary, it appears, was satisfied that this royal order
conveyed no interest to the Duke of Alagon; and that the grant
in the sense in which that word is used in the treaty, was not
made until the instrument,.dated the 6th of February, 1818, was
executed.
But as a claim of this character, however unfounded, would
cast a cloud upon the proprietary title of the United States, and
as claims might also be set up under similar pretexts under the
grants to the Count of Pubonrostro and Vargas, the secretary
deemed it his duty to place the matter beyond all controversy
before the ratifications were exchanged. He therefore requested
and received from Don Louis de Onis a written admission that
these -three grants were understood by both of them to have been
annulled by the 8th article of the treaty; and that it was nego-

656

SUPREM1E COURT.
Doe et -al. v. Braden.

tiated and signed under that mutual unders;anding between the
negotiators. And having obtained this admission, he notified
the Spanish minister that he would present a declaration to that
effect, upon the exchange of ratifications, and expect a similar
one from the Spanish government to be annexed to the treaty.
But the King of Spain for a long time refused to make the
declaration required, or to ratify the treaty'with the declaration
of the American government attached to it. And a great deal
of irritating correspondence upon the subject took place between
the two governments. Finally, however, the King of Spain
ratified it on the 21st of October, 1820, and admitted, in his
written ratification annexed to the treaty, in explicit terms, that
it was the positive understanding of the negotiators on both
sides when the treaty was signed, that these three grants were
thereby annulled; and declared also that they had remained and
did remain entirely annulled and invalid; and that neither of
the three individuals mentioned, nor those who might have title
or interest through them, could avail themse..ves of the grants at
any time or in any manner.
With this ratification attached to the treaty, it was again submitted by the President to the Senate, who on the 19th February, 1821, advised and consented to its ratification. It was ratified, accordingly, by the President, and tae ratifications exchanged on the 22d of February, 1821. And Florida, on that
day, became a part of the territory of the United States, under
and according to the stipulations 6f treaty -the rights of thr
United States relating back to the day on which it was signed
We have made this statement in relation to the negotiatiom
and correspondence between the two governments for the pur.
pose of showing the circumstances which occasioned the intro.
duction of the 8th article, confirming Spanish grants made before the 24th of January, 1818, and annulling those made afterwards; and also for the purpose of showing how it happened
that the three large grants by name were declared to be annulled in the ratification, and not by a stipulation in the body of
the treaty. But the statement is in no other respect material.
For it is too plain for argument that where cne of the parties to
a treaty, at the time of its ratification annexes a written declaration explaining ambiguous language in the instyument or adding a new and distinct stipulation, and the t.veaty is afterxv ards
ratified by the other party with the declarat.on attached to it,
and the ratifications duly, exchanged -the declaration thus annexed is a part of the treaty and as binding and obligatory as
if it were inserted in the body of the instrument. The intention
of the parties is to be gathered from the whole instrument, as it
stood when the ratifications were exchange&

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

657

Doe et al. v. Braden.

It is not material, therefore, to inquire whether the title of the
Duke of Alagon takes date from the royal order of December
17th, 1817, or from the grant subsequently made on the 6th of
February, 1818. In either case the treaty by name declares it
to be annulled.
It is said, however, that the King of Spain, by the constitution under which he was then acting and administering, the
government, had not the power to annul it by treaty or otherwise; that if the power existed anywhere in the Spanish government it resided in the cortes; and that it does not appear, in
the ratification, that it was annulled by that body or by its authority or consent.
But these are political questions and not judicial. They belong exclusively to the political department of the government.
By the Constitution of the United States, the President has
the power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to
make treaties provided two thirds of the Senators present concur. And he is authorized to appoint ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, and to receive them from foreign nations;
and is thereby enabled to obtain accurate information of the
political condition of the nation with which he treats; who
exercises over it the powers of sovereignty, and under what limitations; and how far the party who ratifies the treaty is authorized, by its form of government, to bind the nation and persons
and things within its territory and dominion, by treaty stipulations. And the Constitution declares that all treaties made
under the authority of the United States shall be the supreme
law of the land.
The treaty is therefore a law ma4e by the proper authority,
and the courts of justice have no right to annul or disregard
any of its provisions, unless they violate th, Constitution of the
United States. It is their duty to interpret it and administer it
according to its terms. And it would be impossible for the executive department of the government to conduct our foreign relations with any advantage to the country, and fulfil the duties
which the Constitution has imposed upon it, if every court in the
country was authorized to inquire and decide whether the persoil who ratified the treaty on behalf of a foreign nation had the
power, by its constitution and laws, to make the engagements
into which he entered.
In this c'se the King of Spain has by the treaty stipulated
that the grant to the Duke of Alagon, previously made by him,
had been and remained annulled, and that neither the Duke of
Alagon nor any person claiming under him could avail himself
of this grant. It was for the President and Senate to determine
whether the ldng, by the constitution and laws of Spain, was

658

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Doe et al. v. Braden.

authorized to make this stipulation and to ratify a treaty containing it. They have recognized his power by accepting this
stipulation as a part of the compact, and ratifying the treaty
which contains it. The constituted and legitimate authority
of the United States, therefore, has acquired and received this
land as public property. In that character it became a part of
the United States, and subject to and governed by their laws.
And as the treaty is by the constitution the supreme law, and
that law declared it public domain when it came to the possession of the United States, the courts of justice are bound so to
regard it and treat it, and cannot sanction any title not derived
from the United States.
Nor can the plaintiff's claim be supported unless he can maintain that a court of justice may inquire whether6 the President
and Senate were not mistaken as to the authority, of the Spanish monarch in this respect; or knowingly sanctioned an act of
injustice committed by him upon an individual in violation of
the laws of Spain. But it is evident that such"a proposition can
find no support in the Constitution of the United States; nor
in the jurisprudence of any country where the judicial and political powers are separated and placed in difterent hands. Certainly no judicial tribunal in the United States ever claimed it,
or supposed it possessed it.
The plaintiff seems to suppose that he has a stronger title
than that of the Duke of Alagon. It is alleged that the Duke
of Alagon, on the 29th of May, 1819, conveyed the greater part
of the land granted to him by the King of Spain to Richard S.
Hackley, a citizen of the United States. This deed to Hackley
was after the signature of the treaty and before the exchange
of ratifications, and the plaintiff claims through Hackley, and contends that this American citizenship protected his title.
But if the deed from the Duke of Alagon to a citizen of the
United States was valid by the laws of Spain, and vested the
Spanish title in Hackley; yet the land in his hands remained
subject to the Spanish law and the authority and power of the
Spanish government as fully as if it had continued the property
of the original grantee. Hackley derived no title from the
United States, nor were his rights in the land, if he had any, regulated by the laws of the United States, nor under their protection.
It was a part of the territory of Spain, and in her
possession and under her government, until the ratifications of
the treaty were exchanged. And until that time the rights of the
individual owner, and the extent of authority which the government might lawfully exercise over it, depended altogether upon
the laws of Spain. And whatever rights he may have had under
the deed of the Duke of Alagon, they were extinguished by the

DECEIBER TERM, 1853.

659

Doe et al. v. Braden.

government from which he held them while the land remained a
*partof its territory and subject to its laws. It was public domain when it came to the possession of the United States, and
he had then no rights in it.
In this view of the case it is not necessary to examine the
other questions which appear in the exception or have been
raised in the argument. The treaty is the supreme law, and the
stipulations in it dispose of the case. The judgment of the
District Court must therefore be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Florida, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

