SUPREME COURT.
Adams et al. v. Law.

in said act of transfer; and that all subsequent proceedings in
this case relating to the said judgment, shall be conducted and
carried on in the name of the original plaintiffs, for the use and
benefit of the said Charles McMicken, and at his expense."
All which is now certified to the honorable the Supreme Court
of the United States, in obedience to the mandate herewith
returned.
Witness my hand, and the seal of said zourt, at New Orleans,
Louisiana, this 1st March, A. D. 1854.
J. W. GURLEY, Clerk.
[SEAL.]
The motion to dismiss was argued by Mr. .Perin, for the
defendants in error, and by Mr. Duncan and Mr. Coxe, for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made for a dismissal of this cause.
1. Because the judgment is not properly described in the
-writ of error.
2. Because the bond is given to a person who is not a party
to the judgment.
3. Because the citation issued, is issued to a person who is
not a party.
The objections are all founded in fact, and upon the authority of Samuel Smyth v. Strader, Perine & Co., 12 How. 327.
The case is dismissed, with leave, however, to the counsel for
the plaintiffs, to move for its reinstatement, duribg the present
term.

A xMs, EXEOUTOR OF THOMAS LAW, DECEASED, AND
IENRY MAY, ADMINISTRATOR OF EDMUND AND THOMAS Law,
APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH E. LAW, BY HIS NEXT FRIEND, MTARY
ROBINSON.

JAMEs

In order to act as a supersedeas upon a decree in chancery, the appeal bond must be
filed
within ten days after the rendition of the decree. In the present case, where
the bond was not filed in time, a motion foi a superseeasis not sustained by sufficient reasons, and consequently must be overruled.
So, also, a motion is overruled to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground that the real
parties in the case, were not made parties to the appeal. The error is d mere
clerical omission of certain words.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the .United
States for the District of Columbia.
Two motions were made in respect to it.One by ifr. Coxe.

DECEIBER TERMI,

1853.

145

Adams ot al. v. Law.

to dismiss the appeal, and issue a procedendo, and the other by
3Ir. Lawlence, on behalf of the appellants, for a writ of supersedeas, directed to the court below, for the purpose of staying
the execution of the decree.
MAr. Coxe's motion was as follows:
It is now moved by Richard S. Coxe, solicitor of Lloyd N.
Rogers, administrator of Elizabeth P. C. Law, deceased, and
Edmund Law Rogers and Eleanoa A. Rogers, surviving children of Lloyd N. Rogers and Elizabeth P. 0. Law, his wife, and
of the representative of William Blane, deceased, that this
appeal be dismissed.
1. There is no case as above entitled, and the real parties
interested in the case of which a record is filed, are not made
parties to this appeal, namely, the said Lloyd N. Rogers, administrator, &c., Edmund Law Rogers and Eleanora A. Rogers,
and the executors of William Blane, in whose favor the decree
of the Circuit Court appears to have been made.
2. That it appearing from the certificate of the clerk of said
Circuit Court, that an appeal was duly prayed by said appellants, from the decree entered in this cause, and that it was
duly allowed, and an appeal bond, in the lienal sum of $200,
approved 9th December, 1853, is the only appeal bond filed in
the case, and such bond does not appear to have been given to
the party defendant, in the above entitled case.
And upon the facts appearing in the certificate of the clerk
of said Circuit Court, that no good and sufficient appeal bonf.
has been filed, so as by law to operate as a supersedeas.
And whereas it also appears as aforesaid, that the said James
Adams, trustee, is and has been in contempt, in consequence of
his neglect and omission to perform and obey the brder of said
Circuit Court made on the 18th December, 1852; and that said,
Circuit Court has omitted and neglected to enforce said order
and decree against the said James Adams, trustee as aforesaid;
it is now further moved by said solicitor, that a writ of procedendo do issue from this court, to be directed to the said Circuit Court, directing and commanding said court to proceed
forthwith Io enforce, by appropriate process, the said order and
decree of said Circuit Court.
Mir. Lawrence's motion was as follows:
The appellants in this casb, by their counsel, respectfully submit to thi-, court,
That in consequence of a mistake and surprise, the facts in
regard to which fully appear in the affidavita herewith filed, they
failed-to file a supersedeas bond within ten days after the final
decree was entered therein in the Circuit Court; that the fund
V6L. XVI.

13

146

SUPREME COURT.
Adams .et al. v. Law.

in controversy is now in the hands of the trustee appointed by
the said court, and securely invested to the satisfaction of all the
parties to said cause; that the said appellants have offered in
the said court to give bond in double the amount of the sums
decreed to be paid; that the parties to whom the said moneys
have been decreed to be paid reside out cf the said District of
Columbia, and the Circuit Court has refused to grant the supersedeas on application formally made in that court for that purpose, and thereupon they move this Honorable Court for a writ
of sppersedecas to the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,
to stay execution of the decree heretofore rendered by the said
court in this cause, and from which an appeal hath been prayed
to this court, on such terms as to your Honors may seem meet.
These motions were argued by JXir. 1U4, and 31r. Bradleyi, in
support of the motion of 1r. Lawrence, for a supersedeas, and
by _41r. Coxe and Mr. Carlyle, in support of .Trr. Coxe's motion,
to dismiss the appeal.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
21'. .M1ay and Mr. Bradley contended
1. That this cpurt has power to interfere. In Hardeman v.
Anderson, 4 j-ow. 640, there was a neglect of the clerk. Here
there was, no neglect, but the hearing below was irregular, and
a surprise upon Mr. May, who had no solicitor in court. When
set down for hearing, the case ought to have been put on the
order book.
2. The hearing was irregular. The case ought not to have
come on until the next term. Maryland Chanc. Prac. 112.
3. If the money is paid according to the decree, it will go beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and may be lost. In such a
case, the court will interfere. 6 Har. & Johns. 333; 3 Dan. C.h.
Pr. 1611. We Offer to submit to any terms which the court
may direct.
Mr. Co.ce and 11. Carlyle contended that the appeal should
be dismissed. The case arose upon marriage settlements, and
was referred to the auditor. It was then set down for hearing
by consent. Maryland Chancery Practice had nothing to do with
the case. Adams had $61,000, in his hands since June twelvemonth. He has only given bond as executor, and not as trustee. We obtained a rule upon him to show cause why he should
not pay over the money, and that question is not decided to this
day.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery, from the decree of the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

147

Adams et al. v. Law.

A motion is made by the appellant's counsel for a s persedeas
on the ground that the hearing of the case in the Circuit Court
was brought on irregularly, and the decree entered in the absence of the principal counsel for the defendants below; that by
reason of this, an appeal-bond was not filed within ten days from
the allowance of the appeal.
Nir. May, who makes this motion, states that he is the administrator of the estate of Thomas and Edmund Law, children of
John Law, who in their lifetime were parties to the suit; and
that he intended to appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court,
if against him; that he had no notice of the cause being set for
hearing; that he left the United States on public business, and
was absent several months; that on his return he learned that a
final decree had been entered against him, and that he had authorized no one to consent to the hearing of the cause out of its
regular course.

It appears that two other counsel who appeared for other defendants, consented to the hearing in order that the cause might
be taken to the Supreme Court, for ultimate decision; and these
counsel understood the cause was to be appealed to the Supreme
Court by consent, and that security for the money decreed to
be paid would not be required. But both of these gentlemen
state that, in giving their assent to the hearing, they did not represent Mr. May, not being authorized to do so.
The suit in the Circuit Court was entitled, "Joseph E. Law
by his next friend, lary Robinson, v. Thomas Law and others,
and James Adams, executor of Thomas Law." The controversy
arose under the will of Thomas Law, deceased, and among
other things the court decreed that James Adams, the trustee in
the cause, who had sold certain property under the order of the
court and had the proceeds in his hands, exceeding the sum of
sixty-one thousand dollars, should pay over the money to the
persons named in the decree, as entitled to the same. This decree
was entered the 18th day of December, 1852; and an appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States was prayed on the
same day. An appeal-bond, in the sum of two hundred dollars,
was filed the 9th of December, 1853.
The twenty-third section of the act of 1789, provides, "that a
writ of error shall be a supersedeas, and stay execution in cases
only where the writ of error is served by a copy thereof being lodged for the adverse party in the clerk's office where the
record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after rendering the judgment or passing the decree complained of, until the
expiration of which term of ten days the execution shall not
issue in any case where a writ of error may be a supersedeas.
By the second section of the act of March 3, 1803, appeals are

SUPREME COUIT.
Adams et a]. v. Lax.

declared to be "subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law in case of writs of error."
Under this provision an appeal in chancery must be perfected,
by giving an appeal-bond within the ten days, to act as a suipersedeas. In Wallen v. Williams, 7 Cranch. 278, the court refused
to quash an execution issued by the court below to enforce its
decree, pending a writ of error, as the writ was not a supersedeas to the decree. In the Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheat. 811,
where the appeal was prayed within the five years limitation,
the appeal-bond being accepted by the co urt after that period,
was held good, as having relation to the time of the appeal.
"The mode of taking security and the ime of perfecting it,"
the court say, "are matters of discretion, to be regulated by
the
court."as aBut
this cannot Itapply to a case, where the appeal
operates
supersedeas.
must be brought strictly within
the provisions of the law.
The appeal, in this case, was prayed on the same day the
decree
was entered ; but the bond was not given uni nearly a
year afterwards.
The appeal must be perfected within the ten
days after the decree was entered, to operate as a supersedeas.
To supersede a judgment at law, the writ f error must be filed
and bond given within the ten days. And the same rule is
applied by the act of 1803, to appeals in chancery.
The. case of Hardeman & Perkins v. Anderson, 4 How. 642,
is relied on as an authority under which a. supersedeas may be
issued in this case. In that case it appeared from the record,
that the writ of Zrror was issued and bond given within ten
days after the judgment, and that the clerk of the District Court
promised to transmit the record to the Supreme Court. It was
transmitted, but by some delay was not received until a few
days after the adjournment of the court, at the ensuing term.
Before the adjournment, a certificate of the judgment having
been obtained by the plaintiff's counsel, in the judgment, on
motion the cause was, under the rule of the court, docketed
and dismissed. At the next term, on moLion sustained by an
affidavit, showing that the defendant in the judgment had not
been negligent in the cause, it was ordered to be docketed, and
a writ of supersedeas was issued, not on the second writ of
error which had been issued, but to give effect to the first writ.
After the dismissal of the cause at the preirous term, execution
was issued on- the judgment, and it was' necessary,.after the
cause was entered upon the docket, to supersede that execution.
It does -not appear from the facts in the- case now before us,
that it can be brought within any decision of this court. Whatever may have been the understanding of the counsel who ap-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Adams ct al. v. Law.

peared in the defence, in the Circuit Court, as to an appeal of
the case to the Supreme Court, by consent and without security,
it is not made to appear that the counsel of the complainants
assented to such an arrangement.
By the order of the Circuit Court, a copy of the decree was
served on James Adams, the trustee; and also a rule to show
cause whyan attachment should not issue against him for not
paying over to the parties the sums of money as required by the
decree. His answer to the rule was filed, and a motion being
made for an attachment, it was taken under consideration, and
has not yet been decided.
This Court cannot presume that the Circuit Court, in the
exercise of their discretion, xill take any step in regard to the
decree, -which shall place the fund at hazard or beyond the exercise of the appellate powers of this Court.
The 1liotion for a supersedeas, by the counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, is overruled.
The Court also overrule, under the circumstances, the motion
of the defendant's counsel in error, for a procedendo.
A motion is also made, by defendant's counsel, to dismiss
the appeal on the ground, "that there is no case, as entitled on
the record; and that the real parties interested in the case, of
which a record is filed, are not made parties to the appeal."
After the decree was pronounced in the Circuit Court, the
record states: "From which decree an appeal whs prayed to
the Supreme Court of the United States, on the 18th December, 1852, and to them it was granted." The word "defendants" is omitted in this prayer, but that must have been a
clerical omission, as it appears the appeal was "granted to
them," that is to the defendants.
The title of the case, if incoixectly entered on the docket of
this court, may and should be corrected by the record filed.
There is nothing in the record to show that the appeal by the
defendants was not prayed by all of them. The motion to dismiss is therefore overruled.
Order itpon the motion to dismiss.
On consideration of the motion to dismiss this case, and for a
writ of procedendo, filed -by MTr. Coxe, in this case, on the 16th
ultimo, and of ihe arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well
against as in support of said motion. It is now here ordered
by the court that said motion be, and the same is hercby overruled.
O;'der vpon the iottarc,for a supersedeas.
On consideration of thb motion for a supersedeas. filed by
1141

SUPRE-ME

COURT.

Stuart et al. v. 31axwel.

Mr. Lawrence in this case on the 16th ultimo, and of the argunents of counsel thereupon had as well against as in support
of the -motion; it is now here ordered by the Court, that said
motion be, and the same is hereby overruled.

JOHN STUART, JOSEPH STUART, JAMES STUART, AND WILLIAM
H. SCOTT, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. HUGH M.AXWELL.

The twentieth section of the Tariff Act of 1842 provides, that on all articles manufactured from two or more materials, the duty shall bl,assessed at the highest rates
at which any of its component parts may be chargeable. (5 Stat. at L. 566.)
This section was not repealed by the general clause in the Tariff Act of 1846, by
which all acts, and parts of acts, repugnant to the r.rovisions of that act, (1846,)

were repealed.
Consequently, where goods were entered as being manufactures of linen and cotton,
it was proper to impose upon them a duty of twenty-live per cent. ad valores, such
being the duty imposed upon cotton articles, in Schedule D, by the Tariff Act of
1846. (9 Stat. at L.46.)

THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
The plaint.'. in error, who were plaintiffs below, sued the
collector to recover moneys for duties, paid under protest, alleged to have been overcharged at the port of New York, in
July, 1849. Verdict and judgment for defendant.
The plaintiffs made entry at the custom-house of goods as
being "manufactures of linen and cotton." The appraisers reported them to be manufactures of cotton and flax.
Upon such goods cbllector Maxwell charged duties at the
rate of 25 per cent. ad valorem,.according 1:othe 20th section of
the act of 30th August, 1842, which enacted, " ......
And
on all articles manufactured from two or more materials, the
duty shall be assessed at the highest rates at which any of its
component parts may be chargeable." 5 Stat. at Large, by
Little & Brown, p. 566, chap. 270.
The collector applied this 20th section to Schedule D, of the
act of 30th July, 1846; (9 Stat. at Large, by Little & Brown, p. 46,
chap. 74,) by which a duty of twenty-five per cent. ad valorem
was imposed on "cotton laces, cotton insertings, cotton trimming laces, cotton laces and braias ......
.; manufactures
composed wholly of cotton, not otherwise provided for;" being
so instructed by.the acting Secretry of the Treasury, by circular
of May 8th, 1848.

