SUPREME

COURT.

Conrad v. Griffey.

quire into the state of the trust, nor is he responsible for the
faithful application of the money unless ieknew, or had suflicient information at the time, that the guardian contemplated
a breach of trust, and intended to misapply the money, or was
in fact, by the transaction, applying it to his own private purpose. The cases on this subject are reviewed by Cancellor Kent
in Field v. Schieffelin, 7 Johns. Chan. 150. In order to follow
trust funds which have been transferred to third persons, there
must be a breach of trust in their transfer, and a collusion by the
purchaser or assignee with the guardian, executor, or trustee.
If Brandon had taken the negroes belonging to plaintiff from
his guardian, in payment of his debt, knowing the guardian was
insolvent, and abusing his trust, a court of equity would compel
him to return them to the ward, or pay their full value. But, in
the case before us, Camp was dealing with his own property,
and there is no pretence of any collusion with him by Brandon
in the abuse of his trust. He has receivEd nothing which belonged to the ward, or which he is under any obligation to restore
to him.
So far as the interest of the complainant were affected by this
transaction, the object of it was to benefit, not to injure him.
He may therefore assume the contract, and demand a specific
execution .of it from the defendant, but has shown no right to
rescind it and recover the money advanced in execution of it.
The decree of the court below is therefora affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said District Court,
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

FnEDERIC D. CONRAD, PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR

v.

DAviD GRIFFEY.

In11 Howard, 480, it is'said, "Where a witness was examined for the plaintiff, and
the defendant offered in evidence aceelarations which he h id made of a contradictory
character, and then the plaintiff offered to give in evidence others, affirmatory of
the first, these last affirmatory declarations were not admissible, being made at a
time posterior to that at which he made the contradictory declarations given in evidence by the defendant."
The case having been remanded to the Circuit Court under a rentrefaciasde nero, the
plaintiff gave in evidence, upon- the new trial, the deposition taken under a recent
commission of the same witness whose deposition was the subject of the former

DECEMBER TER3M, 1853.

39

Conrad r. Griffey.

examination, when the defendant offered to give in evidence the same affirmatory
declarations which upon the former trial were offered as rebutting eviL.nce by the
plaintiff.
The object of the defendant being to discredit and contradict the deiosition of the
witne-s taken under the recent commis'ion, the evidence was not ndmis-ible. He
bhould have been interrogated respecting the statements, when he was examined
under the commission.
If his declarations had been made subequent to the commission, a new coninission
rhould have been sued out, whethor his declarations had been written or verbal.

Tais case was brought up by -writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It was before this court at December term, 1S50, and is reported in 11 Howard, 480.
In order to give a clear idea of the point now brought up for
decision, it may be necessary to remind the reader of some of
the circumstances of that case.
Griffey was a builder of steam-engines, in Cincinnati, and
made a contract with Conrad, a sugar planter, in Louisiana, to
put up an engine upon his plantation for a certain sumn. Disputes having arisen upon the subject, Griffey brought his action
the amount claimned to be due,
to recover
against
Upon Conrad
the trial,
in 1849, the testimony of Leonard N. Nutz,
taken under a commission, was given in evidence. He was the
engineer who was sent by Grifftey to erect and work the machine. The deposition was taken on the 1st April, 1847. This
evidence being in favor of Griffey, the counsel for Conrad offered the depositions of three persons to contradict the evidence
of Nutz. Griffey then produced, as rebutting evidence, a letter
written by Nutz to him, under date of April 3, 1846, which was
admitted by the court below, and the propriety of which admission was the point brought before this court in 11 Howard.
This court having decided that the letter ought not to have been
received in evidence, the cause was remanded under an order to
award a venirefacias de novo.
Before the cause came on again fTr trial, Griffey took the testimony of Nutz again under a 6ommission, on the 28th of
June, 1852, when the following proceedings were had, and bill
of exceptions taken.
Be it known, that on the trial of this cause, the plaintiff having read in evidence the deposition of Leonard N. Nutz, taken
under commission on the 28th June, 1852, and filed on the 9th
July, 1952, the defendant then offered in evidence a letter of Leonard N. Nutz, dated at New Albany, on the 3d April, 1846, with
an affidavit annexed by said Nutz of the same date, all addressed
to the plaintiff in this cause; and as preliminary proof to the introduction of said letter, the defendant adduced the bill of exceptions

40

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

signed upon a, former trial of this cause, and filed on the 23d
February, 1849, and the indorsement of the clerk upon said letter
of its being filed, showing that said letter had been produced by
the plaintiff in said former trial, and read by his counsel in evidence as the letter of said Nutz in support of a former deposition of the same witness. And the said letter and affidavit
were offered by said defendant to contradict and discredit the
deposition of said witness taken on the said 28th of June, 18'52;
but upon objection of counsel for the plaintiff that the said
witness had not been cross-examined in reference to the writing
of said letter, or allowed an opportunity of explaining the same,
and that upon the former trial the counsel for defendant had
objected to the same document as evidence, (and the objection
had been sustained by the Supreme Court of the United States,)
the court sustained the said objections, and refused to allow the
said letter and affidavit annexed to be read in evidence; to
which ruling the defendant takes this b'll of exception., and
prays that the interrogatories and answers of said NutZ, taken
on said 28th June, 1862, the said letter and affidavit annexed,
of data'the 3d April, 1846, with the indorsement of the clerk
of filing the same, and the bill of exceptions filed on the 23d
February, 1849, be all taken and deemed as a part of this bill
of exceptions, and copied therewith accordingly.
THEo. H. IC CALEB, U S. Td-e.
[SrAL.].
Upon this exception, the case came up again to this court.
It was argued by Itr. Bejamin, for the plaintiff in error, and
by M]r. Gilbert, for the defendant in error.
3r. Benjamin, for plaintiff in error.
From this bill of exceptions, it appears 1:hat the defendant in
error, who was plaintiff in the cause below, offered in support
of his case the testimony of Leonard N. Nutz, taken in St.
Louis, on the 18th June, 1852, under a commission issued by
the Circuit Court on the 5th of the same month. This testimony is found at p. 14 of the record.
After the testimony of Nutz had been read, the defendant
offered in evidence a letter of Nutz, dated 3d April, 1846, with
his affidavit of the truth of the statements contained in .the
letter, in order, as stated in the bill of .xceptions, " to contradict and discredit his deposition taken on the 28th June,
1852."
The evidence thus offered by defendant, was rejected on two
g7ounds: 1st. That -"
the. witness had not been cross-examined
in reference to the writing of said letter, or allowed an opportunity of explaining the same;" and 2d. That "upon the
former trial, the counsel for defendant had objected to the same

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

41

Conrad v.Griffey.

document as evidence, and that the objection had been sustained by the Supreme Court of the United States."
On the first ground, the objection to the evidence proceeds on
a misapprehension of a'rule of practice in relation to the crossexamination of a witness. The rule and its reason are so
clearly set forth in 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, ยง 462, (6th ed.)
and the authorities there cited, that comment on it is unnecessary. The witness was not under cross-examination; his testimiony was not taken in court in the presence of the parties
where it was possible to give him an opportunity of explanation.
It was impossible for tl-e defendant, in New Orleans, to know
in advance what answers ihe witness would make in St. Louis
to the questions propounded to him; and when those answers
were read on the trial, it was perfectly legitimate, to offer the
forfmer written and sworn statements of the witness on the subject-matter, to contradict and discredit his later statements.
On the second ground, it is sufficient to say that evidence is
frequently admis;4blc against a party that he is not allowed to
is fiequently admissible at one
offer in his own lavor, that it.
period of the trial, wvhen not admissible at another; that it is
frequently admissible for one purpose, when not admissible for
another; and that the decision of the Supreme Courti in 11
Howard, did not determine that the evidence in question was
totally inadmissible for any purpose by either party, at any time,
but only that it was not admissible for, the plaintiff in the cause
for the purpose for which he offered it. An array of authorities
in support of these elementary principles of the law of evideniee, would be deemed disrepectful to the court.
.ir. Gilbert, for defendant in error, made the following points:
First. To authorize proof of previous acts or declarations
of a witnes., for the purpose of invalidating his testimony, the
witness must, previous to the introduction of such evidence, be
examined as to the matter. The attention of the witness, Nutz,
not having been called to the letter offered in evidence, and no
opportunity allowed to explain what he intended by it, such letter was inadmissible in evidence to discredit him.
A witness should always be allowed to qxplain what he has
said or done concerning the matter under investigation, otherwise his reputation might ,.nffer wrongfully. If his attention is
not' called, by cross-examination, to the supposed contradiction,
he will have no opportunity to explain seeming contradictions,
or errors, by making more full statements,' or showing the connection of things, or defining his meaning of expressions and
the terms he may have used. No man always conveys his ideas
in the same language. Many, even of the most learned, fail to
4,*

SUPREM1E COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

express themselves clearly and properly. In such case, a few
explanatory words may reconcile seeming contradictions. It
would be unjust that the party should suffer where he has no
means of giving an explanation, which may be most ample;
and cruel to a witness to discredit him, thereby injuring his
character, without allowing him an opportunity to show that
he has committed no fault. Hence the r ale that contradictory
statements and acts of an inconsistent chaxacter cannot be given
in evidence, without preparing the way for its admission by
cross-examining the witness as to the supposed contradictory
statements.
Phillips on Evidence, p. 294, says: "Thus it appears that a
witrress ought to be regularly .cross-examined as to the contradictory statements supposed to have been made by him on a
former occasion, before such contradictory statements can be
admitted in evide ice to impeach the credit of his testimony.
And this rule has been extended not only to such contradictory
statements, but also to other declarations of the witness, and
acts done by him through the medium of declarations or words."
Roscoe, Criminal Evilence, p. 182, says: "But in order to
let in this evidence, in contradiction, a ground must be laid for
it in the cross-examination of the witness, who is to be contradicted. 'When a witness has been examined as to particular
transactions, if the other side were permitted to give in evidence
declarations made by him respecting those transactions at variance with his testimony, without first calling the attention of the
witness to those declarations, and refreshing his memory with
regard to them, it would, as has been observed, have an uniair
effect upon his credit.'
In the Queen's case, 2 Brod. & Brag. 312, (6 Com. Law
Rep. 130, 131,) Abbott, C. J., said: "If the witness admits the
words or declarations imputed to him, the proof on the other
side becomes unnecessary; and the witness has an opportmity
of giving such reason, explanation, or exculpation of his conduct, if any there may be, as the particular transaction may
happen to furnish."
In. Angus v. Smith, 1 Moody & Malkin, 473, (22 Com. Law
Rep. 360,) Tindal, C. J., said: "I understood the rule to be, that
before yoA' can contradict a witness b.y showing that he has at
some other time said something inconsistent with his present
evidence, you must ask him as to the time, place, and person
involved in the supposed contradiction." Cowen & Hill's Notes,
774, 775; Williams v. Turner, 7 Geo. 348; Doe v. Reagan, 5
Blackf. 217; Johnson v. Kinsey, 7 Geo. 428; Franklin Bank
v. Steam Nay. Co. 11 Gill & J. 28; Palmer v. Haight, 2 Barbour, Sup. C. Rep. 210, 213; McKinney v. Neil, 1 McLean,

DECEM1BER 'IERM, 1853.

43

Conrad v. Griffey.

R. 540; Moore v. Battis, 11 Humph. 67; The United States v.
Dickinson, 2 McLean, R. 325; Chapin v. Siger, 4 McLean, R.
378, 381; Wienzorpffin v. The State, 7 Blackf. 186; Check v.
Wheatley, 11 Humph. 556; Beebe v. DeBaun, 3 Eng. R. 510;
McAteer ii. McMulen, 2 Barb. 32; Clemcntine v. The State, 14
Mo. 112; Regnier v. Cabot, 2 Gilman's R. 34; King v. Wicks,
20 The
Oh1io,rule
87. is
the same whether the evidence offered by way
of contradiction rests in parol, 9r is in writing. In Roscoe's
Criminal Evidence, p. 182, he says: " So, what has been said
or written by a witness at a previous time may be given in evidence to contr-adict what he has said on the trial, if it relate to
the matter in issue." . . . "But in order to let in this evidence
in contradiction, a ground must be laid for it in the cross-examination -of the witness who is to be contradicted."
3 Starkie's Evidence, 1740, 1741. "Where the question is so
connected with the point in issue that the witness may be contradicted by other evidence, if he deny the fact, the law itself
requires that the question should be put to the witness, in order
to afford him an opportunity for explanation, -although the answer may involve him in consequences highly penal." Same,
p. 1753, 1754. The Queen's case, 2 Brod. & Bing 284, (6 Com.
Law Rep. 112,) proceeds throughout upon this principle.
Greenleaf, vol. 1, p. 579, in relation to laying a foundation by
cross-examination, before offering contradictory evidence, says:
" This course of proceeding is considered indispensable, from a
sense of justice to the witness; for as the direct tendency of the
evidence is to impeach his veracity, common justice requires
that by first calling his attention to the .subject he should have
an opportunity to recollect the facts, and, if necessary, to correct
the statement already given, as well as by a reexamination to
explain the nature, circumstances, meaning, and design of what
he has proved elsewhere to have said. And this rule is extended, not only to contradictory statements by the witness, but to
other declarations, and to acts done by him through the medium
of verbal communications, or corresponddnce, which are offered
-with a view either to contradict his testimony in chief, or to
prove him a corrupt witness himself, or to have been guilty of
attempting to corrupt others."
In Carpenter v. 'Wall, 11 Adol. & El. 803, (39 Com. Law
Rep. 234,) Denman, C. J., the other judges concurring, said:
" When words are to be proved as having been uttered by a
witness, it is always expected that he shall have an opportunity
to explain." Regina v. St. George, 9 Car. & Pa. 483, (38 Com.
Law Rep. 198); Johnson v. Todd, 5 Beavan, 600, 602, cited 1
Greenleaf on Ev.p. 581; Conrad v. Griffev, 11 Howard, 480.

44

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

1 Greenleaf on Ev. p. 579, in note beginning at the bottom of
the page, where it issaid the rule in the Queen's case is adopted
in the United States, except in Maine and Massachusetts, and
cites 2 Cowen & Hill's Notes on Phil. Ev. p. 774.
Jenkins v. Eldridge, 2 Story's Rep. 181, 284, Story, J. says:
If one party should keep back evidence which the other might
explain, and thereby take him by surprise, the court will give no
effect to such evidence, without first giving the party to be affected by it an opportunity of controverting it. This course
may be a fit one in casts where otherwise gross injustice may
be done."
Crowley v. Page, 7 Carrington & Payne, 789, (32 Com. Law
Rep. 737.) " If the witness made a previous contradictory statement, in writing, on a matter relevant to the .issue, he may be
asked, on cross-examination, whether the paper containing it is
in his handwriting; and if he admit it, that will entitle the
ther side to read it; and if he contradicts the evidence of the
witness, he may be called back to explain it." 4 Harrison's Dig.
2948, No. 11.
Yeos v. The State, 4 Eng. R. 42. "Where a witness has
made a different statement from the one made by him on the
trial, he is not thereby discredited, unless thd discrepancy i
wilful."
Story v. Saunders, 8 Humph. R. 663. " When the deposition
of a witness is taken, evidence of his having made contradictory statements are not admissible to impeach his testimony,
unless an opportunity to explain had been firstoffered him."
The contradictory statement offered in this case was the witness's testimony on a previous trial.
In Everson v.. Carpenter, 17 Wend. 419, referring to the
requisites for admitting a written instrumEnt by way of contradiction, Cowen, J., said: "It was introduced, with the proper
preliminary question to the witness, whether he had made the
indenture and the representation about t be imputed to him.
He answered with such explanations as occurred to him. Here
was all the precaution required by this kind of examination by
the Queen's case and others."
In Kimball v. Davis, 19 Wend. 437, Nelson C. J. considered
this question at length, in a case where he defendant offered
to prove that witnesses who had been examined undera commission, had subsequently made statements contradicting their
written testimony. The marginal note of this decision is in
these words :
"The declarations of witnesses whose testimony has been
taken under a commission, made subsequent to the taking of
theit testimony, contradicting or invalidating their testimony as

DEC'EMBER TERM, 1853.

45

Conrad v. Griffcy.

contained in the depositions, is inadmissible inevidence, if objected to; the only way for the party to avail himself of such declarations, is to sue out a second commission; such evidence is
always inadmissible until the witness whose testimony is thus
sought to be impeached, has been examined upon the point, and
his attention particularly directed to the circumstances of the
transaction, so as to furnish him an opportunity for explanation
or exculpation."
This case went to the Court of Errors, and is reported in the
25th of Wend., 259, where it was affirmed. Walworth, Chancellor, there said: "I concur with the Supreme Court in the
opinion that it was improper to give the declarations of the
witnesses in evidence without giving them, in the first place, an
opportunity to explain; and the fact that the witnesses had been
examined under a commission did not prevent the operation of
the principle upon which the rule is founded."
Edwards, Senator, said lie was satisfied with Chief Justice
Nelson's reasoning on this question.
Howell v. Reynolds, 12 Alabama R. 128. "The rule that a
witness cannot be contradicted by proof of previous counter
declarations, either written or verbal, applies to testimony taken
by deposition, and if such supposed contradictory declarations exist at the time the deposition is taken, the witness must have
an opportunity afforded him of explaining it, if in his power.
"The reason of the rule is, that he may have it in his power to
explain the apparent contradiction, and the rule is the same,
whether the declaration of the witness supposed to contradict
his testimony be written or verbal." 3 Stark. Ev. 1741. " The
question is iisually made when the witnesses are examined orally
in open court, and in our opinion it must also apply to testimony
taken by deposition, as the deposition is a mere substitute for
the witness; and we can perceive no reason why a witness testifying in this should not be entitled to the same protection as
if he had testified ormlly, in the presence of the court and jury.
If this paper existed when the plaintiff was notified that the deposition of the witness was to be taken, and was informed by
the interrogatories of the testimony the witness was expected
to give, it was his duty to give him an opportunity of explaining it, if le could, and reconciling it with the evidence he then
gave, if there was any real or apparent contradiction between
them."
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
This action was brought to recover the balance of three thou-

46

SUlPIRE3E COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

5and seven hundred and eighty-one dollars and fifty-eight cents,
claimed to be due under a contract to furnish, deliver, and set
up, on the plantation of the defendant, in the parish of Baton
Rouge, a steam-engine and sugar-mill boilers, wheels, cane carriers, and all other things necessary for a sugar-mill; all which
articles were duly delivered.
The defendant in his answer set up several matters in defence.
The error alleged arises on the rejection of evidence offered
by the defendant on the trial before the jury, and which appears in the bill of exceptions. The plaintiff read in evidence
the deposition of Leonard N. Nutz, taken under a commission
on the 28th oft June, 1852, and filed the 9th of July succeeding.
The defendant then offered in evidence a letter of the witness
dated at New Albany, on the 3d April, 1846, Aith an affidavit
annexed by him of the same date, addressed to the plaintiff
Griffey. As preliminary proof to the introduction of said letter,
the defendant adduced the bill of exceptions signed upon a
former trial, of this cause, and filed on the 23d February, 1849,
showing that the letter had been produced by the plaintiff in the
former trial, and read by his counsel inevidence as the letter of
Nutz, in support of a former deposition made by him. And the
said letter and affidavit were offered by t ae defendant to contradict and discredit the deposition of the witness taken the
28th June, 1852; but upon objection or counsel for the plaintiff
that the witness had not been eoss-examined in reference to
the writing of said letter, or allowed an op- ortunity of explaining the same, it was rejected.
6t:he former trial the leter was offered in.evidence by the
plaintiff in th, Circuit Court, to corroborate what Nutz, the
witness, at that time had sworn to; and the letter was admitted
to be read 'or that purpose by the court. On a writ of error,
this court held that the Circuit Court erred in admitting the letter as .evidence, and on that ground reverrid the judgment.
Conrad v. Griffey, 11 How. 492.
The rule is well settled in England, that a witness cannot be
impeached by showing that, he had made contradictory statements from those sworn to, unless on his examination he was
asked whether he had not made such statements to the individuals by whom the proof was expected to be given. In the
Queen's case, 2 Brod. & Bing. 312; Angus v. Smith, 1 Moody
& Alalka\ 473; 3 Starkie's Ev. 1740, 1753, 1754; Carpenter
v. Wall, 11 AdoL & Ellis, 803.
This rule is founder :'.pon common sens3, and is essential to
protect the character of a witness. His memory is refreshed by
the necessary inquiries, which enables him to explain the state-

DECEMBER TERli , 1853.

47

Conrad v. Griffey.

ments referred to, and show they were made under a mistake,
or that there was no discrepancy between them and his testimony.
This rule is generally established in this country as in England. Doe v. Reagan, 5 Blackfozd, 217; Franklin Bank v.
Steam Nay. Co. 11 Gill & Johns. 28; Palmer v. Haight, 2
Barbour's Sup. Ct. R. 210, 213; 1 McLean's R. 540; 2 Ib. 325;
4lb. 378,381; Jenkins v. Eldridge, 2 Story's Rep. 181,284; Kimball v. Davis, 19 Wend. 437; 25 Wend. 259. " The declaration of witnesses whose testimony has been taken under a commission, made sub*equent to the taking of their testimony, contradicting or invalidating their testimony as contained in the depositions, is inadmissible, if objected to. The only way for the
party to avail himself of such declarations is to sue out a second
commission." "Such evidence is always inadmissible until the
witness, whose testimony is thus sought to be impeached, has
been examined upon the point, and his attention particularly
directed to the circumstances of the transaction, so as to furnish him an opportunity for explanation or exculpation."
This rule equally applies whether the declaration of the witness, supposed to contradict his testimony, be written or verbal.
3 Starkie's Ev. 1741.
A written statement or deposition is as susceptible of explanation, as verbal statements. A different rule prevails in Massachusetts and the State of Maine.
The letter appears to have been written six years before the
deposition -was taken which the letter was offered to discredit.
This shows the .,ecessity and propriety of the rule. It is not
probable that, after the lapse of so many years, the letter was
in the mind of the witness when his deposition was sworn to.
But, independently of the lapse of time, the rule. of evidence is
a salutary one, and cannot be dispensed with in the courts of'
the United States. There was no error in the rejection of the
letter, under the circumstances, by the Circuit Court; its judgment is therefore affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed,'with costs and interest, utitil paid, at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Louisiana.

