DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

251

Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

THiRIoN lIIAILLARD, EARNEST CAYLERS, AND HAMIILLE C. ROUMAGE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. CORNELIUS W.

LAWRENCE.

By the Tariff Act of 1846, a duty of thirty per cent. ad valorem is imposed upon
articles included within schedule C; amon,_st which are "clothing ready made and
wearing aippari of every description; of vhataver material com osed, made up, or
manuf'actured, wholly orin part by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer.
By schedule D a duty of twenty-five per cent. only is imposed on manufactures of
silk, or of whieh bilk shall be a component material, not otherwise provided for;
manufactures of worsted, or of which worsted is a component material not otherwise provided for.
Shawls, whether worsted shawls, worsted and cotton shawls, silk and worsted shawls,

barage shawls, merino shawls, silk shawls, worsted scarfs, silk scarfs, and mouseline
de laine shawls, are wearing apparel, and therefore subject to a duty of thirty per

cent. under schedule C.

The popular or received import of words furnishes the general rule for the interpretation of public laws as well as of private and social transactions.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
'It was an action brought by the plaintiffs in error against
Lawrence, the collecter of the port of New York, for a return
of duties alleged to have been improperly exacted upon certain
importations of shawls.
The circumstances of the case and the various prayers to the
Circuit Court, both on behalf of the plaintiffs and defendant,
are fulls stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Me Cullok and Hr. Cuttin, for the plaintiffs in error, and Hr. Cushing, (Attorney-General) for the defendant.
The points made by.the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, were
the following:
1st. The first, second, third, and fourth instructions asked for
by the defendant, and granted by the court, are erroneous, each of
them(a.) Because the terms, "clothing ready-made and wearing
apparel of every description, made up or manufactured by the
tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer," used in schedule C, of tariff
of 1846, do not include by their own force all articles which
can be used as personal dress either for the adornment, protection, or comfort of the person ; and
(b.) Because, where in said tariff of 1846 the use to which
an article may be usually put is intended to govern the rate of
duty to be exacted, the statute expressly so declares.
(c.) Because, by all the proofs, said terms, "wearing apparel,"
as used in trade and commerce in July, 1846, did not embrace
such shawls and scarfs.

252

SUPREME COURT.
Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

(d.) Because, the terms "wearing apparel," as used in said
act of 1846, are either synonymous with "ready-made clothing,"
or too indefinite to assess any other article, than ready-made
clothing with duty.
(e.) Because the tariff should be construed according to the
commercial sense and meaning of the te~ms employed. The
charge is in this respect opposed to the settled law of this court.
2d. The fifth and sixth instructions asked by the defendant,
and granted by the court, were erroneous (a.) Because the fifth assumes that in commerce the addition
of fringes by hand to some of said shawls aid scarfs, after they
come from the loom, necessarily brings them within the terms,
." articles worn by women or clidren made up, or made wholly,
or in part, by hand," which are employed ",n said schedule C.
(b.) Because the sixth assumes that the making of knots in
the fringes, or the twisting of said fringes by hand in some of
said shawls, after the shawls came from the loom, necessarily
brings the shawls within the clause, "articles worn by women
and, children, made up or made wholly, or in part, by hand."
The court erred in refusing the plaintiff,' prayers, because 3d. The shawls and scarfs in question being in trade and
commerce known as "manufactures of silk " or "worsted," and
not being known in commerce as "clothing ready-made," nor
as "articles worn by women and children," the adding of fringes
by hand, or the knotting and twisting these fringes by hand,
does not take them out of the classes of "manufactures of silk,
or of which silk shall be a component material, not otherwise
provided," and of "manufactures of worsted, or of which worsted shall be a component material, not otherwise provided for,"
specified by schedule D.
4th. The proof shows that in trade and commerce the term
"made," or "made up," used in schedule C, does not embrace
goods to which fringes, borders, knots, or tassels, are added
after the fabric is made in the loom; nor force goods with §uch
additions to be rated or known as "art icles worn by women,
made up, or made wholly, or part by hand."
,
5th. The use to which goods may be put, in fact, does not
exclude them from the commercial class to which they belong.
6th. The goods cannot be classed under schedule C, because the proof shows that in the language of trade and commerce they are not either. (a.) "Articles worn by men, women,
or children, made up, or made wholly or in part by hand." (b.)
Nor "clothin g reedy-made, and wearing apparel made up, or
manufactured wholly or in part by the tailor, sempstress, or
manufacturer. (c.) Nor "manufactures of aotton, linen, silk,
wool, or worsted, embroidered, or tamboged, in the loom or
otherwise by machinery, or with the needle or other pxoe~s.'

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
M illard et al. v. Lawrence.

7th. The opinions of the officers of the customs detailed in
the proof, and the arguments attempted to be drawn by them
-from the exemption from duty, under schedule 1, " of wearing
apparel in actual use, and other personal effects of persons arriving in the United States," do not establish any fact, nor furnish
any guide in construing the tariff of 1846, so as to harge the
shawls and scarfs in question with thirty per cent. duty, under
schedule C.
8th. To charge the goods in -question with thirty per cent.
duty, by schedule C, instead of twenty-five per cent. by schedule
D, it is essential that they should have been distinctly well
known in commerce by the term "clothing ready-made, and
wearing apparel," and as the term "clothing ready-made, and
wearing apparel," by the testimony does not embrace such
shawls and scarfs, the greater rate of thirty per cent. is not to
be imposed.
9th. The terms employed in schedule C of the tariff of
1846, by which the exaction of thirty per cent. is claimed, are
similar in substance with the terms of the act of 1842, and the
practical construction and action of the government, in regard
to shawls and scarfs, under that act, should be followed under
the tariff of 1846.
10th. The exaction of thirty per cent., under schedule C, is
not justified by any treasury instructions which are contrary to
the commercial understanding, and to the rules of construction
of the statute in regard to duties.
11th. The first, second, third and fourth prayers of the plaintiffs
were, and each of them was in accordance with the settled law
of this court, and the refusal of the court to instruct the jury
upon any of the said propositions as prayed for, was erroneous.
The following is a part of the argument of the AttorneyGeneral.
The question raised by the plaintiff in his action is simply
this, are "shawls" wearing apparel?
The act of 1846 has not charged duties upon "shawls" by
that name. But if it be found that "shawls" are wearing apparel, then the collector has charged the true legal rate of duty,
without any excess;, and the plaintiff's suit is without foundation in law.
]For the signification of the word "shawls," as used in the
plaintiff's invoices and entries at the custom-house, and of the
words, "wearing apparel," as used in the statute of 1846, we
must resort to the established use of that and of correspondent
phrases in our own and in cognate languages, and to critical
examination of their legal intent and import.
vOL. XVI.

22

254

SUPREME COURT.
Alaillard et al. v. Lawrence.

In McCulloch's Dictionary of Commerce we have this definition: "Shawls, (German- Schalen; French - Chales; Italian
-Schavali; Spanish - Chevalos) ; articles of fine wool, silk, or
wool and silk, manufactured after the fashion of a large handkerchief, used in female dress. The finest shawls are imported
from India, &c.

.

.

.

Shawls are made of various forms,

,sies,'and borders, which are wrought seperately with the view
of adapting them to the different markets."
In the Dictionary of French and English by Professors Flemming and Tibbits, we have this definition and explanation:
"Shawl," (English) " Grand mouchoir de cou," (French) -signifying a great handkerchief for the neck.
In the Dictionary of Commerce, published in Paris, in 1839,
tinder the direction of Guillaman, we have this definition:
"Ch dle," grande pi6ce d'6toffe, dont les femmes se couvrerit les
epaules, et qui est ordinairement fabriqu.4 dans le gout des
Chles de l'Orient." (Shawl- a large piece of cloth with
-which the women cover their shoulders, usually manufactured
in the fashion of the shawls from the east.)
In Landais' French Didtionary, (which has gone through
eleven editions,) we have this definition " Schall," - longue
piece d'6toffe de soie, on de laine, dont les habitants de l'Egypte
s'entourent la tfte. Le schall est adopt6 depuis longtemps par
les dames Francaises, qui le portent sur les epaules - ou 6crit
aussi chfile." (Shawl-a long piece of cloth of silk or wool
with which the inhabitants of Egypt surround the head. The
shawl has been long since adopted by the women of France,
-who wear it on their shoulders - it is also written "chfle."
In the Dictionary of the French Academy, this definition is
given : " Ch1e-longue pi6ce d'&6toffe dont les orientaux s'enveloppent la tate, et qui entre aussi de diverses manires dans
leur v6tement." (Shawl-a long piece of cloth with which
the orientals environ the head, and which, in divers ways, makes
part of their apparel.)
Consulting English lexicons, we find these definitions:
Shawl, a'part of modern female dress." -- Worcester.
" Shawl, a cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or hair, used by females
as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders." - Webster.
Craig's Dictionary of the English Language (which is considered the best present standard work) gives us this definition:
"Shawl, a kind of large kerchief, originally from India, which
forms a part of modern female dress, bEing worn as a loose
covering for the shoulders and back."
These various lexicographers all agree that shawls are wearing apparel.
The plaintiffs, to evade the definitions in commercial diction-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

255

Maillard Ct al. v. Lawrence.

aries and other lexicons, and the descriptive words in the statute,
(schedule C,) and the mass of testimony given in this cause,
and the invoices and entries at the custom-house by themselves,
offer the oaths of men, "that in trade and commerce, articles
of this description are not considered wearing apparel;" that
shawls of this description "are not known among merchants-zfs
wearing apparel;" that, "in a commerdial sense, none of these
shawls are made up, nor are they known among merchants as
wearing apparel; that these shawls 'commercially speaking,'
are not wearing apparel."
Declarations of this nature by witnesses avail nothing. Shawls
are known in commerce as wearing apparel, these witnesses to
These witnesses say, in one
the contrary notwithstanding.
breath, shawls are not, "in a commercial sense, wearing apparel ;" are not, "commercially speaking, made up, nor known
among merchants as wearing apparel;" and in the next breath
tell us they are worn by women, and come from the mdnufacturer "in a complete state to be worn," with their fringes tied
by hand, with separately woven borders united to them, ready
for use; yet they say, "commercially speaking," and "in a
commercial sense," they are neither "made up," nor "wearing
apparel! "
Such contrariant absurdities the plaintiffs propose to dispose
of by the oaths of the two tailors, Raymond and Beaumont,
who swear that they have "purchased shawls of this description
to make up into gentlemen's garments; into waistcoats and
dressing-gowns ;" and who think "that shawls are not wearing
apparel till they are made up in this way."
According to their mode of thiiking, the cashmere, and other
fine shawls imported from India, were not known among merchants as wearing apparel, and were not wearing apparel unless
they were made up intG gentlemen's garments, waistcoats, and
dressing-gowns, or such like; that is, "commercially speaking,"
and "in a commercial sense-!"
Such evidence, in favor of the plaintiffs, made "commercially," and "in a commercial sense," cannot outweigh commercial dictionaries and other lexicons; cannot do away long
established usages, and make us disbelieve what our eyes see
day after day; that is, shawls in actual use, as parts of the
wearing apparel of females.
The statute, in schedule C, uses plain language to describe
two great general classes of merchandise: the first, "clothing
ready-made," the second, "wearing apparel of every description,
-of whatever material composed, made up or manufactured
wholly or in part by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer."
The witnesses for the plaintiffs confound the two classes, omit

256

SUPREME

COURT.

Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

parts of the descriptions of the second class, endeavor to confuse the plain meaning of the statute by introducing a sophistical sense, called by them "a commercial sense;" and even in
that they put away the established significations of words, contradict standard writers on commerce, and repudiate common
sense and common usage.
Wearing apparel is a general description or genus comprehending many species, and shawls are undoubtedly a species of
wearing apparel. Common use, the definitions and explanations of learned writers of commercial dictionaries, and of other
lexicons, the daily experience of our own eyesight, all concur
to convince our understandings, beyond a c.oubt, that shawls are
a species of apparel worn by females. If s'aawls are not "made
up or manufactured wholly or in part by the tailor, sempstress,
or manufacturer," how or by whom are they made? Certain it
is they are not a raw material, but are the products of art and
labor.
Congress, in legislating the system of duties on imports in
the act of 1846, (schedule C,) has given a description for revenue purposes, which clearly comprises these shawls; the words
of description ejaployed in the statute must have their known
signification as established by standard writers, use, and general acceptation. The sophistications attempted by the witnesses
for plaintiffs about a "commercial understanding," and "in a
commercial sense," are foreign to the case, and are overruled by
this court in De Forest v. Lawrence, 13 Howard, 282.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opirion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error instituted in the court aforesaid against
the defendant an action of trespass on the case for the recovery
of an alleged excess of duties charged by the defendant as collector of the port of New York, and paid to him under protest
by the plaintiffs upon certain goods imported by them from
Havre in France, and described by them in the invoices and
entries thereof as "worsted shawls, worsted and cotton shawls,
silk and worsted shawls, barege shawls, merino shawls, silk
shawls, worsted scarfs, silk scarfs, and mousseline de laine
shawls."
There appear to ha-ye been nineteen different importations by the plaintiffs, comprised within the description
just given, but a particular or separate enumeration of them is
not necessary, it being admitted that the protest of the plaintiffs
embraced the whole of them, and that the correctness or incurrectness of the proceeding iki reference to each of them depends
upon the construction of the same statute. Upon the articles
thus described, the collector charged the duty of thirty per centurn ad va!orem as being wearin anuarel within the meaning

DE.EMBEI

TERM,

1853.

257

Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

of schedule C, in the act of Congress of the 30th of July, 1846.
Vid. 9th Stat. at L. c. 74, p. 44. The plaintiffs insist that
according to schedule D, in the same statute, they were bound
to pay at the rate of twenty-five per centur ad valorem only,
and for a recovery of the difference between this last rate and
that at which they have made payment, their action has been
brought.
Upon issue joined on the plea of non-assumpsit and under
instructions from the court as to the import of the provisions of
the statute of July 30th, 1846, a verdict was found for the deendant, and a judgment entered in accordance therewith. This
case is comprehended within narrow limits, and its decision
must depend entirely upon the interpretation of those portions
of the statute of 1846, designated as schedules C and D, as to
the description and enumeration of the articles subjected to
duties and the rate of impost prescribed by these schedules.
In schedule C, which imposes a duty oi thirty pr "centum ad
valore;m, are comprised the following articles, in the literal terms
of the law, "clothing ready-made, and wearing apparel of every
description, of whatever material composed, made up, or manufactured, wholly or in part by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer."
By schedule D, of the same act, it is declared that an impost
of tventy-five per centum only shall be levied on "manufactures of silk, or of which silk shall be a component material, not
otherwise provided for; manufactures of worsted, or of which
worsted is a component material, not otherwise provided for.1'
Several witnesses were examined by the plaintiffs, with the
view of showing that in a mercantile sense the term shawls,
under which descriptive name the goods'of the plaintiffs were
entered, did not include "wearing apparel," and a fortiori not
wearing apparel either made up or manufactured wholly or inI
part by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer, and that therefore under the provision of schedule D they -were subject to an
impost of twenty-five per centum only as manufactures of silk
or worsted, "not otherwise provided for." Countervailing evidence was adduced on the part of the defendant to show that,
in a mercantile sense, and by generally received and notorious
acceptation, and by the plain and even imperative language of
the statute, shawls were established to be wearing apparel; and
consequently came within the rates imposed by schedule C,
and could not be brought within the description in schedule D,
as articles "not otherwise provided for." The character- of the
evidence, or more properlk the points it was designed to bear
upon, most plainly appear from the several prayers submitted
at the trial, and by the rulings of the court upon those prayers.
22 *

SUPREME

COURT.

Maillard es al. v. Lawrence.

The counsel for the plaintiffs moved the court to charge and
instruct the jury, 1st. That if the jury shall find from the evidence that the shawls in question were known at the date of
the passage of the said act of 30th July, 1846, in trade and commerce as "manufactures of worsted," or of which worsted was
a component material, that then they are embraced in schedule
D, and are only liable to a duty of twenty-five per centumad
valorem, and no more.
Second. That if the jury , .all find from the evidence that the
shawls in question were not, at the date of the said last-mentioned act, in a commercial sense, and according to the meaning
of the term among merchants, either1st. Articles worn by men, women, or children "made up,"
or made wholly or in part by hand. 2d. Nor clothing readymade, or wear! ng apparel "made up," or manufactured wholly
or in part by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer. 3d. Nor
manufactures 6f cotton, linen, silk, wool, br worsted, embroidered or tamboured in the loom, or otherwise by machinery,
or with the needle, or other process; then in either of said
cases the articles in question are liable only to a duty of twentyfive per centum ad valorem.
Third. That if the jury shall find from the evidence that the
articles in question were charged, under the act of 1842, with
duty as "manufactures of combed wool or worsted," "manufactures of worsted, and manufactures of worsted and silk combined," under section 1, subdivision 1 of said act, and as "man'ifactures of cotton, or of which cotton shall h e a component part
under section 2, subdivision 2 of said act, then the articles in
question are, under the act of 1846, liable to a duty of twentyfive per cent. ad valorem, and no more.
Fourth. That if the jury shall find from the evidence that,
at the date of the passage of the said act of the 30th of July,
1846, the shawls in question were commercially known as "manufactures of worsted," or of which worsted was a component
material, and that they were not known in trade and commerce
as clothing ready-made, or as "wearing apparel" made up, or
manufactured wholly or in pairt by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer, nor as articles worn by men, women, and children,
made up, or made wholly or in part by hand, then they are
chargeable with a duty of twenty-five per cent. ad valorern, and
no more.
Whereupon his honor, the presiding judge, refused so to instruct the jury in accordance with all or any of the said several
prayers, whereby the plaintiffs, by their counsel, had prayed the
court to instruct the jury.
And thereupon the counsel for the plaintiffs then and there

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

259

Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

excepted to the refusal of the said judge to instruct the jury in
conformity with the said several prayers of the said plaintiffs, and
also to the charge and instructing the jury by the said judge, in
conformity with all, any, and every of the several prayers wherein
the defendant's counsel had so prayed the court to instruct the
jury as matter of law.
The counsel for the defendant insisted, as matter of law, and
prayed the court to charge and instruct the jury as follows:
First. That shawls and scarfs suitable and adapted in the
state they are imported, to be worn by women on the person, as.
an article of dress, and usually so worn by women in the .United
States, are "wearing apparel," "made Up" or manufactured
wholly or in part, by the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer,
within the true meaning of schedule C, of the Tariff Act of the
30th of July, 1846, and are properly -chargeable with the duty
of thirty per centum ad valorem, prescribed.by said schedule C.
Second. That shawls and scarfs of the description above
named are not the less wearing apparel, made up or manufactured wholly or in part by the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer,
within the true meaning of the said schedule, though sometimes
Purchased by clothiers and tailots to be made up into vests, dressing-gowns, and other garments, as testified to by the witnesses
for the plaintiffs in this case.
Third.. That shawls and scarfs of the description above named
are wearing apparel, made up or manufactured wholly or in part
by the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer, within the true meanof the said schedule C,, notwithstanding, at the date of the
passage of the said act of July, 1816, they may Uot have been
called or known by commercial men in trade and commerce by
the name of wearing apparel.
Fourth. That whatever may have been, at the date of the
said act, the definition given by commercial men to the term
"wearing apparel," shawls and scarfs of the description above
named are nevertheless wearing apparel, made up in whole or
in part by the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer, within the
true meanihg'of the said schedule C.
Fifth. That shawls or scarfs suitable and adapted in their
state as imported, to be worn by women and children, of whatever material composed, having fringes added by hand to the
body of the shawls after the same has come from the loom, with
.ticks or needles, or other such implements, although according
to commercial usage and understanding that said articles are
not thereby charged in their commercial sense or acceptation,
are articles worn by women and children made up or made
wholly or in part by hand within the true -meaning of the said
schedule C, and are therefore chargeable with the duty of thirty
per centum ad valorem, prescribed by said schedule C.

260

SUPREME COURT.
Maillard et al. v. Lawrere.

Sixth. That shawls and scarfs of the description above named,
i the fringes of which, after the body of the shawls has come
from the loom, knots are made by hand as a part of such fringes,
or the'fringes of which are twisted or otherwise completed by
hand, although according to commercial usage and understanding the said articles are not, hereby changed in their commercial
sense or acceptation, are, nevertheless, articles worn by women
and children, made up or made wholly or in part by hand, within
the true meaning of the said schedule C, and. are therefore chargeable with the duty of thirty per centum ad valorem, prescribed
by the said schedule C.
And thereupon his honor, the presiding judge, charged the
jury in accordance with the several prayers in conformity with
which the defendant's counsel had insisted as matter of law.
And thereupon the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted to said
ruling of the court upon each of the said piayers.
In construing the provision of schedule C, we think that its
meaning cannot be easily 'misconceived, if the rule of interpretation be drawn from the ordinary and received acceptation of
its language, or from any regard to the sensible and consistent
application of its words. It is obvious, that by the phrase "clothing ready-made, and wearing apparel of every description," the
legislature did not mean to limit the enumeraion to such habiliments as were either by necessity or by a regard to comfort or
utilitrcquired to be changed from their orig'nal shape or fashion,
and reshaped and reconstructed in order to adapt them to the
human body, or to the purposes of life. Such a construction
would render the member of the sentence immediately following
and connected with the former by the copulative conjunction,
and designing to introduce a new class of subjects, altogether
absurd, and wholly inoperative. It must Ie understood as being the intention of the legislature to add to "clothing readymade," in the acceptation above given, every article mhich in its
design and completion and received uses, is a.,n article of wearing
apparel, and to comprise such article within schedule C of the
act of 1846, no matter of what material composed, either in whole
or inpart, or by whom composed or niade up, whether by the tailor, sempstrcss, or manufacturer. The question to be determined
has no relation either to material, or process, or agent, but exclusively to the origin and purposes of the subject of the duty
imposed as being in its design and in its finished condition "wearing apparel." Simply, in other words, whether shawls are wearing apparel.
By the several prayers pressed upon the Circuit Court for instructions to the jury, the object to which they are all directed
has been the diversion of the jury from this the only legitimate

DECEMNBER TERMI, 1853.

261

Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

inquiry before them. The effort has been to substitute for the
literal and lexicographical and popular meaning of the phrase
"wearing apparel," some supposed mercantile or commercial
signification of these words, and to render subservient to that
signification what was clearly acdordant with the etymologyr of
the language of the" statute, with the essential purposes and
action of the government, and with the wide-spread, if not the
universal understanding, of all who may not happen to fall
within the range of a limited and interested class. In instances
in which words or phrases are novel or obscure, as in terms of
art, where they are peculiar or exclusive in their signification, it
may be proper to explain or elucidate them by.reference to the
art or science to which they are appropriate; but if language
which is familiar to all classes and grades and occupationslanguage, the meaning of which" is impressed upon all by the
daily habits and necessities of all, may be -wrested from its established and popular import in reference to the common concerns of life, there can be little stability or safety in the regulations of society. Perhaps within the compass of the English
language, and certainly within the popular comprehension of the
inhabitants of this country, thtre can scarcely be* found terms
the import of which is better understood than is that of the
words "shawl" and "wearing apparel," or of "shawl" as a
familiar, every day and indispensable part of wearing apparel.
And it would seem to be a most extravagant supposition which
could hold that, in the enactment 6f a law affecting the interests
of the nation at large, the legislature should select for that purpose language by which the nation or the mass of the people
must necessarily be misled. The popular or received import of
words furnishes the general rule for the interpretation of public
law6 as well as of private and social transactions; and wherever
the legislature adopts such language in order to define and promulge their action or their will, the just conclusion from such a
course must be, that they not only themselves comprehended
the meaning of the language they have selected, but have chosen
it with reference to the known apprehension of those ,to whom
the legizlative langnage is addressed, and for whom it is designed to constitute a rule of conduct, namely, the community at
large. If therefore the strange concession were admissible that,
in the opinion of a portion of the mercantile men, shawls were
not considered wearing apparel, it would still remain to be
proved that this opinion was sustained by the judgment of the
commnity generally, or that the legislature designed a departure froil the natural and popular acceptation of language.
Another position p'essed upon the Circuit Court in behalf of
the plaintitfl in error, as is shown by the evidence and by one

262

SUPREME COURT.
Maillard et al. v. Lawrence.

of the prayers to the court, was this: that shawls, in the form
in which they are fashioned and finished by the manufacturer,
could not properly be termed wearing apparel, because fhey are
by tailors and clothiers frequently purchased to be worked up
into vests and other garments. This position might, with equal
propriety, be urged with reference to any article of wearing apparel whatsoever which should be diverted from its primal and
regular use and design. The consistercy and force of this
argument, if such it deserves to be called, may be aptly illustrated by the account of the varied uses of a familiar article of
wearing apparel found in a poetical description of the privations
and expedients of a needy author, in which we read that,
"A stocking decked his brow instead of bay,
A cap by night, a stocking all the day."

According to the logic of the positien last referred to, a
stocking transferred into a night-cap is shown never to have
been a stocking, and therefore never wearing apparel, notwithstanding its primitive denomination, the design for which it
was knit or woven; or the offices to which it may have been
usually applied.
To the rulings of the Circuit Court upon the prayers presented
on behalf of the plaintiffs and defendants respectively, we deem
it unnecessary to apply a separate comment. It is sufficient
here to remark, that upon a deliberate examination of those
rulings, in reference to the facts and featuies of the case, we accord to the former our entire sanction, as being coincident with
the principles laid down in this opinion, and with a just interpretation of those clauses of the statute under color of which
this action was instituted. We therefore adjudge that the decision of the Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On coitsideration whereof, it is now, here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgmbnt of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and tile saine is hereby affirmed, with costs.

