DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

Stafford ct'al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

causes of action set forth in the declaration, it would be an idle
and profitless waste of time to enter upon their examination,
and, besides, whatever might be our conclusions, they would not
vary the result. Stephens's Pl. 153, 176.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came -on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the District Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same, is hereby affirmed, with costs.

IN THE MATTER OF JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JEANNETTE
KIRKLAND, HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS,

v.

THE UNION BANK OF

LOUISIANA.
Where an appeal was taken from a decree in chancery, which decree was made by
the court below during the sitting of this court in term time, the appel'ant is alowed until the ncxt term to file the record ; and a motion to dismiss the appeal,
made at tile
present term. before the case has been regularly entered upon the docket,
cannot be entertained, nor can a motion to award a pcocedendo.
This court, however, having a knowledge of the case, will express its views upon an

important point of practice.
Where the appeal is intended to operate as a ,uperscdeas, the security given in the
appeal bond must 6e equal to the amount of the decree, as it i in the cao of a
jtidgnwnt at common law.
The two fats, namely, first that the receiver appointed by the court below had given
bond to a large amount, and second, that the persons to whom the property had been
hired had given security for its safe keeping and delivery, do not affect the above
result.
The i-curity must, notwithstanding, be equal to the amount of the decree.
A mode of relief suggested.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the State of Texas.
. It will be seen, by a reference to 12 How4. 327, that this case
was formerly before this court, and that the decree of the court
below (dismissing the bill filed by the Union Bank) was reversed.
In the execution of the mandate of this court, the District
Court of Texas passed a decree on the 25th of February,'1854,
from which Stafford and wife appealed. Mr. Hale and Mr.
CJoxe, on behalf of the Union Bank, moved to dismiss the appeal:
for the following reasons:-

SUPREME

COURT.

Stafford et al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

This motion is made to dismiss the appeal in this cause, and
to awar a procedendo to the District Court, on the ground that
the appeal bond given by the appellants is not sufficient to stay
the execution of the decree.
The cause was originally commenced by the Union Bank of
Louisiana against Josiah S. Stafford and wife, in the District
Court for the District of Texas, for the purpose of foreclosing a
mortgage on certain negro slaves. A decree having been rendered by the District Court against the complainant dismissing
the bill, an appeal was taken to this court, and at the December
term, 1851, the decree of the District Court was reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to that court to enter a decree-in favor of the complainants. Union Bank of Louisiana v.
Stafford and Wife, 12 How. 327, 343. No term of the District Court was held until July, 1853, when sorhe objections being raised by the defendants to the proposed form of the decree,
and to the report of the master on the receiver's accounts, the
court took the whole matter under consideration until the next
term. The objections to the master's reports having been
waived, a final decree was rendered on the 25th of February,
1854, by which it was directed that the sums accruing ffom the
hire of the slaves in the custody of the receiver, pendente lite,
amounting to $25,379.39, should be paid ly the receiver, to the
complainant, and credited on the total amount due by the defendants ; and that in case the defendants :.ailed to pay over the
balance remaining due after such credit, amounting to $39,877.13,
on the first day of July, 1854, they should be foreclosed of
their equity of redemption, and the master should seize and sell
the mortgaged slaves at public auction, on the 3d of the same
month, after giving three months' notice by advertisement of the
time, place, and terms of sale, and should pay to the complainant out of the proceeds of the sale the foregoing sum of $39,877.13, in satisfaction of the debt.
It appears, then, as well by the decree as by the report of the
master, which was confirmed, that on t'e first day of July,
1854, when the foreclosure was to take effiect, the debt, interest,
and costs, due to the complainant,-would amount to $65,256.52.
On the 7th of March, 1864, the tenth day after the entry of
the above decree, th&defendants prayed an appeal, and the following order was made by the court:
"On this day came the defendants, hy their counsel, and
prayed an appeal to the next term of the Supreme Court of the
United States, to be held in' Washington City, on the first Monday in December next, from the decree of the court rendered in
favor of complainants against defendants; and to them it is
granted, upon condition that the defendan:Is enter into a good

DECEMBER TERM,
Stafford c

1853.

al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

and sufficient bond, with good and sufficient surety in the penal
sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned that they prosecute
their appeal with effect, and answer all damages and costs, if
they fail to make their plea good. And thereupon the defendants, in open court, tendered a bond with L. C. Stanley, Patrick
Perry, and William H. Clark, as sureties in the sum of ten thousand dollars, and the court having inspected the bond, and being
satisfied it is in conformity to law and the order of the court
herein, and that the sureties are good and sufficient, it is now
ordered that the bond be approved and filed. It is ordered to
be entered that the bond of appeal taken and filed in this cause
operates as a sirpersedeasto the decree of the court."
On the same day, the appeal-bond referred to in the order was
filed. The complainant objected to the bond being received to
supersede or stay the decree, because the penalty was much less
than the amount of the decree, and was wholly insufficient, but
this objection was overruled.
On the 11th of March, 1854, notice was given to the defendants and their counsel that the present motion would be made,
and this notice, with the acknowledgment of service, is herewith
filed.
This motion is similar to that presented to this court in the
case of Catlett v. Brodie, 9 Wheat. 553. The act of March 3,
1803, adopts in appeals the same rules that are applied to writs
of error, (The San Pedro, 2 Wheat. 132,) and the 22d section
of the Judiciary Act provides that " every justice or judge signing
a cithtion or writ of error as aforesaid, shall take good and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his writ
to effect, and answer all damages and costs, if he fails to make
his plea good." In the ca~e above cited, it is said, " It has been
supposed at the argument that the act meant only to provide
for such damages and costs as the court should adjudge for the
delay. But our opinion is, that this is not the true interpretation of the language. The word 'damages' is here used not as
descriptive of the nature of the claim upon which the original
judgment is founded, but as descriptive of the indemnity which
the defendant is entitled to, if the judgment is affirmed. Whatever losses he may sustain by the judgment' not being satisfied
and paid, after the affirmance, these are the damages which he
has sustained, and for which the bond ought to give good and
sufficient security. Upon any suit brought on such bond, it follows of course, that the obligors are at liberty to show that no
damages have been sustained, or partial damages only, and for
such amount only is the obligee entitled to judgment."
This language applies to the piesent case.
It was, however, urged with success in the District Court,
12'

138

SUPREME COURT.
Stafford et al. v,.The Union Bank of Louisiana.

that inasmuch as the receiver had given t;vo bonds, each in the
penalty of twenty thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of
his duties, and as the mortgaged slaves were in the possession
of hirers, who had also given bonds in the joint penalty of
eighty thousand dollars, for the safe keeping and delivery of
such slaves, the complainant had no right to require any further
security from the defendants than sufficient to cover the special
damages which might be imposed by this court for delay. This
conclusion is directly opposed to the reasoning of the court in
Catlett v.Brodie. It is evident that, notwithstanding the bonds
given by the receiver and the hirers, the complainant is exposed
by the appeal to the danger of losing the whole of the debt.
The-sureties on these bonds may become insolvent; the money
in the hands of the receiver may be squandered; the slaves
may die or run away. And, in the language of the court: Whatever losses the complainant may sustain, these are the damages
which he has sustained, and for which the bond ought to give
good and sufficient security. Indeed, if the construction put
upon the act by this court is applicable in any case, it must be
in all, and no special circumstances can constitute an exception.
It may be objected that this motion cannot be entertained, at
this time, because the appeal has been taken to the next regular term. But neither the acts of Congress which regulate
practice in this court, nor the rules adopted for its government,
imply that a motion of this kind cannot be made before the
cause is required to be docketed. OA the contrary, it is a well
established principle that, at the moment of the appeal, and by
that act alone, the cause is virtually removed to this court; and
the jurisdiction thus vested may, of course, be exercised generally. Wylie v. Coxe, 14 How. 1. Every consideration would
seem to induce the action of the court on motions of this character-the urgency of the case-the injury sustained by the
appellee - the delay of justice - the da.ager of renewed and
vexatious appeals; and in no instance can stronger reasons be
offered than in this, where the amount of the appegl bond is but
ten thousdnd dollars, and the debt is sixty-five thousand; and
where the decree from which the new appeal is prayed, is in
exact conformity with the former mandate of this court.
But1if there would be any objection to the dismissal of the
appeal at this time,' there can be none to the award of a procedendo to the court below, to enforce the d3cree by the issuance
of an order of sale. The Distriet Court 'has directed the stay
of all proceedings; and if such a result was not the lawful consequence of the appeal, this court must be competent to require
the execution of what is, in fact, nothing but its own decree.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

139

Stafford et al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the District Court of Texas, and a
motidn is mdde to dismiss it, on the ground that security has
been given in the sum of ten thousand .dollars only, when the
sum decreed to be paid was sixty-five thousand dollars. And a
procedendo is prayed, commanding the District Court to execute
the decree.
Notice of this motion was acknowledged by the counsel for
the appellant the 11th of March, 1854.
As, the appeal was taken since the commencement of the
present term, the appellant is not bound to file the record until
the next term.
By the decree in the District Court, a mortgage on a large
number of slaves, to secure the payment of a debt due to the
Union Bank of Louisiana, was foreclosed. A receiver having
been previously appointed, who hired out the slaves and received the hire, he was directed by the decree to pay to the
bank the sum of twenty-five thousand three hundred and twentynine dollars and thirty-nine cents, moneys in his hands, and that
the residue of the money due, amounting to the sum of thirtynine thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven dollars and
thirteen cents, should be paid on the first day of July next, and
if not so paid, that the slaves should be seized and sold.
On the 7th of March, 1854, the tenth day after the decree was
entered, the defendants prayed an appeal, which was granted,
and on the same day a bond was given in the penal sum of
ten thousand dollars, as required by the court.
As the appeal has not been regularly entered on the docket,
and] as the appellant is not bound to enter it until next term, a
motion to dismiss it cannot be entertained. But as the record
is before us, which states the facts on which the motion is
founded, the court will suggest their views of the law, in
regard to an important point of practice.
The act of 1803 -places appeals in chancery on the same
footing as writs of error. And in the case of Catlett v. Brodie,
9 Wheat 553, this coukt held, that security must be given on a
writ of error, to operate as a supersed6as for the amount of the
judgment. By the act of 12th December, 1794, when a stay of
execution is not desired, security shall be given only to answer
costs.
A motion was made, in the District Court, to dismiss the
allowance of the appeal, on the ground that security in the
amount of the decree had not been given. This was opposed
by the counsel of the appellant, and it was alleged,'as the re-,
ceiver had given two bonds, each in the penalty of twenty thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of his duties, and as the

SUPREME

COURT.

Stafford et al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

mortgaged slaves were in possession of persons who had hired
them, who had given bonds in the joint penalty of eighty thousand dollars, for the safe keeping and E.elivery of the slaves,
that no further security, under the statute, ought to be required
to entitle the appellant to a suipersedea.; against the decree.
The court overruled the motion.
The decision of this court, in the case above cited, was, that
the words of the act, "sufficient security that the plaintiff in
error shall prosecute his writ to effect, and answer all damages
and costs, if he fails to make his plea good," do not refer to
"the nature of the claim upon which the original judgment is
founded, but that they are descriptive of the indemnity which
the defendant is entitled to, if the judgment be affirnied." And
the court further say, "whatever losses he, the defendant in
error, may sustain by the judgment not being sktisfied and paid
after the affirmance, these are the damages which he has sustained, and for which the bond ought to give good and sufficient
security."
If this construction of the statute be adhered to, The amount
of the bond given on the appeal must be the amount of the
judgment or decree. There is no discretion to be exercised by
the judge taking the bond, where the appeal or writ of error is
to operate as a suvoersedeas. This rule was established in 1817,
and'it has been adhered to ever since.
The hardship of this rule, on the appellant, is more imaginary
than real. Suppose'the appellant had given ample personal
security on the original obligation for the payment of the money,
and the sureties were sued with the principal, would they be
excused from giving bail on an appeal or writ of error, as
the act requires? And how does such a case differ from the
one before us, where mortgage has been given on personal property.
If the receiver has given security, in forty thousand dollars,
faithfully to pay over the money in his hands; and if those
persons who employed the slaves have given bond in eighty
thousand dollars, for the safe keeping and delivery of them, and
the sureties are good, the appellant can have no difficulty in
giving the security on his appeal, to the amount of the decree
in the District Court. It is true the prope-rty is taken out of his
possession and control, but it is in possession of persons who
gave bonds for its safe keeping and delivery when required, a
part of it in payment of the decree, and the residue to be sold
in satisfaction of the balance of the decree. In this condition of
the pr6perty, if the transaction be bond fide, (and it must be presumed to be fair, as the arrangement was made under the order
of the court,) the responsibility on the appeal bond, can be little

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

141

Stafford et al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

more than nominal. The state of the property affords more
safety to the security on the appeal bond than if the property
and money were in possession.of the appellants, and under their
control. A double mortgage is on' the property, that it shall be
faithfully applied to the payment of the decree.
The appeal is for the benefit of the appellant. A decree in
the District Court has been entered against him, and there is,
in the custody of the law, a sufficient amount of money and
property to pay the amount decreed. An appeal suspends the
payment some one or two years, and as this is done for the
benefit of the appellants and at their instance, is it not equitable
that the risk should be provided for by them? The law has so
decided, by requiring security to be given to the amount of the
decree, without reference to the nature of the suit. The provision of the act, as construed by this court, is not a matter over
which the court can exercise a discretion. The language is
mandatory, and must be complied with. We can know nothing
of the responsibility of the receiver or of the hirers of the -laves,
nor is it proper that we should inquire into their circumstances
and the responsibility of the sureties, with the view of substituting' them for the security on the appeal, which the law
requires.
For the reasons stated, the court cannot dismiss the appeal,
nor award a procedendo. A more appropriate remedy would
seem to be a rule on the district judge, to show cause why a
mandamus should not be issued; but this can be done only.on
motion.

r. Justice CATRON.
The case was decided in the District Court, in March last,
and during the present term of this court, and an appeal taken
to our next term; consequently the cause is not here, nor have
we any power to dismiss it. The motion to dismiss must
therefore be overruled. But I do not agree to the opinion
expressed by a majority of my brother judges. bivising the
appellees what course to pursue against the aciz.rict judge:
First, Because we have no case before us authorizing such an
expression of opinion; and I am opposed to a mere dictum
attempting to settle so grave a matter of practice. And
Secondly, My opinion is that the statute referred to does not
govern a case in equity, where property is pursued under a
mortgage, and the mortgaged property, at the complainait's
instance, has been taken into the hands of the court, and so
remains at the time of the appeal.
If the property, from its perishable -natuie, had been by interlocutory decree converted into money, and this was in court,

142

SUPREME

COURT.

Davenport et al. v. Fletcher ct al.

then, I think, no security to cover its contingent loss should be
required; and here twenty-five thousand dollars has been earned,
previous to the suit, by the mortgaged slaves, and is in court.
That this mprtgagor is stripped of his property, and cannot give
security for so large an amount, is manifest, and to construe the
act of Congress as if this was a simple julgment at law, would
operate most harshly.
.MIotiom overruled.

CHARLES

DAVENPORT ET AL., HEIRS OF JOBN DAVENPORT,
DECEASED, V. F. FLETCHER ET AL.

1. Where the judgment is not properly described in the writ of error;
2. Where the bond is given to a person who is not a par;y to the judgment;
3. Where the cittion issued, is i-sucd to a person who is not a party; - the writ of
error will be dismissed on motion.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It will be necessary to state only the judgment, and such of
the other subsequent proceedings as gave rise to the motion to
dismiss, and the judgment of the court thereon.
On the 23d of June, 1848, the Circuit Court pronounced a
judgment which is thus recited in the writ of possession, which
was issued on the 21st of July, 1848.
Whereas' Felicite Fletcher, Maria Antonia Fletcher, Augustine. Cuesta, Javiera Cuesta, and Felicite Cuesta y Fletcher,
complainants, against Charles Davenport, Erasmus A. Ellis,
Margaret Davenport, wife of Peter McKitick, John Phellip
Edgar Davenport, and Elizabeth Davenpor, wife of Celestine
Maxent,
heirs
John
defendof
the judgment
of of
June,
A. Davenport,
D. 1848, by deceased,
ants,
on deceased,
the 23d dayr
the Circuit Court of the United States, for the fifth Circuit and
District of Louisiana, &c. &c. &c.
The petition for the writ of error was in the names of the
above defendants, and alleged further, that since said final judghad pat~ted
ment the originhal plaintiffs in the petition named,
with their interest in the said judgment to Charles McMicken, a
citizen of the State' of Ohio, and he hath been subrogated to
the rights of the plaintiffs in the case, as doth appear by the
record in this cause. The ptitio then prayed that the "original plaintiffs herein, as well also as the said Charles McMicken,
may be made paties hnereto and duly. cited, &. &c. &c.

