416

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

THE Orno LIFE INSURANCE AND TRUST '3OMPANY, PLAI.qTIFF
IN ERROR, V. HENRY DEBOLT, TREASURER OF HAMILTON
COUNTY, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
There being no opinion of the court, as such, in this case, the reporter can only state
the laws of Ohio which were drawn into question.
In 1834, the Legilature of Ohio passed an act incorporating the Ohio Life Insurance
and Trust Company, with power, amongst other things, to issue bills or votes
until the year 1843. One section of the charter prcvided that no higher taxes
should he luvied on the capital stock or dividends of the company than are or may
be levied on the capital stock or dividends of incorporated banking institutions in
the State.
In 1836, the legislature passed an act to prohibit the circilation of small bills. This
act provided, that if any bank should surrender the right to issue small notes, the
treasurer should collect a tax from such bank of five Der cent. upo.. its dividends;
if not, he should collect twenty per cent. The Life Insurance and Trust Company
surrendered the right.
In 1838, this law was repealed.
In 1845, an act was passed to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio and other banking
companies. The 60th section provided that each company should pay, annually,
six per cent. upon its profits, in lieu of all taxes to which such company or the
stockholders thereof, on account of stocks owned therein, would otherwise be subject.
In 1851, an act was passed to tax banks and bank and other stocks, the same aq
other property was iaxable by the laws of the State.
There was nothing in previous legislation to exempt tle Life Insurance and Trust
Company from the operation of this act.

Tnis case was brought up from the District Court of the
State of Ohio, in and for the county of Hamilton, by a writ of
error issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act. The
court was held by the Honorable John A. Corwin, Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, presiding, and the
Honorable Alfred G. W.

Carter, and the Honorable Edward

Woodruff, and the Honorable John B. Stalle , Judges of the Court
of Cormon Pleas, in and for the county of Hamilton; associates.

The following certificate, which was a part of the record, explains the nature of the case:
And thereupon, on motion of the counsel for the said The
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, defendants, it is
ordered to be certified and made a part of the record that the
said company did set up, by way of defence to the prayer of the
bill of complainants, a certain act of the general assembly of
this State, entitled An act to incorporate the Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, passed the twelh day of February,

in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-four; and also a certain
other act of The general assembly, entitled An act to prohibit
the circulation of small bills, passed the fourteenth day of March,
in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-six; and thereupon

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

417

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

claimed, that in virtue of the said acts, and of the instrument
of writing, "Exhibit B," attached to its answer, the general assembly of this State had entered into a contract with the said
company never to impose upon the property of the said company a greater or different burden of taxation than five per cent.
upon its dividends of net profits, and that therefore the act of
the general assembly, entitled An act to tax banks, and bank
and other stocks, the same as other property is now taxable by
the laws of this State, passed the twenty-first day of March, in
the year eighteen hurdred and fifty-one, impaired the obligation
of a contract, and therein was repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States; but the court decided that there was no
conflict between the said several acts, for the reason that the
said act passed the fourteenth day of March, in the year eighteen
hundred and thirty-six, expired, and ceased to have any effect
or operation as respects The Ohio Life Insurance and Trtust
Company, on the first day of January, in the year eighteen
hundred and forty-three, when the power of the said company
to issue bills or notes for circulation expired and ceased by the
terms of the said act passed the twelfth day of February, in the
year eighteen hunched and thirty-four; and thaf there was,
therefore, at the date of the said act passed the twenty-first day
of Mlarch, in the year eighteen hundred and fifty-one, no such
contract, agreement, pledge, or understanding as the said company claimed; and that the said act passed the twenty-first day
of March, in the year eighteen hunched and fifty-one, was, in
that respect, constitutional and valid; and it was ordered to ba
further certified on the same motion, that the said company did
likewise set up by way of defence to the prayer of said bill a
certain act of the -general assembly of this State, entitled An
act to incorporate the State iank of Ohio and other banking
companies, passed the twenty-fourth day of February, in the
year ei~ghte~n hunched and forty-five, and thereupon claimed
that in virtue of the said last-mentioned act, and of the said act
passed the twelfth day of February, in the year eighteen hundred
and thirty-four, the general assembly of this State had entered
into a contract with the said company not to impose upon the
property of the said company ai greater or different burden of
taxation than six per cent. upon its dividends of net profit,
until after the first day of May, in the year eighteen hundred
and sixty-six, and that therefore the act of the said general assembly, entitled An act to tax banks, and bank and other stocks,
the same as other property is now taxable by the laws of this
State, passed the twenty-first day of March, in the year eighteen
hundred and fifty-one, impaired the obligation of a contract, and
therein was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States;

418

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

but the court decided that the said act passed the twenty-fourth
day of February, in the year eighteen hundred and forty-five,
contained no pledge on the part of the State not to alter the
amouiit, or the mode of taxation therein specified, but that the
taxing power of the general assembly of this State over the property of companies formed under that act, was and is the same
as over the property of individuals, and that there was, consequently, no such contract, agreement, pledge, or understanding
as the said company claimed; and that whether the franchises
of companies organized under the said last-mentioned act, could
not be revoked, changed, or modified, the said act passed tle
twenty-first day of Mlarch, in the year eighteen hundred and
fifty-one, did not, upon any construction, impair any right
secured to such companies, by the said act passed the twentyfourth day of February, in the year eighteen hundred and fortyfive, and that the said act passed the twenty-first day of March,
in the year eighteen hundred and fifty-one, was therefore a constitutional and valid law. And it is ordered to be certified, also,
that the question of the validity of the said act passed the
twenty-first day of March, in the year eighteen hundred and
fifty-one, was moterial and necessary to the decision of this
cause, and that the validity of the said act was drawn in question (in the manner and to the intent herein before specified) as
being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and
that the decision of the coul was in favor of the validity, of the
said law. And it is further certified that this court is the highestcourt of law and in equity in the State of Ohio, in which a de
cision in this suit can be had.
The several acts mentioned in the above certificate, are stated
in the opinions delivered by the judges of this cc rt, and it is
not necessary to set them forth i7 extenso.
The case was argued by Mr. -orthington and Mr. Slanberry,
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Spalding-and 1r. Pugt, for
the defendant in error.
The following points, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, are
taken from the brief of Mr. Worthington, filed for himself and
Mr. Mathews.
Points for Plainiff-I. Our first point involves the taxing
power, the objects and subjects of taxation, and the manner
and extent of its exercise. 'This power, under the Constitution
of Ohio, of 1802, is legislative, and placed under the control of
the general assembly, subject only to the :Few limitations put
upon it by the instrument of its creation, and by the Constitution of the United States. Constitution of Ohio, of 29th of
Nov. 1802,-At. 1, § 1 ; lb. Art. 8, § 23; .McCulloch v. State

DECEMBER

TERMI, 1853.

419

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

of Maryland, 4 Cond. Pet. Rep. 475, 486; Nathan v. Louisiana,
8 How. Rep. 82; Mager v. Grima et al. 8 lb. 490; The People
v. Mayor, &c. of Brooklyn, 4 Corns. Rep. 419, 423; Loring
et al. v. The State of Ohio, 16 Ohio. Rep. 590; Gazlay v. The
State of Ohio, 5 b. 14; State of Ohio v. Hibbard, 3 Ib. 63;
License Cases, 5 How.-Rep. 516, 593; Loughborough v. Blake,
4 Cond. Pet. Rep. 660; Prov. Bank,- v. Billings, 4 Pet. Rep. 563;
1 Ohio State Rep. 102.
IL The only limitation placed upon the exercise of the taxing power is by the 23d section of the 8th article of the constitation of Ohio, which' declares, " That the levying taxes by
the poll is grievous and oppressive; wherefore the legislature
shall never levy a poll-tax for county or state purposes." This
being the only limit, the power can be exercised to any and
every extent, for any and every purpose, and upon any and
every object or thing, at discretion, subject oly to the limitation given. Constitution of Ohio of 29th of November, 1802,
Art. 8, § 23; Mc Culloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Cond. Pet. Rep.
475, 488; Osborne v. Bank United States, 5 lb. 771; Nathan v.
L.ouisiana, 8 How. Rep. 82; Mayer v. Grima et al. 8 lb. 490;
The' License Cases, 5 lb. 593; 'Gazlay v. State of Ohio, 5 .Ohio
Rep. 21; Lorng et al. v. The State of Ohio, 16 Ib. 590; People
v. Mayor, &c. of Brooklyn, 4 Corns. Rep. 426 ; 1 Ohio State Rep.
77, 102.
II. The taxing power comes to the legislature from the
people, and is measured by the authority the people possess
and can confer upon their government, and have actually conferred. Their authority being unlimited, as to themselves and
their resources, and their exigencies without bounds, they can
exercise this power at will and at discretion, without limit or
measure, aw to themselves and their property. And if they confer the authority they have upon their general assembly or legislative department of their government with or without limit,
it can be exercised -within the grant, just as the people themselves could have exercised it. McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Cond. Pet. Rep. 484; Loughborough v. Blake, 4 lb. 660;
Osborne v. Bank United States, 5 Ib. 771; Weston et al. z.
City of Charleston, 2 Ib. 465 ; 'Providence Bank v. Billings et
al. 4 lb. 559; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet.
Rep. 546, 567; Vaughn v. Northup et al. 15 lb. 4; Dobbin, v.
Com. of Erie County, 16 Ib. 447; License Cases, 5 How. Rep.
575, 588, 592, 627; \West River Bridge v. Dix- et al. 6 Ib. 523,
539 ;. Passenger Cases, 8 lb. 407, 421,447, 530, 531; Nathan v.
Louisiana, 8 1b. 80, 8:2; Mayer -v. Grima et al. 8 Ib. 490; The
People v. Mayor, &c. Brooklyn, 4 Corns. Rep. 419; 1 Ohio
State Rep. 10.

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

IV. The legislative power of a State, as given by its constitution, can be exercised only upon what belongs to the
State in actual or constructive right, and can never extend
to what belongs to another government. The same person
or thing cannot at the same time be under the power of both.
Vaughn V. Northup et al. 15 Pet. Rep. 1; McCulloch v.
Rodrick, 2 Ohio Rep. 234; Rogers et al. v. Allen, 3 lb.
488; Mager v. Grima et al. 8 How. Rep. 490; Holmes v.
Remsen, 20 Johns. Rep. 254; Gordon v. Appeal Tax, 3 How.
Rep. 150.
V. The charter of The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, and the charter of the State' Bank of Ohio, and other
banking companies, are contracts obliga,:ory upon the State
of Ohio, in all their parts, and as such, protected by the Constitution of the United States, from violation or invasion, upon
the part of the State of Ohio. Constitution of the United States,
Art. 1, § NO; Fletcher v. Peck, 2 Con. Pet. Rep. 321; New Jersey v. Wilson, 2 lb. 457; Terett et al. v. Taylor et al. 3 lb. 256;
Town of Pawlet v. Clark et al. 3 lb. 40S; Sturgis v. Crowninshield, 4 lb. 415; Dartmouth College !,. Woodward, 4 lb.
538; McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 lb. 470; Providence
Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. Rep. 569; Charles River Bridge v.
X¥arren Bridge, 11 lb. 540,611; Gordon v. Appeal Tax, 3 How.
Rep. T833; Planters Bank v. Sharp et al. 6 lb. 318; West River
Bridge v. Dix, 6 lb. 531, 536,,539, 542; Paup et al; v. Drew, 10
lb. 218; Woodruff v. Trapnal, 10 lb. 204, 208, 214; Baltimore
and Susquehanna Railroad Company v. Nesbit, 10 lb. 395;
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge, 10 lb. 535.
VI. The 25th section of the charter of The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, and the 60th section of the charter
of 'the State Bank of Ohio, and other Banking companies, are
contracts, limiting the exercise of taxation upon the part of the
State, and, as such, are protected by the Constitution of the
United States from invasion. Constitution of the United
States, Art. 1, § 10; Fletcher v. Peck, 2 Con. Pet. Rep. 231;
New Jersey v. Wilson, 2 Ib. 457; Providence Bank v. Billings et. al. 4 lb. 659; Charles R. Bridge v. Warren Bridge,
11 lb. 540;. Gordon v. Appeal Tax, 3 How. Rep. 133, 146;
West Bridge v. Dix et al. 6 lb. 531, 544; Woodruff v. Trapnell, 10 lb. 207, 208; Mills v. St. Clair Co. 8 lb. 580.
VII. The 25th section of the charter of' The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, being a contract prohibiting
higher taxes upon the property or dividends of the Company,
other than were, or might be levied on the property or dividends of incorporated banking institutions of the State, no
higher tax could be levied upon th6 property, or dividends

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

421

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

of the company than could be levied upon the property or
dividends of incorporated banks of the State. A question
arises as to the banking institutions here referred to. The
reference must be to incorporated banks, existing at the time
the charter was enacted, or that may exist at the tifne of the
levy. In either case, no higher tax could be levied against
the company than could be levied against such incorporated
banks. If such banks be subject to different rates of taxation,
then the prevailing rates of the greater proportion of such
institutions, would control the rates of taxation against the
company. If the former rule prevail, then the rate of taxation against the old banks in Ohio furnishes the rule against
the company; but if the latter rule prevail, then the rate
of taxation against the State Bank of Ohio, and other banking companies, under the 60th section of their charter of
the 24th of February, 1845, furnishes the rule of taxation
against the company. The act to authorize free banking, of
Z21t March, 1851, (49 Gen. Laws of Ohio, 41,) has no applicatioi. to the present tax, because, aside from other consideiations,
no banks were organized under it when the tax against the
eomupany" was authorized to be assessed, under the act of 21st
March, 1851, to tax banks, &c. 49 Gen. Laws of Ohio, 56;
44 Ib. 108, 121, sec. 60 ; 48 lb. 88.
VIII. All the banking institutions in operation in Ohio, at
the time The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company was
chartered, except the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati, which
paid four per cent. on her dividends, - and the Franklin Bank
of Cincinnati, which paid five per cent. upon her dividends
-were,
by their charters, not exempt from general taxation
under a general law. And all the banks incorporated at the
same tession of the general assembly in which The Ohio
Life Insurance and Trust Company was incorporated, were by
their charters made subject to the tax imposed by the act of
12th March, 1831, to tax banks, &c., (Swan's Statutes, 916,)
and such taxes as might be imposed by law. The Ohio Life
Insurance and Trust Company prior to July, 1836, that is, in
1,35, was taxed under the act of 12th March, 1831, if taxed at
all, five per cent. upon her dividends. 3 Chase Stat. 2010 to
20 ,3,e. 100-103, inclusive; 2 lb. 913-924, c. 351, § 42, 1463,
c. 655; 32 Local Laws of Ohio 76, § 21, Bank of Wooster; 32
Ib. 197, § 21, Bank of Massillon; 32 1b. 283, § 6, Bank of Xenia;
32 lb. 293, § 17, Bank of New Lisbon; 32 lb. 299, § 6, Lafayette Bank of Cincinnati; 32 lb. 407, § 22 Bank of Cleveland;
:2 lb. 412, § 6, Bank of Sandusky, 32 lb. 419, § 6, Clinton
Bank of Columbus.
IX. The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Compaiy must deVOL. XVI.

36

422

SUPREME COURT.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

clare dividends on the first Mondays in January and July, annually, from the profits of said company, so .s not to impair, or in
anywise lessen the capital stockl These dividends are upon
the entire profits of the company, and are not divisible, or declared separately fiom any special business of the company.
Charter of The Ohio Life Insurance & Trust Co. § 27.
X. The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, and all
the banks in Ohio, except the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati,
and the Franklin Bank of Cincinnati, being bound to report to
the Auditor of State, under the act of 12th March, 1831, to tax
banks, &c., were embraced in the act of 14th March, 1836, " To
prohibit the circulation of small bills," as that act, in express
terms, included all banks that made returns to the auditor of
State under said act of 12th March, 18%1, to tax banks, &c.
34 Gen. Laws of Ohio, 42, § 1, of the act to prohibit the circulation of small bills.
XI. All banks, including The Ohio Life Insurance and
Trust Company, coming under the act of 14th March, 1836,
"to prohibit the circulation of small bills,' were, by the terms
of the act and their charters, subject to a tax of twenty per
cent. upon their dividends, unless they surTendered by the 4th
July, 1836, as therein directed, their rights to issue or circulate
notes or bills, less than $3, after 4th July, 1836, and $5, after
4th July, 1837; and "then and in that case, the Auditor of
State shall thereafter draw on such banks only for the amount
of five per cent. upon their dividends, declared after such surrender." The act of 14th March, 1836, repealed so much of the
act of 12th March, 1831, to tax banks, &c. as was inconsistent
with it. 32 General Laws of Ohio, 42; Mills v. St. Clair
County, 8 How. Rep. 581.
XII. The Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company having
accepted the provisions of the act of 14th March, 1836, "to
prohibit the circulation of small bills," and made the surrender
in due form required by said act, is entitled to the benefit or
consideration tendered by said act to obtain said surrender, and
can be taxed only five per cent. upon her dividends declared
after such surrender. This surrender upon her part, under said
act, constitutes a valid contract between her and the State, and
its invasion is prohibited by the Constitution of the United
States. Gordon v. Appeal Tax, 3 How. Rep. 133; Woodruff
v. Trapnall, 10 lb. 204; Rich. R. R. Co. v. Lou. R. R. Co. 13
lb. 81,86,90; Searight v. Stokes, 3 lb. 167; Nel, Moore & Co.
v. Ohio, 3 b. 742; Achison v. Huddleson, 12 b. 296; Huidekeper v. Douglas, 1 Con. Pet. Rep. 452; U. States v. Fisher, 1
lb. 423; Sturgis v. Crowninshield, 4%lb. 418, 481.
XIIL The Supreme Court of the United States, as a general

DECEM1BER TERMI,

1853.

423

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debotr.

rule, in the construction of the statutes and constitutions of the
States, follows the construction of their courts, but when the
construction of a statute in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States is involved, then the rule is reversed, and the
State courts must follow the construction given to the statute
by the Supreme Court of the United States. Luther v. Bowen,
7 Howard's Rep. 1, 40, 219, 818; East Hartford v. Hartford
Bridge Co. 10 lb. 539; Strader et al. v. Graham, 10 Ib. 94;
Elmendorf v. Taylor, 6 Con. Pet. Rep. 50; Swift v. Lyson,
16 Pet. Rep. 1; 2 Ib. 378.
XIV. The repeal of fhe act of 14th March, 1836, "to prohibit
the circulation of small bills," by the act of 13th March, 183S,
(36 General Laws of Ohio, 65,) does not annul or abrogate
the contract of surrender of 22d June, 1836, made by The
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, by which she
lost the right to issue and circulate small notes, and the State
lost the right thereafter to tax her beyond five per cent. on 'her
dividends. Woodruff v. Trapnell, 10 How. Rep. 204, 206, 207;
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co. 10 Ib. 635; Briscoe v.
Bank of Coin. of Ky. 11 Pet. Rep. 257; Charles R. Bridge v'.
War. Bridge, 11 lb. 420; Balt. & Susq. R. R. v. Nesbitt, 10
How. Rep. 395; Satterlee r. Matthewson, 2 Pet. Rep. 412;
Bronson v. Kinzie et al. 1 How. Rep. 311; Watson et al. v.
Mercer, 8 Pet. Rep. 110; Flotcher v. Peck, 2 Con. Pet. Rep.
321 ; Neil, Moore & Co. v. Ohio, 3 Howard's Rep. 742; Ac'heson v. Huddleson, 12 lb. 296; 10 lb. 395, 402.
For the defendant in error, the points will be given as stated
by M/fr. sSpaldi2n-., and also the third and fourth points of iJfr.
i1r.. Spaldib-'s points for defendant in error.
First. The taxing power is of such vital importance, and is so
essentially necessary to the very existence of a State government, that its relinquishment or diminution for a fixed period,
cannot be made the subject-matter of a binding contract betveen the legislature of a State, and individuals or private corporations. It is one of the highest attributes of sovereignty, and
under our form of government, belongs to the people. They
have lodged it in the hands of the law-making power, to be exerted for their benefit, not to be impaired or destroyed. It ndst
of necessity always be exerted according to present exigencies,
and therefore must necessarily continue to be held by each sueceeding legislature undiminished and unimpaired.
Second. The act of the general assembly of the State of
Ohio, entitled " An act to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio
and other banking companies," passed February 24, 1845, is not

SUPREIE COURT.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

a conhaf-t in the sense in which that term is used in the Constitution, of the United States, Art. 1, § 10. It is a general law
upon the subject of banking; it prescribes rules for the government of all the citizens of the State who may choose, within
certain limits, to embark in the business cf banking, and is as
mandatory in its character as any law upon the statute book.
These mandates are some of them enforced under the severest
penalties known to the law.
Third. This act was made subject to alteration, suspension,
and repeal, for, at the time of its enactment, February 24, 1845,
there was a general law in full force in Ohio, which was passed
March .7, 1842, entitled "An act instituting proceedings against
corpbrations not possessing banking powers and the visatorial
powers of courts, and to provide for the regulation of corporations generally," that provided in section nine as follows: "That
the charter of every corporation of every description, 'whether
possessing banking powers or not,' that shall hereafter be granted by the legislature, shall be subject to alteration, suspension,
and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature." Ohio Laws,
vol. 40, page 70.
Fourth. The 60th section of the act of 'February 24th, 1845,
provides only a measure of taxation for the time being, and does
not relinquish the right to increase the rate as the future exigencies of the State may require.
Fifth. The record shows (pages 24, 25) that the Supreme
Court of the State decided nothing more than that the proviso
to the act of March 14, 1836, ceased to affect the plaintiff when
the power to issue bills for circulation ceased in January, 1S43;
and that the act of February 24, 1845, contained no pledge on
the part of the State not to alter the amount and mode of taxation therein specified. And in so doing, said court has done no
more than to give a construction to the statutes of Ohio. *With
such a construction, this court has always manifested a reluc+ance to interfere. But more especially will it feel that reluctance when such interference may bring the acts of the State
legislature in conflict with the Constittition of the United
States.
111r. Pigh'sthird and fourth points.
IIL The Supreme Court of Ohio rightly construes the statutes.
1. The proviso to the first section of the act "to prohibit the
circulation of small bills," passed March 14th, 1836, does not
contain any stipulation or promise. It rderely exempted such
banks as complied with its terms, before a certain day, from the
operation of the principal clause. Minis v. The United States,
15 Pet. Rep. 445; The Commissioners of Kensington v. Keith,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

425

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

2 Penn. State Rep. 220; The Treasurer of Vermont v. Clark,
19 Vermont Rep. 129.
2. The proviso does not operate as a contract, or stipulation,
merely because the consent of the banks is invoked. The Cincinnati, W"ilmington, and Zanesville Railroad Company v. The
Commissioners of Clinton County, 21 Ohio Rep. 77; The Cargo
of the Brig Aurora v. The United States, 7 Cranch, 3S2.
3. The benefit of the proviso (if construed as a contract) only
applied to the plaintiff in error, whilst it was authorized, by its
charter, to issue bills or notes 'for circulation. Iildebrand v.
Fogle, 20 Ohio Rep. 147; Bradley v. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgeto- n Steam Packet Company, 13 Pet. Rep. 97;
Synder v. Leibengood, 4 Penn. State Rep. 308; Washburn v.
Gould, 3 Story, 162; Case v. Cushman, 3 Watts & S.544; The
Commercial Bank v. Pleasants, 6 W'harton, 375; Loring v. The
City of Boston, 7 -Metcalf, 409; Robinson v. Fiske, 25 Maine
Rep. 405; Brown v. Slater, 16 Conn. Rep. 192; Porter v.Breck"
enridge, Hardin, 26; Sayre v. Peck, 1 Barbour's S. C. Rep, 468,
469. And see 5 Cruise's Digest, 44, 45; Bozoun's Case, 4 Rep.
:35; Case of the Abbot of Strata Mercella, 9 Rep. 30; Ford and
Sheldon's Case, 12 Rep. 2; The Earle of Shrewsbury's Case, 9
Rep. 46.
4. The sixtieth section of the act "to incorporate the State
Bank of Oho and other banking companies," passed February
24th 1845, provides only a present measure and system of taxation, and does not relinquish, expressly or impliedly, the power
of the State to alter the measure, as well as the system, at any
future period. The Commonwealth v. The Easton Bank, 10
Penn. State Rep. 442; Bank of Pennsylvania v. The Commonwealth, 19 Penn. State Rep. 144; Brewster v. Hough, 10 Now
Hampshire Rep, 133; The Richmond Railroad Company v.
The Louisa Railroad Company, 13 How. Rep. 71; Short r v.
Smith, 9 Georgia Rep. .517; Armstrong v. The Treasurer of
Athens County, 16 Pet. Rep. 281; The Providenc6 Bank v.'
Billings, 4 lb. 514.
The following cases are distinguishable: Gordon v. The Appeal Tax Court, 3 Howard, 133; The Union Bank r. The State,
9 Yerger, 490; Johnson v. The Commonwealth, 7 Dana, 038;
The State v. Berry, 2 Harrison, 80; Munici ality Number One
v.The Louisiana State Bank, 5 Louis. Annual Rep. 394; The
Mayor of Baltimore v. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, 6 Gill, 2S3.
Statutes of Ohio, hi paii materia, to be examined: Act "To
tax bank, insurance and] bridge companies," passed March 12th,
1831, section 1rt, Swan's Statutes, 916, 917. Act "1For Ievy.
ing taxes on a:1 property in this State according to its true
36

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Comr any v. Debolt.

value," 1passed March 2d, 1846, sect. 10th, 44 General Laws,
90, 91. Act "To exempt revolutionary soldiers from taxation,"
passed February 8th, 1847, 45 General Lavs, 51. Act "To exempt from taxation a branch of the New YLrork Iethodist Episcopal Church Book Concern in Cincinnati and for other purposes," passed February 17th, 1834, 32 Local Laws, 91. Act
"To incorporate The Milan and Riehland Plank Road Company," passed January 31st, 1845, section 9th, 43 Local Laws,
51. See, also, The Constitution of Ohio, adopted June 17th,
1851, article first and section second; article twelfth and sections second and third; article thirteenth and section fourth.
Constitution of Ohio, adopted November 29th, 1802, article
eigh+h and sections first, eighteenth, nineteenth, thventy-fourth,
twenty-seventh, and twenty-eighth. As to the effect of these
provisions in construing both the act of Iarch 14th, 1836, and
the act of February 24th, 1S45, see Rex L%Loxdale, 1 Burrow, 447.
5. It does not follow, because the provision was made part
of an act to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio and other
,banking companies, that the design was to create a permanent
measure or system of taxation. The Pr3ble County Bank. v.
Russell, 21 Ohio Reports, 313; The Bank ef Columbia v.Okely,
4 Wheaton, 235; Young v.,, The Bank of Alexandria, 4 Cranch,
397; Crawford v. The Bank of Mobile, 7 Howard, 279; The
Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co.rnpany v. Nesbit, 10
How. 396.
6. All grants in derogation of common right (including all
exemptions from the payment of taxes) must be strictly construed. The Proprietors of the Charles River Bridge v. The
Proprietors of the Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 545, 546; the Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 561; The United States v.
_A rredondo, 6 Peters, 738; Mills v. St. Clair County, 8 How.
581; PArrine v. The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Comany, 9 How. 185; The Cincinnati College v. The State, 19
hio Reports, 110; The Richmond Railroad v. The Louisa
Railroad, 13 How. 81.
IV. The-right of taxaton is a preiminent and indispensable
right, and cannot be so aliened by a mere statute or by any
grant (other than a treaty or compact between sovereigns) as to
prevent its resumption, by the legislature, whenever the public
necessities require. And the legislature is the judge of public
necessity in such cases. The West River Bridge Company v.
Dix, 6 How. 507; Mills v. St. Clair County, 8 How. 584, 585;
Butler v. The State of Pennsylvania, 10 How,. 402; The People
t. The Mayor of Brooklyn, 4 Comstock, 423; The Providence
Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 563; Brewster v. Hough, 10 N.
Hiamp. R. 138; Mack v. Jones, 1 Foster, 393; Russell v. The

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

Mayor of New York, 2 Denio, 474; Maleverer v. Spinke, 1
Dyer, :36, b; Coates v. The Mayor of New York, 7 Cowen,
586; The Brick Presbyterian Church v. The City of New York,
5 Cow. 538; Vanderbilt v. Adams, 7 Cow. 351, 352. Cases to
be examined: The State of New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164; Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens, 16 Peters, 290;
Fletcher v,.
Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; The York and North Midland
Railway Co. v. The Queen, 1 Ell. & B.-858.
Mir. Chief Justice TANEY. In this case the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio is affirmed. But the
majority of the court who give this judgment, do not altogether
agree in the principles upon which it ought to be maintained.
I proceed, therefore, to state my own opinion, in which I am
authorized to say my brother Grier entirely concurs.
In 1851, the Legislature of Ohio passed an act "to tax banks
and bank and other stocks, the same as other property." The
act makes it the duty of the president and cashier of every
banking institution having the right to issue bills or notes for
circulation annually to list and return to the assessor in the
township or ward where the bank is located, the amount of
capital and stock at its true value in money, together with the
amount of surplus and contingent fund belonging to such institution, upon which the same amount of tax is to be levied
and paid as upon the property of individuals. And by the
third section of this act the Ohio Life Insurance and Trust
Company (the plaintiff in error) was brought within its provisins, and subjected to the payment of a like tax in all the
several counties where its capital stock was loaned, according
to the amount loaned and the average rate of taxation in each.
The payraent of 'this tax was resisted by the plaintiff in error,
upon the ground that the law imposing it impaired the obligation of certain contracts previously made between the State and
the corporation.
On the other hand, it was insisted on behalf of the State that
the right of taxation cannot be so aliened by mere statute as
to prevent its resumption by the legislature whenever the public
necessities require; and that the legislature was the judge of
the public necessity in such cases.
And further, if it should be held that the Legislature of Ohio
had the power to aliene its right of taxation, yet it had not exercised it in this instance; and when the tax in question was
levied, there was no previous contract between the State and
the corporation by which the State had relinquished the right to
impose it.
The company having refused to pay the tax -pport the ground

428

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.
above stated, the defendant in error, who is the treasurer of
Hamilton county, in which the corporation is located, instituted
proceedings to enforce its collection. And upon final hearing
of the parties, the Supreme Court of Ohio decided in favor of
the State, and directed the tax to be paid, together with the
penalty which the law inflicted for its detention. It is, to revise
this decree of the State court that the present writ of error is
brought.
This brief statement will show that the questions which arise
on this record are very grave ones. They are the more important, because, from the multitude of corporations chartered in
the different States, and the privileges and exemptions granted
to them, questions of a like character are continually arising,
and ultimately brought here for final decision. These contro versies between a State and its own corporations necessarily
embarrass the legislation of the State, ani are injurious to the
individuals who have an interest in the company. And as the
principles upon which .this case is decided, will, for the most
part, equally apply to all of them, it is proper that they should
be clearly and distinctly stated. I proceed to express my own
opinion on the subject.
It will be admitted on all hands, that with the exception of
the powers surrendered by the Constitutior. of the United States,
the peopl of the several States are absolutely and unconditionally sovereign within their respective territories. It follows that
they may impose what taxes they think p:roper upon persons or
things within their dominion, and may apportion them according to their discretion and judgment. They may, if they deem
it advisable to do so, exempt certain descriptions of property
from taxation, and lay the burden of supporting the government elsewhere. And they may do this in the ordinary forms
of legislation or by contract, as may seem best to the people of
the State. There is nothing in the Constitution of the United
States to forbid it, nor any authority given to this comt to question the right of a State to bind itself by such contracts, whenever it may think proper to make them.
There are, undoubtedly, fixed and immutable principles of
justice, sound policy, and public duty, which no State can disregard without serious injury to the community, and to the individual citizens who compose it. And corttracts are sometimes
incautiously made by States as well as individuals; and franchises, immunities, and exemptions from public burdens inprovidently granted. But whether such contracts should be made or
not, is eiclusively for the consideration of the State. It is the
exercise of an undoubted power of sovereignty which has not
been surrendered by the adoption of the Constitution of the

DECE.MBER

TERM,

1853.

429

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

United States, and over which this court has no control. For
it can never be maintained in any tribunal in this country, that
the people of a State, in the exercise of the powers of sovereignty, can be restrained within narrower limits than those fixed
by the Constitution of the United States, upon the ground that
they may make contracts ruinous or injurious to themselves.
The principle that they are the best judges of what is for their
own interest, is the foundation of our political institutions.
It is equally clear, upon the same principle, that the people
of a State may, by the form of government they adopt, confer
on their public servants and representatives all the powers and
rights of sovereignty which they themselves possess; or may
restrict them within such limits as may be deemed best and
safest f6r the public interest. They may confer on them the
power to charter banks or other companies, and to exempt the
property vested in them from taxation by the State for a limited
time during the continuance of their charters, or accept-a specified amount less than its fair share of the public burdens. This
power may be indiscreetly and injudiciously exercised. Banks
and other companies may be exempted, by contract, from their
equal share of the taxes, under the belief that the corporation
will prove to be a public benefit. Experience may prove that
it is a public injury. Yet, if the contract was within the scope
of the authority conferred by the constitution of the State, it is
like any other contract made by competent authority, bindinF
upon the parties. Nor can the people or their representatives,
by any act of theirs afterwards, impair its obligation. When
the contract is made, the Constitution of the United States acts
upon it, and declares that it shall not be impaired, and makes
it the duty of this court to carry it into execution. That duty
must be performed.
This doctrine was recognized in the case of Billings v. The
Providence Bank, and again in the case of the Charles- River
Bridge Company. -In both of these cases the court, in the
clearest terms, recognized- the power of a State legislature to
bind the State by contract; and the cases were decided against
the corporations, because, according to the rule of construction
in such cases, the privilege or exemption claimed had not been
granted. But the power to make the contract was not questioned. And I am not aware of any decision ii this court
calling into question any of the principles maintained in either
of these two leading cases. On the contrary, they have since,
in the case of Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 Howard, 133,
been directly reaffirmed.
The question in that case was precisely the same with the
present one; that is to say - whether the State had relinquished

SUPREME

C0U:3T.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Cornpany v. Debolt.

its right of taxation to a certain extent, in its charter to a bank?
The court held that it had, and reversed the judgment of the
State court, which had decided to the contrary. And this opinion
appears to have been unanimous -for no dissent is entered.
Again, in the case of the Richmond Railroad Company v.
The Louisa Railroad Company, 13 Howard, 71 -the question
was, whether the State had not, by its charter to the former,
contracted not to authorize a road like the latter, which would
tend to diminish the number of passengers travelling upon the
former between Richmond and Washington. The case therefore in principle was the same with that of 'the Charles River
Bridge v. The Warren Bridge; and it was decided on the same
ground: that is-that the contract, according to the rule of
construction laid down in the Charles River Bridge case, did
not extend to such a road as was author-zed by the charter to
the Louisa Railroad Company. But the opinion of the majority of the court is founded expressly upon the assumption that
the legislature might bind the State by such a contract; and
the three judges who dissented were of opinion not only that
the legilature might bind it, but that it had bound it; and that
the charter to the Louisa Railroad Company violated the contract and impaired its obligation. They adopted a rule of
construction more favorable to the corporation than the one
sanctioned in the Charles River Bridge v. The Warren Bridge.
It seemed proper on this occasionto reiark more particularly
upon this case, and the case of Gordon v. The Appeal Tax
Court, because the last mentioned case was a restriction upon
the ta.king power of the State; and the other a restriction upon
its power to authorize useful internal improvements - the two
together illustrating and confirming the Frinciples upon which
the Providence Bank v. Billings, and the Charles River Bridge
case, were decided.
There are other cases upon the same subject, but it is not
necessary to extend this opinion by rferring to them. It is
sufficient to say, that they will all be found to maintain the
same principles with the cases above mentioned, and that there
is no one case in which this court has sa nctioned a contrary
doctrine.
I have dwelt upon this point more at length, because, while I
concur in affirming the judgment of the Sapreme Court of the
State of Ohio, I desire that the grounds upon which I give that
opinion should not be misunderstood; for I dissent most decidedly, as will appear by this opinion, from many of the doctrines
contained in the opinions of some of my brethren, who concur
with me in affirming this judgment. I speak of the opinions
they have expressed in the case of the Piitua Bank, as well as
in this.

DECEMBER TERMI,

1853.

431

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

The powers of sovereignty confided to the legislative body
of a State are undoubtedly a trust committed to them, to be executed to the best of their judgment for the public good; and no
one legislature can, by its own act, disarm their successors of
any of the powers or rights of sovereignty confided by the people to the legislative body, unless they are authorized to do so
by the constitution under which they are elected. They cannot,
therefore, by contract, deprive a future legislature of the power
of imposing any tax it may deem necessary for the public service- or of exercising any other act of sovereignty confided to
the legislative body, unless the power to make such a contract
is conferred upon them by the constitution of the State. And
in every controversy on this subject, the question must depend
on the constitution of the State, and the extent of the power
thereby conferred on the legislative body.
This brings me to the question more immediately before the
court: Did the constitution of Ohio authorize its legislature, by
contract, to exempt this company from its equal share of the
piblie burdens during the continuance of its charter? The Supreme Court of Ohio, in the case before us, has decided that it
did not. But this charter was granted while the constitution
of 1802 was in force; and it is evident that this decision is in
conflict with the uniform construction of that constitution during the whole period of its existence. It appears,, from the acts
of the legislature, that the power was repeatedly exercised while
that constitution was in force, and acquiesced in by the people
of the State. I was directly and distinctly sanctioned' by the
Supreme Court of the State in the case of the State v. The
Commercial Bank of Cincinnati, 7 Ohio Rep. 125.
And when the constitution of a State, for nearly half a century, has received one uniform and unquestioned construction
by all the departments of the government, legislative, executive;
and judicial, I think it must be regarded as the true one. It is
true that this court always follows the decision of the State
courts in the construction of their own constitution and laws.
But where those decisions are in conflict, this court must determine between them. And certainly a construction acted on
as undisputed for nearly fifty years by every department of the
government, and supported by judicial decision, ought to be
regarded as sufficient to give to the instrument a fixed and definite meaning. Contracts with the State authorities were made
under it. And upon a question as to the validity of such a
contract, the court, upon the soundest principles of justice, is
bound to adopt the construction it received from the State
authorities at the time the contract was made.
It was upon this ground, that the court sustained contracts

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

made in good faith in the State of Mississippi, under an existing construction of its constitution, although a subsequent and
contrary construction given by the courts of the State, would
have made such contracts illegal and void. The point arose in
the case of Rowan and others v. Runnels, 5 How. 134. And
the court then said, that* it would always feel itself bound to
respect the decisions of the State courts, and, from time to time
as they were made, would regard them as conclusive in all cases
upon the construction of their own constitution and laws; but
that it ought not to give them a retroactive effect, and allow
them to render invalid contracts entered into with citizens of
other States, which in the judgment of this court were lawful
at the time they were made. It is true, the language of the
court is confined to contracts with citizens of other States, because it was a case of that description which was then before
it. But the principle 'applies with equal force to all contracts
which come within its jurisdiction.
Indeed, the duty imposed upon this court to enforce contracts
honestly and legally made, would be vain and nugatory, if we
were bound to follow those changes in judicial decisions which
the lapse of time, and the change in judicial officers, will often
produce. The writ of error to a State court would be no protection to a contract, if we were bound to follow the judgment
which the State court had given, and which the writ of error
brings up for revision -here. And the sound and true rule is,
that if the contract when made was valid by the laws of the
State, as then expounded by all the departments of its government, and administered in its courts of justice, its validity and
obligation cannot be impaired by any subsequent act of the
legislature of the State, or decision of its courts, altering the
construction of the law.
It remains to inquire whether the act of 1851 impaired the
obligation of any existing contract or cor.tracts with the plaintiff in error.
Before, however, I speak more particulaly of the acts of the
Legislature of Ohio, which the company rely on as contracts, it
is proper to state the principles upon which acts of that description are always expounded by this court.
It has been contended, on behalf 6f the defendant in error,
(the treasurer of the State,) that the construction given to these
acts of assembly by the State courts ought to be regarded as
conclusive. It is said that they are laws of the State, and that
this court always follows the construction given by the State
courts to their own constitution and laws.
But this r ule of interpretation is confined to ordinary acts of
legislation, and does not extend to the contracts of the State,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

433

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

although they should be made in the form of a law. For it
would be impossible for -his court to exercise any appellate
power in a case of this kind, unless it was at liberty to interpret
for itself the instrument relied on as the contract between the
parties. It must necessarily decide whether the words used are
words of contract, and what is their true meaning, before it can
determine whether the obligation the instrument created has or
has not been impaired by the law complained of. And in forming its judgment upon this subject, it can make no difference
whether the instrument claimed to be a contract is in the form
of a law passed by the legislature, or of a covenant or agreement by one of its agents acting under the authority of the
State.
It is very true that, if there was any controversy about the
construction and meaning of the act of 1851, this court would
adopt the construction given by the State court. And if that
construction did not impair the obligation of the contract as interpreted by this court, there would be no ground for interfering
with the judgment. For then the contract, as expounded here,
would not be impaired by the State law. But if we were bound
to follow not only the interpretation given to the law, but also
to the instrument claimed to be a contract, and alleged to be
violated, there would be nothing left for the judgment and decision of this court. There would be nothing open which a
writ of error or appeal could bring here for consideration and
judgment; and the duty imposed upon this court under this
clause of the Constitution would, in effect, be abandoned.I proceed, therefore, to examine whether there is any contract
in the acts of the legislature relied on by the plaintiff in error
which deprives the State of the power of levying upon the stoc
and property of the company its equal share of the taxes deemed
necessary for the support of the government.
The company was chartered by the Legislature of Ohio on
the 12th of February, 1834.
The purposes for which it was incorporated, and the character
of the business it was authorized to transact, are defined in the
2d section. It confers upon the company the power-i. To
make insurance on lives. 2. To grant and purchase annuities.
3. To make any other contracts involving the interest or use of
money and the duration of life. 4. To receive money in trust,
and to accumulate the tame at such rate of interest as may be
obtained or agreed G, or to allow such interest thereon as may,
be agreed on. 5. To accept and execute all such trusts of every
description as may be committed to them by any person or persons whatsoever, or may be transferred to them by order of any
court of record whatever. 6. To receive and'hold 1knds under
VOL. XVI.

37

SUPREME COURT.

434

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Corr pany v. Debolt.

grants with general or special covenants, so far as may be necessary for the transaction of their business, or where the same
may be taken in payment of their debts, or purchased upon
sales made under any law of the State, so far as the same may
be necessary to protect the rights of said company, and the
same again to sell, convey, and dispose of. 7. To buy and sell
drafts and bills of exchange.
In addition to these powers, it was *authorized by the 20 d
section of the charter to -issue bills or notes until the year 1843
to certain restrictions and limitations therein speci-subject
fied.
And the 25th section provides that no higher taxes shall 'be
levied on the capital stock or dividends of the company, than
are or may be levied on the capital stock or dividends of incorporated banking institutions in the State.
The last section of the charter reserved the right to the State
to repeal, amend, or alter it after the year 1870.
These are the only provisions material to the question before us,

At the time this charter was granted the act of March 31,
1831, wd in force, which imposed a tax of five per cent. on the
dividends declared by any banks, insurance, or bridge companies.
Subsequently, on the 14th of March, 18'6, after this company
was incorporated, another law was passed to prohibit the circulation of small bills; and by this law a tax of tventy per cent.
was imposed upon dividends, with a proviso, "That should any
bank, prior to the 4th of July next following, with the consent
of its stockholders, by an instrument of wvriting under its corporate seal, addressed to the auditor of the State, surrender the
right conferred by its charter to issue or circulate notes or bills
of a less denomination than three dollars, after the 4th of July,
1836; and any notes or bills of a less denomination than five
dollars after thb 4th of July, 1837; then tha auditor of the State
should be authorized to draw on such banks only for the amount
of five per cent. upon its dividend§ declarEd after the surrender.
As the plaintiff in error had the usual banking power of issuing notes and bills for circulation until 1843, it justly considered
itself within the provisions of this law, and filed the surrender
required; and ever since, until 1851, has paid the tax of five per
cent., and no more, upon the dividends it declared. The act of
1836 was repealed in 1838, and permission again given to the
banks to issue small' notes and bills; but it does not appear
that the Life Insurance and Trust Company ever availed itself
of the privilege. Afterwards, in 1845, another law was passed
incorporating the State Bank of Ohio, and such banking corn-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

435

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

panics as might afterwards organize themselves under and according to the provisions of that act. And the 60th section of
this law provided that each banking company organized under
that act should pay, semiannually, six per cent. on its profits,
which should be in lieu of all taxes to which such companies,
or the stockholders thereof, on account of stocks owned therein,
ould otherwise be subject.
Upon these acts of assembly the plaintiff in error defends
itself against the tax imposed by the act of 1851, upon two
grounds:
1. That by the act of 1836 the State agreed to relinquish the
right to impose a higher tax than five per cent. upon the dividends declared by the corporation, during the continuance of
its charter, upon the surrender of its right to issue small bills or
notes.
2. That if this proposition is decided against it, yet, as the
act of 1845 established a general banking system, by which the
State agreed to receive from each bank organized under it, six
per cent. upon its profits, in lieu of all taxes to which it would
otherwise be subject, the State could not impose a higher tax
upon this company under the contract contained in the 25th
section of its charter hereinbefore mention'ed.
The rule of construction, in cases of this kind, has been well
settled by this court. The grant of privileges and exemptions
to a corporation are strictly construed against the corporation,
and in favor of the public. Nothing passes but what is granted
in clear and explicit terms. And neither the right of taxation
nor any other power of sovereignty which the community have
an interest in preserving, undiminished, will be held by the court
to be surrendered, unless the intention to sutrender is manifested
by words too plain to be mistaken. This is the rule laid down
in the case of Billings v. The Providence Bank, and reaffirmed
in the case of the Charles River Bridge Company.
Nor does the rule rest merely on the authority of adjudged
cases. It is founded in principles of justice, and necessary for
the safety and well-being of every State in the Union. For it
is a matter of public history, which this court cannot refuse to
notice, that almost every bill for the incorporation of banking
companies, insurance and trust companies, railroad companies,
or other corporations, is drawn originally by the parties who are
pensonally interested in obtaining the charter; and that they are
often pated by the legislature in the last days of its session,
when, from the nature of our political institutions, the business
is unavoidably transacted in a hurried manner, and it is impossible that every member can deliberately examine every provison
in every bill upon which he is called on to act

436

SUPREME COURT.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

On the other hand, those who accept the charter have abundant time to examine and consider its Frovisions, before they
invest their money. And if they mean to claim under it any
peculiar privileges, or any exemption from the burden of taxation, it is their duty to see that the right cr exemption they intend to claim is granted in clear and unambiguous language.
The authority which this court is bound under the Constitution
of the United States to exercise, in cases of this kind, is one of
its most delicate and important duties. And if individuals
choose to accept a charter in which the words used are susceptible of different meanings - or might have been considered by
the representatives of the State as words of legislation only, and
subject to future revision and repeal, and not as words of contract
the parties who accept it have no just right to call upon this
court to exercise its high power over a State upon doubtful or
ambiguous words, nor upon any supposed equitable construction, or inferences made from other provisions in-the act of incorporation. If there are equitable considerations in their favor,
the application should be made to the State and not to this
court. If they come here to claim an exemption from their
equal share of the public burdens, or any peculiar exemption or
privilege, they must show their title to it- and that title must
be shown by plain and unequivocal language.
Applying this rule of construction to the laws hereinbefore
referred to, it is evident that the first ground of defence cannot
be maintained.
When the act of 1836 -was passed the State had an undoubted right, if it deemed proper, to impose the tax of twenty per
cent. upon the incorporated companies therein mentioned, and
to include the Life Insurance and Trust Co npany among them.
Indeed the right of the State in this respect is not disputed, and
the argument on behalf of the plaintiff in error upon this point
necessarily admits it. And we see nothing in the proviso which
can fairly be construed as a contract on tha part of the State
that it would not afterwards change the policy which that law
was intended to carry into operation; nor any thing like a pledge
that the State would not thereafter impose a tax of more than
five per cent. upon the dividends of such banks as complied with
the specified condition. The law is not a proposition addressed
to the banks, but an ordinary act of legislation addressed to
its own officer, and prescribing his duty in levying and collect-,
ing taxes from the corporations it mentions. It w as the policy
of the State, at that time, to infuse wore gold and silver in the
circulating currency, an d to put an end to the circulation of small
notes. The act of 196 was manifestly intended to accomplish
that object And the tax is accordingly so regulated as to make

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

437

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

it the interest of the banks to abstain from issuing them. But
the insolvency of the Bank of the United States, and many of
the State banks, and the general stoppage of specie payments,
which happened soon afterwards, made it impossible to carry out
the policy which the State deemed best for the public interests.
The prohibition to issue small notes was therefore repealed in
183S, and.the privilege of issuing them again restored to the
banks. Now, without resorting to the established rule of construction, above stated, no fair interpretation of the words of
these laws can make them other than ordinary acts of legislation,
which the State might modify or change according to the necessities of the public service. It would be straining the words
beyond their just import and meaning to construe the reduced
taxes levied, while the banks were prohibited from issuing small
notes, as a perpetual contract not to levy more, although the
privilege for which the reduction was intended, as an equitable
compensation, should be restored. If it could be regarded as a
contract, it evidently meant nothing more than that the tax
should not be raised while the banks were prohibited from
issuing small notes.
But the subject-matter of these laws shows that no contract
could have been inten~ded. Every contract of this kind presupposes that some consideration is given, or supposed to be given,
by the corporation- that the community is to receive from it
some public benefit, which it could not obtain without the aid of
the company. But in this instance the consent or cooperation of
this company was not necessary to enable the State to carry out
the policy indicated by the act of 1836. It had indeed at that
time the power to issue notes and bills for circulation. But
the grant of this right to the corporation, in general terms, was
not a surrender of the right of the State to prescribe by law,
the lowest denomination for which notes or bills should be allowed to circulate. No such surrender is expressed, and none
such therefore can be implied or presumed. For it is not only
the right, but the duty of the State to secure to its citizens, as
far as it is able, a safe and sound currency, and to prevent the
circulation of small notes when they become depreciated, and
are a public evil. And the community have as deep an interest
in preserving this right undiminished, as they have in the taxing
power. Anid like the taxing power it will not be construed to
be relinquished, unless the intention to do so is clearly expressed.
The general power to issue notes and bills, without any express
grant as to small notes, is subordinate to the power of the State
to reg-ulate the amount for which they may be issued.
Moreover, the power of the Life Insurance and Trust Company to issue notes or bills, of any description, terminated by the
37

SUPREME COURT.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

express provision in its charter in 1843. And if the acceptance
of the condition contained in the proviso in the act of 1836 made
that law a contract on the part of the State, the reduced tax was
the consideration for the surrender of the privilege. It surrendered the privilege until 1843. It had nothing to surrender
after that time. And of course there was nothing for which the
State was to give an equivalent, or for which the company had
even an equitable claim to require compeasation., It would be
a most unreasonable construction of such an agreement to say,
that in consider~ation that the company would abstain from erabarrassing the community with a small note circulation for seven
years, the State contracted not only to exempt it from its equal
share of taxation during the time it abstained, but also for
twenty-seven years afterwards, during which period the corporation would be exercising every privilege originally conferred
on it by its charter, and giving no equivalent for the exemption.
Before such a conclusion can be arrived at, the rule hereinbefore
stated must be reversed, and every intendlment made in favor
of the exclusive privileges of the corporation, and against the
community; and that intendment, too, must be pushed beyond
the fair and just construction of the language used, or the subjeet-matter and object of the agreement.
In every view of the subject, therefore, the defence taken
under the act of 1836 cannot be maintained.
The second proposition of the plaintiff in error is equally untenable.
The contract with this company in relation to taxation is
contained in the 25th section of the charter hereinbefore set
forth. Its obvious meaning is, that the tax upon this company
should be regulated by the takes which the policy or the wants
of the State might induce it to impose by its general laws upon
banking institutions. And in the legis'lation of Ohio, the
words "banking institutions" or " b an ks " appear always to be
confined to corporations which were authorized to issue bills
or notes for circulation as currency. This company, therefore,
was to be subject to the taxes then levied, or which its policy
or necessities might afterwards induce it to levy, on banking
institutions. The tax is not to be regulated by any special
contract that the State had made, or might. afterwards make,
with a particular bank or banks. Nor isthere any pledge on
the part of the State that it will not afterwards enter into such
contracts, and reserve in-them a higher or lower rate of interest
than that prescribed by its general laws. There is no provision
in relation to such contracts contained in its charter. Its taxes
are to be raised or lessened as the legislatrxe may from time to
time prescribe in cases of banks where no special contract in-

DECEMNBER

TERM,

1853.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

tervenes to forbid it. This, in my opinion, is the true interpretation of the words used.
At the time the charter was granted, the act of March 12,
1831, was in force, which imposed a tax of five per cent. on the
dividends of banks, insurance, and bridge companies. Of
course, the plaintiffs in error were subject to that tax, and no
more, while the law of 1831 continued in force; and it was not
affected by any special contracts which the State had previously made. *And it would have been liable to the tax of
twenty per cent. imposed by the general act of 1836, if it had
not complied with the condition in the proviso. But having
complied, it remained, like other banking institutions which
had no special contract, subject to the tax of five per cent.
Then came the act of 1845, which incorporated the State
Bank, and authorized individuals to form banking companies
in the manner and upon the terms therein specified. The 60th
section provided that the banking companies organized under
it should each pay, semiannually, six per cent. on its profits,
which sum should be in lieu of all taxes to which the company
or stockholders would otherwise be subject. It will be observed
that this provision does not extend to all the banks in the
State, but is, in express terms, confined to those which should be
organized under that act of assembly; that is to say, to such
banks only as should be organized in The manner authorized by
that law, and become liable to all the restrictions, provisions,
and duties prescribed in it.
The court has already decided at the present term that the
State has, by this section, relinquished the right to impose a
higher tax than the one therein mentioned, upon any bank organized under that law. But that decision does not affect this
case. For this company was- not organized under the act of
1845, and is not therefore embraced by the 60th section. It remained under the regulation of the general law, and was still
subject to a tax of five per cent. on its dividends, and nothing
more. It was not liable to the increased tax of six per cent.
upon profits levied upon these banks. For that tax was the
result of a special agreement, and not of the repeal of former
laws. And so it appears to have been uiLderstood and construed by the parties interested. The plaintiff in error continued to pay five per cent. on its dividends; while the banks
organized under the act of 1845, paid the increased tax of six
per cent. on their profits. Neither was the duration of its
charter shortened. It still was to continue until 1870, while
the corporate existence of these banks was to terminate ini
1866. Nor was it subject to the restrictions, limitations, or duties imposed upon them, when they differed from those of its
own charter.

440

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Dcbolt.

This being. the case, there is no reason why the tax to be
paid by the plaintiff in error should not be regulated by the
general rule prescibed by the act of 1851. It was regulated
by the general act of 1836, until this law was passed. Its tax
Was then lower than that levied on the banking companies organized under the act of 1845. And, as the special contract on
which these banks were chartered did not apply to this corporation before the act of 18.51, we do not see upon what ground
it. can be applied afterwards. As the tax levied on the ".'fe
Insurance and Trust Company was regulated by the general
rule before, it would seem to follow that "t should continue to
be so regulated, as there is nothing in that law to alter its
orighlal charter. The increased. amount of the tax can make
no difference.
It is said, however, that -when the act of 1851 was passed,
there was no solvent bank in the State except those brought
into existence by the act of 1845 ; that those previously established had all failed, and consequently there was no banking
institution upon which the increased tax could operate. There
is some difference, as to this fact, between the counsel. But I
do not deem it material to institute a particular inquiry upon
the subject. The provisions of the act of 1851 are general, and
expressly apply to all banks then in existence, if any, or which
have since been estatlished, unless they were exempted from
its operation by contract with the State. And it is by this
general rule or policy that this company is bound by its charter
abide. it'has
to
. Besides,
been stated in the argument, and seems to
have been admitted, that in 1845 there was no banking institution in the State upon which a tax was levied. They had all,
it is said, stopped payment and made no dividends, and consequently no tax was paid. And this fact was strongly urged in
the case of the Piqua Branch of the State Bank of Ohio against
Jacob Knoop, Treasurer, in order to support the construction
of the contract which has been sanctioned by the court. Yet
the fact that. there was no bank then in existence paying the
tax, did not -withdraw the Life Insurance and Trust Company
from the operation of the general law, nor subject it to the increased taxation of the act of 1845.
Again it is said, that forty or fifty banks were organized under
th act of 1845, and that that act formed the general banldng
system of the State; and the rule of taxation then' prescribed
ought, therefore, to be applied to this corporation, under the
terms of its charter. But, as I have already said, the charter to
the Life Insurance and Trust Company does not prohibit the
Stite from granting charters, under any special limitation as to

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

taxation, which it may deem advisable and for the public interest. And if it may grant one, it may grant as many as it may
suppose the .public interest requires, upon the same or upon
ditflrent" conditions from each other. The State has not contracted that this company shall have the benefit of all or any of
such agreements, or shall pay only the lowest tax levied on a
bank, or the tax levied on the greater number of them. It has
agreed that it shall have the benent of its general regulations
and laws in this respect, but not of its special contracts. And
when the owners of property, vested in the stocks of a corporation, come here to claim a privilege or franchise, which exempts
them from their equal share of the public burdens borne by the
rest of the community, they are entitled to receive what is expressly or plainly granted to them, and nothing more.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that the act of 1S51 does
not impair the obligation of any contract -with the plaintiff in
error, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio ought
therefore to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
I stated my views as to the character and effect of the sixtieth
section of the ac of 1845, in the case of The Piqua Bank v.
Knoop; there I came to the conclusion that, no restraint was
intended to be imposed on a future legislature to impose diltbrcut and additional taxes on- the banks to which the act applies,
if that was deemed necessary for the public welfare.
2d. iy conclusion, also, was in the above case, that if such
restraint had been attempted, it was inoperative for want of
authority in a legislature to vest in a corporation by contract,
to be held as a franchise and as corporate property, a general
political power of legislation, so that it could not be resumed
That a diltcreint docand exercised by each future legislature.
trine would tend to sap and eventually might destroy ilie State
constitutions and governments; as every grant of the kind, to
corporations or individuals would expunge so much of the
legislative power from the State constitution as the contract
embraced; and if the same process was applied to objects of
taxaiion, Iirst one and then another might be exempted, until
all were covered, and subject to the same ifnmnunity, when the
government must cease to exist for want of revenue.
:Sd. That the constituation of Ohio, of 1802, forbid such tying
up of the hands of future legislatures acting under its aithority,
it being so construed by her own courts, whose decisions we
were bound to follow. Nor has any law or decision of a court
in Ohio construed its late constitution of 1802 in this regard,
until the decision,, lately made on the tax laws here in cozitroversy, settled its true meaning.

442

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Dcbolt.

These principles will equally apply in this case as they did in
that of 'Ibe Piqua Bank r. Knoop; even admitting that the
sixtieth cection of the act of 184.5 is in etleA and fact a general
provision applicable to the existing banks of Ohio, and embraces
the Insurance and Trust Company.
It is proper that I should say, my object here is not to express
an opinion in this case farther than to giard myself against
being committed in any degree to the doctrine that the sovereign
political power is the subject-matter of a private contract that
cannot be impaired or altered by a subsequent legislature; that
such act of incorporation is superior to sbbsequent State laws
alcting the corporators injuriously; and that the corporation
holds its granted franchises under the Constitution of the United
States, in effect, and holds and maintains the portion of sovereign
power vested in it by force of the authority of this court: thus
standing off from and above the local State authorities, political
and judicial, and setting them at defiance, as has been most
signally done in one instance, brought to our cot sideration from
Ohio at this te:'m, in the case of Deshler v. Dodge. There the
tax collector distrained nearly forty thousand dollars' worih of
property from four of these banks claiming exemption. On the
same day an assignment was unade by the four banks of the
property in the collector's hands to Deshler, a citizen uf New
York. He sued our a writ of replevin in the Circuit Coturt of
the United States, founded on these assignments. The marshal
of that court, by its process, retook the property from the taxcollector's hands, and delivered it to the nan-resident assignee,
as the le--il and true owner, who now holds it.
No ot.mer or further step is required to secure our protection
to corporations setting up claims to exemp-ion from State laws.
I have become entirely convinced that the protection of State
legislation and independence, supposed to be found in a liberal
construction of State laws in favor of the public and against monopolies, as asserted in the Charles River Bridge case, is illusory
and nearly useless, as almost any beneficial privilege, property, or
exempdoion, claimed by corporations or individuals in virtue of
State laws, may be construed into a contract, presenting itself
as unambiguous and manifestly plain to one mind, whereas to
anoihler it may seem obscure, and not amounting to a contract.
No better example can be found than is here furnished.
When I take into consideration this fact, and, in connection
with it, the unparalleled increase of corporations throughout the
Union within the last few years; the ease with which charters,
containing exclusive privileges and exemptions are obtained;
the vast amount of property, power, and exclusive benefits, prejiudicial to other classes of society that are vested in and held

DE"EMBER TERMT,

1853.

.443

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v.. Deholt.

by these numerous bodies of associated wealth, I cannot but
feel the grave importance of being called on to sanction the
conclusion that they hold their rights of franchise and property
under the Constitution of the United States, and practically
under this court, and stand above the State government creating them.
Myoopinion is, that the judgment ot the State court should be
affirmed lor the reasons here suggested, and stated 4y me at
large in the ease of the Piqua Bank v. Knoop.
Mfr. Justice DANIEL.
In the conclusion adopted by the opinion of the court, that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio should be affirmed,
I entirety concur, but from the reasoning by which the court has
reached its conclusion I am constrained to dissent. I never can
believe in that, to my mind suicidal doctrine, which confers upon
one legislature, the creatures and limited agents of the sovereign
people, the power, by a breach of duty and by transcendig the
commission with which they are clothed, to bind forever and
irrevocably their creator, for whose benefit and by whose authority alone they are delegated to act, to consequences however
mischievous or destructive. The argument of the court in this
case leading, in my apprehension, to the justification of abuses
like those just referred to, I must repudiate that argument, whilst
I concur in the conclusion that the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio should be affiirmed, both for the reasons assigned in support of their judgment by that court, and
for the further-reason that this court cannot rightfully take cognizance of the parties to this controversy.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
Iy opinion is, that the act of the general assembly of Ohio,
entitled "An act to tax banks, and bank and other, stocks, the
same as other property is now taxable by the laws of this State,
of March, 1851," does not impair the obligation of any contract
contained in the act of incorporation of the plaintiff, or in any
other act of the general assembly of the State with which the
plaintiff is concerned.
I concur in the opinion of the chief justice concerning the interpretation of the statutes of Ohio involved in this case, and
the doctrines of interpretation applicable to these and statutes
of a similar description, and in the conclusions to which tl"
conduct.
In the decision of the cases which have been brought to this
court, from the Supreme Court of Ohio, I have not found it
necessary to declare an opinion upon the powers of the general

44.4

6UPREME COURT.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Comrany v. Deiolt.

assembly to modify or to repeal an act of incorporation like the
one held by these banking institutions; nor of the limitations
upon the general assembly in administering the power of taxation -much less to consider the powers of the people of Ohio,
to reform all the proceedings and acts of their government, or
whether those powers of the people can be controlled in their
exercise by any jurisdiction or authority lodged in this court.
The questions pressing upon us involve interests of such a
magnitude, and consequences so. importint, that I feel constrained to stop at the precise limit at which I find myself unable
to decide the case at law or equity
before
duty.me- that being the
and
limit of my constitutional power
I file this opinion merely to say, that I Jo not concur in the
opinion which has been delivered on the points wherein any
of these questions are directly or indirectly considered.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
The language of the 25th section of th3 charter of the Ohio
Life Insurance and Trust Company, is, "No higher taxes shall
be levied on the capital stock or dividends of the company than
are or may be levied on the capital stock or dividends of incorporated banking institutions in this State."
This charter was passed the 12th of February,.1834. If'was
*accepted by the company, a large amount of stock was subscribed and paid, and the bank was organized and went into
operation.
The 2d section- gave power to the comp'any, 1. To make insurances on lives. 2. To grant and purch-,se annuities. 3. To
make any other contracts involving the interest or use of money,
and the duration of life. 4. To receive money in trust, and to
accumulate the same at such a rate of interest as may be obtained or agreed on, or to allow such interest thereon as may
be agreed on. 5. To acoept and execute all such trusts of
every description, as may be committed to them by any person
or persons whatsoever, or may be transferred to them by order
of any court of record whatever. 6. To receive and hold lands
under grants, with general or special co'ienants, so far as the
same may be necessary for the transaction of their business, or
where the. same may be taken in payment of their debts, or
purchased upon sales made under any law of this State, so far
as the same may be necessary to protect the rights of the said
company, and the same again to sell, convey, and dispose of.
7. To buy and sell drafts and bills of exchange.
The capital stock of the corporation was fixed at two millions of dollars, the whole of which was required to be invested.
in bonds or notes drawing interest, not exceeding seven per

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

cent. per annum, secured by unencumbered real estate within
the State of Ohio, of at least double the value in each case, of
the sum so secured.
By the 23d section it is declared that, "the company shall have
power until the year 1843, to issue bills or notes to an amount
not exceeding twice the amount of the funds. deposited wifti
said company, for a time not less than one year, other than
capital; but shall not, at any time, have in circulation an
amount greater than one half the capital actually paid. in and
invested in bonds or notes secured by an unencumbered real
estat(, agreeably to the 7th section of this act, nor a greater
amount than twice the amount of depqsits, &c.
The section under which the claim to a limited taxation is
maintained, is only made certain by reference to the taxes levied
on the capital stock or dividends of other incorporated banking
institutions. And more satisfactorily to arrive at this result, it
may be proper to see what construction has be~n given to the
section by the officers of State, whose duty it was to assess the
tax and collect it.
The act of the 12th of March, 1831, imposed a tax on banks
of five per cent. upon the amount of their dividends. This tax
was paid by the Trust Company until the act of the 14th of
March, 1836, called the act to prohibit the circulation of small
bills. Under this act the auditor was authorized to draw in
favor of the Treasurer of State for twenty per cent. on the dividends of the -banks, provided, if they should agree in the form
required to relinquish the right under their charter' to issue fivE
dollar bills, and three dollars, the auditor should draw only fo]
five per cent.
The Trust Company acceded to the proposal, and filed the
necessary papers relinquishing the right to issue the small bills
as required. But this made no difference in the amount of the
tax paid by the bank.
The tax continued the same rate of fate per cent. on the dividends of banks until the act of 1845 was passed, containing the
following compact: "Each banking company, organized under
tis act, or accepting thereof, and complying with its provisions,
shall semiannually, on the days designated in the fifty-ninth
section, set off to the State six per cent. on the profits, deducting therefrom the expenses and ascertained losses of the coinpany for the six months next preceding; which sum or amount,
so set ofl shall be in lieu of all taxes to which such company,
or the stockholders thereof, on account of stock owned therein,
would otherwise be subject," &c.
As the power of the. State to exempt property from taxation,
under a compact which binds it, has been discussed somewhat
38
VOL. XVI.

4-46

SUPREME COURT.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Comi~any v. Debolt.

at large in the case of the Piqua Branch Bank v. Knoop, at this
term, nothing farther need now be said on the subjects there
examined; but the point, whether there is a contract which
should exempt the Trust Company Bank from general taxation,
must be considered. There are two grounds under which this
bank claims an exemption.
1. Under its original charter.
2. Under the small note act of 1836. The second I shall not
consider.
The twenty-fifth section in the charter guarantees that "no
higher taxes shall be levied on the Trust Company than on the
capital or dividends of incorporated banking institutions in the
State." Now, to make this provision specific as to the amount
of the tax, the other banking institutions of the State to which
the section refers, must be ascertained.
Some doubt may arise, whether the institutions referred to
were such as were existing at the time the charter was granted,
r to banks subsequently taxed. As the words in the section, in
relation to taxation of the bank, are, "than are or may be levied,"
it would seem to embrace the future law of taxation, as well as
the one in force at the date of the charter. Taking this as the
true construction, the tax of five per cent. on the dividends was
properly assessed under the act of 1831 and 1836.
At the tii-ie the charter of this company went into operation,
some of the banks were taxed four per cent. on their dividends :
but as the greater number were taxed five per cent. on their
dividends, the Auditor of State drew for live. This seemed to
be a reasonable construction of the twenty-fifth section,, as it
'refers to a general rule of taxation, and not to a particular one.
The tax shall not be higher than that on "he incorporated banks
of the State.
After the act of 1845, the Trust Company was chargeable with
six per cent. on the dividends, deducting expenses and ascertained losses, on the ground that a veryllarge proportion of the
banks of the State were so taxed; and that would seem to
come within the intention of the Trust Company charter. -W¥ithout doing violence to the language of the twenty-fifth section,
it cannot be said to embrace the highest rate of taxation nor the
lowest; that rate which would include the greater number of
banks, would seem to be just. And that was the construction
given by the auditor before the tax law of 1851.
The act of the 12th of March, 1851, imposed a much higher
tax on banks, by- assessing it on all the property of the banks,
instead of the six per cent. on the dividends. This embraced
the banks chartered under the act of 1845, as well as all others.
And if this law had been held to be constitutioiial, it would,
Undoubtedly, apply to the Trust Company.

DECEMBER TERM,,

1853.

447

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

On the 21st of March, 1851, the same day- the above tax law
was passed, an act to authorize free banking was enacted,
-which continued in force until it was repealed by the adoption
of the constitution. Under this law it is ascertained, from the
report of the auditor, that thirteen banks, or about that number,
were organized. There were about fifty banks organized under
the act of 1845. Four of the old banks were not included in
this organization. Now, all the banks organized under the act
of 1845, as we have held in the Piqua Branch Bank case, were
not subject to a higher tax than six per cent. on their dividends.
At the time the tax law of 1851 was made to operate on the
Trust Company, there does not appear to have been a bank
in the State on which such tax could be assessed. There were,
it is believed from the report of the Auditor of State, thirteen banks organized under the Bank Act of 1851, passed on
the same day as the Tax Act; but not one of those banks was
in operation until some time after the tax took effect on the
Trust Company. This Bank Act was repealed by the new constitution so as to arrest the.further organization of banks under
it. Now, from these facts the question arises, whether the
twenty-fifth section shall be held to apply to the Aifty banks in
operation under the act of 1845, or to the thirteen banks which
were afterwards organized under the act of 1851. It is true that
the act of 1851, imposing the tax, was intended to affect all the
banks, and especially the Trust Company, but that act being
held to be unconstitutional, cannot be considered as governing
the twenty-fifti. section of the Trust Company charter. The
provision in that section, that "no higher duties shall be levied
on the capital stock or dividends of the company than are or
may be levied on the capital stock or dividends of incorporated
banking institutions in the State," must refer to a legal taxation; and if this be the correct interpretation, then, at the time
this tax law was passed, there was not a bank in the State on
which the tax could take effect. The twenty-fifth section referred to incorporated institutions and not to contemplated incorporated banks. Such a construction must be given to the section,
if it have any effect. This reference, embracing the taxation
under the act of 1845, gives to the Trust Company charter the
same ctlict as if the sixtieth section of the act of 1845 had been
embodied in it. By reference it constitutes a part of the Trust
Company charter, and it would seem to me that nothing short
of ihis gives to the twenty-fifth section the effect it was intended
to have.
That section has been relied on by the bank as a pledge or
compact, not complete wxithin itself as to the ampunt of the
tax; but by reference to existing incorporated banks, embracing

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

the tax imposed upon them as the tax intended to be applied
to the Trust Company.
In this view this section is made certain, and contains all the
requisites of a contract. The same certairty would make good
a grant for land. And this is sufficient. The restriction of the
power of the Legislature of Maryland, in regard to taxing the
banks of that State, was made 6ut by ccnstruction as clearly
and as satisfactorily as if it had been expressied in words.
Would any one contend that the Legislature of Ohio could
tax the Trust Company under its charter, -withoutany reference
to existing incorporated banks? This was done by the tax
law of 1851. But the legislature may have supposed that law
would operate upon all banks in the State. As that law cannot
so operate, this tax on the Trust Company then should be considered as taxing the Trust Company witiout reference to any
existing banks, but to those which might or might not be organized under the act of 1851. This, it seems to me, is in
violation of all sound rules of construing the twenty-fifth section.
The Supreme Court of the State considered this charter of
the -Trust Company as resting on the same footing as the other
banks. In the discussion of the subject the sixtieth section of
the act of 1845 was examined. They rightly considered that
section as applying, by reference, to that company; and, in this
.respect, I entirely agree with them. I think the Trust Company
stands upon the same basis, and should have the same judgment applied to it, as was applied to the banks under the act
of 1845.
In the argument of the counsel against the Trust Company
Bank, it was insisted that the rule which. is to determine the
amount of taxation, is lound in "Lhe banking companies under
the act of 1851, and not under the act of 1845. And this is
founded chiefly on the 'act that the act of 1851 was a general
law, and imposed a tax upon all the balzs of Ohio. This argument would be unanswerable, if the existing banks were
subject to the tax law of 1851. But, under our.decision, that
law has no operation on the existing banits; and this fact was
not considered by the counsel. The decision in the Piqua
Bank case has taken this ground from the counsel. For they
did not, in any part of their argument, contend that the tax
could apply to the Trust Company as "incorporated banks,"
when no such banks were incorporated. This would seem to
be in violation, not only of the words of the 25th section, but
of the clear import of that section.
Neither the supreme court of the State nor the counsel relied
upon such an argument. The court o:' the State and the
counsel in the Trust' Company case, discussed the 60th section

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

449

Ohio Lifo Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt.

of the act of 1845, as 1y reference, constitating a part of its
charter. And this is the true question in the case.
The privilege of issuing bills of circulation, which terminated
in 1843, can have no effect upon the -questionof taxation. That
company still exercised, under its charter, its banking powers as a
bank of deposit, and did a much larger business than any bank
of the State. After 1843, as before that period, its dividends
were taxed as the other banks. It was in fact a bank, and discounted, and was the principal bank in the State. These facts
appear from the taxes paid to the auditor, which constitute a
part of the record.
In the argument it is assumed that this bank is taxed at the
rate only at which individuals are taxed, From the facts before us, I think there is a mistake in this statement.
The capital of this bank -is stated in the charter to be two
millions of dollars. From the record it appears that eight per
cent. is the average dividend declared. This would give one
hundred and sixty thousand dollars, as dividend, per annum.
From the report of the auditor of Ohio I observe the taxes
charged against the Trust Company, including the penalties
incurred for that year, amounts to the sum of $108,477.85.
This sum, deducted from the dividends for the year, will leave
ynly the sum of $51,523 to be distributed among the stockholders. This would give to them little more than two and a
half per cent. on their capital. But if the bank had paid the
tax, without incurring any penalty, it would have amounted to
a sum not much below seventy thousand dollars. This would
take neary one half of the profits of the year. This result
must convince ary one that there must be some error in the
statement, that this bank is taxed no more than property is
taxed in the hands of individuals. No free people would pay
nearly one half the profit of a large concern, in taxes. But I
think this result may be accounted for.
The capital of this bank is loaned at seven per cent., and distributed among the counties of the State. Funds are received
on deposits for which four per cent. per annm, or a higher
rate of interest is paid. The bank having the general confi-,
dence of business men, its deposits are large, the notes payable
to the bank, bills of exchange, &c., are all assessed at the.
face, as capital, and also, it is supposed, all moneys on deposit.
From these no deduction is made on account of debts due to
depositors or to other persons, as the law requires, in assessing
the personai property of an individual. No trust company,
organized as this company is organized, can do busidess under
such a pressure of taxation.
This bank was organized when the currency of Ohio was
.88

450

SUPREME

COURT.

Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Dabolt.

deranged, -and embarrassments were general throughout the
country. The general bankrupt act followed, after the lapse of
some years. The agency of the Trust Company Bank, in distributing its capital in every county in the State, as required by
its charter, conduced to correct the evils of a vitiated currency
in the State; and, in that respect, has continued to exercise a
salutary influence over its circulation. These considerations, I
am aware, have nothing to do with the constitutional question
in the case, and I only advert to them in answer to the argument that this bank has no ground of complaint, as it is taxed
on its property as if the property were in the hands of an individual.
MIr. Justice WAYNE dissented from the judgment of the
court.
Mr. Justice CURTIS.
I dissent from the judgment of the majority of the court in
this case. I consider the tventy-fifth section of the charter of
the company to be a contract by the State with the corporation,
that the rate of taxation of this company shall not at any time
be higher than the rate of taxation actually and legitimately
imposed on banking institutions; that this contract is not
complied with by passing an act to tax banks, which could not,
and did not operate, in point of fact, to tax the banking institutions of the State; that what was bargained for and granted
was not conformity to an inoperative general law, but conformity to the actual and legal rate of taxrtion of banks for the
time being; and consequently, as when the tax in question was
levied, the banking institutions existing in the State were not
subject to the law under which the Life and Trust Company
was taxed, and were not liable to pay the rate of taxation imposed on that company, the obligation of the contract of the
State to impose on the Life and Trust Company no higher
taxes than are or may be imposed on banking institutions,
has been impaired; because when this tay was imposed it was
a higher tax than was or could be legitimately imposed on the
then existing banking institutions of the State. I do not go into
an extended examination of this subject, because it involves o. my
1
a construction of this particular contract, and though important
to the parties, is not of general interest. Upon the other questions involved in the case, namely, as to the power of the legislature of Ohio to make a contract fixing the rate of taxation of
certain property for a term of years, - as to the duty of this court
to expound the contract whose obligation is alleged to be impaired- and the propriety of accepting the construction of the

DECEMBER

TERM3,

1843.

451

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et. al.

constitution of the State which had been practised on by all the
branches of its government, and acquiesced in by the people for
many years, when the contract in question was made, I fully
concur in the views of the eldef Justice, as expressed in his

opinion.
1r.Justice NELSON concurs with Mr. Justice CURTIS.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the State of Ohio, for Hamilton county, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is now here order'ed, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court of
Ohio, in this cause as remitted to the District Court of the
State of Ohio for Hamilton county, and contained ii the
transcript of the record filed in this cause, be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs, and interest at the same rate per
annum that similar judgments or decrees. bear in the courts of
the State of Ohio.

Louis

D. GA-MACHE,

GUARDIAN, WILSON

AND

SAMIUEL

PRI'sI,

AND IxEoNonrE GAMACHE, BY
Louis Pi.uhii, JOHN CAVENDEN,

A B3Y P. TRUE,

PIQUIGNOT, AND

PLAINTIrFS IN EnRoR, V. FRANCOIS X.
THE INHABITANTS Or THE TOWN or CARON-

DELET.
In 1812, Congre-s pa-cd an aet (2 Stat. at L. 748) entitled "An act making further
provi~ion for ettling the claimi to land in the territory of MIissouri." It contirraed the titles to town or village lots, out lot,, &c.. in sbveral towns and villages,
and amongst them the town of Carondelet, where they had been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior to the twentieth day of December, 1803.
In 1824, Congre~cs passed another act, (4 Stat. at L. 65,) supplementary to tbe above,
the irmt section of which made it the duty of the individual owner' or claimants,
whose lots were contirmed by the act of 1812, to proceed within 1s months to designate their lots by proving cultivation, boundaries, &c., before the recorder of lana
titles. The third section made it the duty of this officer to issue a certificate of
confirmation for each claim confirmed, and furnish the surveyor-general with a list
of the lots so confirmed.
This list was furnished in 1827.

