DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

547

Southard et al. v. Russell.

here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court; that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

DANIEL R. SOUTHARD, SAMUEL D. TOMPKINS, WILLIAM L.
THOMPSON, MATILDA BURKS, JOSEPH R. TUNSTALL, JOHN
BURKS, JAMES BURKS, SAMUEL BURNS, CHARLES BURKS, AND
MUARY BURKS (the four last named by WILLIAM L. THOmP-

SON, their next friend,) v. QILBERT C. RUSSELL.
A bill of review, in a chancery case, cannot be maintained where the newly discovered
purports to be founded, goes to impeach the character
evidence, upon which the bill
of witnesses examined in the original suit.
Nor can it be maintained where the newly discovered evidence is merely cumulative,
and relates to a collateral fact in the issue, not of itself, if admitted, by any means
d&cisive or controlling: such as th6 question of adequacy of price, when the main
question was, whether a deed was a deed of sale or a mortgage.
Where a case is decided by an appellate court, and a mandate is sent down to the

court below to carry out the decree, a bill of review will not lie in the court below
to correct errors of law alleged on the face of the decree. Resort must be had to
the appellate court.

Nor will a bill of review lie founded on newly.discovered evidence, after the publication or decree below, where a decision has-taken place on an appeal, unless the
right is reserved in the decree of the appellate court, or permission be given on an
application to that court directly forthe purpose.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Uniteu
States for the District of Kentucky, sitting as a court of equity.
Being a continuation of the case of Russell v. Southard and
others, reported in 12 Howard, 139, it is proper to take it up
from the point where that report left it.
In 12 Howard, 159 it is said, "After the opinion of the court
was pronounc.ed, a motion was made on behalf of the appellees
for a rehearing and to remand the ecuse to the Circuit Court
for farther preparation and proof, upon the ground that new
and material evidence had been discoyered since the case was
heard and decided in that court. Sundry ;tffidavits were filed,
showing the nature of the evidence which was said to have
been discovered."
The reporter abstained from stating the substance of these
affidavits in consequence of the following order, which was indorsed upon them in the handwriting of Mr. Chief JuStice Taney.
"The court direct me to say, that these affidavits are not to
be inserted in the report, as they implicate the character of indi-

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et al. v. Russell.

viduals who can have no opportunity of offering testimony in
their defence. The reporter will merely state, in general terms,
that affidavits were filed'to support the motion."
As the present case turned chiefly upon the contents of these
affidavits .(which were. made the groundwork for the bill of review) it becomes necessary to state them now. They were at'fidavits to sustain the two following points :
1. That Dr. Wood, a witness for Russell, was bribed either
by him or his attorney, Stewart; that Wood had in his possession a note given to him by Stewart for about three hundred
dollars, then past due; that Wood had applied to a person
named Addison to collect it for him, and left the note in his
possession for that purpose; and that Wood had confessed to
James J. Dozier, Bsq., that the note had been given to him for
his testimony in the case.
2. The folloving affidavit of George Hancock.
" I, George Hancock, state that some short time previous to
the sale by Col. Gilbert C. Russell, of his farm near Louisville,
to James Southard, he offered to sell it to me for five thousand
dollars, and he made the same offer to my sister, Mrr-. Preston.
I thought it a speculation, and would have bought it but for the
reputation the place bore for being extremely sickly. He also
explained to me the reason why he had given so large a price
for the place, which it is not deemed nc2essary here to state,
and which satisfied me that he knew he was giving much more
than its value, at the time he made the purchase.
CfEoflGE HANcoCK."
Upon these affidavits, the motion tor a rehearing was made
and overruled; the opinion of the court, overruling the motion,
158.
bei g recorded in 12 Howard,
Thu mandate went down to the Circuit Court, and was there
filed at May term, 1852. The Circuit Court decreed that the
conveyance from Russell to Soluthard was a mortgage, and that
Russell was entitled to redeem; and in further pursuance of the
opinion of the Supreme Court that the case was not then in a
condition for a final decree in respect to -the other defendants,
it was reinanded to the rules.
At the same term, namely, in June, 18,52, Southard and the
other appellants moved the court for leave to file a bill of review of the decree rendered at the present t:erm, and in support
of the motion presented their bill, and read the following documents, namely:
The affidavits of James Guthrie, Willett Clarke, Daniel S.
Rapelge, U. E. Ewing, Thomas G. Addison, George Hancock,
Charles M. Truston, John P. Oldham, 3. C. Johnston, D. F.
Clark, and of R. F. Baird, and a paper purporting to be an ex-

DECEMBER TERAI,

1853.

Southard et al. v. Russell.

tract from a letter from Russell to J.W. Wing, and a copy of
the deed from G. C. Russell to Joseph B. Stewart. And the
said Russell, by his counsel, opposed the motion, and objected
that the grounds made ont were insufficient, and read in his behalf the documents which follow: - The affidavits of Elias R.
Deerin, Elijah C. Clark, Robert F. Baird, J. B. Stewart, Philip
Richardson, and of Robert F. Baird, a copy ot the'record of
Burks against Southard, and a copy of the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States upon a new hearing, with the
affid:avits attached thereto.
After argument, tI'e court gave leave to the complainants to
fll, their bill of review; -whereupon the defendant, Russell,
rwwved le court to strike from the bill all that portion relating
to chamrperty and all that portion relating to the explanation of
the evidence of J. C. Johnston, by the introduction of his. affidavits, and all other parts of said bill which is designed to explain the evidence already in the original record. The court
overruled the motion, but reserved all the questions of the competency and effect of the matters the defendant moved to have
stricelen from the bill, to be decided when they may be made in
the progress of the cause, or on the final hearing thereof.
In September, 1852, Russell filed his answer.
The substance of the bill and answer are stated in the opinion
of the court.
In May, 1853, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill with costs;
upon the ground that "there is not sufficient cause for setting
aside said decree of the Supreme Court of the United States,
eitered here, according to the mandate of said Supreme Court."
Fr'om this decree, the complainants appealed to this court.
It was submitted on a printed argument by .11'r. Nicholas, for
the appellants. On the part of the appellees, it was axgued, orally,
by Mr. fohnson, and in print by 31r. Robertson and Mr. Morehead.
.II,. A.licholos reviewed the case as it stood.upon the former
testimony, with a view of showing the value of that now introduced for the first time. The only parts of the argument which
can be noticed in this report are those which related to the two
,u-iects mentioned in the opinion of the court, namely:
1. The new evidence of Ifr. Hancock relating to the inadequacy of price.
2. The bribery of Dr. Wood, by Russell, the original complainant.
1. The substance of Hancock's testimony is given above in
the aflidavit, which was filed for a rehearing.
(Upon this point, Mr. Nicholas's argument was as followg.)

550

SUPREME

COU151T.

Southard ot al. v. Russell.

Hancock's testimony presents two questions; first, its materiality; secondly, its admissibility as newly discovered proof.
1. No single fact could shed so much clear light on the case
as the offer to sell, and the anxiety to sell at $5,000. It furnishes an unerring key to the interpretation of the cotemporaneous written proposition made by R. to S. Thus interpreted,
it shows his willingness, in a manner neither to be mistaken or
misrepresented, to take about '6,000; one sixth cash, balance
in produce, bagging, &c., payable in one tc five years. It shows
conclusively that R.'s witnesses are mistaken in their estimate
of the then value, or at least of its vendible value. But whether
so mistaken or not, it neutralizes the effect of all such testimony,
by showing the price R. was willing to take, and, had for months
been endeavoring to obtain. If he were willing and amious to
make an unconditional sale at $5,000, it is easy to understand
his willingness to make a conditional one at the price paid by
S. Taken in connection with the other strong facts and circumstances, it overthrows and outweighs the testimony of
Wood and Johnston, even if the latter were unambiguous. Dr.
Johnston is not more intelligent or respectable than Hancock.
The recollections of one respectable witness, and another of
doubtful character, would never be allowed to disturb a twenty
years possession, and contradict a solemn written agreement,
corroborated, as it is, by so many and such strong facts and circumstances.
The vast importance of this testimony affords most satisfactory reason for believing that it was wholly unknown to S. before the original decree, even if the accidental manner in which
it recently came to his knowledge, were not satisfactorily explained, as it is, by Hancock.
2. Does this testimony alone afford sufficient ground for opening and setting aside the decree?
It presents a new fact, not directly put in issue, or attempted
to be proved, yet, if known, might have been proved under the
issue. It is not mere cumulative proof upon a point before in
contest, but a new fact, which, in aid of the old facts, conclusively proves a sale, the main matter in issue.
Can parol proof be used for this purpose ?
In applying the authorities about to be cited, let it be remembered that this parol proof is offered, not to disturb, but to quiet
long possession; not to impair, but confirm a written title; not
to oppose full satisfactory proof, but to contradict the weakest
of all proof- parol proof of confessions, and that, too, resting
on the doubtful meaning of one witness and the doubtful veracity of another, which has beci allowed to rewrite a written
contract and contradict a possession of twenty years. It is the

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

551

Southard et al. v. Russell.

mere opposing of new parol to the old parol proof. It also aids
to fix the otherwise doubtful construction of a muniment of title
or cotemporaneous, written document. When the authorities
are thus scanned, it will be found that we are more than sustained, and that our right to the review upon the single testi;mony of Hancock alone, is clearly made out.
The recognized right to review a decree upon newly discovered testimony, is coeval with the court of chancery.
The ordinance of Lord Bacon, made to define the right and
regulate its exercise, sayg :
"No bill of review shall be admitted on any new proof which might have been used, when the
decree was made.. Nevertheless, upon new proof that has come
to light after decree made, which could not possibly have been
used at the time when decree passed, a bill of review may be
grounded."
This ordinance was explained or construed, (2 Freem. 31,)
thus: " When a matter of fact was particularly in issue before
the former hearing, though you have new proof of that matter,
upon that you. shall never have a bill of review. But where a
new fact is alleged, that was not at the former hearing, there it
may be ground for a bill of review."
The ordinance, as construed in 2 Freeman, was recognized and
adopted at an early day in Kentucky. Respass v. McClanahan,
Hard. 346. The adoption is accompanied with the following
pertinent remarks: " There is an important difference between
discovery of a matter of fact, which, though it existed at former
hearing, was not then known to the party, or which was not
alleged or put in issue by either party; and the discovery of new
witnesses or proof of a matter or fact which Was then known or
in issue. In the former case, the party not knowing the fact, and
it not being particularly in issue, there was nothing to put him
on the search, either of the fact or the evidence of the fact; and
therefore the presumption is in his favor, that as the matter made
for him, his failure to show the matter was not owing to his negligence or fault."
The eases in which this right of review has been acted bn or
recognized in England and this country are too numerous for
citation.
Judge Story's Eq. Jur. 326-7, thus gives the rule: "The new
matter must be relevant and material, and such, as if known,
might probably have produced a different determination. But
it must be such as the party, by the use of reasonable diligence,
could not have known, for lache or negligence destroys the title
to relief."
Li Daniel's Ch. 1734, the rule is given thus: " The matter
must not only be new, but material, and such as would clearly

SUPREM1E COURT.
Southard et al. v. Russell.

entitle, plaintiff to a decree, or would raise a question of so much
nicety- and difficulty, as to be a fit subject of judgment in the
cause." Ord v. Noel, 6 Madd. 127; Blake v. Foster, 2 Mos. 257.
In Kennedy v. Ball, Litt. Sel. Cas. 127, it was held that
"When a review is asked on account of discovery of a fact not
put in issue, it should not be granted, unless that fact, when
combined with the other proof in the cause, would produce a
change in the decree."
In Talbott v. Todd, 5 Dana, 194, it is held to be one of the
grounds for review, "where new matter has been discovered,
though it lies in parol, if not put in issue'or determined by the
court."
No case has been found which says parol proof is not admissible to prove the new matter allowed by the rule. The absence
of any such expressed exception in the or.dinance and its commentaries, demonstrate that such exception is no part of the
rule. The cases and dicta in Kentucky and elsewhere which
say, that when the matter was before particularly in issue or
contested, the new proof must be of an unerring character, as
record or writing, need not be noticed, for they have no application. They are, in truth, a relaxation of the first member of the
rule, as given in the ordinance, and in 2 Freeman, taken restrictedly, and have no bearing on the second or latter branch of the
rule.
It however may not be amiss to refer to Wood v. Mann,
2 Sumn. 332, where Judge Story, after a careful review of authorities, as to the admissibility of cumulative parol proof, upon
a matter before in issue, says: 4-Upon bills of review, for newly
discovered evidence, parol evidence to facts is not necessarily
prohibited by any general practice or rule of law." Again, at
p. 334, he thus gives the result of his exam..nation of the authorities and of his own consideration of the Eubject: " That there
is no universal or absolute rule which prohibits the cout from
allowing the introduction of newly discovered evidence of witnesses to facts inissue in the cause, after the hearing. But the
allowance is not a matter of right in the party,.but of sound
discretion in the court, to be exercised sparingly and cautiously,
and only under circumstances which demonstrate it to be indispensable to the merits and justice of the cause."
In Ocean Insurance Company v. Fields, 2 Story, Rep. 59,
the same learned judge decided: " Although a court of equity
will not ordinarily grant relief, in cases after verdict, where mere
cumulative evidence of fraud, or of any othr fact is discovered;
vet it will, where the defence was imperfectly made out, from
the want of distinct proof, which is afterward discovered, although tliere were circumstances of suspicion."

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Southard et al. v. Russell.

He says: "I do not know that it ever has been decided, that
when the defence has been imperfectly made out at thetrial,
from the defect of real and substantial proofs, although there
were some circumstances of a doubtful character, some presumptions of a loose indefinite bearing before the jury, and
afterward newly discovered evidence has come out, full, direct,
and positive, to the very gist of the controversy, a court of equity
will not interfere and grant relief and sustain a bill to bring
forth and try the force and validity of the new evidence. The
disposition of the courts' is not to encourage new litigation in
cases of this sort; but, at the same time, not to assert their own
incompetency to grant relief, if a very strong case can be made
afortiori; all reasoning upon such a point must be powerfully
increased in strength, where it is applied to a case which is
composed and concocted of the darkest ingredients of fraud, if
not of crime."
As it appears from these two decisions, that there is no general rule to exclude mere cumulative parol proof in all cases,
there can be no doubt of its admissibility in a case like this,
where it is offered to establish a most material fact, not before
contested or-"specially in issue." The attention of the court is
particularly invited to Ocean Insurance Company v. Fields,
with another view. Should the court, contrary to expectation,
feel unwilling, from any technical reason, to set aside the decree
under the charge of fraud, then that case is full authority for
allowing Hancock's testimony, if for no other reason, because
it would then afford the only available means of frustrating the
iniquity perpetrated through Wood's bribed testimony, this case
being also- composed and concocted of the darkest ingredients
of fraud and crime."
All the authorities concur, that the rule for granting a review
(or awarding new trial out of chancery) is substantially the
same as that for granting a new trial at law, upon the ground
of newly discovered testimony. In Talbott v. Todd, 5 Dana,
196, it was held, "that the powers which a court of common law
may exercise during the term in granting a new trial upon the
discovery of new matter, may be exercised by a court of chancery
after the term."
In Lan-ford's Adm. v. Collier, 1 A. K. Mar. 237, a bill for a
new trial at law was sustained upon discovery, since the term,
of parol proof of confessions by Collier, he having obtained the
verdict upon such proof of confessions by Langford. Held,
opinion by Ch. J. Boyle, that, "in general when proper for
courts of law to grant a new trial during the term, it is equally
proper for chancery to grant new trial on same grounds arising
after the term."
VOL. XVI.

47

SUPREME

COUIRT.

Southard ct al. v. Russell.

The distinction made in both courts, is between merely cumulative- evidence to a point before in contes:, and proof of a new
matter or' fact not before contested, but hearing materially on
the original issue. The distinction is well expounded in Waller
v. Graves, 20 Conn. 305: "If new evidence is merely cumulative, no new trial, unless effect be to render clear what was
equivocal or uncertain. By cumulative evidence is meant additional evidence .of same. general character, to some fact or
point, which was subject of proof before. Evidence of distinct
and independent facts of different character, though it may tend
to establish some ground of defence or rilate to some issue, is
not cumulative within the rule."
So also in Chatfield v. Lathrop, 6 Pick. 417, " Cumulative
evidence is such as tends to support the same fact, which was
before attempted to be proved." Barker v. French, 18 Vt.
460, new trial granted for newly discovered cumulative evidence, because it made a doubtful case clear.
Gardner v. IMitchell, 6 Pick. 114. Action i'or breach of warranty in the sale of oil, testimony by both parties, as to quality.
Motion for new trial, on ground of evidence newly discovered,
of admission by plaintiff, that oil was of proper quality. This
held to be a new fact, -not cumulative, and the evidence being
nearly balanced, a new trial was granted.
If Daniel v. Daniel, 2 Litt. 52, be cited on the other side, it
will be found, on examination, to be either a felo-de-se, or inaccurate in the statement of the turning point, or erroneous for
not attending to the distinction as to what is and wvhat is not
cumulative proof, so accurately defined in Waller v. Graves, (20
Conn.) and so distinctly recognized by Respass v. McClanahan,
(Hard.) and numerous other cases. Daniel v. Daniel, itself distinctly recognizes, as one of the grounds for awarding new
trial at law out of chancery -" the discovery of new evidence,
relevant to a point not put in issue, for want of proof to
sustain it." The true meaning of "putting in issue," was
either mistaken by the court, or the true ground of decision is
misstated.
In Talbot v. Todd, -(5 Dana, 197,) it was decided that a party
w ho seeks to open a decree upon discovery of new matter, is not
held to very strict proof, either as to his former ignorance or as to
his industry in making inquiries which might have led to the discovery. In Young v. Keighly, 16 Ves. 350, it was said by Lord
Eldon, that, though the fact were known before decree, yet, if
the evidence to prove it were only discovered afterward, "though
so-ne contradiction appears in the cases, there is no authority
that the new evidence would not be sufficient ground for review.)",'

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Southard et al. v. Russell.

We have no need for either of these cases. They are merely
cited to prevent any possible doubt on that score. The vast importance of Hancock's testimony is the most satisfactory evidence
that Southard could not have been apprised of it, or it would
most certainly have been used by him. Even if he had suspected the fact, he could not have found the proof but by interrogating every man who he supposed had been in Louisville and
its vicinity at the time of the sale. Indeed, when the suit was
brought, if not during its whole pendency, Hancock resided in
another county.
We have thus, by what is supposed to be an overabundant
array of authority, established the right to use Hancock's testimony in "any aspect of the case that can possibly be taken. We
cannot doubt the disposition of the court to go as far that way
as legal authority will allow, for the attainment of justice in a
case like this. We have already proved the effect of his testimony is to clearly show Southard's right to a decree.
2. The second point of Mr. Nicholas's argument was to show
that the former decree would not have been rendered unless the
court had faith in Wood's testimony; and that as Wood was
iow shown, by new evidence, to have been bribed, his testimony
was destroyed, and consequently the foundation of the decree
was swept away.
Mr. Nicholas inferred the bribery of Dr. Wood for the following reasons, which must be merely stated, without the deductions
from them.
1. That Stewart's note to Wood bore date on the very day
when the deposition was taken.
2. That no proof whatever was brought of the alleged consideration of the note, namely, Wood's former medical services to
Russell's slaves, and money loaned to Wing. On the contrary,
that the allegation was disproved by the non-production of the
account which was said to be certified by Wing; by Wood's
never having sued on *the demand, or made a claim when he
knew of the sale of the farm and removal of the stock and negroes ; by the extraordinary conduct of Russell in thus promptly
assuming a debt which was barred by the statute of limitations; by Wood's "former evidence when he said that he knew
from Russell himself that Wing was his agent, and had contracted debts for him, whereas if this debt had existed he would
have said so.
(Mr. Nicholas then proceeded in this branch of his argument,
as follows:)
But it is contended, that the decree ought not to be set aside
for this fraud, because the only effect of establishing the fraud
is to impeach the bribed witness, and that the rule -is, -you can

556

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et al. v. Russell.

never open a decree to impeach a witness. For this they rely
on Respass v. McClanahan, Hardin, 346.
It is sufficient answer to this objection, that it is not the witness alone, or principally, whom we impeach, but Russell and
Stewart, whom we impeach for fraud in obtaining the decree, by
means of the bribed witness. No rule of law or policy is violated in permitting us to do this, merely because the witness
also is incidentally but necessarily assafled. If such were the
rule, this case is all-sufficient to prove that the rule is based
neither on justice nor policy, and ought therefore to be wholly
disregarded, or so restricted, as not to apply to a case like this.
But such is not the rule. Neither is this case of Respass ty.
McClanahan an authority to prove it, or if it be, then the case
cannot be relied on, because it is sustained by no authority.
The case contains merely a dictum that the conviction of perjury
of the witness, on whose testimony the verdict was. rendered, is
one of the .exceptions to the general rule, that the chancelfor wilf
not award a new trial to let in new w.tnesses to a contested
point. The case does not say, nor has a:ay authority ever said,
that the testimony of a witness can in :io way be so assailed,
unless you first convict him of perjury; for instance, where the
perjury was made with the knowledge or at the solicitation of
the plaintifl much less where it was pro ured by him through
bribery. Still less does Respass v. McClanahan or any other
authority say, that either at law or by bill of review you cannot
have a new trial, or a decree opened, by showing with newly
discovered testimony, either the incompetency of the witness,
or by new matter so contradicting him as to prove his perjury.
Bribery goes to his competency as well as credibility. It may
not be one of the established exceptions which, like interest, will
exclude the witness altogether from the Jury, because the jury
is the more appropriate tribunal for determining the question of
bribery, and is in no danger of improper influence from the testimony of a bribed witness. But what judge would hesitate in
instructing the jury, that if they believed the bribery they ought
to disregard his testimony? Neithei would a chancellor hesitate, if it were necessary to justice so to act in sustaining an
exception to the deposition of a bribed w'ness, and ruling it out
of the cause. It would be singular, indeed, if interest to the
amount of a dollar should render a witness incompetent, while
a bribe to the amount of hundreds Nyould have no such effect.
Many witnesses, if they could be heard, would be believed by
court and jury, though interested to the amount of thousands;
but neither would regard the testimony of a witness who had
received a bribe to the amount of only live dollars. If, therefore, there be any technical rule which limits incompetency to

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

557

Southard et al. v. Russell.

the interested, and will not include the bribed witness, yet every
principle of justice and sound policy requires that they should
be considered as, at least, on the same footing, in fixing the rule
as to what should be considered ground for a new trial, or in
setting aside a decree for fraud. The lav goes upon the-broad
general principle, that litigants must sustain their cases by disinterested testimony, and if an interested witness is palmed
upon the court, it is treated as a fraud, for which the verdict wll
be set aside. A bribed witness is an interested witness; his
own self-interest is used, "not only to give him directly an undue
bias, but he infamously sells a falsehood and commits wxilful
perjury for a reward. The true character of witnesses quoad
this subject, must, therefore, stand on the same footing; or,
rather, that is the most favorable view that can be taken for
IRussell.
In Talbott v. Todd, 5 Dana, 196, the court properly says: "the
same power which a court of law may exercise during the term
in granting a new trial for the discovery of new matter rmay be
exercised by the chancellor after the term." All the authorities
concur, that the powers.of the chancellor to award a new trial
and sustain a bill of review are identical.
In McFarland v. Clark, 9 Dana, 136, where a witness denied
a receipt given by her, the court ordered a new trial on the
ground of surprise, though the effect of the new testimony was
to impeach the witness. This, too, though, as Ch. J. Robertson
says, in delivering the opinion of the court: "It has often been
decided, that a new trial should not be awarded merely on the
ground of discovery of testimony to impeach a witness. But
surprise is altogether a different ground for a new trial. It
doe's not, like discovery, imply negligence. That the new testimony may impeach a witness, is not material." Cannot we
here equally rely upon this ground of surprise ? The bribery
was a fact locked up in the knowledge of Stewart and the witness. No amount of vigilance or diligence would have enabled
Southard to prove the fact, until it accidentally leaked out, in
consequence of Wood's necessities having driven him to try to
sell the note. Or can we not with much better reason contend
that bribery is "altogether a different ground," and a much more
satisfactory one for a new hearing; and, therefore, the fact that
the witness is also impeac.hed, "is not material." For no degree
of negligence whatever can be imputed to Southard, whereas it
was incautious to trust the proving of the receipt to the witness
of the other party. See also Millar v. Field, 3 A. K. Mar. 1Q9,
a strong case to same effect.
Allen v. Young, 6 Mon. 136, opinion by Ch. J. Bibb: a new
trial was awarded, because of the infamous character of the
470

558

SUPREME

COURT.

Southard et al. v. Russell.

witness, as disclosed in his own testimony. Though the court
conceded that to determine the credibility of a witness was the
peculiar province of the jury, yet it said: "It is due to the pure
administration of justice, to example and effect in society, that
a verdict, based exclusively upon the testimony of confession,
sworn to by an infamous witness, should :ot stand."
Thurmond v. Durham, 3 Yerger, 106: new trial will be ordered
in chancery, where the verdict was obtained by accident, or by
the fraud or misconduct of the opposite party, without any negligence in the other.
Peterson v. Barry, 4 Binney, 481: new -trial ordered, because
of surprise in proof of payment by two witnesses strongly suspected of having been tampered with.
Fabrilius v. Cock, 3 Burr. 1771: new trial ordered, on afterdiscovered testimony, to show the demand fictitious and supported by perjury procured by subornation.
Niles v. Brackett, 15 Mass. 378: new trial ordered, where interest of witness was known to party producing him, and not
to the other party.
Chatfield v. Lathrop, 6 Pick. 418: new trial ordered, where
witness, on his voir dire, denied interest, and it was afterward
discovered that he had an interest. See, also, Durant v. Ashmore, 2 Richm. 184, and 2 Bay, 520.
George v. Pierce, 7 Modern, 31: new trifl refused at law on
affidavit that material witness had said he had received a
guinea to stifle the truth, sed per uniam; "his affidavit who
got the guinea would be something, but his saying so is
nothing."
Ocean Insurance Company v. Field, 2 Story, 59: the bill was
sustained for new trial upon the discovery of testimony that the
vessel had been fraudulently sunk, though the effect of the new
testimony was necessarily to impeach the witnesses, who had
proved on the trial a bondfide loss.
The case of. Tilly v. Wharton, 2 Vernon, 378, 419, is the only
one in which the point was ever directly made and decided,
whether a conviction of perjury or forgery was necessary, before
the chancellor would award a new trial or set aside a decree on
the ground of newly discovered testimony., as to the perjury or
forgery; and there it was ultimately decided that such conviction was not necessary. That case was thus: Verdict and
judgment on bond and bill to subject real assets. Defendant
insisted bond was forged, and made strong proof. That, however being the point tried at law, the court would not enter on
the proof thereof, saying, if the witnesses had been convicted
of perjury, or the party of forgery that might have been a ground
of relief in eqaity; especially since the Iroceeding by attaint had

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Southard et al. v. Russell.

become in a manner impracticable. But upon appeal to the
House of Lords, a new trial was directed, and the bond found
to be forged. Though the report does not say so, yet the presumption is that, according to uniform usage, the decision of
the lords was given upon the advice of the twelve judges. The
case was one of cumulative proof merely upon the points of
perjury and forgery, which were the very points contested in
the trial before the jury; yet, even in that kind of case, the
chancellor said, a conviction of pejury or forgery would have
entitled the party to a new trial, and it was awarded by the
lords, even without such conviction. But even the chancellor
gives no intimation that, if the proof offered had been new
matter, and the perjury and forgery had not been contested
before the jury, that then a conviction wofld have been necessary to let in the proof. The more modern" decisions show
that he would have been wrong, if he had so decided; similar
proof has frequently been let in, without any previous conviction.
In Coddrington v. Webb, 2 Vernon, 240, a new trial was awarded
by the chancellor upon the ground of surprise, and upon the
charge that the bond was forged, without any allegation of conviction for perjury or forgery. And in Attorney-General v.
Turner, Ambl. 587, -after there had been two verdicts and a
decree establishing a will, Lord Hardwicke awarded a new trial
on the discovery of 'a letter written by a witness who proved
the will, to one of the trustees, requesting not to be summoned
as a witness, because he knew the testator was insane. The
new trial resulti g in a verdict in favor of the heir at law, the
former verdict and decree were set aside, and possession of the
estate ordered to be delivered to the heir at law. This, too,
without a suggestion even as to the necessity of a conviction
of perjury against the witness.
In this case, though the general character of Peter Wood for'
veracity, was in contest in the original suit, yet the fact of the
bribery was in no way brought in issut! We have, therefore, a
right to use it as original matter newly discovered, to impeach
his testimony as greatly within the principle decided in Tilly v.
Wharton, 2 Vernon, or as a substantive ground of fraud against
Russell in obtaining the decree.
(The remainder of Ir. Nicholas's argument on this head, is
omitted for want of room.)
The argument of the counsel for the appellee, so far as it
related to the points decided by the court, was as follows:
In arguing the case, we will first briefly consider the law which
must govern the decision of it. As Southard's Bill of Review
does iiot questipn the correctness of the opinion of this court on
the original record, but relies altogether on an alleged discovery

560

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et al. v. Russell.

of evidence since the date of the first decree in the Circuit Court
an inquiry into the correctness of the decision sought to be
reviewed would be superfluous and impertinent.
Though a decree may be set aside for :lraud in obtaining it,
the proper proceeding in such a case is, not by a bill of review,
but by an original bill in the nature of a bill of review.
A bill of review and a bill for a new trial of an action depend
on the same principles, and axe governed by analogous rules of
practice; and neither of them, az we insist, can be maintained
on the extraneous ground of a discovery of new testimony, uhless the complaining party had been vigilant in the preparation
of the original suit, and could not, by proper diligence, have
made the discovery in time to make it available on the trialnor unless the discovered testimony will prove a fact which, had
it been proved before or on the hearing of the original case,
would have produced an essentially different judgment or decree
nor unless the new evidence be either dozumentary, or, if oral,
shall establish a fact not before in issue for want of knowledge
of the existence of the fact or of the proof of it. This is the long
and well-settled doctrine in Kentucky. See Respass, &c. v.
McClanahan, Hard. 347; Eccles v. Sha.kleford, 1 Litt. 35;
Yancey v. Downer, 5 lb. 10; Findley v. Nancy, 3 Mon. 403;
Hendrix's Heirs v. Clay, 2 A. K. Marsh. 465; Respass, &c. v.
McClanahan, ib. 379 ; Daniel v. Daniel, 2 J. J. Marsh. 52; Hunt
v. Boyier, 1 Ib.487; Brewer v. Bowman, 3 b. 493; Ewing v.
Price, b. 522. This doctrine is as rational everywhere as it is
authoritative in Kentucky; and we think that it is generally recognized and maintained wherever the equitable jurisprudence
of England prevails. It is' coekistent with the ordinances
of Chancellor Bacon, of which that one applying to bills of review on extraneous ground has been, from the year of its promulgation, interpreted as requiring either new matter not before
litigated, or record or written evidence decisive of a fact involved
in the former issue, and of the existence of which memorial the
complaining party was, without his own fault or negligence,
ignorant, until it was too late to use it to prevent the decree
sought to be reviewed. See Hinde's Practice, 58 ; Gilbert's For.
Rom. 186; Story's Eq. P1. 433-4, n. 3; Taylor v. Sharp, 3 P.
Wms.371; Norris v. Le Neve, 3 Atk. 33-4, 2 Mad. Ch. 537;
Patridge v. Usborne, 5 Russ. 195; Wiser v. Blachly, 2 Johns.
Ch. Rep. 491; Livingston v. Hubbs, 3 lb. 126.
Discovery of additional witnesses,,or of cumulative or explanatory evidence, " by the swearing of witnesses," has never been
adjudged a sufficient ground for a bill of review, or for a new
trial of an action. The rule applied by most of the foregoing
authorities, and virtually recognized in all of them, is dictated

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

561

Southard et al. v. Russell.

by obvious considerations of policy, security, and justice. A
relaxation of it so as to allow a new trial or review, on the alleged discovery of corroborative or explanatory testimony by
witnesses, would open the door to fraud, subornation, and perjury, and would not only encourage negligence, but would lead
to vexatious uncertainty and delay in litigation.
As to the discovery of new "matter,"'or of written evidence,
the law is also prudently stringent in requiring that such matter or evidence shall clearly make the case conclusive in favor of
the party seeking to use it; and, moreover, that the court shall
be well satisfied that the non-discovery of it opportunely was
not the result of a neglect of proper inquiry or reasonable diligence. Young v. Keighly, 16 Yes. 352; 2 & 3 Johns. suprd;
FindLy v. Nancy, suprd, and some of the other cases cited.
Nor will a review or-a new trial be granted for the purpose of
impeaching a witness. Barret v. Belshe, 4 Bibb, 349; Bunn v.
Hoyt, 3 Johns. 255; Duryee v. Dennison, 5 lb. 250; Huish v.
Sheldon, Sayre, 27; Ford v. Tilly, 2 Salk. 653; Turner v. Pearte,
1 Term Rep. 717; White v. Fussell, 1 Yes. & Beames, 151.
We respectfully submit the question, -hether the principles
recognized and the rules established by the foregoing citations,
and many other concurrent authorities, do not clearly and conclusively sustain the decree dismissing Southard's bill of review,
and which he now seeks to reverse? We suggest, in limine, that
the bill should not be construed as intending to impeach the
original decree as having been obtained by fraud. The only
distinct allegation in it on that subject is, th~at Stewart (one of
Russell's attorneys) fraudulently bribed Dr. Wood to give his
deposition. Thefe is no allegation that Wood's testimony was
false, or that, without his testimony, Russell would not have
succeeded in this court. Nor does the bill anywhere intimate
what portion of Wood's. evidence was false, or in what respect.
And, could the bill be understood as sufficiently impeaching the
decree for fraud in obtaining it, an original bill, and not a bill
of review, was the proper remedy. If, therefore, it be Southard's
purpose both to impeach the decree for fraud, and also, on the
dicovery of new testimony, to open it for review, we submit
the question whether those incongruous objects can be united
availably in a bill of review.
But we cannot admit that either the allegation of false swearing or of the perjury of a witness is ground for a bill impeaching
a judgment or decree for fraud; nor have we seen a case in
which it was ever adjudged that the subornation of false testimony by the successful party was such fraud in the judgment
or decree as would lay the foundation for an original bill for
setting it *aside. Although it might be gravely questioned on

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et a]. v. Russell.

principle, yet it has been said that, while a bill of review or
for a new trial will not be maintained on .n allegation that the
decree or judgment was obtained by the false swearing of a
material witness, yet a subsequent conviction of the witness
for the imputed perjury may be ground for a review or new trial.
But whenever alleged perjury is the ground for relief, legal conviction and conclusive proof of it by the record are, at the same
time, required as indispensable. And this is dictated by the
same policy which forbids new trials or reviews for impeaching
witnesses by other witnesses. Respass v. McClanahan, and
Brewer-v. Bowman, suprd. Whilst, therefore, we doubt whether, on well-established principle or policy, even a conviction
of perjury is, per se, sufficient cause for a new trial or review,
we cannot doubt that imputed perjury, without conviction, is not
sufficient in any case.
Simply obtaining a decree on a groundless claim and on false
allegations, and even false proof, by a party knowing that his
claim is unjust, and that his allegation and proof are untrue,
has never been adjudged to be a fraud on the other party, for
which he could be relieved fiom the decree by a bill of review,
or an original bill impeaching it for fraud. Bell v. Rucker, 4 3.
Mon. 452; Brunk v. Means, 11 Ib. 219.
If procuring a decree by false allegations, known by the party
making them to be untrue, and also by availing himself of false
testimony, knowing that it was not true, be not, in judgment of
law, such a fraud on the other party as to subject the decree to
nullification or even review, why should the fact that the same
party, who knowingly alleged the falsehood, induced the false
witness to prove it, make a case of remediable fraud ?
But if, in all this, we are mistaken, we insist, as already suggested, that there is, in this case, neither proof nor allegation
that Dr. Wood's testimony was either totally or partially false;
although Southard, as proved by the depositions of Jos. C. Baird,
and of R. F. Baird, and of E. Clark, and of Deering, and of WV. J.
Clark, made elaborate and sinister efforts to seduce Wood, and
fraudulently extract from him something inconsistent with the
truth of his deposition, his failure was so signal as to reflect corroborative credit on Wood's testimony. In thE original case, Southard made a desperate effort to impeach Wood's testimony. In
that he failed. This court, in its opinion, said that he should be
deemed credible, and moreover said that his statements were
intrinsically probable, and were also corroborated by other facts
in the record. The assault now made upon him, and on the
attorney of Russell, is but a renewed effort to impeach testimony that was accredited, and considered by this court in its
original decision.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

563

Southard et a). v. Russell.

Could this forlorn hope succeed; the only effect of the success
would be to deprive Russell of Wood's testimony. The setting
aside of the decree would not follow as a necessary or even a
probable consequence. If there be enough still remaining to
sustain that decree, it will stand. And that there would be
enough, we feel perfectly satisfied. The gross inadequacy of
consideration - the defeasance and its accompanying circumstances - the peculiar and extraordinary means employed to disgui.-e the true character of the contract-the condition and objects
of Russell -the character, business and conduct of the Southards- the allegations, evasions, inconsistencies, and falsehoods
t stimony, provof the answer of D. RI. Southard -Johnson's
ing, as this court said, a mortgage, -these and other considerations, -independently of Wood's testimony, are amply sufficient
to sustain the former opinion of this court, as shown by that
opinion itself, and by abundant citations of recognized principles
and adjudged cases in our former brief.
Then the allegations as to Wood and Stewart, had they even
been sufficiently explicit to impute subornation and perjury,
and had they been also proved, would not have amounted to
tiating and available fraud ih obtaining the original decree,
which could not be annulled or changed on that ground by an
original bill impeaching it for fraud. This matter consequently
is, in effect, only an impeachment of the credibility of a witness;
and which, had it been possible, would have been ostensibly
effected by the swearing, and perhaps perjury, of other witnesses,
and by corruption and foul combination. But, though means
extraordinary and discreditable have been employed to destroy
Wood's credibility, the only circumstance which could, in any
degree, tend to throw the slightest shade on the truth of his
testimony is the fact that, about the time he gave his deposition,
Mr. Stewart executed his note to him-for $280. Is it proved,
or can this court judicially presume that the consideration was
corrupt? or can the court presume that Wood was bribed by
that note to fabricate false testimony? Would not this be not
only uncharitable, but unreasonable and unjust, in the absence
even of any explanatory ciicumstance? But Russell, in answering the charge of bribery, peremptorily denies its truth, and
affirms that his manager (Winn) had, among other liabilities
incurred by him in managing the farm, presented him with an
account due Dr. Wood for medical services, and also for a small
sum loaned to him by Wood that, never having been able to
pay that debt, he directed Stewart to adjust it by note before
he.should require Wood to testify to the facts which he had
learned that he could prove by him; and also to adjust a demand which Dr. Smith held against him for a larger amount;

564

SUPREME COURT.,
Southard et al. v. Russell.

and that Stewart accordingly executed the note for $280 to
Wood, but did not settle Smith's debt, because that was in litigation. Now Southard having made Russell a witness, and there
being no inconsistency or improbability in his response, it should
not be gratuitously assumed to be false. It is moreover not
only uncontradicted, but intrinsically probable. The medical
account for $126, with legal interest for about twenty-one years,
would, together with less than $10 loaned, amount, at the date
of the note, to $280. Dr. Smith proves that Stewart did speak
to him about settling his debt. This is corroborative of the answer. And though Smith did not know that Wood had rendered professional services to Russell's numerous slaves while
under Winn's charge, he himself having been generally their
regular physician, yet it is quite probable, nevertheless, that he
did, as Winn informed Russell, and as the latter seems to have
believed and acknowledged. But, as before suggested, if RusselI
owed Wood nothing, Stewart's note to him, even.if given to induce him to testify, would not prove that he testified falsely or in
what respect. It has been not very unusual, as in the Gardiner
case, to pay witnesses a bonus for subjecting themselves to the
inconvenience and responsibility of proving the truth. In its
worst aspect, the utmost effect of this matter would be to
impair Wood's credibility, which cannot be done by a bill of
review.
Our view of this matter, therefore, is: 1. That an original
bill could not set aside the decree for the alleged subornation of
a witness. 2. That the same cause would be insufficient to
maintain a bill of review, unless the witness had been convicted
of perjury, and that it may be doubted whether even conviction
would make a sufficient cause. 3. That the bill in this case
does not allege that Dr. Wood's testimony was false, nor intimate in what respect; and that, therefore, on this point it is
radically defective and wholly insufficient. 4. That there is no
proof that his testimony was untrue in any particular, but that,
on the contrary, its perfect purity and truth, in every essential
matter, are strongly fortified by the constancy and emphasis
with which, drunk or sober, in defiance of ccrrupt combinations
and strong temptations to seduce him into renunciation of some
portion of it, or into some purchased or inadvertent declaration
or admission inconsisteht with it, he has adhered to and reiterated the truth of it at all times and under all circumstances.
5. That, without Wood's testimony, the decree was proper, and
would have beeft just what it is. 6. That the object of the bill
of review is to impeach Wood's credibility, which cannot now
be allowed, and if allowable, has been entirely frustrated, and
would be unavailing to Southard had he succeeded in .his
purpose.

DECE

BER TERM, 1853.

565

Southard et al. v. Russell.

"The credit of witnesses is not to be impeached after hearing
and decree. Such applications for an examination to the credit
of a witness are always regarded with great jealousy, and they
are to be made before the hearing." White v. Fussell, 1 V. &
B. 151. "There would be no end of suits if the indulgence
asked for in this case weie permitted." Livingston v. Hubbs,
3 Johnson's Ch. Rep. 126.
The alleged discovery of Hancock's testimony, and of Oldham's as to Talbot's Alabama property, and of a mistake, either
by this court or by the witness himself, as to Dr. Johnson's testirony, are all plainly insufficient. These three distinct allegations are all in the same category. Each alike depends on the
question whether a discovery, after decree, of new witnesses
concerning a matter previously litigated and adjudged between
the same parties, is good ground for a bill of review; for what
was the value of the land conveyed by Russell to Southard, and
whether this conveyance was a conditional sale or mortgage,
were the principal questions involved in the original suit, and
the testimony of Hancock and Oldham applies only to the first,
and that of Johnson is merely explanatory of his former deposifion as to the last of these litigted"matters. The foregoing citations conclusively show-that no such cumulative evidence by
witnesses is sufficient for upholding a bill of review. "No witnesses which were or might have been examined to any thing
in issue on the original cause, shall be examined to any matter
on the bill of review, unless it be to some matter happening subsequent, which was not before in issue, or upon matter of record
or writing, not known before. *Where matter of fact was particularly in issue before the former hearing, though you have new
proof of that matter, upon that you shall never have a bill of
review." Hinde's Prac. 50; 2 Freeman, 31; 1 Harrison's Ch.
141. "This court, after the most careful research, cannot find
one case reported in which a bill of review has been allowed on
the discovery of new witnesses to prove a fact which had before
been in issue; although there are mary where bills of review
have been sustained on the discovery of records and other writings relating to the title which was generally put in issue. The
distinction is very material. Written eyidence cannot be easily
corrupted; and if it had been discovered before the former
hearing, the presumption is strong that it would have been produced to prevent further litigation and expense. New witnesses,
it is granted, may also be discovered without subornation, but
they may easily be procured by it, and the danger of admitting
them renders it highly impolitic." "If,"then, whenever a new
witness or witnesses can, honestly or by subornation, be found
whose testimony may probably change a decree in chancery or
VOL. XVI.

48

566

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et al v. Russel.

an award, a bill of review is received, when will there be an
end of litigation ? And particularly will it not render our contests for land almost literally endless? What stability or certainty can there be in the tenure of property? The dangers
and mischief to society are too great to be endured." Respass
V. MeClanahan, &., Hardin, supra. "The rule is well settled,
that, to sustain a bill for a review or new trial at law, the evidence, if it applies to points formerly in issue, must be of such
a permanent nature and unerring character as to preponderate
greatly or have a decisive influence upon the evidence which is
to be overturned by it." Findley v. Nancy, supra. "The nature of newly discovered evidence must be dilerent from that
of the mere accumulation of witnesses to a litigated fact." Livington v. Hubbs, szvpra. Such is the familiar doctrine to be
found in the books sparsin, and without authoritative deviation
or question since the days of Chancellor Bacon. It concludes
the case as to the discoveries we are now considering. Besides
they, when scrutinized, amount to nothing which, if admitted,
could affect the decree.
Hancock's memory is indistinct and uncertain - see his affidavit and his two depositions- all vague and materially varying as to facts and dates. Moreover, he was not in Kentucky
between the 1st of July, 1827, and the date of the conveyance
from Russell to Southard. The same depositions prove that
Russell was not in Kentucky during that year, until after the
8th of July. Consequently, if Russell made an offer to sell to
Hancock, it was since, and probably more than a year since he
conveyed to Southard; and, therefore, if he ever proposed such
sale it was of the equity of redemption, which was in fact worth
more than $5,000.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kentucky.
The present defendant, Russell, filed a bill in the court below in 1847, against the present complainant, Southard, and
others, for the purpose of having the deed of a large and valuable farm or plantation, and a defeasance on refunding the
purchase-money executed at the same time, declared to be a
mortgage; and, that the complainant be permitted to redeem
on such terms and conditions as the court might direct. The
cause went to a hearing on the pleadings and proofs, and a decree was entered May term, 1849, dismissing the bill. Whereupon the complainant appealed to this court, and, after. arguruent, the decree of the court below was reversed, the court
holding the deed and defeasance to be a mortgage; and, that

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

5C7

Southard et al. v. Russell.

the complainant had a right to redeem, remanding the cause to
the court below, with directions to enter a decree for the complainant, and for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of the court. The case and opinion of this court will be
found in 12 How. 139.
The main question litigated in the cause, both in the court
below and in this, was whether or not the transaction, the decree and defeasance, was a conditional sale to become absolute
on the failure to refund the purchase-money within the-time, or
a security for the loan of money. The case was severely contested in the court below, some seventy witnesses having been
examined, as appears from the original record; and was very
fully argued by counsel, and considered by this court, as may be
seen by a reference to the report of the case.
On the coming down of the mandate from this court to the
court below, and the entry of a decree in conformity thereto, the
defendants filed a bill of review, which having been entertained
by the court, the cause went to a hearing on the pleadings and
proofs; and after argument the court dismissed the bill. 'The
case is now before us on an appeal from that decree. Between
forty and fifty witnesses have been examined upon the issues in
this bill of review; but we do not deem it material to go into
the evidence, except as it respects one or two particulars, -which
are mainly relied on as ground for interfering with the former
decree. The learned counsel for the appellant, in a very able
argument laid before us, frankly and properly admits that, so
-far as it regards the* newly discovered evidence produced, the
case rests mainly upon the alleged bribery of one of .the material witnesses for the complainant in the original suit, Dr. Wood;
and upon the evidence of Hancock, who had not before been a
witness. It is claimed that this evidence is of such a nature
and character, when taken in connection with the original case,
as to be controlling and decisive of the original suit in favor of
the defendants; and that it is competent and admissible as
newly discovered facts bearing upon the main issue in that
case, within the established doctrine concerning proceedings in
bills of review.
It is important, therefore, to ascertain with some exactness
the character and effect of this evidence when taken alone; and,
also, when viewed in connection with the evidence in the former case.
The bill of review charges, upon information and belief, that
Stewart (who was one of the solicitors for the complainant in
the original bill) obtained by means of bribery the testimony of
Dr. Wood, a materialwitness in the cause, and upon the faith
of whose evidence this court was induced to render its decision

568

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et al. v. Itus3ell.

on the appeal; that said Stewart 'gave to the witness his note
for the sum of two hundred and eighty dollars; and, that this
fact first came to the knowledge of the complainants since the
decree.
The answer sets forth, that this note was given by Stewart
under the following circumstances : The defendant, on his return
to the State of Kentucky, in the fall of :1827, ascertained that
his overseer, Wing, who was his agent in charge of the farm or
plantation ia question, had greatly involved him in debt, and
among the list of creditors furnished by said overseer were
Doctors Smith and Wood. That afterwards, when he brought
his suit for the redemption of the mortgage, he left with the
8aid-Stewart a list of the names by whom he believed he could
prove the facts necessary to sustain his b!1l; and among others
were the names of Dodtors Wood and Smith. That he was
subsequently- informed by Stewart that .ach of these two witnesses claimed a debt against him; and that Wood had exhibited an account certified by said Wing, his ovei seer, for medical
services and borrowed money; and knowing that any account
signed by Wing was correct, the defendant authorized his solicitor to execute a note for the same as his'agent; and to do the
same thing in respect.to Dr. Smith, after ascertaining what was
really and truly due to him.
That he was afterwards informed by said Stewart, he had
executed a note to Doctor Wood to the amount of two hundred
and eighty dollars, which included his account together with
the interest. That said Stewart also informed him lie would
have given a similar obligation to Doctor Smith; but on reference to a record of a suit of said Smith against the defendant
in Louisville chancery court, it appeared doubtful if any further
sum was due to him. Thus the facts stand upon the pleadings.
The proofs in the case, as far as they go, sustain the aaswer.
They consist altogether of admissions drawn from Wood by
persons in the service of Southard, the complainant, employed
with the express view of extorting them by the temptation of
reward, and by the use of the most unscrupulous and unju.'tifiable means. A deliberate and corrupt conspiracy was formed,
at the instance of Southard, for the purpose of obtaining from
Wood an admission that this note was given as an inducement
to a consideration for his testimony in the original suit; but in
the several conversations detailed, and admissions thus insidiously procured, Wood persisted in the assertion that the note
was given as a consideration principaLy, for medical services
rendered to the slaves of Russell on the plantation in question.
Tf uny doubt could exist as to the truth of the circumstances
under which this note -was given, as declared by Wood, his

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

Southard ct a]. v. Russell.

consistency in the numerous conversations into which he was
decoyed, unconsciously, by the conspirators, should remove it.
If not founded in fact, the consistency is strange and unaccountable, considering the character of the persons employed to entrap him, and the unscrupulous and unprincipled appliances
used to accomplish a different result, namely, the obtaining an
admission that the note was given as the wages of his former
testimony. He was surrounded by professed fliends for this
purpose, and intoxicating liquors freely used, the more readily
to entrap him. An attempt has been made to invalidate this
explanation by the testimony of Doctor Smith, who states, that
he vas the general physician of the plantation, and that, in his
opinion, services to the amount claimed by Wood could not
have been rendered at the time without his knowledge; but this
negative testimony, whatever weight may properly be given to
it, is not sufficient to overcome the answer, and, corroborating
circumstances to which we have referred. It is matter of opinion and conjecture; and that, too, after the lapse of some
twenty-five years. Wing, the overseer,
is dead.who might have cleared
up any doubt upon the question,
One line of proof and of argument, on the part of the complainant in the original suit, to show that the transaction was a
mortgage and not a conditional sale, was the great inadequacy
of price. A good deal of evidence was furnished on both sides
upon this point. The item of newly discovered evidence, besides that already noticed, is the testimony of Hancock, who
states that Russell, in a conversation with him in the forepart
of the year 1827, as near as he could recollect, offered t6 sel to
him the plantation for the sum of $5,000. This is claimed to
be material, from its bearing upon the question of adequacy of
price, Southard having paid nearly this amount.
Vithout expressing any opinion as to the influence this fact,
if produced on the original hearing, might have had, it is sufficient to say, that it does not come within any rule of chancery
proceedings as laying a foundation for, much less a. evidence
in support of, a bill of review.
The rule, as laid down by Chancellor Kent, (3 J. Ch. R. 124,)
is, that newly discovered evidence, which gQes to impeach the
character of witnesses examined in the original suit, or the discovery of cumulative witnesses to a litigated fact, is not sufficient. It must be different, and of a very decided and controlling character. 3 J. J. Marsh. 492; 6 Madd. 127; Story's Eq.
P1.  413.
The soundness of this rule is too apparent to require argument, for, if otherwise; there would scarcely be an end to litigation in chancery cases, and a temptation would be held out to
48*

SUPREME COURT.
Southard et al. v.

Russell.

tamper with witnesses for the purpose of supplying defects of
proof in the original cause.
A distinction has been taken where the newly discovered evidence is in writing, or matter of record. ]n such case, it is said,
a review may be granted, notwithstanding the fact to which the
evidence relates may have been in issue before i but otherwise,
if the evidence rests in parol proof. 1 Dev. & Batt. 108, 110.
Applying these rules to the case before us, it is quite apparent
that the decree below dismissing the bill was right, and should
be upheld. The utmost effect that can be claimed for the newly
discovered evidence is: 1. The impeachrdent of the testimony
of Doctor Wood in the original suit; and, 2. A cumulative
witness upon a collateral question in that suit, which was
the inadequacy of the price paid; a fact, it is true, bearing
apon the main issue in the former controversy, but somewhat
remotely.
As it respects the first-the impeachment of Wood-the
means disclosed in the record resorted to by the complainant,
,Southard, strongly exemplify the soundness of the rule that excludes this sort of evidence as a foundation for a bill of review,
and-the danger of relaxing it by any nice-or refined exceptions.
And, as to the second-the evidence of Hancock-it is exeluded on the ground, not only that it is merely cumulative evidence, but relates to a collateral fact in the issue, not of itself,
if admitted, by any means decisive or controlling. If newly
discovered evidence of this character could lay a foundation for
a bill of review, it is manifest that one might be obtained in
most of the important and severely litigated cases in courts of
chancery.
There is another question involved in this case, not noticed
on the argument, bit which we deem it proper not to overlook.
As already stated, the decree sought -to be set aside by this
bill of review in the court below was entered in pursuance of
the mandate of this court, on an appeal in the original suit. It
is therefore the decree of this court, and not that primarily entered by the court below, that is sought to be interfered with.
The better opinion is, that a bill of review will not lie at all
for errors of law alleged on the face of the decree after the judgment of the appellate court. These may be corrected by a direct
application to that court, which would amend, as matter of
course, any error of the kind that might have occurred in entering
the decree.
. Nor will a bill of review lie in the case of newly-discovered
evidence after the publication, or decree below, where a decision
has taken place on an appeal, unless the right is reserved in the

DECEMBER TERM1,

1853.

571

Slicer et al. v. The Bank of Pittsburg.

decree of the appellate court, or permission be given on an ap.
plication to that court directly for the purpose. This appears
to be the prdctice of the Court of Chancery and House of Lords,
in England, and we think it founded in principles essential to
the proper administration of the law, and to a reasonable termination of litigation between parties in chancery suits. 1 Vern.
416; 2 Paige, 45; 1 MeCord's Ch.R. 22, 29, 30; 3 J. J. Marsh.
492; 1 Hen. & Munf. 13; Mitford's P1. 89; Cooper's Pl. 92;
Story's Eq. P1.  408. Neither of these prerequisites to the
filing of the bill before us have been observed.
Wre think the decree of the court below, dismissing the bill
of review, was right, and ought to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky, and was axgued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIA.M J. SLICER, LAWRENCE SLICER, WILLIAM CROIMWELL
SLICER; AND IARCELLA SLICER, MINORS, BY THEIR FATHER
AND NEXT FRIEND, WILLIAM J. SLICER, AND MARTHA VIRGINIA BERKLEY, JERIMEMIAH BERRY, AND THOMAS CRO-MWELL
BERRY, APPELLANTS. v. THE BANK OF PITTSBURG.
Where there was a mortgage of land in the city of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, the mort
facias to be issued from the Court of Common Plcas
gagee caused a writ of seire
there being no chancery court in that State. There was no regular judgment entered upon the docket, but a writ of 1,rarifaciaswas issued, under which the mortgaged property was levied upon and sold. The mortgagee, the Bank of Pittsburg,
became the purchaser.
This took place in 1820.
In 1836, the court ordered the record to be amended byentering up the judgment
regularly, and by altering the date of tha scirefacias.
AUthough the judgment in 1820 was not regularly entered up, yet it was confessed
before a prothonotary, who had power to take the confession. The docket upon
which the judgment'should have been regularly entered, being lost, the entry must
be presumed to have been made.
loreover, the court had power to amend its record in 1836.
Even if there had been no judgment, the mortgagor or his heirs could not have availed
themselves of the defect in Lhe proceedings, after the property had been adversely
and quietly held for so long a time.

