80

SUPREM1E COURT.
Yerger v. Jones et al.

JOHN C. YERGER, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM I.
JONES, AND
ROBERT S. BRANDON, EXECUTORS OF' WILLIAm BRANDON,
DECEASED.
Where a person who was actipg as guardian to a minor, but without any l'gal anthority, being indebted to the minor, contracted to purchase real estate for the benefit of his wird, and transferred his own property in part payment therefor, the ward
cannot claim to receive from the vendor the amount of property so transferred.
He can either complete the purchase by paying the balance of the purchase-money,
or set aside the contract and look to his guardian for reimbursement; but in te absence of fraud, he cannot compel the vendur to returnsuckpart of the purchasemouey as had been paid by the guardian.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama, sitting as a court
of equity.
It was a bill filed by John C. Yerger, a minor, suing by his
next friend, against William Brandon in-his lifetime, and aftei
his death revived against his executors.
The material facts in the case were -not disputed; but the
controversy depended upon the construction put upon those
facts.
In 1835, Albert Yerger, the father of the appellant, and .a
citizen of Tennessee, made a nuncupative will and died. In this
will he expressed his desire that, with certain exceptions, all his
property should be equally divided between his wife and son.
There was also this clause-in it; and he also stated he wished
Col. James W. Cpmp td manage his plantation, and to have
discretionary power as to its management, and to sell it if he
thought it most beneficial to do so; and he desired, and declared
hisCamp
will toremoved
be, that his'
should have his plantation.
intosonMadison
county, Alabama, at some
period which is not exactly stated in the record, but probably
about 1837. He carried with him some eight or ten negroes,
which belonged to the boy.
August,
1842,
May, 1843, Camp executed two deeds
of In
trust
to James
W.and
McClung,
for the benefit of certain creditors.
. On the 14th of August, 1843, McClung had a sale of the property, when William Brandon purchased i:he tract of land upon
which Camp lived, containing nine hundred and sixty acres.
On the 23d of August, 1848, Camp made an arrangement
with Brandon to this effect, viz. that Carap should repurchase
the land from Brandon for eight thousand dollars, give his note
for that sum payable in tWo years with interest, and convey cer-

DECEMBER TER1,

1853.

31

Yerger v. Jones et al.

tain property to him as security. Brandon, on his part, gave to
Camp a bond of conveyance.
The language made use of in these instruments was as follows:
In the first it is said "Whereas the said James W. Camp, as
guardian of said John C. Yerger, and for the benefit of said
John C. Yerger, hath this day purchased, &c., &c., &c."
The note was as follows:
HUNTSVILLE, August 23, 1843.

Within two years from the date above, 1, James W. Camp,
as guardian of John C. Yerger, promise to pay William Brandon eight thousand dollars with interest from date, being the
amount which I, as guardian, have agreed to give the said
William Brandon for the tract of land whereon I now live, for
the benefit of said John C. "Yerger.
Tu testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand and seal.
JAMES W.

CAMP. [SEAL.]

The conveyance to Brandon to secure the above note included
a considerable amount of personal property, and ran as follows:
To have and to hold all the above described property to said
William Brandon, his executors, administrators, or assigns forever. Upon trust, nevertheless, that said Brandon shall take
immediate possession of all the above described property; that he
shall gather said -- ops and sell them, and all the other property
above described, either at public or private sale, as may appear
best, for ready money; that said Brandon may retain out of the
proceeds of sales reasonable compensation for his trouble and
expense in executing the trust hereby created; and the said Brandon shall apply the residue of said proceeds to the payment, as
far as they will extend, of the debts first above mentioned, all
to be done'as early as practicable; and the said William Brandon hereby covenants, to and with the said James W. Camp,
that he, the said William Brandon, will faithfully execute the
trusts above reposed in him, but without being responsible for
losses beyond his control.
From August, 1843, to January, 1845, Brandon continued to
make sales of the property, sometimes at public auction and
sometimes at private sale.
On the first of January, 1844, Camp made .out an account
between himself and Yerger, by which it appeared that he
owed Yerger on that day, (chiefly for the hire of negroes,)
$8,017.29.
In 1845, Camp died insolvent.
On the 4th of October, 1847, Yerger filed his bill, reciting
most of the above facts, and charging

SUPREME COURT.
Yerger v. Jones et al.

That Camp, as guardian of complainant, contracted on 23d
of August, 1843, with the defendant, to purchase of defendant
for the use of complainant, certain real estate mentioned in the
bond of conveyance, executed by defendant to Camp, as guard.
ian. The complainant charges that Cam': had no authority by
the laws of Alabama to convert his ward's personal into real
estate, at least without the direction of a court of equity,
which was not obtained; and that said contract was prejudicial
to the complainant, as the property was not worth more than
half of what Camp, as guardian, agreed to giye for it; that to
secure the payment, Camp, on 23d August, 1843, executed a
deed of trust, filed with the bill. By sales of property under
this, deed of trust, .and otherwise, Camp paid the defendant 5
or $6,000 on account of the purchase, and the present bill alleges, that these payments are to be regarded in equity as- payments made on account of the complainant, and out of funds
in the hands of Camp as his guardian; -that he is entitled to
have the contract rescinded and the money previously paid to
defendant paid to complainant with interest; that Camp died
in Alabama on 9th October, 1845, wholly insolvent, and there
was no administration upon his estate. The bill further states,
that the defendant claims a large balance on account of the
tontract, for which complainant would be responsible in case
the contract.is binding.
The defendant, William Brandon, put in his answer, admit.
ting the Exhibit C to bill, and the sale of the land, and the con.
tract thereby shown; and also Exhibit D to bill, the deed of
trust from Camp to him, stating that he sold all the property
embraced in that deed (except Z. few articles referred to) for
$5,2S4.23, and retained out of said proceeds, agreeably to the
provisions of the deed, $1,86.8.47, as a reasonable compensation
for gathering the crops and selling the property, and refers to his
Exhibit H, as his account of sales, with his charges for expenses
and trouble. He then states, that a-short time after the execution of the deed of trust, two parties having executions against
Camp, levied upon certain articles contained in the deed of
trust; for which they and the sheriff levying, were sued by the
defendant, and judgment for $1,607.38 obtained against them,
.which sum the defendant collected; but he claims that counselfees for prosecuting that matter,'the amount of which is not yet
ascertained, should be deducted from the amount of the judgment; states that, with these exceptions, nothing else had been
received by him on account of the land, and there still remained
a balance due; admits that Camp died insolvent; that at the
time of his death, and for many years previous, he resided in
Alabama; he died intestate, and no administration had ever

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

33

Yerger v. Jones ot al.

been taken out upon his -estate; that complainant's father
lived in Tennessee and there died, while the complainant was
quite a small boy, and that he is a minor; that, some years
ago, Camp brought complainant to Alabama, "where he kept
and treated him as a member of his family, and seemed to control him and his property." But he denies that Camp was ever
appointed guardian of the complainant, either by any court, or
the will -of the father; or that he ever was his guardian. The
contract for the land and the deed of trust securing the purchasemoney, were both made in Alabama, and all the property embraced in the latter, and sold under said deed, belonged to Camp
individually, and not in the capacity of guardian.
He states: The purchase was made, by Camp, to be paid. for
out of his own individual property, and not out of that of complainant. The land was worth what Camp agreed to pay, and
there was no fraud contemplated by thd purchase or the sale,
either on the part of Camp or the defendant. He insists that
his lien for the balance of the purchase-money is binding, and
avers his readiness, upon the payment of the balance, to convey the land according to the contract; suggesting the neces-.
sity of making Camp's personal representative a party to .the bill,
and denying all fraud and combination, prays to be dismissed.
On the 17th November, 1852, the court dismissed the bill
with costs, and the complainant appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by 31t. Reverdy Johvson and ir.
Beverdy Tolson, X., for the appellant, and ir. Badger, for the
appellees.
The counsel for the appellant made the following points:
1st. The bill and answer showing that Camp, the guardian,
died insolvent, and that there was no administration upon his,
estate, the bill is not defective for want of his personal representative as a party. 1 Story's Eq. P1. § 91.
2d. The relation of guardian and ward -subsisting in fact between Camp and the complainant, (though Camp may never
have been legally appointed guardian,) Brandon dealing with
the guardian, as such, and having, therefore, full notice of the
fiduciary capacity in which he acted, cannot in equity, while
seeking to maintain the contract, deny the existence of the
guardianship. 1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 511; 2 lb. § 1356; Field v.
Schieffelin, 7 Johns. Ch. R. 150; Lloyd v. Ex'r. of Cannon, 2
Desaus. 212; Drury v. Connor, 1 Har. & Gill, 220; Bibb, v.
McKinley, 9 Porter's (Alab.) R. 636.
3d. By the contract itself, (Exhibit C,) and the deed of trust
of 23d August, 1843, (Exhibit D,) apart from the declarations
of Brandon, in evidence, he and his representatives are estopped

34

SUPREME COU:.T.
Ye.eger v. Jones et a].

denying that.Camp was the guardian of complainant. 1 Phillips's Evid. 367; Cowen & Hill's Notes to same, 1st Part, 372.
4th. The contract for the purchase is not binding upon the
complainant, and Camp being insolvent at the time, and largely
indebted to the complainant, equity will regard the payments
on the purchase made under the trust deed (Exhibit D) as so
much money paid out of the ward's funds on account of the
land, and will decree them to be reimbursed. 2 Story's Eq.
Jurisp. §§ 1257 and 1357; 2 Kent's Corn. 229; Cawthorn v.
McCraw, 9 Alabama I. 519.
5th. The contract should be set aside, because the evidence
shows that the investment was injurious to the infant -the
land not being worth $8,000.
6th. The amount, claimed by Brandon as a reasonable compensation under the deed of trust, is exorbitant, being more
than twenty per cent. on the amount of sales -and is unsustained by the evidence.
The counsel for the appellees made the following points:
First. That Camp was not the guardian of appellant,, the
will of his father not appointing him guardian. Peyton v.
Smith, 2 Dev. & Bat. Eq. 325.
Secondly. That there is no proof admissible against the appellees, that at the time of the contract fcr the land in August,
1843, Camp was indebted to appellant at all; and if there were
such proof, it cannot be heard by the cour; for want of an Allegation in the bill of the existence of such indebtedness at that
time, the only averment in the bill being that at the time of his
death, which the bill avers took place in October, 1845, more
than two years thereafter, he was so indebted.
Tirdly. That it is proved the land was fully worth the price
agreed to be given for it.
Fourtly. That it is fully proved that all the property conveyed by the deed of trust to secure payment of the purchasemoney of the land, belonged to Camp in. his own right, and
none of it ever belonged to appellant. As, therefore, Camp
might have applied these funds of his own to purchase the land
for himself, it is absurd to'suppose it an irjury to the appellant
to apply them in making the purchase for the benefit of appellant.
Firthly. That there is no evidence, at all events none admissible against the appellees, that any thing whatever was paid to
William Brandon, on account of the purchase, from any other
.source than the sale of the property conveyed by the deed of
trust; and, therefore, that no money, funds, or effects of the appellant, in the hands of Camp, or elsewhere, were paid to or
received by Brandon.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Yerger v. Jones et al.

And, theretore, it will be insisted that the appellant's bill is
without support in any point material to the relief asked by
him, supposing such relief could be rightfully claimed upon his
bill, if proved to be altogether true.
But it wifll be further insisted, that if the case made by the
bill and the proofs were that Camp, being the guardian of appellailt, ar d having funds of his ward in his hands, had purchased the land for his ward, and paid for it with those funds,
with an intent to convert the funds into real estate, the appellant would not be entitled, upon these facts merely, to call for
an account of the money from Brandon; for such purchase
might be a ,wise and judicious investment: as if the ward had
slaves without lands on which to employ them, and money with
which lands could be purchased; and Brandon could only be
liable for partaking in an apparently injurious application of
the ward's funds, in itself implying a breach of trust. However,
it might be a question whether the ward might not, on his
arrival at age, repudiate the purchase as between the guardian
and himself, and call upon the guardian to keep the land and
account for the money; because, further, the right to elect either
to take the purchased land or repudiate the contract, is one to
be exercised by the ward on arriving at full age, and ought not
to be trusted to a next friend: because, to hold the contrary
would be to embarrass without necessity, and with great injury
to the public, all the transactions of guardians in investing the
funds of their wards; and because, finally, this purchase would
have been, upon the supposition made, an advantageous one to
the ward, and -its character is not to be affected by events-of
subsequent occurrence.
It will be also insisted that the ground taken in Brandon's
answer, that a personal representative of Camp is a necessary
party to this suit, is a sound one. To determine the right of
the appellant, upon the very frame of his bill, requires the accounts between himself and his guardian to be taken; but this
can only be done when his personal representative is before the
court.
Finally, it will be insisted that, upon any view of this case,
the bill was properly dismissed, and the decree below must
therefore be affirmed.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, John C. Yerger, a minor, suing by his next
friend, filed his bill against William Brandon, setting forth that
the father of complainant died in the State of Tennessee, leaving him his only child and heir at law ; that his father made a
nuncupative will, by which James W. Camp was appoin.ted

36

SUPREME COURT.
Yerger v. Jones et al.

guardian of complainant; that Camp, acting as such, took possession of his property, and removed to the State of Alabama,
where he died in 1845, insolvent. ,That at the time of his death
,Camp was largely indebted to his ward for the use and hire of
his slaves, and stated an account admitting the sum of about
six thousand dollars to be due. That Camp contracted with
Brandon to purchase a tract of land, for the use of his waid, for
the price or sum of $8,000. That Camp paid to Brandon about
five or six thousand dollars, on account of such"purchase, by a
sale of certain property under a deed of trust. That Camp had
no right, as guardian, to convert the personal property of his
ward into real estate; that the price agreed to be paid for the
land was exorbitant, and a large balance is still due on said
contract, which the complainant is unwilling to pay in order to
obtain the title. He therefore prays the court to rescind and
annul the contract, to take an account of tie payment made by
Camp and Brandon, and decree that the amount be restored to
the complainant.
The answer denies that Camp was the legal guardian of complainant -but admits that he lived in the family of Camp
after he came to Alabama, and apparently under his control. That the purchase made by Camp was fok a fair price,
and the property transferred by him, in pa :t payment, was the
property of Camp and not of complainant; and that the contract was made without any view to injure or defraud the complainant, and did not have that effect; and that respondent is
ready and willing to convey the tract of land to complainant, on
receipt of the balance of the purchase-money.
The evidence in the case does not show that Camp was appointed guardian of the complainant by his father's will or by
any competent legal authority, either in Tennessee or Alabama.
But it appears that when Camp came to Alabama, that the
complainant lived in his family, and that Camp acted as his
guardian, having control of his person cnd of his property,
which consisted of negroes. Camp had a farm of 960 acres in
Alabama, and employed the negroes of complainant to work
for him, and was largely indebted to him on account thereof.
He was indebted also to Brandon, and. his farm was subject to
a deed of trust or mortgage. To satisfy this mortgage the land
was sold and bid in by-Brandon for the sua of $4,500. Some
negroes belonging to Camp were also included in the mortgage,
and wbre bid in for the sum of over $2,000, !'or the use of Yerger,
(the complainant,) and paid for by Camp. An agreement was also
made between Camp and Brandong that Brandon should convey
the farm purchased by him to the complainant, on receiving
the sum of eight thousand dollars, being the amount of the pur'-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

37

Yergor v. Jones et al.

chase-money advanced by Brandon and of the debt due by Camp
to him. To secure the payment of this sum Camp gave Brandon
a bill of sale, or trust deed, for a large amount of personal property, consisting of 350 acres of cotton, 450 acres of corn, 300
hogs, besides horses, mules, farming utensils, &c. Brandon was
to sell this property, and apply it in payment of this contract for
the land, after deducting reasonable compensation for his trouble
and expenses. The defendant, in his answer, admits the amount
of sales under this trust to be $5,235.24; deducting charges and
expenses, $1,868.48, leaves a balance applicable to the purchasemoney of the farm, of $3,365.75.
The bill does not allege that there was any fraud or collusion
between the parties to this transaction, or any intention to injure
the complainant. Nor would the evidence ih the case support
any such allegation. Brandon was endeavoring to secure his
own debt in a manner least oppressive to Camp, by an arrangement which would leave him in possession of the farm on which
he resided. Camp was endeavoring to save something for his
ward, to whom he was indebted, out of the wreck of his estate.
By this transaction the remains of his personal estate was vestdd in a valuable property, for the use of his ward, and put out
of the reach of other creditors, with the incidental advartage to
himself of retaining a home to himself and family. He was
not converting the property of his ward to his own use, or to
pay his own debts by collusion with Brandon, but was applying
his own personal property in the best manner he could, to secure
t~s ward from loss. His death has prevented his good intentions from being fulfilled to the extent contemplated. It is not
easy to perceive on what principle of equity or justice the complainant can invoke the aid of a court of chancery to rescind
and annul this contract, and compel the defendant to refund the
amount paid by Camp on it. It is true a guardian has no power
to convert the personal property of his ward into realty. Nor
is the ward bound to fulfil or perform the contractI made with
Brandon. He has a right to hold hi- guardian accountable for*
the balance due him, and repudiate the contract made for his
use. Or he may elect to take the land bargained for, but cannot demand a title from Brandon without payment of the balance due on the contract.
In Alabama, and some others of the States, a guardian cannot sell even the personal property of his ward without the leave
of the court. By the common law, and in those States where
is has not been modified by statute, he is considered as having
the legal power to sell or dispose of the personal property of his
ward, and a purchaser who deals fairly has a right to presume
that he acts for the benefit of his ward, and is not bound to inVOL. XVI.

4

SUPREME

COURT.

Conrad v. Griffey.

quire into the state of the trust, nor is he responsible for the
faithful application of the money unless ieknew, or had suflicient information at the time, that the guardian contemplated
a breach of trust, and intended to misapply the money, or was
in fact, by the transaction, applying it to his own private purpose. The cases on this subject are reviewed by Cancellor Kent
in Field v. Schieffelin, 7 Johns. Chan. 150. In order to follow
trust funds which have been transferred to third persons, there
must be a breach of trust in their transfer, and a collusion by the
purchaser or assignee with the guardian, executor, or trustee.
If Brandon had taken the negroes belonging to plaintiff from
his guardian, in payment of his debt, knowing the guardian was
insolvent, and abusing his trust, a court of equity would compel
him to return them to the ward, or pay their full value. But, in
the case before us, Camp was dealing with his own property,
and there is no pretence of any collusion with him by Brandon
in the abuse of his trust. He has receivEd nothing which belonged to the ward, or which he is under any obligation to restore
to him.
So far as the interest of the complainant were affected by this
transaction, the object of it was to benefit, not to injure him.
He may therefore assume the contract, and demand a specific
execution .of it from the defendant, but has shown no right to
rescind it and recover the money advanced in execution of it.
The decree of the court below is therefora affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said District Court,
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

FnEDERIC D. CONRAD, PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR

v.

DAviD GRIFFEY.

In11 Howard, 480, it is'said, "Where a witness was examined for the plaintiff, and
the defendant offered in evidence aceelarations which he h id made of a contradictory
character, and then the plaintiff offered to give in evidence others, affirmatory of
the first, these last affirmatory declarations were not admissible, being made at a
time posterior to that at which he made the contradictory declarations given in evidence by the defendant."
The case having been remanded to the Circuit Court under a rentrefaciasde nero, the
plaintiff gave in evidence, upon- the new trial, the deposition taken under a recent
commission of the same witness whose deposition was the subject of the former

