242

SUPREME

COURT.

Denise et. al. v. RuggIcs.

of this court which we do not think applicable, and others which
were made without reference to the laws of Spain, which prevailed in Louisiana, we think it remarkable that the report,
though containing frequent allusions to Dubuque's contract with
the Indians, and extracts from it, does not set it out entire as
one of the papers upon which the claim was rested. The petition of Dubuque to the governor, his reference of it to Todd,
Todd's reply, and the governor's order, are the papers upon which
the report was made. The same documents were placed before
the commissioners in 1806, without the Indian contract. See
Public Lands, American State Papers, vol. 3, p. 580. It does not
surprise us that a correct view was not taken of it then, or that
the committee of public land claims in the Senate should have
viewed it dillerently in 1846 from that now taken by this court.
The petitioner in this suit has the merit of having put his case
upon every thing in any way connected with the claim of -Dubuque fairly, fully, and openly. Still if success does not follow
his expectation, he cannot complain of it, for the purchase from
Dubuque was an adventure to buy the half of the land, with a
full knowledge of all of the papers and the circumstances under
which Dubuque claimed.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs.

AUGUSTINE ANNE LOUISE DENISE, HYACINTH ADDA IAYNEAUD
DE PAUCEMONTj COUNTESS DE TOURNON, SERAPHINE CARPENTIER, WIDOW OF OLIVIER Louis MARTIN, CHARLES ALEX-

ANDER

MARTIN, JANE

MVIARARIE

SERJPHINA MARTIN,

AND

JAQUES FRANCOIS, JUSTINIAN FRANCOIS, AND ANTIONE JOSEPH
SERVAIS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. BENJAMIN RUGGLES.
*Where a grant issued in 1722, by the French authorities of Louisiana, cannot be
located by metes and bounds, it cannot serve as a title in an action of ejectment;
and it was proper for the Circuit Court to instruct the jury to this effect.

THIs case was brought up by -writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the U.ited States for the Districi of Missouri.

DECEMBER. TERM,

1853.

Denise ct al. v. Ruggles.

The case depended on the construction of an old French
g-ant, which is stated in the opinion of the court. It would
not be possible to explain the nature of the dispute to the
reader, without the introduction of maps; and as the decision
in this case cannot possibly serve to illustrate any that may
hereafter occur, it is not deemed expedient to increase the size
of this volume by their introduction, or the arguments of counsel to ohow that the grant could or could not be located.
It was argued by Mr. Garland and 3Mr. Johnson for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Bibb and 111r. Cushing, (AttorneyGeneral,) for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in 1844, in the Circuit Court for the
Missouri District, to recover sections nine and ten, and the half
of sections numbers fifteen and sixteen, adjoining to nine and
ten, in township thirty-eight north, range two east of the principal meridian; making 1920 acres, of which it is alleged the
defendant Ruggles was in possession. The cause was tried
before a jury in 1851, and a vevdict rendered for the defendant.
The object of the suit is to establish a claim of Renault's
heirs to a tract of land containing upwards of fifty thousand
acres. The claim depends on a grant, a translation of which,
from the French, was given in evidence in the Circuit Court,
and is as follows:
"In the year one thousand seven hundred and twenty-three,
and on the fourteenth of June, granted to Mr. Renault, in
freehold, for the purpose of forming his establishment on the
mines.
" One league and a half of ground fronting on the Little
Maramecq on the River Maramecq, at the place of the first
arm, (branch, or fork) which leads to the collection of cabins
called the Cabanage de la Renaudiere, by six leagues (eighteen
miles) in depth; the river forming the middle of the point of
compass, and the streamlet being perpendicular, as far as where
Mr. Renault has his furnace; and thence straight to the place
called the Great Mine."
A copy of the original, in French, being in the record also, it
is here insisted for the plaintiffs, that the foregoing translation is
erroneous and does not truly describe the boundaries of the land
granted; that it should be one and a half leagues fronting on
the Little Mlaramecq in the River Maramecq, at the place of
the first branch which leads to the collection of cabins, called
the Cabanage de la Renaudiere, by six leagues in depth, "the

244

SUPREME COURT.
Denise et al. v. Rluggles.

river forming the middle of the Rhumb line. and the lead stream,
as far as where Mr. Renault has his furnace, and thence a
direct line to the spot named the " Great Mine."
The fork of Little Mlaramecq called for, and the old furnace
on it, were proved to exist on the trial, by Mr. Cozzens, who
was sent to survey the grant, by order of court, at the instance
of the plaintiffs. He says, the Grand Mine is marked on the
map; that is, on a copy of the map of public surveys of the
United States, obtained from the land office at St. Louis. He
furnished no plot, because, as he reported and deposed, he could
not make a survey of the land claimed; the description in the
grant being too vague and unmeaning for him to lay down the
land corresponding to the objects called for on the ground.
He further deposed, that he understood the French, and was
governed by both the English and French copies. On the
question whether the tract of land claimed could be ascertained,
and the true boundaries identified by survey, .the jury was
instructed as follows:
" The court is of opinion that the grant to Renault, unaided
by a survey under the French or Spanish government, did not
separate the land from the public domain: That it cannot now,
from its uncertainty, be located; it is not therefore a grant
for any specific lands, and does not entitle the plaintiffs to the
locus inz quo."

Thus the Circuit Court held, that notwithstanding the Little
Maramecq River, the lead stream, the sme'.ting furnace, and the
Grand Mine, eisted as indicated on the public surveys, and as
claimed to exist by the plaintiffs, still the grant was void for
uncertainty, and the impossibility of locating the same.
As the first instruction took the case from the jury, and put
an end to the suit on legal grounds, we will proceed to examine
this instruction.
The land is to front oni the river. When the point of beginning is established on the river, then it is to be meandered up
or down, until a straight line will reach a league and a half
from the first to the second corner.
It is insisted that the mouth of the streamlet is to be the
place of beginning, and that the first line is to run up the river;
and that the north-western side line is to meander the streamlet to the old furnace, called for in the grant.
Why the beginning point should be at the mouth of the lead
stream, it is difficult to comprehend. The grant was intended
to cover Renault's mining establishment; but if surveyed, as
contended for, the second line would run through the centre of
his smelting furnace, and also through the centre of the mine
where the ore was obtained. By such ccnstruction the max

DECEMUBER TERM, 1853.

245

Denise et al. v. Ruggles.

object of the grant, when it was made, would have been defeated. We suppose the followying would be a more plausible
construction:. Take the streamlet, from its mouth to the furnace, to be the perpendicular of the front line on the river; then
draw a straight line from its mouth to the firnace to give the
course of the side lines; they being drawn parallel on each side
of the foregoing middle line and a league and a half apart.
By such survey the smelting furnace would have been included.
But where these side lines were to begin or end, (treating each
as a unit,) no bne could tell; nor was it possible to reach the
Grand Mine, or include it, by this mode of survey, and therefore this construction could not be relied on.
The jury was bound to find the lines of the grant from its
calls, and the objects proved to exist on the ground corresponding to the calls. Nor could this be done by conjecture; lines
and corners must be established by the finding, so as to close
the survey.
If, after admitting all the verbal evidence to be true, as to
objects on the ground, to the extent insisted on for the plaintiffs, and disregarding the defendant's evidence, it was still
plainly impossible to locate the grant by its words of description; then, the instruction given by the Circuit Court, was
proper.
The argument assumes that the second corner is four and a
half miles above the mouth of the lead stream on the MIaramecq,
and the beginning corner at the mouth of the streamlet; that
this is the front; that the north-western side line meanders the
lead stream to the furnace; and then runs straight through the
Great Mine, extending to a point beyond eighteen miles in
depth from the mouth of the streamlet; that, from this last
point, a line must be drawn four and a half miles long, and
corresponding in its course to the front line on the river; and,
from the termination of this line, one must be drawn to close
on the upper corner on the iver. This, is the theory of a survey predicated of the translation relied on in this court. No
mode of survey is here claimed, as being indicated by the translation furnished to the Circuit Court, and on which the instruction is founded.
As the court below was influenced, in its construction of the
grant, by the objects claimed by the plaintiffs, and admitted to
exist on the ground, so this court must look to the same source
of information for aid, in coming to a practical result. Renault's
furnace is not found on the map presented to us, but the Great
Mine is. We must assume, however, for the purposes of this
action, that the furnace lies so high upon the Mineral Fork as
that a straight line run from it to the Great Mine, would include
21 *

SUPRE-ME COURT.
Denise et al. v. Ruggles.

the land sued for. A survey, made on this assumption, would
require a line so acute to the Mineral .?ork, as to strike the
Little Maramecq River not far above the upper corner on the
river, and give the grant the form of a triE.ngle. Place the furnace on aniy part of the Mineral Fork where probable conjecture
can locate it, and still the second line, as here claimed, (running
through the furnace, and the Great Mine,) would have an acute
angle in it, so that no depth could be obtained by this mode of
survey. Nor could a corresponding line to the front on the
river be obtained; nor a line be laid down corresponding to the
north-western side line; as this hypothetical line would vary
so much in its courses as not to afford space for the two other
lines. We can say, with entire confidence, that no such theory
of survey can be cairied out, taking the objects called for and
found as the governing rule; and it is equally certain, in our
opinion, that no specific boundaries were contemplated as having been given to Renault's grant when it was made, but that
the lines were to be afterwards established by survey, as in
cases of Spanish concessions covering improvements where
the exterior boundaries were left to the discretion of the surveyor.
We are Lerefore of opinion, that the Circuit Court properly .held that the grant did not separate any specific tract
of land from the public domain, and that the jury could not
locate it.
The court having held that the plaintifl had no title to support their action, it was useless to give any further instructions:
nor does it matter whether those given in addition to the first
one were right or wrong.
We therefore order that the judgment be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Alissouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration vhereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

