SUPREME

COURT.

Guitard et a]. v. Stoddard.

JOSEPH GUITARD, FREDERICK STEUDEMAN AND MARY HIS WIFE,
AND GEORGE BROWN AND JULIA HIS "WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. HENRY STODDARD.
The act of Congress, passed on the 13th of June. 1812, (2 Stat. at Large, 748,) entitled
An act for the settlement of land claims, in Missouri, confirmed the rights, titles,
and claims to town or village lots, out lots, common field lots, and common', in,
adjoining, and belonging to the several towns and vil ages therein named (including St. Louis,) which lots had been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior-to the
20th of December, 1803.
This confirmation was absolute, depending only upon the facts of in!labitation, cultivatiun, or possession, prior to the day named. It was not necessary for the con.
firmec to have received fiom the Spanish government a grant or survey, or permis.
sion to cultivate the land.
In 1824 Congress pass ed a supplementary act, (4 Stat, at• Large, 65,) making it the
duty of claimants of town and village lots to designat. them by proving before the
recorder the fact of inhabitation, the boundaries, &c., and directing the recorder to
issue certificates thereof. Bat no forfeiture was imposed for non-compliance, nor
Claimants
may still establish,
the effect and operation of the act of 1812.
bythat act,
the government,
did
byimpair
parol etidence,
the facts of inhabitation, &c.
Ie the act of 1812 the surveyor was directed to survey and mark the out boundary
lines of the towns or villages, so as to include the out lots, common ficld lots, and
ccmmons. This was done. Whether a claimant can recover land lying outside
of this line, or whether ihe evidence in this case is suTicient to establish the plain.
tiffs' title, this court does not now decide.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Missouri.
It was a petition in the nature of an ejectment brought by the
plaintiffs in error, against Stoddard, in the St. Louis Court of
Common Pleas. Stoddard, who was a citizen of Ohio, removed
it into the Circuit Court of the United Stcles.
The ejectment was for the following Ict of ground lying in
the city of St. Louis, namely, commencing at a point on the
north side of Laclede avenue, five feet Iifty-three inches east

from the junction of Laclede and Leffingwell avenues, it be.
ing the south east corner of block No. 24, in what is known as
the "'Stoddard additfon" to the city of St. Louis; runs thence
north parallel to Leffingwell avenue one hundred and seventy-

two feet six inches to a point; thence west along a line parallel
to Laclede avenue one hundred and twenty-five feet to a point;
thence south along a line parallel to Leifingwell avenue one
hundred and seventy-two feet six inches to the line of Laclede
avenue; thence east along that line one hundred and twenty-five

feet to the beginning; it being part of block No. 24, in what is
known as the Stoddard addition to St. Louis.
-On the trial the jury, under the instructions of the court,

found a verdict for the defendant. The bill of exceptions explains the whole nature of the case, and as it is short, it is here
inserted, as follows:

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Guitard et al. v.

Stoddard.

Be it remembered that on the sixth day of May, 1853, came
on the above entitled cause to be tried, when the plaintiff introduced the following parol evidence, to wit: That from a period
long prior to the 20th December, 1803,.to wit, from 1785 or 1786,
to the period when the common fence fell down, which was six
or seven years before the change of government, Paul Guitard,
who was then an inhabitant of St. Louis, claimed and cultivated
a piece of land in what was then known as the " Cul-de-sac"
prairie, near St. Louis, which land was one arpent wide in
front on the east, and forty arpens long towards the west. There
were several persons who cultivated lands in the " Cul-de-sac"
commencing on the south extreme of the prairie; the first was
Matard ; then going north the next was Guion ; the next or third
was Tabean; the fourth Joachim Roy; the fifth Madame Vachard; the sixth Madame Dubriel; the seventh Madame Verdon; the eighth Noise; the ninth Yosti; thie tenth LaRochella;
the eleventh Madame Camp; the twelfth Paul Guitard. The
" Cul-de-sac" fields laid at the end of the St. Louis prairie,
forty arpent fields on the west, and they commenced about
where Pratte avenue now is. The " Cul-de-sac" field of Madame Camp was the north land of that part of what is called
Chouteau mill tract, west from the St. Louis prairie fields, and
the north line of the Chouteau mill tract was the north line of
Mladame Camp's Cul-de-sac field; and the same line was the
south line of Paul Guitard's Cul-de-sac field. The " Cul-de
soc," which meL - "end of a sac," was formed by the hills on
each side north and south, and the hills on the west. The lands
cultivated there were called lands of the " Cul-de-sac."
There were other prairies near St. Louis, to wit: The St.
Louis or Big Mound prairie, the Grand prairie, and Barrier des
Noyer prairie. In all of these the lands were cultivated in strips
by different individuals, and they were all protected by the same7
fence; there was but one fence, which commenced at the half
moon just north of the old Spanish town, ran thence west to a
little beyond Third street, thence south-west to the fort a little
south of the court house, thence westwardly around the St Louis
and Cul-de-sac fields, to the east line of the Barrier des Noyer
fields, thence south along that east line, and east around the St.
Louis commons to the river. This fence was a common fence,
and was kept up by those who cultivated the fields in the prairies, one cultivator making and mending part, and another another part, under the supervision and direction of a man who was
called a syndic. This fence kept the cattle and stock inside the
commons and away from the fields that were cultivated. The
St. Louis prairie fields, the Grand prairie fields, the Barrier des
Noyer prairie fields, and the Cul-de-sac prairie fields, were all

.496

SUPREME

COURT.L

Guitard et-al. v. Stoddard.

worked at the same time, until the common fence fell down
and was neglected to be repaired, and Paul Guitard cultivated
the land lying adjoining and north of the3 said Chouteau mill
tract until the common fence fell down. His cultivation was
towards the west on the hill, and he did not cultivate the land
on the very eastern end, because it was rather low ground there.
The cultivation of Guitard, starting from the hill, went west
towards the middle of the piece of land; but how far it commenced from the eastern end, or how far it extended towards
the west, was not proved. It was called Guitard's Cul-de-sac
field from the west end of the St Louis prairie fields to the west
end of the Chouteau mill tract, which was the west line of the
Cul-de-sac fields, now'near the rock spring. The land sued for
was proved to fall within one arpen in width, north of the
Chouteau mill tract, and forty arpens in depth or length west
from the St. Louis prairie fields; but whether it was a part of
the very spot cultivated by Guitard was no-; proved. The plaintiffs introduced a deed from Paul Guitard which conveyed all
his property and rights of property in St. Louis county, to his
grandson, Vincent Guitard, but this specific claim was not mentioned; the deed was dated the 11th of January, 1822, and he
died in 1823. Vincent Guitard died in 1836, leaving but three
children, who are the plaintiffs and the scle representatives of
their father. Vincent Guitard never in any way disposed of
this land. Paul Guitard never had any concession for this land
from the Spanish authorities; he never presented any claim he
had to it under the act of 1812, to the recorder of land titles, nor
made any claim for it before any board of commissioners. His
grandson Vincent, nor none of the family, ever presented any
claim to it before the recorder of land titles, under the act of the
26th of May, 1824, nor was the land ever surveyed either by the
Spanish or Amnerican goverx~ment, as a field lot. The defendant introduced a confirmation and patent, by virtue of the act
of the 4th of July, 1836, to Mordecai Bell's representatives, and
a survey of the United States which included the land in controversy and a regular chain of title to defendant. He also introduced map X, purporting to contain the out boundary lines
of the surveyor-general, at St. Louis, projected under the first
section of the act of the 13th of June, 1812, and it was proved
that the land described in the declaration, but not the whole
forty arpens claimed by plaintiff; lies within said out boundary lines. Plaintiff introduced an experienced surveyor, who
stated that in his opinion the out boundary line, as projected on
map X, was not correctly
under
lun the act of 1812; that said
out boundary line should have been run so as to include the out
lots, common field lots, and commons, in,
adjoiing, and belong-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

497

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

ing to St. Louis, which he thought it did not do. It did not inelude the Grand prairie fields or the Barrier des noyer fields, nor
the Cul-de-sac fields, either as they purport to be located on the
township plat of the township in which St. Louis lies, nor as
proved in this suit, except about one third of their length as
proved on the eastern end, nor does it include all of the commons of St. Louis; that in his opinion an out boundary line
run under the act of 1812, so as to include the out lots, common
field lots, and commons of St. Louis, would necessarily include
the Out lots, common field lots, in all the prairie fields as laid
down on the township plat and commons. And such survey
would also necessarily .include land that was neither out lot,
common field lot, or commons.
Agr-eemenT.

It was agreed that in any court to which this action might
be carried, map X and township plat, above alluded to, might
be introduced and used without including them in this bill of
exceptions.
It is also agreed that the property in dispute is worth more
than two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs. This was all the
evidence in the case, and thereupon the plaintiffs asked of the
court the following instructions, namely:
Plaintiff's instructions. 1. The act of Congress of 13th June,
1812, is in its terms a grant, and confirms the right, title, and
claim of all town lots or village lots, odt lots and common field
lots, in, adjoining, and belonging to such towns and villages as
are mentioned in the act, to those inhabitants of the towns and
villages or to their legal representatives who inhabited, cultivated, or possessed such lots, rightfully claiming them prior to the
20th December, 1803. And the principal deputy surveyor of
the territory of Missouri was required by said act to run an out
boundary of the towns and villages mentioned in said act, so as'
to include the out lots, common field lots, and commons thereto
respectively belonging, which out boundary line should 'be one
continuous line, and not separate surveys of the town and lots,
and should include the out lots, common field lots, and commons, and said towns and villages.
2. A common field lot, as intended by said act of Congress,
is a piece of land of larger or smaller dimensions, as the case
may be, according to ancient cultivation, lying alongside of, and
parallel to, other similar pieces of land, and claimed or cultivated
under the protection of a common fence by those who inhabited
said towns or villages prior to the 20th December, 1803; and
said pieces of land might not have been conceded or surveyed
by any French or Spanish authority, or surveyed officially b,
the United States as a common field lot.
42#

498

SUPREME

COUIT.

Guitard et. al. v. Stoddard.

3. If then the jury believe, from the evidence, that -the land
sued for formed part of a common field lot, as just defined in
instruction 2, and that said common field lot was rightfully
claimed, and in part or altogether cultivated prior to the 20th
December, 1803, by Paul Guitard, the plaintiffs are entitled to
recover; which were refused, to which plaintiffs at the time excepted, and defendant asked the following instructions:
Defendant's instructions. 1. If the jury believe, from the evidence, that the cultivation by Paul Guitard, testified to by the
witnesses, was on a tract of land called a Cul-de-sac common
field, and if the jury shall also believe, from the testimony, that
the Cul-de-sac common fields, including the one cultivated by
Paul Guitard, vWere at a place to the south-west from the pre.
mises sued for, and that neither of said Cul-de-sac common
fields include the premises in question, thin the plaintiff cannot
recover in this action.
2. If the land sued for is within and forms a part of the tract
confirmed to Mordecai Bell, or his legal representatives, and
within the official survey of said Mordecai Bell tract, then the
defendant has shown a title in him paramount to the title of the
plaintiff, and the latter cannot recover.
3. There is no evidence that Paul Guitard, under whom the
plaintiff derives and claims title to the premises in question,
cultivated any out lot or common field lot, nor that any one
existed at the place where the cultivation that has been spoken
of by plaintiffs' witnesses, existed, nor had the act of 1812 application to this land, so far as Paul Guitard and those claiming
under him are concerned. The plaintifl, therefore, cannot recover in this action.
4. If the out boundary line of the town of St. Louis run
under the act of Congress of 13th June, 1.812, as shown by the
official survey and plat, marked X, read in evidence, includes
the land in controversy, then the plaintiff cannot recover. Which
were given by the court; and the court of' its own motion gave
the following:
Instruction by the court. "The court al5o instructed the jury,
that there having been no concession nor grant, nor survey, nor
permission to settle or cultivate, or possess the land claimed by
Paul Guitard, to said Guitard, under and by the Spanish authorities or government; and no location of said claim by or
under said government, nor under the French government, and
no proof having been made at any time by said Paul Guitard,
or those claiming under him, or any inhabitation, cultivation,
or possession, or of the location and extent of said claim, either
under the provisions of the act of the 13th June, 1812, or those
of the act of the 26th May, 1824, either bef-re the recorder of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

499

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

land titles or other United States authority; and there having
been no survey or location of said land by or under the authority
of the United States, the said plaintiffs cannot now set up said
claim and locate it, and prove its extent and inhabitation and
cultivation by parol evidence merely, and therefore cannot recover
in this action;" to which plaintiffs also excepted at the time, and
here now tender this their bill of exceptions, and pray that it be
signed and sealed and made part of the record in this cause;
which is done accordingly.
R. W. WELLS. [SEAL]
Upon this bill of exceptions, the case came up to this court
and was argued by Mr. Williams and Ailt. Geyer for the plantiffs
in error, and by ilft. ohnson for the defendant in error. Upon
that side there was also a brief by Mr. E win,.
The following notice of the points made on behalf of the
plaintiff in error is taken from the brief of 1r. Geyer: It being admitted on the record that the premises in controversy were within the confirmation to Mordecai Bell, the instruction numbered two was decisive against the plaintiff, and
the instruction numbered three decided the whole case in favor
6f the defendant. So that the additional instruction was
wholly unnecessary to a decision of the cause. It furnishes,
however, the construction given by the circuit court to the acts
of 13th June, 1812, and 26th May, 1824, on which the decision against the title of the plaintiff is founded -a construction opposed to that uniformly given to the same acts, by the
Supreme Court of Missouri, and presents to this corn a question
upon the decision of which depend the titles to many lots of
great value in and near the towns and villages named in those
acts, and especially the now city of St. Louis.
On behalf of several persons interested in the question, but
not parties to the record, I submit that the construction given
by the Circuit Court to the acts before mentioned, is erroneous.
1. The first section of the act of 13th June, 1812, (Land Laws,
vol. 1, p. 216,) is proprio vi-ore, a confirmation of the rights,
titles, and claims to all town or village lots, out lots, common
field lots, and commons, in or belonging to the towns and villages
named, which had been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior
to the 20th December, 1803, to the inhabitants of said town and
villages, according to their several right or rights in common
thereto.
2. The act does not refer such claims to the recorder or any
other tribunal for examination, report, or adjudication, nor does
it require or contemplate the exhibition of such claim, or the
proof of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, before any officer or authority of the United States, for any purpose.

SUPREME COURT.
Guitard et al. v. Stodda:.d.

3. No concession, grant, survey, permission to settle, or other
documentary evidence of title, from the F:ench or Spanish government, is necessary to maintain a title tc any lot or commons
under the act of 1812.; the confirmation is made by the act
solely upon the inhabitation, cultivation, or possession prior to
20th December, 1803.
4. The legal title to the lots and commons, confirmed by the
act of 13th June, 1812, became vested on that day in the inhabitants cf the respective towns and villages, "according to their
several right or rights in common thereto," leaving it to them
to prove, orally or otherwise, the only facts required by the act
of 1812, of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, prior to the
20th December, 1803.
5. The act of the 26th May, 1824, (Land Laws, vol. 1. p. 397,)
does not annex conditions to the confirmations by the first sec;
tion of the act of 13th June, 1812; those who availed themselves of that act, and "designated their lots" by making the
proof required, obtained a certificate, which served as primd
facie evidence of a confirmation, not by the recorder, but by the
act of 1812. Those who failed to appear and designate their
lots obtained no new evidence of title, but they did not forfeit
that which was acquired twelve years before by the act of 1812.
REFERENC ES.
Letters.- C. B. Penrose, commissioner to
secretary of the treasury; Thos. F. Riddick, secretary of commissioners to the chairman of the committee of public lands,
H. R.; Gales and Seaton's State Papers, Public Lands, vol. 2,
pp. 448, 461..
1838;
Acts of CIngress.- Land Laws, vol. 1, Senate editi ,n,
2d March, 1805, c. 74, p. 122; 28th February, 1806, c. 79,
p. 132; 21st April, 1806, c. 84, 138; 2d March, 1807, c. 91, p. 153;
13th 3ure, 1812, c. 140, p. 216; 2d March, 1813, c. 153, p. 230;
12th April, 1814, c. 162, p. 242; 29th April, 1816, c. 197, p. 280;.
26th May, 1824, c. 311, p. 397; 27th January, 1831, c. 406,
p. 478; 4th July, 1836, c. 605, p. 557.
Cases.- Foster v. Elam, 2 Peters, 250; United States v.
Percheman, 7 Peters, 51; Strother .v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 410.
Vasseur v. Benton, 1 Mo. R. 212; Lajoye v. Primm, 3 Mo.
R. 368; Janis v. Gurno, 4 lb. 458; Gurno v. Janis, 6 Ib.330;
Trotter v. St. Louis Public Sehools, 9 b. E9; Biehler et al. v.
Coonce, b. 347; Machlot v. Dubrueil, lb. 477; Montgomery &
Co. v. Landusky, b. 705; Page v. Scheibel, 11 Mo. R. 167;
Harrison v. Page, 16 lb. 182; Eissell v. St. Louis Public School§,
b. 553; Gamache v. Piquignot, 17 lb. 310; Soulard v. Clarke,
MSS.
The act of 13th June, 1812, is the first In which the village
claims are mentioned as a class; the previous acts provide only

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

501

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

for the investigation of claims and a futare confirmation upon
the proof of certain facts. Thus the first section of the act of
2d March, 1805, (Land Laws, vol. 1, p. 122,) providing as to one
class of claims, declares that, when proved, they "shall be confirmed ;" the second section, in reference to the claims of settlers,
declares that the "tract of land" proved to have been inhabited
and cultivated as required "shall be granted." The first section
of the act of 1812, in reference to the village claims, declares
that they "shall be and are hereby confirmed." The language
of the act of 1805 is precisely that of the English version of the
Florida treaty, which was construed to be executory, in Foster
v. Elam, 2 Peters, 253. That of the act of 1812 is quite as
emphatic as the Spanish version of the same clause of the same
treaty, which is translated, " shall remain ratified and confirmed," and held to be a present ratification and confirmation in
United States v. Perchernan, 7 Peters, 51.
Again, the third section of the act of 3d June, 1812, provides
that every donation claim embraced in the report of the commissioners, and not confirmed on account of some specified
cause, "shall be confirmed," and that certain other claims, to
the extent of 800 arpens, "shalt be confirmed"
The acts of the 12th April, 1814, (Land Laws, vol. 1, p. 242);
29th April, 1816, (lb. 280); and 4th July, 1836, (lb. 557,) are acts
confirming claims recommended for confirmation by the recorder
or commissioners. The first declares that the claimants "shall
be, and they are hereby, confirmed in their claims;" the second,
that the claims recommended for confirmation be, and the same
are hereby, confirmed; in the last, the same language is employed in confirming the decisions in favor of the claimants.
In every case where it is declared that claims "shall be confirmed," provision is made for an investigation and adjudication.
None such is made by the act of 1812, in relation to the village
claims confirmed by the first section. By the fourth section the
recorder is required to extract from the books of the commissioners the donation claims directed to be confirmed by the
third section. By the eighth section the powers and duties of
the coamissioners are conferred upon him in relation to donation claims filed under the seventh section, and the claims which
had been theretofore filed and not decided on by the commissioners.
It is tr.e that the recorder did examine and report for confirmation many village claims that were confirmed by the act
of June, 1812, and that the report was confirmed'by the act of
29th April, 1816. The confirmation fanished convenient evidence of title, but it is neither conclusive nor indispensable.
Proof of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, is all that the

502

SUPREME
Guitard et al. v.

COURT
Stoddard.

law requires, and, when made, establishes a title from the 13th
June, 1812, which is superior to a confirmation by the act of
April, 1816, unaccompanied by evidence Cf inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, prior to 20th December, 1803. See Vasseur v. Benton, 1 Mo. Rep. 212, 296; Page v. Scheibel, 11 Ib.
167; Harrison v. Page, 16 lb. 182.
The information upon which the act of June, 1812, was based,
was contained in letters addressed to the Secretary of the Treasury by Mr. Penrose, one of the commissioners, and one addressed to the chairman of the committee on public lands by Mr.
Riddick, secretary of the board, which had just then closed its
labors and made report, under the provisions of the several acts
of Congress for the adjustment of land clains. The letters were
written at Washingon, dated 20th, 24th, and 26th March, 1812,
and are published in Gales & Seaton's edition of State Papers, Public Lands, vol. "2,pp. 447 to 451.
The first letter of Mr. Penrose contains a classification of the
claims not finally confirmed. Class 8th embraces claims for
out or field lots, as they are termed, which he says "should be
confirmed, recorded or not recorded, if those not recorded do
not interfere with claims confirmed; all these tracts have been
possessed from fifteen to fifty years." Class 9th-"the commons." Class 10th-" town or village Icts." He says: "It
would probably be best to confirm the town generally to the inhabitants, and if there be any vacant lots, grant them for public
schools."
In his second letter, he says: "The five following classes will'
include nearly all stLch claims as have sufficient merit to be
confirmed." ....
" Class 5th "embraces claims for towns or
villages, then common fields or field lots and their commons,
either recorded or not recorded." Mir. Penrose says: "By the
spirit of the ordinances all these claims would have been confirmed or granted."
The letter of Mr. Riddick (the secretary) arranges the land
claims into 49 classes. The last (49th) embraces "villages,
common , common fields, and lands adjaCEnt, given to the inhabitants individually for cultivation, possessed prior to the 20th
December, 1803."
Mr. Riddick says: "The foregoing table or list is intended
to show the claims of Louisiana in all the variety of shades in
which it is possible for the claimants to place them, out of which
a selection may be made of such as are not yet provided for by
law; but nevertheless 'ought in justice to be confirmed or
granted' to the claimant."
After some suggestions in respect to the other classes, the letter proceeds: "The forty-second, fortv-tkxd, and forty-fourth

DECEM1BER

TERM,

1853.

503

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.
classes ha-re great merit, and ought to be provided for. It is
believed that no actual settlement was made in Louisiana without the express permission of a proper Spanish officer. In fact,
the known vigilance of that government was such as to prevent
an idea of that kind being entertained a moment. Even the
subjects of Spain, old residents of the country, were not permitted to 4ravel from one -village to another, a distance of not more
than twenty miles, without obtaining from the commandant a
passport, in which was specially stated the road to be tiavelled,
going and returning. Under these circumstances, it is impossible that any settlements could have been made without the
knowledge of the government."
"The forty-ninth class will comprise nearly one fourth in
number of all the claims of the Territory of Louisiana, and, if
confirmed at once by the outer lines of a survey to be made by
the principal deputy, would give general satisfaction, and save
the United States a deal of useless investigation into subjects
that are merely matters of individual dispute."
"The United States can claim no rights over the same, except
a few solitary village lots, and inconsiderable vacant spots of
little value, which might be given to the inhabitants for the
support of schools."
"The villages established prior to the 20th December, 1803,
are as follows, to wit: "In St. Charles District, St. Charles
and Portage des Sioux; in St. Louis District, St. Louis, St.
Ferdinand, Maria des Liards, and Carondelet; in St. Genevieve District, St. Genevieve and New Bourbon; in New Madrid District, New Madrid and Little Prairie; in Arkansas
District, Arkansas."
These letters suggest every provision contained in the two
first sections of the act of June, 1812, the confirmation of the
claims of the inhabitants to in-lots, out-lots, common field lots
and commons, the survey of an out boundary, and the reservation of vacant lots for the support of schools. They show also
the reason why no title paper was required, and no investigation or adjudication provided for, but the claims confirmed at
once by force of the act alone.
The act supplementary to the act of 13th Jnfe, 1812, approved 26th May, 1824, (Land Laws, vol. 1, p. 397,) and the
further supplement thereto, approved 27th January, 1831, (Ib.
478,) show that the act of 1812 was understood by congress to
be a confirmation of the village claims proprio vi-ore. The
first requires the owners of lots "which were confirmed by the
act of June, 1812, on the ground of inhabitation, cultivation, or
possession, to designate their respective lots by proving before
the recorder the fact of supeh inhabitation, &c., within eighteen

504

SUPREME

COUET.

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

months. The last is a quitclaim by the United States in favor
of the-inhabitants of the several towns and villages to the lots
and commons confirmed to them respectively by the act of 13th
June, 1812."
It was not the object of the supplementary act of 182/4 to
institute an investigation of village cklms, or to require or
authorize an adjudication of the rights of claimants. It embraces no unconfirmed claims, and of those confirmed only such
as it recognizes to have been confirmed by the act of 1812.
These confirmations had been made without any record or
documentary evidence by which it could be ascertained what
lots had been confirmed, their extent an(L boundaries; and, because these facts depended on parol evidence, the surveyorgeneral could not distinguish the private from the public lots.
This ,wil it was the object of the act of :1824 to remedy as far
as practicable, and therefore it provides that the owners of lots
confirmed by the act of 1812 (and none other, confirmed or unconfirmed) shall, within a limited period, designate their lots by
proof of inhabitation, &c., and their extent and boundaries "so
as to enable the surveyor-general to distinguish the private from
the vacant lots," or, as it is expressed in the third section, "to
serve as his guide in distinguishing them" (the confirmed lots)
"from the vacant lots to be set apart as above described," that
is, fpr the use of schools.
The recorder is directed to issue a cert!.ficte of confirmation
for each claim confirmed, that is, for each claim which, in his
opinion, shall have been proved to have been confirnied twelve
years before, by force of the act of 13th June, 1812, and it has
been held that the certificate is primd facie evidence of such
confirmation to the person named in it. Janis v. Gurno, 4 Mo.
Reports, 45's; but it may be rebutted; and if it is proved that
the lot was inhabited, cultivated, or possessed by another person
prior to the 20th December, 1803, that title is the best. Tne
act of 1924 does not declare the consequence of a failure by an
owner to make the proof required, and ecrtainly cannot be construed to divest the title vested by the act of 1812. Gurno v.
Janis, 6 Mo. R. 3:30; Page v. Seheibel, 11 lb. 167; Harison v.
Page, 16 lb. 182; Montgomery v,. Landusky, 9 lb. 70.5.
A construction of the act of the 13th June, 1812, was for the
fir-t time given by the Supreme Court of Missouri, in 1823, in
the ease of Vasseur 1. Benton, 1 Missouri Reports, 212, 296.
(The counsel then examined that case particularly, and also
the cases of Lajoye v. Primm, 1 Mo. Rep. 368; Janis v. Gurno, 4
lb. 458; Gurno v. Janis, 6 lb. 330; Beibhler v. Coonce, 9 lb.
347; Montgomery v. Landusky, lb. 705; Page v. Scheibel, 11
Tb. 167; Harrison v. Page, 16 lb. 182; Russell v. St. Louis

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

Public Schools, b. 553; Gamache v. Piquignot, 47 Tb. 310;
Soulard v. Clarke, MS. March, 1854.)
.11r. Ewivig made the following points for the defendant in
error.
1st. It appears that the claim of the individual inhabitant is
confined to the bounds of the village or town. The plaintiffs
cannot claim any thing under this adt except a town lot, out
lot, common field lot, or commons belonging to St. Louis. The
first question, therefore is, does St. Louis, its common fields or
commons, within the provisions of the above-named act, include
the land in controversy. It was never intended by that act that
the claim of each inhabitant to the town lot, out lot, common
field lot, or commons, should be separately set apart and severed
from the national domain, by survey or otherwise; but that the
"out bounds" of the town, with its appurtenant common fields
and commons, should be surveyed and severe&from the national
domain by a regularly constituted officer, and then that each
inhabitant should have secured to him his rights, whatever they
might be, within the bounds of the town. It was the duty of
the town authorities to attend to procuring the survey, and in
its execution to guard the interests of the town, and with them
the rights of the individual inhabitants.
The law directs that the survey-be made "as soon as may
be," so that the rights of the town and its inhabitants being
defined, all others entitled may assert their claims. It would
not do to allow a claim like that to the commons of St. Louis
to remain unmarked, indefinite, hovering like a moving cloud
over and around the adjacent titles. It must theref6re be surveyed and its limits defined "as soon as may be." This was
accordingly done. The precise date of the survey is not given
but it was.in or prior to 1817, in which year the plat was filed
in the general land-office, pursuant to the provisions of the act
above cited. That survey has been acquies~ed in for thirtyseven years, and lands have been purchased and titles acquired
and transmitted conformably to it for more than a generation.
The survey was made by an authorized officer of the United
States upon the one side, in the presence and with the actual
or implied absent of the city authorities and the interested
citizens on the other; aiid it is now much too late to question
it in any quarter. The evidence on which it is now assailed is
the opinion of an experienced surveyor, who thinks the out
boundary line of the city ought to have been so projected as to
include the land in controversy. It is not probable that he is
better informed as to the state of the city and its appurtenant
commons in 1812 than the public surveyor who projected the
43
VOL. XV1.

SUPREME

COURT.

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

out boundary- line in 1816, and the public authorities of the
city and the interested inhabitants who at that time witnessed
and acquiesced in the said out boundary. But too much time
has elapsed-the acquiescence has been too long to admit of
evidence or question on the subject of -this out boundary, even
if the evidence were otherwise entitled to consideration.
2d. But waving this objection, the plaintiffs show no claim
whatever under the statute.
The language of the first section, so far as it touches the
rights of individuals, is somewhat vague aid indefinite. It pro4ides that lots which "have been inhabited, cultivated or possessed prior to the 20th day of December, 1803, shall be and
the same are hereby confirmed.to the inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid, according to their several right
or rights in common thereto." But it does not admit of a construction, which would give to the inhabitants of a town lands
which they had occupied and cultivated many years before 1803,
and which they had before that time abandoned. The expression, as I have said, is not clear, but the tense of the verb "have
been inhabited" implies a continuing inhabitation, &c., down
to tfie time named, December 20th, 1803. * The more brief and
common expression were inhabited prier," &c., would convey
distinctly the idea that "inhabitation," &c., at any time prior to
that date was sufficient But the word used to transfer title is,
I think, decisive of the question -" shall be and is hereby confirmed to," &c. The term "confirmation," implies proprioviore,
an existing title or claim on which it is to operate -it can have
no effect whatever on an inhabitation, cultivation, or possession,
which existed in the indefinite past, but which had been abandoried and was as if it had never existed at the time of the
confirmation.
But the second section of the act removes all possible doubt on
the subject. The survey having been directed by the first section,
the second goes on to provide, "that all town and village lots, out
lots, oi. common field lots, included in such surveys, which are
not rightfully owned or claimed by private individuals . . . shall
be and the same are hereby reserved for the support of schools.
Showing that there must be a present subsisting claim or ownership at the time of the passage of the law. Nothing which
was abandoned, prior to its passage, is intended to be restored
by it. It saves subsisting rights or claims only.
'Whatever possession was in Paul Guitard of the land in
question prior to 1796 was abandoned, when the common fence
fell down and was abandoned-by the town, namely, in 1796-97.
From that time until. the commencement of this suit in 1853, a
period of nearly sixty years, no claim has been set up to these

DECEAIBER TERM, 1853.

507

Guitar(. et al. v. Stoddard.

lands, either by the city or the inhabitants. Twenty years
after the fields, once inclosed by the common fence, were thrown
open and abandoned, the boundary of the city, its out lots and
commons, was settled by the city authorities and a public officer
of the United States, and a record duly made thereof in 'the
proper department of the government. The city has ever since
acquiesced in its reputed boundary. Private individuals have
acquiesced, and it has never yet been disturbed. I submit that
it is too late to disturb it now, and unsettle titles which have
for a full generation rested undisturbed upon it.
I ought, perhaps, also to notice the singularly unsatisfactory
kind of title set up by the plaintiffs in their an~estor, Paul Guitard. They say he cultivated and claimed. But how or by
what title did he claim? And where did he possess and cultivate ? It might be possible to prove that a flock of crows
lighted on the scrub-oaks in the Cul-de-sac sixty years ago, and
flew away again, but it would be hard to prove the particular
tree on which any one individual crow lighted. The proof is
here equally unsatisfactory. There is no more trace left in the
one case than in the other; no line drawn, stake set, tree marked,
or stone planted, no ancient pile of rubbish to mark the spot
claimed by Guitard or any other inhabitant out of the surveyed
bounds of the town.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs claim a lot of ground in the city of St. Louis,
as representatives of Paul Guitard, an ancient inhabitant of
that city, under a confirmation in the act of Congress of the
13th of Jt~ne, 1812, for the settlement of land claims in Missouri. 2 Stat; at Large, 748.
The record shows, that Guitard, from 1785-6 till the common
fence which surrounded and protected the field lots and commons of that city was thrown down, in 1797 or 8, claimed and
cultivated a parcel- of land, one arpen in width and forty in
depth, in the Cul-de-sac prairie. The tract claimed was called
Guitard's Cul-de-sac field to its whole extent, and was in the
usual form of field lots in that village. His cultivation did not
extend over the whole claim, nor was it ascertained whether the
portion sued for was within that part cultivated. There were
eleven other lots of the same description, claimed and cultivated
at that period by different persons in the Cul-de-sac prairie
lying together, that of Guitard's being to the north of the others.
The land sued for is within the survey directed by the first section of the act referred to. The defendant produced a patent
from the United States. for the land in dispute; butas the case
was determined upon the title of the plaintiffs, that becomes of

508

SUPREME COURT.
Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

no importance. The Circuit Court instructed the jury, "That
there having been no concession, nor grant, nor survey, nor permission to cultivate or possess the land claimed by Paul Guitard
to said Guitard under and by the Spanish authorities or government; and no location of said claim by or under said government, nor under the French government, and no proof having
been made at any time by said Paul Guitard, or those claiming
under him, of any inhabitation, cultivationa, or possession, or of
the location and extent of said claim, either under the provisions of the act of 1812 or those of the act of the 26th of May,
1824, either before the recorder of land titles or other United
States' authority; and there having been no survey or location
of said land, by or under the authority of the United States,
the said plaintiffs cannot now set up said claim and locate it,
and prove its extent and inhabitation and cultivation by parol
evidence merely." This instruction comprehends the entire
case, and the examination of this will render it unnecessary to
consider those given or refused upon the motions of the parties
to the suit.
The act of the 13th of June, 1812, declares "that the rights,
titles, claims to town or village lots, out lots, common field lots,
and commons in, adjoining, and belonging to the several towns
ahd villages named in the act, including St. Louis, which lots
have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to the 20th
of December, 1803, shall be and they are hereby confirmed to
the inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid,
according to their several right or rights in common thereto."
This act has been repeatedly under the consideration of this
court, and to ascertain what has been decided upon it will facilitate the present inquiry. In Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 How.
34.5, the defendant relied upon the title of the village of St.
Charles to the locus in quo, as being a part of the commons of
that village, and confirmed to it by the act of June, 1812. In
that case, the right of the village was established from a concession made by the lieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana,
and a formal survey by the Spanish authority. The judgment
of this court was, that a title of this description was confirmed
by the act of 1812, and that this confirmation excluded a Spanish concession of an earlier date, which had been confirmed by
a subsequent act of Congress.
In the case of Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How. 421, the defendant
defended under the claim of St. Louis to its commojis, and
produced evidence of a Spanish c6ncessicn, of a private survey
which had been presented to the board of commissioners, and
of proof having been made before the -recorder of land titles.
Whether the private survey made in 1806, and submitted to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

509

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

government, was conclusive of boundary, was the question before the court. Mr. Justice Catron, in delivering the opinion
of the court;*says, "By the first section of the act of 1812 Congress confirmed the claim to commons adjoining and belonging
to St. Louis, with simila claims made by other towns. But
no extent or boundaries were given to show what land was
granted; nor is there any thing in the act of 1812 from which a
court of justice can legally declare that the land, set forth in the
survey and proved as commons by witnesses in 1806, is the precise land Congress granted: in other words, the act did not
adopt the evidence laid before the board for any purpose; and
the boundaries of claims thus confirmed were designedly, as
we suppose, left open to the settlement of the respective claimants by litigation in courts of justice or otherwise."
Again in the case of Les Bois v. Bramell, the same learned
judge says of this act, "that this was a general confirmation of
the common to the town as a community, no one ever doubted,
so far as the confirmation operated on the lands of the United
States."
The questions settled by this court are that the act of 1812 is
a present operative grant of all the interest of the United States,
in the property comprised in the act, and that the right of the
grantee was not dependent upon the factum of a survey under
the Spanish government.
No question before this has been submitted to the court upon
the interpretation to be given to the "rights, titles, and claims"
which were the subject of the confirmation of the United States.
The instruction given to the jury by the Circuit Court implies
that the confirmee, before he can acquire a standing in court,
must originally have had or must subsequently have placed
upon his title or claim an additional mark of a public authority
besides this act of Congress ;-that he must evince his right
or claim by some concession, survey, or permission to settle,
cultivate, or possess, or some recognition of his claim under the
provisions of some act of Congress by some officer of the executive department, indicative of its location and extent. The
laxity of the legislation in the act of 1812 is painfully evident,
when the fact is declared that the large and growing cities of
the State of Missouri have their site upon the land comprehended in this confirmation. Nevertheless an attempt to correct
the mischief would probably create more confusion and disorder
than the act has produced.
The act, in the form in which it exists, was adopted by Congress upon the solicitation and counsel of citizens of Missouri,
interested in the subject and well acquainted with the conditions of its population. The towns and villages named in it
436

510

SUPREME

COURT

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

were then, and for many years continued to be, small, and the
property of no great importance. During this time conflicting
rights and pretensions were adjusted, facts necessary to sustain
claims to property ascertained, and the business and intercourse
of the inhabitants accommodated to its conditions. The. act
itself, with all the circumstances of the inhabitants before and
at the time of its passage, have formed the subject of legal'judgments and -professional opinions upon which mighty interests
have grown up and now repose. This court fully appreciates
the dahger of disturbing those interests .and of contradicting
thos.e opinions' and judgments.
The dct of 1812 makes no requisition for a concession, survey,
permission to settle, cultivate, or possess, or of any location by
a public authority as the basis of the right, title, andclaim, upon
which its confirmatory provisions operate. It may be very true
that there could have been originally no legitimate right or claim
without some such authority. Congress, however, in this act,
was not dealing with written or formal evilences of right. Such
claims in Missouri have been provided for by other acts. These
pretensions to town -and village lots formed a residuum of a
mass of right , titles, and claims, which Congress was advised
could be equitably and summarily disposed of by the abandonment of its own rights to the property, aad a reference of the
"whole subject to the parties concerned. Congress afforded no
means of authenticating the rights, titles, and claims of the several confirmees. No board was appointed in the act to receive
the evidence nor to adjust contradictory pretensions.
No officer was appointed to survey or to locate any individual
right. .. All the facts requisite to sustain the confirmation what were village or town lots, out lots, common field lots,
or commons- what were the conditions of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, to bring the claimanit within the act, were
referred to the judicial tribunals. The ac5; has been most carefully and patiently considered in the Supreme Cout of Missouri,
and conclusions have been promugated, 'which comprehend
nearly
all the questions
arise
upon
it. says, "we are
In rasseur
v. Benton,which
1 Mo.canRep.
that
court
of opinion that the claims to town or village lots, which had
been
inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior to the 20th of December,
1803, are by the express words of "he act isofacto cbnfirmed as to the light of the United States." In Lajoye v.
Primm, 3 M~o. Rep. 368, the court says, "the great object of
the
actthe
was
to quiet the villages in their titles to property (so
far as
government
was concerned) which had been acquired in many instances by possession merely, under an express
or implied permission co settle, and wich had passed from

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Guitard et al. v. Stoddard.

hand to hand without any formal conveyance. In such cases
possession was the only thing to which they could look; and
taking it for granted that those who were found in possession
at the time the country was ceded, or who had been last in
possession prior thereto, were the rightful owners - the confirmation was intended for their benefit." In Page v. Scheibel,
11 Mlo. 167, the same court says "the whole history of the
progress of settlements in the French villages,,so far as it has
been developed in the cases which have come up to this court,
shows that the villagers did not venture to take possetsion of the
lots, either for cultivation or inhabitation, without a formal permission of the lieutenant-goverrior, or the commandant of the
post. These permissions; it is also probable, were most genetljly
in writing, and accompanied by a survey made by an officer
selected and authorized by the government:
But the title of the claimants under this government does not
depend upon the 'existence or proof of any such documents.
Congress did not think proper to reqfiire it. In all probability,
the fact that possession, inhabitation, and cultivation could not
exist under the former government without such previous permission from the authorities of that government, 'as known to
the framers of the act of 1812, and constituted the prominent
reason for dispensing with any proof of this character in 6rder
to make out a title under that act. However this may be, the
act requires no such proof, but confirms the title upon possession,
inhabitation, or ltivation alone, without regard to the legality
of the origin of such title."
We have quoted these portions of the reports of those cases
to express our concurrence in the conclusions they present.
We shall now inquire whether it was necessary for the confirmee to present the evidence of his claim under the act of 1824,
(4 Stat. at Large, 65,) supplementary to the act of 1812?
This act makes it the duty of the claimants of town and village lots "to proceed, within eighteen months after the passage
thereof, to designate them by proving the fact of inhabitation, &c.,
and the boundaries and extent of each claim, so as to enable the
surveyor-general to distinguish the private from the vacant lots."
No forfeiture was imposed for a non-compliance; The confirmee
by a compliance obtained a recognition of his boundaries from
the United States, and consequenitly evidence against every
person intruding, or claiming from the government ex postfacto.
The government did not by that act impair the effect and operation of its act of 1812.
Under the act of 1812 each confirmee was compelled, whenever his title was disputed, to adduce proof of the conditions
upon which the confirmation depended. As the facts of inha-

512

SUPREM E COURT.
Guitard et'al. v. Stoddard.

bitation, possession, and cultivation at a designated period, are
facts in pais, it followed as a matter of course that parol evidence
is admissible to 'establish them. In the case of Hickie v. Starke,
1 Pet. 98, a question arose upon an act of Congress which confirmed to "actual settlers" within a ceded territory all the grants
legally executed prior to a designated day, and this court held
that the fact of "a settlement on that day' must be established,
and proof of occupancy and cultivation was adduced. In the
city of Mobile v. Eslava, 16 Pet. 235, certain water lots were
confirmed to the proprietors of the front lots adjacent thereto, who
had improved them before the passage of the act of Congress,
and this court sustained the title upon parol proof of location
and improvements. The court said "being proprietor of the
front lot and having improved the water lot opposite and east
of Water street, constitute the conditions on which the right, if
any, under the statute vests. In his charge to the jury, the judge
laid down these conditions in clear terms; and instructed the
jury, if the facts brought the defendant within them, that they
should find against the plaintiffs. The jury did so find, and
this is conclusive of the facts of the case."
The question of boundary under the act of 1812, as it was
dedided in Mackay v. Dillon, was left open to the settlement of
the respective claimants by litigation, in the courts of justice, or
otherwise. Nor has this court, in any case, lecided that statutes,
which operate to confirm an existing and recognized claim or
title with ascertained boundaries, or boundaries which could be
ascertained, are inoperative without a survey, or made one necessary to the perfection of the title. A survey, approved by the
United States1 jnd accepted by the confirmee, is always important to the confirmee; for, as is said by the court in Menard's
Heirs v. Massy, 8 How. 294, it is conclusive evidence as against
the United States, that the land granted by the confirmation of
Congress was the same described and bounded by the survey,
unless an appeal was taken by either party or an opposing claimant to the commissioner of the land-office. This consideration
depends upon the fact that the claimant and the United States
were parties to the selection of the land; for, as !hey agreed to
the survey, they are mutually bound and respectively estopped."
The cases of Harrison v. Page, 16 Mo. 182; Gamache v.
Piquignot, 17 Mo. 310, which has been affirmed at the present
session of this court; and Soulard v. Clarke, are in harmony
with the views we have expressed upon the latter branch of the
instructions of the Circuit Court.
We think it proper to state, that we express no opinion upon
the effect of the evidence to establish the plaintiff's title as a subsisting title, and none upon the claim tcr.such of the land as lies

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

513

Irwin v. The United States.

beyond the boundary line, settled by the survey of the United
States under the first section of the 'act of 1812.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause
remanded.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on -the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis-

trict of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this cause, be, and
the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court with

directions.to award a venire facias de novo.

JAMES IRWIN, APPELLANT, v. THE UNITED

'TATES.

On 6th November, 186, W. F. Hamilton, William V. Robinson, and wife, by dged,
conveyed to the United States " the right and privilege to use, divert, and carry away
from the fountain spring, by which the woollen factory of the said Hamilton & Robinson is now supplied, so much water as will pass through a pipe or tube of equal
diameter with one that shall convey the water from the said spring, upon the same
level therewith, to the factory of the said gr.ntors, and to proceed from a eommoq
cistern or head to be erected by the said United States, and to convey and conduct
the same, by tubes or pipes, through the premises of the said grantors in a direct
line. &c. &c.
The distance to which the United States wished to carry their share of the water
being much greater than that of the other party, it was necessary, according to the
principlei of hydraulics, to lay down pipes of a larger bore than those of the other
party, in order to obtain one half of the water.
The grantors were present when the pipes were laid down in this way, and made no
objection. It will not do for an assignee, whose deed recognizes the title of the
United States to one half of the water, now to disturb the arrangement.
Under the circumstances, the construction to be given to the deed is, that the United
States purehased'a right to one half of the water, and had a right to lay down such
pipes as were necessary to secure that object.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a
court of equity.
The facts were these:
On 6th November, 1836, W. F. Hamilton, William V. Robinson, and dre, by deed, conveyed to the United States "the right
and privilege to use, divert, and carry away from the fountain
spring by which the woollen factory of the said Hamilton &
Robinson is now supplied, so much water as will pass through

