622

SUPREME COURT.
Deshler v. Dodge.

land claimed is within the Northern Judicial District of California, it is, on consideration thereof now here ordered and decreed by this court that the decree of the said District Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said District
Court, with leave to amend the proceedings in regard to the
jurisdiction of the said District Court, and also in regard to any
other matter of form or substance which may be necessary.

JOHN C. DE5HatR V. GEORGE C. DODGE.
The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, says, "nor shall any District or
Circuit Court'have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promisso ' note or other chose in action, in favor of An assi'nee unless a suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment had
been made. bxeept in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
This clause has no apl,ication to the case 6f a suit by tht assignee of a chose in action
to recover possession of the thing in specie, or damages for its wrongful caption or
detention.
Thereform where an assignee of a package of bank-notes brought an action of replevin
for the package, the action can be maintained in tha Circuit Court, altdiough the
assignor could not himself have sued in that court.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
It was an action of rejievin brought by Deshler, a resident
and citizen of the State of New York, against Dodge, a citizen
and resident of the State of Ohio.
The proceedings in the case were these:
In March, 1853, Deshler filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio the following pracipe and
affidavit.
Prcecipe. Issue a writ of replevin for the following goods and
chattels, to wit, a quantity of bank-bills, of various denoddnations,
consisting of fives, tens, twenties, and fifties, given for the payment, in the aggregate, of the sum of ten thousand five hundred
and eighty dollars, being the same bank-bills taken by the said
George C. Dodge, from the City Bank of Cleveland, on the 26th
day of Mamh, 1853. Also another quantity of bank-bills, of various denominations, consisting of ones, twos, threes, fours, fives,
tens, twenties, fifties, and hundreds, and given for the payment,
in the aggregate, for the sum of seven thousand nine hundred
sixty-five dollars, being the same bank-bills taken by the said
George C. Dodge, from the Merchants Bank of Cleveland, on
the 26th day of March, A. D. 1853. Also another quantity of
bank-bills, of various denominations, consisting of ones twos,

DECEM BER TER]I, 1853.

623

Deshler v. Dodge.

threes, fives, tens, twenties, fifties, and hundreds, and given for
the payment, in the aggregate, of the sum of nine thousand two
hundred and sixteen dollars, being the same bank-bills taken by
the said George C. Dodge, from the Canal Bank of Cleveland,
on the 26th day of March, A. D. 1853. Also another quantity
of bank-bills, of various denominations, consisting of ones, twos,
thees, fives, tens, twenties, fifties, and hundreds, and given for
the payment, in the aggregate, of the sum of eleven thousand
two hundred and twenty dollars, being the same bank-bills taken
by the said George C. Dodge, from the Commercial Bank of
Cleveland, on the 26th day of March, A. D. 1853.
Affidavit. John G. Deshler, plaintiff in the case in the annexed precipe named, being first duly sworn, does depose and say:
That he has good right to the possession of the goods and chattels described in the annexed prcie, and that the same are
wrongfully detained by the said George C. Dodge, named as
defendant in the said prcecipe; and that the said goods and
chattels were not taken in execution on any judgment against
the said John G. Deshler, nor for the payment of any tax, fine,
or amercement assessed against the said Deshler, nor by virtue
of any writ of replevin, or any other mesne or final process whatsoever issued against the said Deshler. Said Deshler further
makes oath and says, that he is a citizen and resident of the
State of New York, and that the said George C. Dodge is a
citizen and a resident of the State of Ohio.
U. S. America, Districtof Ohio, ss.
JonN G. DESHLER
The writ was issued accordingly, and served by the marshal.
The property was appraised at 838,592. Deshler gave the
usual replevin bond.
At April term, 1853, Dodge made the following motion:
And now comes the said George C. Dodge, by R. P. Spald:
ing, his attorney, and moves the court for a rule on the plaintiff
to show cause, durifig the present term, why the said suit should
not stand dismissed, for all and singular the reasons following,
to wit:
1st. Because there is no sufficient affidavit filed by plaintiff
as a predicate for the writ of replevin.
2d. Because it does not comport with sound public policy,
that any portion of the revenue of the State should be arrested,
at the instance of the tax-payers, or other person for his benefit,
and taken Irom the hands of the collector, through the instrumentality of the writ of replevin.
3d. Because the several bank-bills in the writ specified were
assigned to the plaintiff by said several banks in the city of
Cleveland, for the sole purpose of instituting suit in this court.

SUPREME COURT.
Deshler v. Dodge.

4th. Because said assignment from said banks to said John
G. Deshler was bolorable merely, and operates as a fraud upon
the act of Congress of September 24, 1789, establishing the judicial courts of the United. States.
5th. Because this court is debarred taking jurisdiction of this
case by a provision contained in the eleventh section of said-act
of Congress of September 24, 1789, in the words following:
" Nor shall any district or circuit court have cognizance of any
suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose
in action in favor of any assignee, unless a suit might have been
prosecuted in such court, to recover the said contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange." It being admitted, for the purposes of this motion, that
the said John G. Deshler derived all his right to said bank-notes
from an assignment in writing made to him by the Commercial
Bank, the Merchants Bank, the City Bank, and the Canal Bank
of Cleveland, all corporate bodies in the State of Ohio, after the
seizure of the said bank-bills, by the said George C. Dodge, as
treasurer of Cuyahoga county, to satisfy sundry taxes assessed
against said banks.
R P. SrALDING,
Altorney for defendant.
In August, 1853, the court overruled the motion, but permitted the defendant to set up the same matter, by plea.
At the same term, the plaintiff, Deshler, filed.his declaration,
and Dodge filed the following plea:
And the said George c Dodge, in his own proper person,
comes and says, that this court ought not to have or take lurther
cognizance of the action aforesaid, because he says that on the
day and year in the saiddeclaration mentioned, to wit, on the
twenty-sixth day of March, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and fifty-three, he, the said George C. Dodge, was acting as treasurer of the county of Cuyahoga, in the State of
Ohio, and as such treasurer on, the day and year last mentioned,
at Cleveland, in the county of Cuyahoga aforesaid, held in his
hands for collection the tax duplicate of said county of Cuyahoga, for the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two,
upon which tax duplicate sundry large amounts of taxes stood
assessed against the several banks in the plaintiff's declaration
mentioned, to wit, against the City Bank of Cleveland, the
Merchants Bank of Cleveland, the Canal Bank of Cleveland,
and the Commercial Bank of Cleveland; which said taxes, with
a large amount of penalty thereon, were then due and unpaid;
and it then and there became, and was tLe official duty of the
said George C. Dodge, as such treasurer, ta distrain a sufficient
amount of bank-bills belonging to said b.nks and in their pos-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

625

Deshler v. Dodge.
session, (respectively,) to satisfy the said taxes and penalties,
amounting in the aggregate to a large sum of money, to wit, to
the sum of thirty-eight thousand nine hundred and eighty-one
dollars. And the said George C. Dodge did in fact, then and
there, to wit, on the 26th day of Mlarch, in the year one thousahd
eight hundred and fifty-three, at the city of Cleveland, in the
county of Cuyahoga aforesaid, enter into said banks and take
and distrain from them, respectively, the amount of -taxes and
penalty as aforesaid, to wit: From the City Bank of Cleveland
he took and distrained the sum of ten thousand five hundred
and eighty dollars in bank-bills of various denominations, consisting of fives, tens, twenties, and fifties, the same being at the
time said distress was made the exclusive property of said City
Bank of Cleveland. From the Merchants Bank of Cleveland
he took and distrained the sum of seven thousand nine hundred
and sixty-five dollars in bank-bills of various denominations,
consisting of ones, twos, threes, fours, fives, tens, twenties, fifties,
and hundreds, the same being at the time said distress was
made the exclusive property of said Merchants Bank of Cleveland. From the Canal Bank of Cleveland he took and distrained the sum of nine thousand two hundred and sixteen dollars in bank-bills of various denominations, consisting of ones,
twos, threes, fives, tens, twenties, fifties, and hundreds, the same
being at the time said distress was made the exclusive property
of said Canal Bank of Cleveland. And from the Commercial
Bank of Cleveland he took and dist'ained the sum of eleven
thousand two hundred and twenty dollars in bank-bills of various.
denominations, Lonsisting of ones, twos, threes, fives, tens, twenties, fifties, and hundreds, the same beinlg at the time said distress was made the exclusive property of said Commercial Bank
of Cleveland. And the said George (. Dodge, having thus,
then and there taken and distrained said bank-bills, being all
and singular the bank-bills in the plaintiff's declaration set forth
and described, immediately, to wit, on the twenty-sixth day of
March, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three
aforesaid, removed said several bank-bills from said several
banks, respectively, to a place of security, to wit, to the vault
of the Cleveland Insurance Company, where the same were
specially deposited by the said George C. Dodge, and where the
same in fact remained to the credit of the said George C. Dodge
as a special deposit, until they were afterwards seized and taken
by force of the writ of replevin issued at the instance of the said
John G. Deshler, plaintiff in this suit.
And the said George C. Dodge further saith, that on the same
twenty-sixth day of March, A. D. 1853, but after the said George
C. Dodge had so as aforesaid distrained, and taken away from
VOL. XVI.

53

626

SUPREME COURT.
Deshler v. Dodge.

the possession and keeping of the said several banks herein before mentioned, the said bank.bills above mentioned, and after
he had deposited the same for safe keeping in the vault of the
Cleveland Insurance Company in-manner aforesaid, the said
several banks above mentioned, all of which were incorporated
by the laws of the State of Ohio to transact a general banking
business in said city of Cleveland, in the county of Cuyahoga
aforesaid, and not elsewhere, and all of which in fact were at
the time said taxes were assessed, and at the time the said bankbills were so as aforesaid distrained for the payment of said
taxes, transacting a general banking business in the city of
Clevelanid aforesaid, entered into an arrangement with the said
John G. Deshler, the plaintiff in this suit, who claims to be a
citizen and resident in the State of New York; whereby the
said several banks, by written instruments ef assignment, bearing
date .on the said twenty-sixth day of March, A. D. 1853, and
executed in behalf of said banks by their cashiers or other agents
duly authorized by the directors of the same, sold, assigned, and
transferred to the said John G. Deshler, plaintiff in this suit, all
and singular the bank-bills so as aforesaid taken and distrained
by the said George C. Dodge, and which said bank-bills were,
by the express terms of said several assigrments in writing, declared to be then, and at the time of the execution of said several
instruments of assignment, in the possession of George C.
Dodge, treasurer of the county of Cuyahoga, in the State of
Ohio.
And the said George C. Dodge further saith, that before and
at the time of the taking and distraining said several bank-bills
for the payment of said taxes and penalties assessed as aforesaid
against said several banks, he, the said John G. Deshler, had no
right of property in, or claim to, the possession of said several
bank-bills whatsoever, but that all the pretended right, interest,
and claim bf the said John G. Deshler thereto arose under and
br virtue of said several instruments of assignments, executed
and delivered long after said bank-bills had been taken and dis.
trained by the said George C. Dodge, as treasurer as aforesaid,
in satisfaction of the taxes and penalty so due as aforesaid from
said banks, and while the said bank-bills were on special deposit in the vault of the said Cleveland Insurance Company to
the credit oQf the said George C. Dodge, treasurer as aforesaid.
And the said George C. Dodge further saith, that he is a citizen
of and resident in the State of Ohio, and was such at the time
when this. suit was instituted; and that all and singular said
banks are corporate bodies of said State of Ohio, and have not
now and never had any legal existence except within the limits
of said State. And so the said George C. Dodge pleads, and

DECE-IBER TERM, 1853.

627

Deshler v. Dodge.

says, that said supposed causes of action are not within the
jurisdiction of this court, and this he is'ready to verify; whereof
he prays judgment whether this court can or will take further
cognizance of the action aforesaid.
GEORGE C. DODGE.
This plea was verified by affidavit.
The plaintiff demurred to this plea, when the court overruled
the demurrer and sustained the plea upon the ground, "that the
matters therein contained are sufficient in law to preclude the
said Deshler from having and maintaining said action against
the said Dodge in this court, and that the court has no jurisdiction of the same."
Deshler sued out a writ of error, and brought the case up to
this court.
It wvas argued by 1tr. Stanberry, for the plaintiff in error, and
by 1t. Spaldin,- and X,t. Pugh, for the defendant.
1It. Stanbe,'y.
Only one question is made in this case, and that is whether
replevin will lie to recover the possession of certain bank-notes,
payable to bearer, wrongfully detained by the defendant, the
plaintiff claiming as owner of the notes by purchase and assignment from former owners of them, not capable of suing in
the courts of the United States.
The decision in the court below was adverse to the plaintiff
on the ground that the case was within the eleventh section of
the Judiciary Act.
That section denies to the circuit courts of the United States
cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note, or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless
a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases of
foreign bills of exchange.
This section restricts the right of suit given by the Constitution, in reference to citizenship, - must therefore be construed
strictly, and be confined to the very cases within the restriction,
To make the restriction apply, tho-se things must concur.
1. A plaintiff claiming as assignee of a chose in action.
2. A suit for the contents of such chose in action.
3. An assignor who could not have maintained the suit for
the contents.
1. The plaintiff here is not the assignee of a chose in action
within the meaning of this section.
The subject-matter was bank-notes, payable on demand to
bearer. Such a chose passes by delivery.
There is no promisee named in the contract, no named person with whom and to whom the contract or promise was
made.

SUPREME COURT.
Deshler v. Dodge.

The promise is original to every holder in succession.
-Althoughthere happened to be a written assignment in this
case, yet that is only evidence of a sale. Just as in a bill of
sale of goods, or any chattel, the. purchaser is not made an
assignee by taking written evidence of his purchase. He takes
as purchaser, as owner, ajus in rem, not ad re.
2. No suit for contents.
The suit is for a thing in specie, in rent, not on the contract,
not against the banks who made the notes: not against any one
liable on the contract.
A suit for the contents of a note must be a suit to recover
the thing promised to be paid by the note, not for the note, but
something contained within it.
Such a suit destroys the chose in actioni; it reduces it to a
chose in possession, transit in rein adjudicafam.
But this suit is not for the contents, it is not on the contract,
or against any one liable in virtue of the contract. It does not,
when judgment is recovered, merge the chose, for it remains a
chose in action after judgment and recovery.
Finally, this suit is not within the intent of the act, not within
the mischief to be prevented. That intent is clearly to restrain
the construction of domestic contracts to the domestic forum,
so as to ensure the application of the lex loci contrachts,in cases
where in its inception the contract was made in a State and
between citizens of the same State. The exception in favor of
foreign bills of exchange proves the iule to be as stated.
This suit not being on the contract, nor against the pronrisor, but only to recover a thing in the hands of a wrongdoer,
does not come at all within the reason of the rule.
The plaintiff will rely Qn the following cases. Bank of Kentucky v. Wister et al. 2 Peters, 324. It was held, in this case,
that in an action for or upon a bank-note, payable to bearer,
against the bank, it is sufficient if the holder or plaintiff is entitled to sue in the federal courts, without regard to the character
of any former holder; and that guch a note is- payable to anybody,
and is not affected by the disabilities of the nominal payee.
Bullard v. Bell, 1 Mason, 251, held that the eleventh section
only applies to actions founded on choses in action by an assignee, and that a bank-note, payable to A. B. or bearer, whether
A. B. were a fictitious person or not, was not within the act,
and that the promise was in law made to each holder as an
original promisee. In this case the action was upon the note
against a stockholder individually liable.
Smith et al. v. Kernochen, 7 How. 198, was an ejectment by
an assignee of a mortgage, from a mortgagor not competent
to sue in United States courts. The objection was that the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

629

Deshler v. Dodge.

assignment was merely colorable. Neither counsel nor court
suggested any objection under the eleventh section.
The Brig Sarah Ann, 2 Sumner, 211. This case is to the
point, that the sale and assignment of a chattel by a person out
of possession is not the sale of a chose in action, but is the sale
of the thing itself, and passes the tifle, whether the subjectmatter is .in the hands of a lawful depositary or of a wrongdoer. '24 Pick. 95.
In all the cases relied upon by the counsel for the defendant
in error, the action was for the contents of the chose against the
maker or debtor, in virtue of his contract or debt, and not, as in
the case at bar, for the specific thing, and against a mere tortious holder.
The following notice of the view taken by the-counsel for the
defendant in error, is from the brief of 111r. Spalding.
But one point is made by defendant to sustain the judgment
of the court below, to wit:
The assignment, made by the several banks named in the
pleadings, of the bank-bills in question to the plaintiff, after the
same had been distrained for tdxes by the defendant, and had
been removed from their possession, was -simply an assignment
of a chose in action, within the meaning of the eleventh section
of the "Act to establish the judicial courts of the United States,"
approved September 24th, 1789. United States Statutes at
Large, volume 1, p. 79. And as the banks could not themselves
have maintained a suit in the federal court to recover said bankbills, if no assignment had been made, so a like disability attaches to their assignee; or, more properly speaking, as the court
below could not take jurisdiction as between the banks and the
defendant, so by the terms of said statute it is prohibited from
taking cognizance as between the assignee of the banks and the
defendant,
The words of the prohibition are as follows: "Nor shall any
district or circuit court have cognizance of any suit to recover
the contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in
favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted
in such court to recover the said contents, if no assignment had
,been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
For the construction heretofore put upon this act of Congress
by the courts, see Ser6 & Laralde v. Pilot et al. 6 Cranch, 332;
Bradford v. Jenks et al. 2 McLean, 130; Gibson et al., v. Chen,
16 Peters, 315; Dromgoole et al. v. F. & M. Bank, 2 Howard,
241; Brown v. Noyes, 2 Woodb. & Miiot, 80; Sheldon et al.
v. Sill, 8 Howard, 441; 8 Porter, Alabama Rep. 240.
In this last-mentioned case, Mr. Justice Grier, in pronouncing
53*

630

SUPREME

COURT.

leshler v. Dodge.

the opinion of the court, says, "The term chose in action is one
of comprehensive import. It includes the infinite variety of
contracts, covenants, and promises, which confer on one party
a right to recover a personal chattel or a 3um of money from
another by action."
I shall insist that the only right, (if any right there was,)
transferred by the banks of Cleveland to Jchn G. Deshler, under
the circumstances set forth in the plea, was a thing in action;
a mere right to sue George C. Dodge to recover, in replevini,
the bank-bills, or in trover the value of the bank-bills, if Dodge
had improperly converted them. .And hence the Circuit Court
of the United States had no jurisdiction.
iTfr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio.
The suit below was an action of replevein to recover the possession of a quantity of bank-bills, in the hands of the defendant, upon banks in the city of Cleveland, amounting in the whole
to the sum of thirty-eight thousand five hundred and ninetytwo dollars, and the title to which was derived by an assignment from the banks to the plaintiff. The decla'ration is in tfhe
usual form for wrongfully and unjustly detoaining the possession
of the property, the plaintiff averring that he is a citizen and resident of the State of New York; and the defendant a citizen
and resident of the State of Ohio.
To this declaration, the defendant plead to the jurisdiction of
the court, setting up that the defendant was acting-treasurer
of the county of Cuyahoga, Ohio, and ha6- distrained the bills
in question belonging to the banks to satisfy the taxes and penalties duly imposed upon them; and that after the said bills
had been thus distrained and in his possession, the said banks
being inicorporated companies by the laws of the State of Ohio,
and doing business in the city of Cleveland,. sold, assigned, and
transferred the same to the plaintiff; and that all the right and
title to the said bills belonging to him is derived from the aforesaid assignment: wherefore the defendant says, the supposed
causes bf action are not within the juriodieti.on of the court, and
prays judgment if it will take further cognizance of the suit.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred, and -:he defendant joined
in demurrer, upon which judgment in the ccurt below was given
for the defendant.
The only question presented in the case by either of the parties is, whether or not the court below had jurisdiction of the case
within the true meaning of the 11th section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, the material part of which is as follows: "1Nor shall any

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

631

Deshler v. D-odge.
district or circuit court have cognizance of any suit to recover
the contents of any promissory note, or other chose in action in
favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted
in shch court to recover the said contents if no assignment had
been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange." It is
admitted the assignors in this case .could not have maintained
the suit in the federal courts. We are of opinion that this
clause of the statute has no application to the case of a suit by
the assignee of a chose in action to recover possession of the
thing in specie, or damages fPr its wrongful caption or detention; and that it applies only to cases in which the suit is
brought to recover the contents, or to enforce the -contract con.
tained in the instrument assigned.
In the case of a tortious taking, or wrongfil detention of a
chose in action against the right or title of the assignee, the injury is one to the right of property in the thing, and it is there-.
fore unimportant as it respects the derivation of the title; it is
sufficient if it belongs to the party bringing the suit at the time
of the injury.
The distinction, as it respects the application of the 11th section of the Judiciary Act to a suit concerning a chose in action
is this -where the suit is brought to enforce the contract, the assignee is disabled unless it might have been brought in the court,
if no assignment had been made; but, if brought for a tortious
taking or wrongful detention of the chattel, then the remedy accrues to the person who has the right of property or of possession at the time, the same as in case of a like wrong in respect
to any other sort of personal chattel.
The principle governing the case wili be found in caseq that
have frequently been before us arising out of the assignment of
mortgages, where it has been held, if the suit is brought to recover the possession of the mortgaged premises, the assignee
may bring the suit in the federal courts, if a citizen of a State
other than that of the tenant in possession, whether the mortgagee could have maintained it or not, within this section; but,
if brought to enforce the payment or collection of .the debt by
sale of the premises or by a decree against the mortgagor, then the
assignee is disabled, unless the like suit could have been maintained by the mortgagee. 7 Howard 198. This distinction is
stated by Mr. Justice Grier, in the case of Sheldon et al. v. Sill,
8 Howard, 441. The learned Justice, in delivering the opinion
of the court in that case, observed, "that the term chose in action is one of comprehensive import. It includes the infinite
variety of contracts, covenants, and promises, which confers on
one party a right to recover a personal chattel, or sum of money
from another, by action." This paragraph has been relied ou

632

SUPREME COURT.
Deshler v. Dodge.

to sust-ai the plea in question; but other portions of this 6pinion
will show, that the phrase "right to recover a personal chattel,"
was .not meant a: recovery in specie, or damages for a tortious
injury to the same, but a remedy on the contract for the breach
of it, whether the contract was for the payment of money, cr the
delivery of a personal chattel. Indeed, upon a close examination, this is the fair import of the language used, as he was
speaking of the contract in the instrument assigned, not of the
sale or transfer of it.
We have looked simply at the question of jurisdiction in the
case, as that is the only question raised by the plea, and as we
are satisfied that the demurrer to it is well taken, the judgment
of tle court below should be reversed, with costs, and proceedings remitted, with directions that judgment be given for the
plaintiff that the defendant answer over.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Justice CATRON, dissenting.
The defendant, Dodge, was treasurer and tax-collector of Cuyahoga county, in Ohio, for the year- 1852. There was assessed on the tax -list of that year, against the Bank of Cleveland,
$10,580; againstpthe Merchants Bank of Cleveland, $7,965;
on the Canal Bank of Cleveland, $9,216; and on the Commercial Bank of Cleveland, $11,981-making $38,981.
These respective amounts were distrained in bank-notes
from each bank, and deposited by the tax-collector with the
Cleveland Insurance Company, to his credit. As the four banks
whose property was distrained were incapable of suing the taxcollector (who was citizen of Ohio) in the Circuit Court of the
United States, they joined in a written transfer of the banknotes to John G. Deshler, the plaintiff, a citizen of New York,
and he obtained a writ. of replevin, and process founded on it,
out of the Circuit Court of the United States, and declared as
a citizen of New York. The defendant Dodge pleaded in
abatement, alleging that the causes of action re, not within
the jurisdiction of the court; to which plea, there-was a demurrer.

The first question is, whether this plea in abatement is the
proper defence, or should the plea have been in bar.
The plea sets forth the distress for taxes due and unpaid from
the banks to the State; that the defendant Dodge was the taxcollector, and had the proper authority to make the distress, and
did distrain, by virtue of his authority. By the laws of England, replevin does not lie for goods takeii in execution; nor in

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Deshler v. Dodge.

cases where goods are taken by distress according to pn act of
parliament, this being in the nature of an execution. 7 Bac.
Ab. Replevin and Avowry, C. 71; 6 Comyns's Digest, Replevin,
D. 218; II8ley v. Stubbs, 5 Mass. Rep. 282, per Parsons, Ch. J.
So the statute of Ohio, under which the proceeding in this
case was had, gives the writ of replevin, and prescribes thd mode
of proceeding, requiring an affidavit fiom the owner (or his
agent) thatt the goods were his, that they are wrongfully detained
by the defendants; "and that said goods and chattels were not
taken in the execution, on any judgment against said plaintit,
nor for the payment of any tax, fine, or amercement assessed
against the plaintiff;" and it is further provided that any writ
of replevin, issued wxithout such affidavit, shall be quashed at
the costs of the clerk issuing it; and that he and the plaintiff
shall be liable in damages to the party injured. This adiidavit,
Deshler made, and got the property into his possession on giving bond as the law requires.
The plea distinctly shows that the property was in a condition not to be taken by the writ of replevin, and that the Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction to issue the writ, or in anywise interfore vili the property by that suit in replevin; and there being no
jurisdiction to try title, or proceed further, the plea in abateinent
was the proper one. And so are the American decisions. Shaw
v. Levy, 17 Serg. & Rawle, 99.
The next question is, whether these corporations could lawfully assign to a third person their rights of action, to property
out of their possession, and held adversely? Oil common-law
principles such al assignment is champerty. Blackstone says,
(vol. 4 135,) champart, in French law, signified a similar division of profits: "in our sense of the word it signifies i lic purchasing of a suit, or right of suing; a practice so much abhorred
by our law, that it is one main reason why a chose in action,
or thing of which One hath the right, but not the possession, is not
assignable at common law; because no man should purchase
any pretence to sue in another's right."
I am not aware that this, as a general rule, has been disputed.
It therefore follows, as I think, that the assignment was void,
and that the causes of action belonged to the four banks as if
it had never been made; and they alone, having the right to
sue in any form, and being citizens of Ohio, no power to interfere with the tax-collector, Dodge, or the property distrained,
existed in the United States court.
A principal objection that I have heard urged is, that as the
plea sets forth matter in bar, and commences and concludes in
abatement, it is bad for this reason: If we were allowed to rely
on such a barren. technicality, the qssumntion is not well found.

634

SUPREME

COURT.

Deshler v. Dodge.
ed. Li -a replevin for goods the defendant may plead property
in another -(or that the goods were taken in. execution) either in
abatement or bar. 1 Chit. P1. 446; Ilsley v. Stubbs, 5 Mass.
Rep. 284-5; 1 Johns. Rep. 380; 1 Salk. 5.
As the plaintiff had no title that he could assert, it is of no consequence to him who has, say some of the authorities; but if this
second ground was doubtful, it is cured by the act of jeofails.
The thirty-second section of the Judiciary Act declares that
no proceeding in civil causes shall be quashed or reversed, for
any.defect of want of form, but that the courts shall proceed
and give judgment according to the right of the cause without
regarding such defects, or want of form in any pleading, except
in cases of demurrer, where the party demurring shall have specially set down and expressed in his demurrer, the causes thereof. The demurrer here is general, and no mere technicality was
alloWable.
"The right of the matter in law," in this case, involves a very
grave consideration, such as would in all probability deeply disturb the harmony of the Union, if tax-payers in larger classes,
could combine together, let their property be distrained, and
then assign it to a third person, a citizen of another State, and
on the same day, as in this case, take it from the State authority by a federal court writ, and let it be taken beyond the
State's jurisdiction.
It was said by the Supr eme Court of Pennsylvania, in a case
where property had been seized for taxes due, and taken from
the officer's possession by a writ of replevin, "that the court
will not support this form of action in such a case, nor suffer
such an abuse of their process. If one man may bring replevin where his goods have been taken for taxes, so may every
other person; and thus dhe collection of all taxes might be
evaded. Independently of the act of assembly we are bound to
quash this writ." 3 Yeates's Rep. 82.
I deem the case before us. to have been a very disreputable
proceeding. The officers of these banks could not make the necessary oath required to obtain a writ of ::eplevin. and to evade
the laws of Ohio, the device of an assignment of their separate
causes of action to a non-resident was resorted to, who could
swear that this property was not distrained for his taxes, and
thus apparently comply with the law, so far as an oath was required; whereas he violated its spirit, to bring into a tribunal of
the Union a controversy that a State court would not sanction,
by practising a fraud on the laws of OLib, and a fraud on the
Constitution of the United States. And what adds to the grossness of this transaction is, the attempt to assign and vest in this
plaintiff divers causes of action, by separate assignors, thus seek-

DECEMBER TER.M, 1853.

635

Doe et al. v. Braden.

ing to practise champerty, in a form and to an extent not heretofore
devised. If four could assign, and their claims be combined in
one suit, by the assignee, so could as many hundreds. To sanction the validity of an assignment to a non-resident of property
adversely held, and let him sustain a suit for it, would throw
open the United States courts to every matter of litigation where
property was in dispute exceeding the value of five hundred
dollars.
I feel quite confident that the Constitution did not contemplate this mode of acquiring jurisdiction to the courts of the
Union, and am -of opinion, that the judgment of the Circuit
Court sustaining the plea ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I also dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, and
concur in the views so conclusively taken of it by my brother
Catron.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this cause be, and
the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court for
further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opiniont of this court.

JOHN DOE,

ON THE DEM ISE OF LOT CLARK, DAvID CLARKSON,
JOSEPH D. BEERS, ANDREW TALCOTT, BRANTZ MAYER, AND
HARRIET HACKLEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH ADDISON

BRADEN.
In the ratification, by the King of Spain, of the treaty by which Florida was ceded to
the United States, it was admitted that certain grants of land in Florida. amongst
which was one to the Duke of Alagon, were annulled and declared void.
A written declaration, annexed to a treaty at the time of its ratification, is as obligatory as if the provision had been inserted in the body of the treaty itself.
Whether or not the King of Spain had power, according to the Constitution of Spain,
to annul this grant, is a political and not a judicial question, and was -decided when
the treaty was made and ratified.

