142

SUPREME

COURT.

Davenport et al. v. Fletcher ct al.

then, I think, no security to cover its contingent loss should be
required; and here twenty-five thousand dollars has been earned,
previous to the suit, by the mortgaged slaves, and is in court.
That this mprtgagor is stripped of his property, and cannot give
security for so large an amount, is manifest, and to construe the
act of Congress as if this was a simple julgment at law, would
operate most harshly.
.MIotiom overruled.

CHARLES

DAVENPORT ET AL., HEIRS OF JOBN DAVENPORT,
DECEASED, V. F. FLETCHER ET AL.

1. Where the judgment is not properly described in the writ of error;
2. Where the bond is given to a person who is not a par;y to the judgment;
3. Where the cittion issued, is i-sucd to a person who is not a party; - the writ of
error will be dismissed on motion.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It will be necessary to state only the judgment, and such of
the other subsequent proceedings as gave rise to the motion to
dismiss, and the judgment of the court thereon.
On the 23d of June, 1848, the Circuit Court pronounced a
judgment which is thus recited in the writ of possession, which
was issued on the 21st of July, 1848.
Whereas' Felicite Fletcher, Maria Antonia Fletcher, Augustine. Cuesta, Javiera Cuesta, and Felicite Cuesta y Fletcher,
complainants, against Charles Davenport, Erasmus A. Ellis,
Margaret Davenport, wife of Peter McKitick, John Phellip
Edgar Davenport, and Elizabeth Davenpor, wife of Celestine
Maxent,
heirs
John
defendof
the judgment
of of
June,
A. Davenport,
D. 1848, by deceased,
ants,
on deceased,
the 23d dayr
the Circuit Court of the United States, for the fifth Circuit and
District of Louisiana, &c. &c. &c.
The petition for the writ of error was in the names of the
above defendants, and alleged further, that since said final judghad pat~ted
ment the originhal plaintiffs in the petition named,
with their interest in the said judgment to Charles McMicken, a
citizen of the State' of Ohio, and he hath been subrogated to
the rights of the plaintiffs in the case, as doth appear by the
record in this cause. The ptitio then prayed that the "original plaintiffs herein, as well also as the said Charles McMicken,
may be made paties hnereto and duly. cited, &. &c. &c.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

143

Davenport et al. v. Fletcher et al.

The writ of error began as follows:
Because, in the record and proceedings, as also in the rendition of the judgment of a plea which is in the said Circuit
Court, before you, or some of you, between F. Fletcher et al.
and Charles Davenport et al., heirs of John Davenport, deceased, a manifest error hath happened to the great damage of
the said Charles Davenport et al., heirs of John Davenport,
deceased, as by their complaint appears, &c., &c., &c.
Citations were issued to Felicite Cuesta y Fletcher, wife of
Jose Desadario Harravo; to Augustine Cuesta; to Javiera
Cuesta; to Maria Antonia Fletcher, otherwise called Maria
Antonia Fletcher. Hipp; to Felicite Fletcher, otherwise called
Felicite Fletcher I1ipp; and to Charles lc icken.
The bond was given by a portion only of the plaintiffs in
error, and exclusively to Charles Meficken.
On the 12th of December, 1853, 111'r. Pern,on behalf of the
defendants in error, moved to dismiss the writ of error for several reasons, amongst which were the two following, which are
the only ones necessary now to be mentioned.
lst. That there is a misjoinder of the defendants in error, in
adding Charles MlcMicken in the petition for writ of error,
whereas the name of the said McMicken does not appear as a
party in the record.
2d. That there is a variance between the petition for the
writ of error and the writ itself, in this, that the writ does not
contain the same number of defendants as the petition, omitting
all the six names contained in the petition except that of
Charles Davenport. And there is also a varianee between.thh
petition and citation, and between the writ and citation, in this,
that the each citation does not contain the name of but one of
the defendants in error,
On the 6th of January, 1854, Mr. DUncan, on behalf of the
plaintiffs in error, filed an affidavit suggesting a diminution of
the record, and obtained a certiorari; the return of which was
as follows:
"F. Fletcher et al. v. .ohn Davenports Heirs. No. 1320.
"On the joint motion of F. Pern,of counsel for the plaintiffs
in the above suit, and of S. S. Prentiss, of counsel for Charles
MNcMicken, and on exhibiting to the court an authentic act of
transfer of the judgment rendered in this case, from said plaintiffs to said Charles MeMicken, dated October 19th, 1848, and
filed in the office of L. T. Caire, notary public of the city of
New -Orleans, - It is oralered by the court, that the said judgment shall 'stand transferred on the records of this court, as it is

SUPREME COURT.
Adams et al. v. Law.

in said act of transfer; and that all subsequent proceedings in
this case relating to the said judgment, shall be conducted and
carried on in the name of the original plaintiffs, for the use and
benefit of the said Charles McMicken, and at his expense."
All which is now certified to the honorable the Supreme Court
of the United States, in obedience to the mandate herewith
returned.
Witness my hand, and the seal of said zourt, at New Orleans,
Louisiana, this 1st March, A. D. 1854.
J. W. GURLEY, Clerk.
[SEAL.]
The motion to dismiss was argued by Mr. .Perin, for the
defendants in error, and by Mr. Duncan and Mr. Coxe, for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made for a dismissal of this cause.
1. Because the judgment is not properly described in the
-writ of error.
2. Because the bond is given to a person who is not a party
to the judgment.
3. Because the citation issued, is issued to a person who is
not a party.
The objections are all founded in fact, and upon the authority of Samuel Smyth v. Strader, Perine & Co., 12 How. 327.
The case is dismissed, with leave, however, to the counsel for
the plaintiffs, to move for its reinstatement, duribg the present
term.

A xMs, EXEOUTOR OF THOMAS LAW, DECEASED, AND
IENRY MAY, ADMINISTRATOR OF EDMUND AND THOMAS Law,
APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH E. LAW, BY HIS NEXT FRIEND, MTARY
ROBINSON.

JAMEs

In order to act as a supersedeas upon a decree in chancery, the appeal bond must be
filed
within ten days after the rendition of the decree. In the present case, where
the bond was not filed in time, a motion foi a superseeasis not sustained by sufficient reasons, and consequently must be overruled.
So, also, a motion is overruled to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground that the real
parties in the case, were not made parties to the appeal. The error is d mere
clerical omission of certain words.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the .United
States for the District of Columbia.
Two motions were made in respect to it.One by ifr. Coxe.

