SUPREME

COURT.

McCabe v. Worthington.

But this objection cannot be maintained. The case was at final
hearing at the argument upon the exceptions; and all of the
previous interlocutory orders in relation to the merits, were open
for revision, and under the control of the court. This court so
decided when the former appeal hereinbefore mentioned, was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. And if the court below, upon
further reflection or examination, changed its opinion, after passing the order, or found that it was in conflict with the decision
of this court, it was its duty to correct the error. The Circuit
Court on this occasion has properly done so, and the decree of
dismissal must be -affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause tame on to be heard, on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause, be and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

EDWARD H. MC CAB E, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. LLOYD

D.

WORTH-

INGTON.

The act of Congress, passed on the 3d of March, 1807, (2 St. at L. 440,) declared that
all claims to land in Missouri should be void unless notice of the claim should be
filed with the Recorder of Land Titles, prior to the Ist. of July, 1808.
Hence, in the year 1824, a claim which had not been thus filed had no legal existence.
The act of the 26th May, 1824, (4 St. at L. 52,) author zing the institution of pro.
ceedings to try the validity of claims, did not reserve fiom sale lands, the claims to
which had not been filed as above.
Therefore, when the owner of such a claim filed his petition in 1824, which was decided against him; and he brought the case to this cot rt, which was decided in his
favor in 1836, bat in the mean time entries had been made for parts of the land,
the latter were the better titles.
Moreover, the act of May 24, 1828, (4 St. at L. 298,) provides that confirmations
and patents under the act of 1824 should only operate as a relinquishment on the
part of the United States. Therefore, the confirmaticn by this court in 1836 was
subject to this act.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Missouri, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act.
It was an action of ejeetment commer.ced by the plaintiff
against the defendant in the State Circuit Court of Missouri,
where the defendant had judgment, which, on appeal by the
plaintiff to the Supreme Court of the State of issouri, was
affirmed by that court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

87

McCabe v. Worthington.

The plaintiff's title rested on a concession by the Spanish
government in 1796, which was confirmed by a decree of the
Supreme Court of the United States on the 21st January, 1836,
on an appeal from the District Court of Missouri, which exercised jurisdiction of the subject-matter, under the provisions of
the act of C6ngress of May 26th, 1824, entitled "An act enabling
the claimants to lands within the limits of the State of Missouri
and Territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the
validity of their claims." The petition was filed by the claimant, Antoine Soulard, on the 22d August, 1824.
In January, 1825, an amended petition was filed by Antoine
Soulard, who afterwards died; and on the 4th Monday of
March following, the proceedings were revived in the name of
the widow and heirs of the said Soulard, and such proceedings
were had that a decree was render6d against the petitioners .by
the District Court on the 4th Monday of December, 1825, from
which an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States
was taken within one year from its rendition, where, on the
21st January, 1836 the decree of the District Court was reversed, and the claim of the petitioners was confirmed for all
the land claimed, except that which had been sold by the United
States before the filing of the petition in the case.
In pursuance to this decree, the land claimed and confirmed
was surveyed, and the survey returned to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office; on which, on the 22d December, 184,
a patent was issued to the petitioners, under whom the plaintiff
claims. The land sued for is comprehended within the limits
of the survey, and in the patent of Soulard's widow and heirs.
No notice in writing, stating the nature an& extent of his claim,
was ever delivered by Soulard to the Recorder of Land Titles
under any of the acts -of Congress in relation to that subject.
The defendant relied owpatents from the United States issued
in the year 1836, founded on cntries made in the year 1834,
while the case of Soulard, widow and heirs, against !he United
States, was pending in the Supreme Court; which patents embraced the land ir controversy.
On the trial in the State Circuit Court, the counsel for the
plaintiff prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows First. That the decree of confirmation, made by the Supreme
Court of the United States on the 21st day of January, 1836, to
Julia, Soulard, wkiow, and James G. Soulard and others, heirs of
Antoine Soulard, deceased, relates back to the time of filing the
petition fir confirmation, and passes to the confirmees the title
to the land thereby confirmed, so as to cut out all titles and
claims thereto originating after the filing of said petition.
Secand. If the jury believe from the evidence that the land

88

SUPREME COURT.
McCabe v. Worthingtn.

sued for was patented by the United States on the 22d day of
December, 1845, to the widow and heirs of Antoine Soulard,
deceased; that such patent wxs issued :or land surveyed for
said patentees in pursuance of a decree of confirmation made
by the Supreme Court of the United States; and that such
decree of confirmation was founded on a petition for a confirmation filed in the United States Court for the District of
Misscmi, on the 22d day of August, 1824, such patent conveyed to the patentees a better title to the land sued for than
that derived from an entry of the same made after the said
22d of August, 1824, or from a patent issied on such entry.
Tidr& If the jury believe from the e'.idence that Antoine
Soutard, on the 22d day of August, 1824, petitioned the District Court of the State of Missouri for the coifirmation of his
title to a claim for 10,000 arpens of' land; that said Antoine
Soulard died, and the suit was revived and prosecuted in the
name of his widow and children; that the said District Court
decreed against the said claim; that said suit was appealed to
the Supreme Court of the United States, within one year from
the time of the rendition of said decree by the District Court;
that said Supreme Court afterwards decided in favor of the said
claim, and by a decree confirmed the same to.said widow and
hbirs ; that the surveyor of public lands fbr the State of Missouri caused the land specified in said decree to be surveyed for
said confirmees ;-If the jury find these facts to be true, then the
said widow and-heirs of Antoine Soulard had, by virtue thereof,
a better title to the land included in such survey than the defendant can have to any part of it by virtue of an entry made after
the said 22d of August, 1824, or by virtue of o.patent issued on
said entry.
Fourth. The title under the confirmation of the Supreme
Court of the United States to the repre. entatives of Antoine
Soulard is a better title than that of the defendant
Fifth. The act of May the 26th, 1824, passed by the Congress of the United States, reserved from sale the lands included
within the bounds of all claims of the character embraced within
the provisions of the first section of that act, from the time of
the filing of the petition for confirmatior4 of such claims in the
District Court of Missouri, until such time as said claims should
be finally decided against the claimants.
Sixth. Any entry -of land made within the limits of any
claim, of the character embraced within the provisions of the
first section of the act of May 26th, 1824, after the filing of the
petition of the claimant in the District Court, as provided for
by said act, and before said claim shall be finally decided against
the claimant, is a void entry, and the patent issued thereon is a

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

89

McCabe v. Worthington.

void patent. Which instructions the court refused to give;
to which refusal the plaintiff then and there at the time excepted.
And the court, on motion of defendant, gave the following
instructions, to wit: 1. If notice of the Soulard claim was not filed with the Recorder of Land Titles in St. Louis prior to the first day of July,
1808, then said claim was not by law reserved from sale; and,
if not reserved from sale by law, was subjected to sale as other
public lands.
2. If Soulard's claim was not reserved- from sale, then the
entry of the defendant, if made according to law, being older,
is a better title than the plaintiff's confirmation.
3. The patent of the defendant is prirnt facie evidence that
this entry was regular and lawful.
4. The act of Congress of 26th May, 1824, under which Soulard's claim was-confitmed, did reserve from sale the land covered
by said claim, and any sales of such lands regularly made prior
to the confirmation, conveys to the purchaser a better title than
said confirmation, such claim not having been filed with the
recorder prior to July 1st, 1808.
5. The commencement of a suit by Soulard in the United
States Court. for the purpose of obtaining a confirmation of his
claim, did not operate as notice of his" claim, so as to affect a
title otherwise regularly obtained from the United States; and
sales of such land, made after the commencement of this suit
stands upon the same ground as if nmade before such suit was
commenced.
To the giving of which instructions the plaintiff then and
there at the time excepted..
Upon these exceptions the case went up to the Supreme Court
of Missouri, where the judgment of the court below was affirmed.
And to review this decision the case was brought here.
It was argued by _11r. Geyer, for the plaintiff in error. and
3r. Wells, for the defendant in error

Mr. Geye.r, for the plaintiff in error.
The Supreme Court of the State of Missouri on the appeal,
decided that the claim of Antoine Soidard, at the date of the
act of 1824, had no legal existence; the United States were
under no obligation, moral or political, to make any provision
for its recognition or confirmation; it was forfeited, by reason
of its owner failing to give notice of it within the time prescribed by law. That the act of 1824 conferred a gratuity, and
the claimants under it, especially those in the class of Soulard,
were applicant to the bounty
So or favor of Congress. The land

90

SUPREME COURT.
MKcCabe v. Worthington.

claimed was public land, liable to sale and entry as other public lands, pending the suit.
The plaintiff in error submits that the decree of confirmation
made by the court on the 21st of January, 1836, vested in Julia
Soulard, widow, and James G. Soulard, and the other heirs of
Antoine Soulard, deceased, all the title of the United States in
the land in controversy, as it was at the commencement of the
suit, and consequently that the sale pending the suit was void.
1. The act of Congress, of May 26, 1824, under which the
proceedings were had, was not designed to confer gratuities upon
claimants, but to -provide a remedy by which legal, just, and
bond fide claims might be established. "The mischief intended
to be provided for by the act,.vas the irchoate or incomplete
condition of titles having a fair, and just, and legal inception,
under either the French or Spanish governments of Louisiana,
but which by reason of the abdication or superseding of their
governments, and by that cause only, had not been completed."
The United States v. Reynes, 9 Howard: 127, 145; 4 Stat. at
Large, 52.
2. It may be conceded that the claim of Soulard was barred
as against the United States by the neglect to file notice thereof,
as required by the act of March 3, 1807, yet as the bar was removed by the act of May 26, 1824, and the land remained undisposed of, the claim was restored to :its original standing,
precisely as if the act of 1807 had not passed. The act of 1824
enables -all claimants, under incomplete titles, having a fair,
legal, and just origin, to bring such titles before the courts of
the United States, and there establish them by proof of the legality and justice of their origin and charac.ter, without regard to
any proceedings or notice under previous acts of Congress.
3. The effect of the act of 1824, is to reserve from sale and
location the lands embraced by any incomplete title, within the
description of the first section, until the final decision of the
case where a suit is prosecuted, and for two years where the
claimant fails to prosecute his claim under the act. See sections
5 and 7, and the case of Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 284.
-Mr.Wells, for defendant in error.
Did the court err in refusing to give the instructions prayed
for by the plaintiff, or in -giving those for the defendant?
1. It is clear that Soulard's claim was riot reserved from sale
by the acts of 1811 or 1818, or, indeed, by any other act prior
to that of May 26, 1824; for the only cbndition upon which
such reservations were made, was that notice of the claim
shguld have been filed with the Recorder of Land Titles, on or
before the 1st of July, 1808. Of this claim no such notice had

DECEMBER TtRM, 1853.
McCabe v. Worthington.

ever been filed. - It stood then by the terms of the acts of the
2d March, 1805, and of March 3, 1807, a barred claim. The
fifth section of the latter act provided that "the rights of such
persons as shall neglect to file such notices within the time
therein limited (the 1st July, 1808,) shall, so far as they are
derived from, or founded on any act of Congress, ever after
be barred and become void, and the evidences of their claims
never after admitted as evidence in any court of law or equity
whatever." The claim then, at the date of the act of 1824, was
wholly destitute of merit. Whatever claims it might originally have had upon the justice of the government, had long
since been ldst by the laches of the claimant, and by the lapse
of time. Its confirmation to him then was a mere naked
gratuity.
2. The act of May 26, 1824, did not make any express provision for the reservation of this or any other claim. Its provisions
extended to two classes of claims -those which had been filed
with the recorder, as required by law, and which were reserved
by the acts of 1811 and 1818, and those which had not been so
filed and reserved. And, indeed, it is the only act of Congress
that has ever opened the door for confirmation to this latter
class, since they were barred.
The fifth section of the act provides, "That any claim to lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, within the provisions of this act,
which shall not be brought by petition before said courts, within
two years from the passing of this act, or which after being
brought before the said courts, shall on account of the neglect
or delay of the claimant, not be prosecuted to a final decision
within'three years, shall be forever barred, both at law and
in equity, and no other action at common law or proceeding in
equity shall ever thereafter be sustained in any court whatever
in relation to said claims."
This provision can only relate to the class of claims which
had, by former laws, been reserved from sale. As to the other
class, they ywere already, by the act of 1807, barred, and no new
legislation was required to bar them. Those which had been
reserved must continue to stand reserved until some act was
passed to take off the reservation. This fifth section effectually
secured that object. It could not have been intended to bar a
claim already barred, and liable to be sold as other public
land.
But the fifth section only barred the claims from future adjudication. It did not provide for the sale of the lands within
those claims. When the claim ceased to be held up-for adjudication, it became necessary, according to the policy of .Congress, that the land should be offered for sale as other public
land

SUPREME

COURT.

McCabe v. Worthingtoh.

And accordingly the seventh section of the act was introduced
for that purpose. It reads thus: "That in each and every case
tried under the provisions of this act, wh .ch shall be finally
decided against the claimant, and in each and every case in
which any claim cognizable under the terms of this act, shall
be barred by. virtue of any of the provisions contained therein,
the land specified in such claim shall forthwith be held and
taken as a part of the public lands of the United States, subject to the same disposition as any other public land in the
same district."
It is this section which it is supposec? operated by implication
to establish the reservation of Soulard's claim. But it is clear
that it could not relate-to that class of claims. It relates to
claims barred by the provisions of this act. Soulard's claim
was not barred by this act, for it had been barred many years
before by the acts of 1805, 1806, and 1807. It had been incorporated with the other public lands, and srarveyed, and offered
for sale with them. No new legislation was required to put it
in the market,'for it was already in market, and as stated by
the petitioner himself in his petition to the district court, "the
quantity of one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven acres
and thirty-five hundredths, had been definitively sold by the
United States"" and he gives the names of the persons to whom
sold. See, Record, page 7.
The language of the act is, "shall forthwith be held and taken
as apart of the public lands of the United States." This language
is appropriate when applied to lands which had always been
reserved from sale; which bad never been in market; which
had been treated as private property, and never "held and taken
as a part of the public lands of the United States," but can
have no proper application to those lands which had in every
respect been subject to all the laws relating to public lands
since 1808.
3. But 'there are other provisi6ns of the act of 1814, which
preclude the idea that it was intended byi Congress, that the
title acquired by the claimant should ever be brought into conffict with sales made by the United States.
The sixth section provides that the clerk of the court shall
furnish the successful claimant with a copy of the decree, who
shall deliver it to the Surveyor of Public Lands in Missouri.
And the surveyor shall cause the same tc be surveyed. The
eleventh section then provides, "That if ia any case it should
so happen that the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, decreed
to any claimant under the provisions of this act, shall have
been sold by the United Status or otherwise disposed of, or if
the same shall not have been heretofore located in each and

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
McCabe v. Worthington.

every such case, it shall and may be lawful for the party interested to enter after the same shall have been offered at public
sale, the like quantity of lands in parcels, conformable to sectional divisions and subdivisions, in any land-office in the State
of MAissouri," &c.
Now in order to understand more clearly the import of the
phrase in this section, "lands, tenements, or hereditaments, decfeed to any claimant," it will be necessary to examine for a
moment the provisions of the first section. By that section the
claimant was not only required to set out his own title in full,
but also "the name or names of any person or persons claiming the same or any part thereof by a different title from that of
the petitioner." This was done by Soulard in his petition. He
showed that 1,947.35-100 arpens had been sold by the United
States, to other persons, before his suit was brought. He did
not claim this land, but claimed the residue of the 10,000 arpens.
It could not, theb, have been this land, already sold, which the
act of Congress supposed might be "decreed to the complainant." This could not have been decreed to him under any circumstances. He did not ask for it, nor could he demand it, for
it had already been lawfully sold to olher persons. It was then
a part of the residue that the statute contemplated might be
decreed to him, when it had already been sold by the United
States, and it-was this for which this section provided. To give
the act this construction leaves it in harmony with all the legislation of Congress on the subject. It has been the uniform
policy of Congress to protect those to whom they have sold for
a valuable consideration. To say that Congress, by this provision, intended to protect those entries only which had been made
before the suit was brought, is to impute to that body the folly
of passing a law which, so far at least as this class of cases are
affected, was wholly unnecessary. These entries were lawful
and valid, and needed no legislation to protect them from
subsequent grants. But to construe the provision to extend
to entries made at any time prior to the decree, is to place
the act of 1824 upon the ground of the act of July 4, 1836, and,
it is believed all other acts for the confirmation of such claims.
In the case of Menard's heirs v. Massie, this court.has held that
the second section of that act protects all lands sold by the
United States. In that case (8 Howard, 308,) the Court says:
" From the first act, passed in 1805, up to the present time,
Congress has never allowed to these claims any standing other
than mere orders of survey, and promises to give title; and
which promises addressed themselves to the sovereign power in
its political and legislative capacity, and which must act before
the courts of justice could interfere to protect the claim. And

SUP'REME COURT.
McCabe v. Worthington.

so this court has uniformly held. The title of Cerre, having no
standing in court before it was confirmed, it must of necessity
take date from its confirmation, and cannot relate back so as to
'overreach the patents made in 1826 and 1827." These remarks
apply with eminent force to Soulard's claim. It was a claim
which had been barred, and abandoned by the claimant for
twenty years.
In the case cited, the Spanish claim had been filed with the
recorder, and was so far within the provis:ions of the acts reserving such claims. But it had never been surveyed. In rela*tion to this branch of the case, the court remarks: "In reservIng lands from sale, it was necessary to know where they were.
situated, and how far they interfered with the public surveys.
Either the President or some other officer must have had the
-power to designate the lands as those adjoining to salt springs,
or lead mines; or it must have appeared in some public .office
appertaining to the Land Department, what the boundaries of
reserved lands were; and if it did not appe ar, no notice of the
claim could be taken by the surveyors, nor by the registers and
receivers, when making sales." 8 Howard, "09.
I request the court to note the fact, apparent from the record,
that no record or memorandum of this claim was to be found
in any office belonging to the Land Delartment, except in
Soulard's old book of Spanish surveys. There he states in his
petition he recorded it. But no attention was ever given by
surveyors or other officers, to the surVeys of claims not recorded.
No. copy of such surveys were ever sent to the Register's office.
Even if Congress had in terms required him to withhold this
land from sale, it would have been impossible for him to do so.
He could not know where it was.
When the .act of February 17, 1818, passed just before the
land sales in Missouri, requiring certain claims to be reserved
from sale, an order was issued from the Land Department directing the Recorder of Land Titles to furnish to the several
registers descriptive lists of such land within their respective
districts, as the act required, should be withheld from sale. Had
this not been done, the registers would have been unable to
carry into efbect the act of 1818. As it was, large quantities
of those lands were sold through mistake, and even these sales
were protected by the second section of the act of July 4, 1836.
But in this case the register had no such information. Congress could not have intended that he shculd suspend any of
his sales, or adequate provision would have been made to enable him to do so. So obvious was this view of the law, that
the learned judge, in delivering the opinion of this court in the
case, citing Menard's Heirs v. Massey, p. 307, says: "It was

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

95

McCabe v. Worthington.

therefore manifest that claims resting on the first incipient steps
must depend for their sanction and completion upon the sovereign power, and to this course claimants had no just cause to
object as their condition was the same under the Spanish government. No standing, therefore, in any ordinary judicial tri
bunal has ever been allowed to these claims, until Congress has
confirmed them and vested the title in the claimant. Such, undoubtedly, is the doctrine assumed by our.legislation. To go
no further, the act of May 26, 1824, allowing claimants a right
to present their claims in a court of justice, pronounces on their
true character. It declares that the claim presented for adjudication must be such a one as might have been perfected into a
complete title, under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and
customs of the government under which the same originated,
had the sovereignty not been transferred to the United States;
and by the 6th section, when a decree has been had favorabl to
the claim, a survey of the land shall be ordered and a patent
issue therefor; and by section eleventh, if the. decree shall -be
in the claimant's favor, and the land has been sold by the United
States or otherwise. disposed of, the interested party shall be,
allowed to enter an equal quantity of land elsewhere."
This admits of no comment.
4th. But it is said that the filing of his'petition for confirmation, by Soulard, in the District Court, was notice, and that no
one could purchase the land in prejudice of his right.
The rule here invoked is this: When a party commences
judicial proceedings for the purpose of establishing his right to
a particular piece of property, no one is permitted to purchase
that property of another, and claim to be an innocent purchaser,
without notice. The pendency of his suit is notice of all the
right the plaintiff has. But in the case of Soulard he had no
right or title whatever, to the lands for which he sued. It belonged to the government and not to hini; and if it belonged
to the government, then the government might lawfully sell it
to any one before it granted to him. He petitioned for a grant
of the land, and when he obtained his grant, he acquired only
the title which the government then had. His petition to the
court placed him on the ground of all other applicants for a
grant of land, the title to which was in the government. He who
first obtains the title, and not he who first applies, will hold it.
With these remarks, and the able argument of the learned
judge who delivered the opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri, the defendant in error submits this case.

Mr.Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the coutt.
This cause comes here by 'writof error to the Supreme Court

96

SUPREME COURT.
McCabe v. Worthington

of Missouri, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The error assumed to have been committed below, is that the
court misconstrued the act of May 26, 1824, enabling claimants
to lands in MiSsouri, to institute proceedings to try the validity
of their claims.
The action being an ejectment, and the defendant in possession by virtue of patents 'from the United States, the only question is whether the plaintiff has a better legal title.
The plaintiff relies on a decree of this court, made in 1836,
in favor of Soulard's heirs against the United States for 10,000
arpens of land including the premises sued for. The decree is
of younger date than the entries of the defndant, which were
made in 1834, and are a good title to 'sustain or defend an ejectment hi Missouri.
Soulard's claim was filed in the District Court, in August,
1824, and a confirmation demanded, but which was refused, and
the petition dismissed in 1825; from this decree an appeal
was prosecuted, and in 1836, a decree wass rendered by this
court confirming the claim. And the question here is, whether
the decree in the Supreme Court related back to the date of filing the petition against the United States in the District Court.
If it did, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover; and if it did
not, then the judgment below must be affirrmed.
The act of March 3, 1807, declared that all claims to lands
should be void unless notiae of the claim, &c., should be filed
with the Recorder of Land Titles, pior'to the first of July,
1808. Soulard's claim was not filed with the recorder, nor
'vas it presented to any tribunal for action on it, till suit was
brought in 1824, in the District Court. Up to that time, the
land claimed was subject to sale. This is admitted: But the
argument for the plaintiff is, that the act of 1824 removed the
bar, and restored the clajm tb its original standing as if the act
of 1807 had not been passed. Admitting this to be true, still
it proves nothing, as the United States could beyond question
have sold this land before 1807, and passed the legal title; and
hence the removal of the bar, imposed by that act, left the land
equally open to sale at any time after 1807, as it was before that
time.
The act of February 17, 1818, laid off local land districts in
Missouri; dne of which embraced the land in dispute, and provided for the sale, of pr~blic lands, from time to time, in each
district. But an exception was made according to the act of
1811: That till after the decision of Congress thereon, no tract
of land shall be offered for sale, the claim to which, has been in
due time, and according to law, presented to the Recorder of
Land Titles, and filed in his office.

DECEMBER TtRM, 1853.

97

McCabe v. Worthington.

The claims thus reserved from sale Were the' ones Congress
supposed would come before the District Court and he adjudicated under the actof 1824; and as they stood protected from
sale, no further provision was made by the act to protect such
claims as that of Soulard, which had never been recorded.
Having given no additional protection by the act of 1824,
and Congress having the power to grant the land, or to cause it.
to be done, through the department of public lands, the Commissioner of the General Land Office (June 25, 1831) ordered
the registers and receivers of the various land distfricts in, Missouri to proceed to sell the lands, not adjudicated under the act
of 1824, which had been subject to adjudication: holding that,
notwithstanding, the provisions of the acts of 1811 and 1818,
all claims not brought before the court, or if brought, not prosecuted to a final decision in three years by reason of neglect on
the part of the claimant, were subject to be offered at public sale.
Volume of Instructions and Opinions, No. 704. Under this established construction, the land in question was sold to the defendant. He could not know that Soulard's heirs claimed the
land, as their claim was nowhere recorded in any office appeTtaining to the department of public lands; and if he had known
that such claim existed, still the land court in Missouiri had
ceased to exist on the 26th of May, 1830, four years before he
purchased: Soulard's claim had been rejected in that court, and
had been pending on appeal in the Supreme Court, for nearly
ten years after the suit was instituted; whereas the act of 1824,
required that it , .auld be prosecuted to a final decision within
three years. Thus stand the equities of the defendant. But
another consideration is conclusive of this case: The act of
May 24, 1828, ยง 2, provides, that confirmations had by virtue
of the act of 1824, and patents issued thereon, should only operate as xelinquishments on the part of the United States, and
should in nowise affect the right or title, either in law or equity,
of adverse claimants to the same land. The act spoke of confirmations by decree, and declared that the decree should operate
prospectively; and consequently embraced a case, where the
land was acquired by purchase from the United States before
the decree was made, unless the acts of 1811 and 1818 pro-tected the land from sale. For these reasons, we agree with.he
Supreme Court of Missouri, that the defendant has the older
and better legal title, and order the judgment to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on this transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of MissourL and
VOL. xvr.

9

SUPREME COURT.
Size.r v.

M[any.

Was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs;

GEORGE

W., AND

HENRY SIZER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

LIAM

WIL-

V. MANY.

Where a Judgment in a patent case was affirmed by this court with a blank in the
record for costs, and the Circuit Court afterwards taxed these costs at a sum less
than two thousand dollars, and allowed a writ of error to this court, this writ must
be dismissed on motion.
The writ of error brings up only the proceedings subsequent to the mandate; and
there is no jurisdiction where the amount is less than two thousand dollars, either
under the general law or the discretion allowed by the patent law.

The latter

only relates to cases which involve the construction of be patent laws and the
claims and rights of patentees under them.
As a matter of practice this court decides, that it is proper for circuit courts to allow
costs to be taxed, nunerro tunc, after the receipt of the mandate from this court.

Tis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
Mr.Geor-e T. Curtis, on behalf of the defendant in error,
moved to dismiss the writ of error for the want of jurisdiction.
The cietimstances were these:
At th6 October term, in the year 184, of the Circuit Court
of the United States for Massachusetts Distict, Many, the defendant in error, recovered a judgment agairkst the plaintiffs in
error,.in an action for the infringement of leters-patent, which
the words following:
was entered and recorded in'
"It is thereupon considered by the court that the said William. V. Many recover against the said George W. and Henry
Sizer the sum of seventeen hundred and thirty-three dollars and
."
seVenty-five cents damages, and costs of suitltaxed at
The said Sizers thereupon, at the same term of the Circuit
Court, sued out 4 writ of error to this court, for the purpose of
having the saidjudgment revised. This writ of error wa duly
entered and prosecuted in this court and at the December'term,
1851, the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by a
divided court, and therefore it is not reported in Howard.
The mandate which went down, recited the judgment of the
Circuit Court as ahove given, and then proceeded thus:
t You therefore are hereby commanded that such execution
and proceedings be had in said cause as, according to right

