480

S*UPREME COURT.
Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

WILLIAMi H. SEYMOUR AND DAYTON S. MORGAN, PLAINTIPFS IN
ERROR, V. CyRus H. Mc Co.RmiOK.
In 1834, McCormick obtained a patent for a reaping machine. This patent expired
in 1848.
In 1845, he obtained a patent for an improvement upor- his patented machine; and
in 1847, another patent for new and useful improvements in the reaping machine.
The principal one of these last was in giving to the raker of the grain a convenient
scat upon the machine.
In a suit for a violation of the patent of 1847, it was erroneous in the Circuit Court
to say that the defendant was responsible in daniages to the same extent as if be
had pirated the whole machine.
It was also en'oneous to lay down as a rule for the measure of damages, the amount of
profits which the patentee would have made, if he had constructed and sold each
one of the machines which the defendants constructed and sold. There was no evidence to show that the patentee could have constructed and sold any more than
he actually did.
The acts of Congress and the rules for measuring damages, examined and explained.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of New
York.
The manter in which the suit was brought, and the charge
of the Circuit Court, which was excepted to, are stated in the
opinion of the court. The reporter passes over all other questions which were raised and decided, except those upon which
the decision of this court turned.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
Mr. Stevens and Mr. Johnson, for the defendants in error. There
was also a brief filed by 113r. Selden, for the plaintiffs in error.
The following points are taken from the brief of 1h-. Gillet,
for the plaintiffs in error.
Sixth. Where the claim oh which the suit is founded is for an
improvement on old machines, patented or "mpatented, the plain:
tiff is not entitled to recover, as a measure of damages, the mechanical profits that he could make upo-i the whole machine,
including the old part. His damages are limited to the profits
on making and vending the improvement patented and infringed.
The plaintiff recited in his declaration and furnished oyer of
his old patent of 1834, for a reaping machine, which expired in
1848, and his patent of 1845, which is described as an "improve .
ment upon his patented machine." In his patent of 1847, he
claims "new and useful improvements in the reap ig machine
formerly patented by me," in which he also claims other improvements besides the one in controversy, which is his last
claim, and relates to the seat. For the purpose of this suit, the
machine described in the patent of 1834, (which had in fact be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Seymour

481

et al. v. McCormick,

come public property,) and the improvements in the patent of
1845, and a large portion of those included in that of 1847, the
defendants had a perfectly lawful right to use. This covered
the whole of the improved reaping machine, except what related
to the seat, and its combination with the reel. It cost the defendants to make their maihine, which had no seat, about
$64.26. There was no proof to show the extent of the cost of the
plaintiff's seat. One was made by Zinck, for one dollar. The
plaintiff allowed Brown in effect, in 1845, 1846, $75 each, for
making maelfines without the elevated seat -and he proved on
this trial by Blakesley, that it cost him only $36, and by Dorman,
$37, to make them with it. There can be no pretence that the
addition of the seat, and what is covered by the last claim, added
much, if any thing, to the cost of constructing the improved
machine. The plaintiff proved by Blakesley, that the manufacturer's profit on the whole machine, including a $30 patent fee,
was $74.
It is evident that the manufacturer's profit constituted the
principal item of gain in constructing and selling the plaintiff's
reaper. The court instructed the jury that this profit on th6 two
old machines, and on that- part of the new not in*controversy,
could be recovered as a part of the plaintiff's "actual damage" for
violating the last claim.of the patent of 1847. The old machine
of 1834 was public property, and everybody had a right to construct and use it The patents show that it contained the great
and fundamental parts, and neary the whole of the new machine. As the p: "ntiff had decided not to proceed on his paten
of 1845, that was, in effect, public property. By waiving any
right to proceed on the first claim of his patent of 1847, the
plaintiff limited himself to the seat, combined with the reel.
The defendants had a right' to make every other part of the improved machine, and haying the right, the profits up to that poinf
were lawfully theirs. They had the right to construct the whole,
save the seat. If a profit could be made upon such construction,
it was as clearly theirs as if they had been made upon a machine
totally unlike the plaintiff's. There is no law, statute, or otherwise, which prohibits their making and receiving such profits.
The court instructed the jury that all these profits belonged to
the plaintiff, but pointed to no law showing im entitled to them.
The manufacturer's profits were distinct from his patent profits,
which he estimated and charged the defendants and his partners
generally at $30. The charge of the court gives him both. It
makes the monopoly of a patent confined to an inexpensive improvement carry with it a monopoly of manufacturers' profits
upon. what is public property, precisely the same as if the whole
had been included in the claim on which the trial was had.
VOL. XVI.

41

482

SUPREME

COUR".

Seymour et -l. v. McCormick.

The ruling of the judge allowed the plaintiff damages to as
great an extent as if the trial had been on, and had established,
the old patents of 1834 and 1845, and on the first claim of that
of 1847, as well as on the last. If the defendants pay these damages, there is nothing to prevent the plaintiff suing on the patent of 1845, and on the first claim of that of 1847, because this
trial and verdict were confined to the last claim of the latter
patent. They were not recovered upon. But the plaintiff was
adjudged to enjoy their advantages under the head of manufacturers' profits. But we deny that the patent laws confer a monopoly of profits on any thing not actually patented. It would
be extending the statute so as to make it cover, in effect, things
that the patentee did not invent, and which by law belong to the
public at large. This principle would authorize the patentee of
an improvement in steamboat machinery, or railroad cars, carding, spinning, weaving, and other like macines, to recover on
a patent for some trifling improvement of either the entire profits of manufacturing the whole apparatus to which it might be
attached.
The judge's rule allows the plaintiff precisely the same damages as if his last claim covered the whole reaping machine,
and had been held to be valid. Under his ruling, if the material
parts, other than the seat, had been covered by several other
patents, the defendants would have been responsible on each,
as well as to the plaintiff, for all profits, manufacturing as well
ae for the patent-right. In such a case the plaintiff's rights, as
against the defendants, would be precisely as strong as when
the latter used what is now public property. If the plaintiff
should bring a new suit on his patent of 1845, the recovery on
that of 1847 would be no bar, and he might obtain a second
manufacturer's proit. The defendants sought to attack the
validity of the patent of 1845, but the evidence was ruled out;
still the plaintiff was allowed to recover for the manufacturer's
profits of the part of the machine covered by this patent, just
the same as if it had been a part of the last claim of the patent
of 1847. If the defendants had been patentees of the whole
machine except the seat, and they had infringed the patent for
that, could the plaintiff recover manufacturer's profits on the
whole machine? Clearly not. Still the rights of the defendants
to make and use all but the seat, are just as strong and legal,
when they use what is public property,.oi what is not covered
by the last claim of the patent of 1847, as if they exercised them
under a patent. The fact that they had or had not a patent for
every thing but the seat, can neither increase nor diminish the
plaintiff's rights to damages; they, muit rest solely upon his
patent, and not upon those of others. The law allows him all

DECEMBER TERMI,

1853.

483

Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

the profit he can make on his patented improvement, and nothing
beyond. The judge's instruction was clearly erroneous, and
vitiates the verdict.
Seventhi. In estimating the plaintiff's damages for an infringement, his "actual damages" alone are to be considered,
and 1he jury are not authorized to presume that if the defendants had not made and sold machines, "all persons who bought
the defendants' machines would necessaily have been obliged
to go to the patentee and purchase his machines."
The proof showed that the plaintiff manufactured his machines
only at Chicago, in Illinois, and his sales were in the Western
States, except a few in western New York. The defendants
manufactured their machines at Brockport, near Rochester, in
New York, and sold them there, in Canada, and some at the
west, as proved. It was proved by Hanna -" The deminand
within my knowledge has been unparalleled, the manufacturer
oftentimes not being able to supply the demand at certain
points." The plaintiffoffered no proof tending to show that he
could and did supply all the demands for his machine, and could
have furnished more if called for. In the absence of this evidence, and in direct conflict with the oath of the plaintiff's. own
witness, who was his superintendent, the court instructed the
jury, that as a matter of law they were to presume that if the
defendants had not constructed and sold any machines, the
plaintiff would have manufactured and sold machines to the
same persons to whom the defendants had sold. Hence, the
jury were instructed to pcesume "in the judgment of the law"
what was grossly improbable, and what the plaintiff himself had
actually disproved. The law does not presume that all the persons who purchased of the defendants would have purchased of
the plaintiff, because the law does not presume absurdities, and
what is substantially a physical impossibility; nor does it presune, without evidence, that the plaintiff had introduced a witne s who had sworn falsely. This part of the charge is clearly
erroneous; the court should have snbmitted this matter to the
jury, to pass on as a question of fact.
(Mr. Stevens's eighth point was relative to the following exception which had bqen taken by the defendants below, namely:)
To that part of the charge which states, " the general rule is
that the plaintiff, if he has made out his right to recover, is entitled to the "actual damages he has sustained by reason of the
infringement; and those damages may be determined by ascertaining the profits which, in judgment of lav, he would have
made, provided the defendants had not interfered with his rights.
That view proceeds upon the principle that if the defendants
had not interfered with the patentee, all persons who bought

484

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

the defendants' machines would necessarily have been obliged
to go to the patentee and purchase his machine; ":-the defendants' counsel excepted.
VIII. The tenth exception cannot be sustained. That excep.
tion is to that part of the charge which 3tates that the rule of
damages is, "that the plaintiff is entitled to recover the actual
damages he has sustained by reason of the infringement."
Those damages may be determined by ascertaining the profits
which the plaintiff would have made if the defendants had not
interfered with his rights.
It is submitted that this is the correct rule of damages in any
case; but in this case its correctness cannot be doubted. The
defendants, with a full knowledge of plain tif's rights, intention.
ally violated them. They wete intentional wrongdoers, and
were, therefore, bound to pay the plaintiff all the damage he
had sustained by their tortious acts, just as much as they would
be bound to pay him the full value of a horse, or any other
chattel, of which they had tortiously deprived him.
It was, indeed, contended on the trial, that defendants were
only bound to pay such profits as they had made by this intentional piracy.
Without stopping to discuss the question whether there may
not be considerations in a suit in equity, where the defendants
ignorantly infringed a patent, which might limit the damages
in accordance with the rule contended fo:. by the defendants, it
is respectfully submitted, that in a suit At law, where the de.
fendants liave wilfully, knowingly, and intentionally, piratec
the invention of the patentee, and appropriated it to their own
use, the rule of damages laid down by the court in this case i
correct.
An infringer can afford to sell the machine patented at a lesr
profit than the patentee can.
He has spent no time, exercised no intellect, in excogitating
the discovery or invention.
He has spent ho time nor money in procuring the patent and
bringing it into. public use. Any other rule of damages, therefore, than that laid down by the court, would do great injustice
to the patentee. '
According to the rule contended for by defendants, if they
had sold the reapers made by them for Eimply what.it cost-to
construct them, or had- given them away, although it deprived
the patentee of- the profits which he might have made upon
those reapers, yet he could recover no damages.
But the defendant's counsel "did not request the court to
charge that the rule of damages was different from that stated
by the court. They simply excepted-to the charge of the court

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

485

Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

in that respect, without giving any reasons, or stating how
otherwise they desired the court to charge, in that regard.
As to the rule of the damages, see Pierson v. Eagle Screw
Company, 3 Story, 402, 410; Allen v. Blunt, 2 Woodbury &
Minot, 123, 446-7.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff below, Cyrus H. McCormick, brought this action
against the plaintiffs in error, Seymour & Morgan, for the infringernent of his patent right. The declaration consisted of
two counts.
The first alleged that the plaintiff was the true and original
inventor of certain new and useful improvements in the machine
for reaping all kinds of small grain, for which he obtained letters-patent on the 21st of June, 1834. And moreover, that the
plaintiff was the inventor of certain improvements upon the
aforesaid patented reaping machine for which he obtained letterspatent on the 31st day of January, 1845. And it charged that
the defendant had made three hundred reaping machines which
infringed the inventions and improvements, fourthly and fifthly
claimed in the schedule or specification of the last-named letterspatent.
The second count alleged that the plaintiff was the first
inventor of certain other improvements upon his said reaping
machine before patented, for which he obtained letters-patent
on the 23d day of October, 1847. -And that the defendant
manufactured and constructed three hundred machines embracing the principles of the last-named invention and improvements. The defendants pleaded not guilty, and the case being
called for trial in October, 1851, they prayed a continuance of
the cause on account of the absence of certain witnesses material to their defence against the charge laid in the first count, to
wit, the infringement of the patent of 1845.
The court intimated an opinion that the affidavit was sufficient to put off the trial of the cause, whereupon the plaintiff's
counsel stated to the court that rather than have the trial put
off, they would not on said trial seek to recover against the defendant on account of any alleged infringement or violation by
the defendants of the plaintiff's rights under his letters-patent
bearing date January 31st, 1845, set forth in his declaration, but
would proceed solely for a violation of the rights secured to
him by his letters-patent bearing date October 23d, 1847, set
forth in his declaration, under the last claim specified in that
patent relating to the seat for the raker.
The trial then proceeded on the last count in the declaration
for the infringement by defendants of this last patent, and testi.
41'

486

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et al. v. McCormiick.

mony offered to show that the plaintiff was not the original and
first inventor of the reaping machine as described in his patents
of 1834 and 1845, was rejected.
Numerous exceptions were taken by defendants in the course
of the trial and to various instructions contained in the charge
of the court. Most of these involve no general or important
legal principle, and could not be understood without prolix
statements with regard to the facts of the case and the structure
of the peculiar machines. To notice them in detail would be
both tedious and unprofitable. We deem it sufficient, therefore, to say that the defendants have failed to support their exceptions as to the rulings of the court concerning the testimony,
and that the charge of the learned judge is an able and correct
exposition of the law as applicable to the case, with the exception of the points which we propose now t, examine, and which
are contained in the following portion of the charge.
"The only remaining question is that of damages. The rule
of law on this subject is a very simple one. The only difficulty
that can exist is in the application of it ta the evidence in the
case. The general rule is that the plaintiff, if he has made out
his right to recover, is entitled to the actual damages he has
sustained by reason of the infringement, and those damages
may be determined by ascertaining the profits which in judgment of law he would have made, provided the defendants had
not int&ffered with his rights.
" That view proceeds upon the princip:.e that if the defendants had not interfered with the patentee, all persons who bought
the defendants' machines would necessarily have been obliged to
gd to the patentee and purchase his machin.e. That is the principle on which the profits that the patentee might have made out
of the machines thus unlawfully constructed, present a ground
that may aid the jury in arriving at the damages which th6
patentee has sustained.
"It has been suggested by the counsel foi the defendants, that
inasmuch as the claims of the plaintiff in question here are simply
for improvements upon his old reaping machine and-not for an entire machine and every part of it, the damages should be limited in
proportion to the value of the. improvements thus made, and that
therefore a distinction exists, in regard to the rule of damages, be.
tween an infringemeift of an entire machine and an infringement
of a mere improvement on a machine. I do not assent to this
distinction. On the contrary, according to my view of the law
regulating the measure of damages in cases of this kind, the
rule which is to govern is the same whether the patent coversan entire. rmachine or an improvement or. a machine. Those
who choose to use the old machine have a right to use it with.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Seymour et al. z,. McCormick.

out incurring any responsibility; but if they engraft on it the
improvement secured to the patentee, and use the machine with
that improvement, they have deprived the patentee of the fruits of
his invention, the same as if he had invented the entire machine;
because it is his improvemeni that gives value to the machine
on account of the public demand for it. The old instrument is
abandoned, and the public call for the improved instrument, and
the whole instrument, with the improvement upon it, belongs
to the patentee. Any person has a right to use the'old machine;
and if an inventor engrafts upon an old machine, which he has
a right to use, an improvement that makes it superior fo any
thing of the kind for the accomplishmr at of its purposes, he is
entitled to the benefit of the operation of the machine under
all circumstances with the improvement engrafted upon it, to
the same degree in which the original inventor is entitled to tlhe
old machine.
" There are some data, furnished by the counsel on both sides,
which it is proper the jury should take into view in ascertaining
the damages, provided they arrive at this question in the case.
It is conceded that just three hundred machines have been
made by the defendants, of the description to which I have
called your attention, and testimony has been gone into on both
sides for the purpose of showing the cost of the machines, and
the prices at which they sold. In order to ascertain the profits
accruing to the party who makes machines of this description,
you must first ascertain the cost of the materials and labor;
and the interest on the capital used in the manufacture of the
machines: You must also take into account the expenses to
which the manufacturer is subjected in putting them into market, suth as that of agencies and transportation, also of insurance; and where the article is sold on credit, a deduction must
also be made for bad debts. All these things must be taken
into account, in order to bring into the cost every elfment that
properly goes to constitute it in the hands of the manufacturer.
When you have ascertained the aggregate sum of the cost,
dcduct it from the price paid by the purchaser, and you have
the net profit on each machine. By this process you are enabled to approximate to something like the actual loss that the
patentee sustains in a case where his right hAs been violated by
persons interfering with him and putting into market his
improvement."
The plaintiffs in error complain that these rules with regard
to damages, as thus laid down by the court, are incorrect, and
have produced a verdict for most ruinous damages, far beyond
any thing justified by the facts of the case. 1. Because the
jury werc.iustructed that it is a legal presumption that if defend-

488

SUPREME

COURT

.

Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

ant had, not made and sold machines, all persons who bought
the defendant's machines would necessar]y have been compelled to go to the patentee and purchase his machines. That
this principle was enunciated as a binding principle of law,
although the plaintiff below had given no evidence to show that
he could have made and sold a single machine more than he
did, or was injured in any way by the competition of the defendants, or hindered from selling all he made or could make. And,
secondly, because the jury were instructed that the measure of
damages for infringing a patented improvement on a machine
in public use is the same as if the defendant had pirated the
whole machine and every improvement on it previously made,
and -as a consequence that the plaintiff 'aelow had a right to
recover as great damages for the infringement of the patent in
his second count as if he had proceeded o:a both counts of his
declaration and shown the infringement of all the patents
claimed, and that in consequence of these instructions they have
been amerced in damages to the enormous sum of $17,;06.66,
and with costs to nearly the round sum of $20,000.
We are of opinion that the plaintiffs in error have just reason
of complaint as regards these instructions and their conseqaent
result.
The first patent act of 1790 made the infringer of a .patent
liable to "forfeit and pay to the patentee such damages as
should be assessed by a jury, and, moreover, to forfeit to the
person aggrieved the infringing machine.'
The act of 1793 enacted " that the infringer should forfeit and
pay to the patentee a sum equal to three times the price for
which the patentee has usually sold or licensed to other persons
the use of said invention." Here the price of a license is assumed to be a just measure of single damages, and the forfeiture
by way of penalty is fixed at treble that sum. But as experience began to show that some inventions or discoveries had
their chief value in a monopoly of use by the inventor, and not
in a sale of licenses, the value of a license could not be made
a universal rule, as a measure of damages. The act of 17th of
April, 18(O, changed the rule, and compelled the infringer "to
forfeit and pay to the patentee a sum equal to three times the
actual damage sustailed by such patentee." This act continued
iI force till 1336, when the act now in force was passed.
Experience had shown the very great .njustice of a horizontal
rule equally affecting all cases, without regard to their peculiar
merits. The defendant who acted in ignorance or good faith,
claiming under a junior patent, was made liable to the same
1 enalty with the wanton and malicious pirate. This rule wos
manifestly unjust For there is no good reason why taking a

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

489

Seymour et al. v. "McCormick.
man's property in an invention should be trebly punished,
while the measure of damages as to other property is single
and actual damages. It is true, where the injury is wanton or
malicious, a jury may inflict indictive or exemplary damages,.
not to recompense the plaintiff, but to punish the'defendant.
In order to obviate this injustice, the Patent Act of 188G confines the jury to the assessment of "actua r damages."
The
power to inflict vindictive or punitive damages is committed to
the discretion and judgment of the court within the limit of
trebling the actual damages found by the jury.
It must be apparent to the most superficial observer of the
immense variety of" patents issued eveky day, that there cannot,
in the nature of things, be any one rule of damages which will
equally apply to all cases. The mode of ascertaining actual
damages must necessarily depend on the peculiar nature of the
*monopoly granted.
A man who invents or discovers a new
composition of matter, such as vulcanized India rubber, or a
valuable medicirne, may find his profit to consist in a close
monopoly, forbidding any one to compete with him in the' market, the patentee being himself able to supply the whole demand
at his own price. If he should grant licenses to all who might
desire to manufacture his composition, mutual competition
might destroy the value of each license. This may be the case,
also, where the patentee is the inventor of an entire new-machine.
If any person could use the invention or discovery by
paying what a jury might suppose to be the fair value of a
license, it is plain that competition would destroy the whole
value of the monqpoly. In such cases the profit of the infringer
may be the only. criterion 6f the actual damage of the patentee.
But one who invents some improvement in the machinery of a
mill could not claim that the profits of the whole mill ,hould be
the measure of damages for the use of his improvement. And
where the profit of the patentee consists neither in the exclusive
use of the thing invented or discovered, nor in the monopoly of
making it for others to use, it is evident that this -rule could not
apply. The case of Stimpson's pAtent for a turn-out in a railroad may be cited as an example. It was the interest of the
paientee that all raih'oads should use his invention, provided
they paid him the price of his license. He -could not make his
profit by selling it as a complete and separate machine. An
infringer of such a patent could not be liable to damages to.the
amount of the profits of his railroad, nor could the actual
damages to the patentee be measured by any known ratio of
the profits on the road. The only actual damage which the
patentee has suffered in such a case is the non-payment of the
price which he has put on his license, with interest, and no

SUPREmE

COURT.

Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

more. There, may be cases, as where the thing has been used
but for a short time, in which the jury shoi d find less than that
sum; and there may be cases where, from some peculiar circumstance, the patentee may show actual damage to a larger
amount. Of this a jury must judge from the evidence, under
instructions from the court that they can find only such dam.'ges as have actually been proved to have been sustained.
ghere an inventor finds it profitable to exercise his monopoly
by selling licenses to make or use his improvement, he has
himself fixed the average of his actual damage, when his invention has been used wdffout his license. If he claims any thing
above that amount, he is bound to substantiate his claim by
cleam and distinct evidence. When he las himself established
the market value of his improvement, as separate and distinct
from the other machinery with which it is connected, he can
have no claim in justice or equity to make the profits of the
whole machine the measure of his demand. It is only where,
from the peculiar circumstances of the casE, no other rule can
be found, that the defendant's profits become tte criterion of the
plaintiffs loss. Actual damages must be actually proved, and
cannot be assumed as a legal inference from any facts which
amount not to actual proof of the fact. What a patentee
"would have made, if the infringer had not interfered with his
rights," is a question of fact and not "a judgment of law."
The question is not what speculatively he may have lost, but
what actually he did ose. It is not a "judgment of law" or
necessary legal inference, that if all the manufacturers of steamengines and locomotives, who have built and sold engines with
a patented cut-off, or steam whistle, had not made such engines,
that therefore all the purchasers of engines would have employed
the patentee of the cut-off, or whistle; and that, consequently,
such patentee is entitled to all the profits made in the manufacture of such steam engines by those who may have used his
improvement without his license. Such a rule of damages
would be better entitled to the epithet of "speculative," "irnaginary," or "fanciful," than that of "actual."
If the measure of damages be the same whether a patent be
for an entire machine or for some improvement in some part of
it, then it follows that each one who has patented an improvement in any portion of a steam engine or other complex machines may recover the whole profits arising from the skill,
labor, material, and capital employed in making the whole machine, and the unfortunate mechanic mayobe compelled to pay
treble his whole profits to each of a dozen or more several
inventors of .some small improvement in the efigine he has
built. By this doctrine even the smallest part is made equal to

DECZBIBER TERM, 1853.

491

Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

the whole, and "actual damages" to the plaintiff may be converted into an unlimited series of penalties on the defendant.
We think, therefore, that it is a very grave error to instruct
a jury "that as to the measure of damages the same rule is to
govern, whether the patent covers an entire machine or an improvement on a machine."
It appears, from the evidence in this case, that McCormick
sold licenses to use his original patent of 1834 for twenty dollars
each. He sold licenses to the defendants to make and vend
machines containing all his improvements to any extent for
thirty dollars for each machine, or at an average of ten dollars
for each of his three 1atents. The defendants made and sold
many hundred machines, and paid that price and no more.
They refused to pay for the last three hundred machines under
a belief that the plaintiff was not the original inventor of this
last improvement, whereby a seat for the raker was provided on
the machine, so that he could ride, and not be compelled to
walk as before. Beyond the refusal to pay the usual 4icense
price, the plaintiff showed no actual damage. The jury gave a
verdict for nearly double the amount demanded for the use of
three several patents, in a suit where the defendant was charged
vith violating one only, and that for an improvement of small
importance when compared with the wh6le machine. This
enormous and ruinous verdict is but a corollary or necessary
consequence from the instructions given in that portion of the
charge of the court on which we have been commenting, and
of the doctrines therein asserted, and to which this court cannot
give their assent or concurrence.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with a venire

de '2ovo.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration wvhereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this caase be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

