SUPREME

COURT.

Turner et al. v. Yates.

HENRY F. TURNER, JAME s F.
PLAINTIFFS

PURVIS, AND STERLING THOMAS,

IN ERROR, V. JOSEPE C.

YATES.

A bond, with sureties, was executcd for the purpose of securing the repayment of certai money advanced or putting up and shipping bacon. William 'urner was to
have the management of the affair, and Harvy Turner was to be his agent.
After the money was advanced, Hivy made a consignment of meat, and drew upon
it.
hethcr or not this draft was drawn, specially against this consignment was a
point which was properly decided by the Court from an interpretation of the written papers in the case.
if they believed, from the evidence, that
It was also correct to instruct- the jury that
Harvy was acting in this'instance either upon his own account, or as the agent of

William,'then the special draft drawn upon the consignment was first to be met
out of the proceeds of sale, and the sureties upon the bond to be credited only with
their proportion of the residue.
The consignor had a right to draw upon the consignment with the consent of the
consigney, unless restrained by some contract with the sureties, of which there
was no evidence. On the contrary, there was evidence that Harvy was the agent
of William, to draw upon this consignment as well as for other purposes.
It was not improper for the court to instruct the jury th.t they mjght find Harry to
have been either a principal or an agent of William.
An agreement by the respective counsel to produce upon notice at the trial table any
papers which may be in his possession, did not include t.e invoice of the consignment, bepause the presumption was, that it had been sent to London, to those to
whom thp boxes had been sent by their agent in this country.
A correspoadence between the plaintiff and Harvy, offered to show that Harry was
acting in this matter as principal, was properly allowed to go to the jury.
The testimony of an attorney was admissible, reciting conversatins between himself
and the attorney of the other parties in their presence, which declirations of the
attorney were binding on the last mentioned parties.
Evidence ias admissible to show that a charge of one per cent. upon the advance
made
of the upon
place.the consignment, was a proper charge according to the usage and custom
It is not necessary that the bill of exceptions should be formally drawn and signed,
before the trial is at an end. But the exception must be noted then, and must purport on its face so to have been, although signed afterwards nmw pro tunc.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
The facts of the case are set forth in the opinion of the court,
to which the reader is referred.
Tt was argued by Mr. Barroll and Mr. 2F!ay, for the plaintiffs
in error, and by iAlr. Johnson, for the defendant in error. There
was also a brief filed upon that side by Ar. S. T, Wallis.
The points on behalf of the plaintiffs in error were the following:
First and fifth exceptions.: That the court erred in ruling out
the parol testimony offered, of the contents of the invoice sent to
the defendant in error by William H. F. Turner from Chatanooga.

Second, third,and sixth exceptions. That the court erred in

DECEMBEi TERM, 1853.

15

Turner et al. v. Yatcs.

admitting the testimony to prove the separate contract alleged
to have been made by Mr. Yates with H. F. Turner, &c., as
set forth in the statement upon page 34 of printed record. Cole
v. Hebb, 7 G. & J. 20; Davis v. Calvert, 5 G. & J. 269; Clark
v. State, 8 G. & J. 111 ; .Magill v. Kauffnan, 4 Serg. C' Rawle,
317, 321; Franklin Bank v. Penn. Del. & Md. S. N. Co.,
11 G. & J. 28; Gilpins v. Consequa, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep.
87.
Fourth exception. That the court erred in admitting the evidence of usage for comnission to be charged on advances on
shipments made to London, because the said evidence was
irrelevant.
sixth exception. That the court erred in admitting, the
evidence of Mr. Teackle, because it was incompetent testimony, and because it was irrelevant.
Seventh exception. That the court erred in rejecting the
prayers of the defendants, and in its instructions to the jury, for
the following reasons :
1. Because said instructions are vague and uncertain, and
therefore calculated to mislead the jury. 2. Because the first
instruction is not limited to the interview (or subsequent ones-)
in which the defendants requested plaintiff's counsel to see Mr.
Ward. 3. Because said first instruction embraces the acts and
declarations of Mr. Ward, in the interview' with Mr. Teackle.
4. Because said first instruction directs the jury that the defendants are bound by the acts and declarations of Mr. Ward, although he was only retained by H. F. Turner as such, unless
such limitation of retainer was stated to plaintiff or his counsel.
3 Ph. Ev. 359; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 197, 199. 5. Because the said
Purvis and Thomas, two of the defendants, were not bound in
law by the acts or declarations of said Ward, if the jury believed
the testimony, that said Ward was not their agent or counsel;
and did not claim or profess to act as such With their knowledge
or consent. (Same authorities.) 6. Because, in order to make
the defendants liable for the declarations of said Ward, it ought
to have been put to the jury to find that defendants, although
present, heard such declarations, or were in a position to be
able to heoli, if so disposed. Gale v. Spooner and others, 11
Vermont Rep. 152; Edwards v. Williams, 2 How. Miss. 846;
Ward v. Hatch, Iredell, 282.
And so far as the second instruction is concerned, that the
court erred in giving the same. Because, 1. The said instruction invades the province of the jury, by assuming as facts the
making of the draft for $5,733, and also that said draft was
drawn as an advance on said bacon. Lewis v. Kramer, et al.
3 Md. Rep. 294. 2. The said instruction calls upon the jury

16

SUPREM1E COUIRT.
Turner et al. v. Yate3.

to decide a question of law, in leaving them to find what are
liens on said bacon. Plater ,.. Scott, 6 Gill & Johns. 116. 3.
The said instruction requires the jury to deduct from the net
proceeds of sales, the draft for $5,733, without requiring them
to find the fact that said Harry drew said draft, as agent .of
William, and had authority so to do, or the facts from which
such authority may be inferred. 4. Because there was no evidence from which the jurors had the right to infer that the draft
for $5,733 was in fact drawn by Harry as the agent of William,
or that said draft was accepted, or pa Ld by the plaintiff to
said Harry, as agent of William, the admission of the payment of said draft being that such payment was to Harry, in
his individual capacity, and not as agent. 5. Because the principle announced in said instruction, that if the jury find Harry
acted as agent of William in the transactions after occurring
in relation to the bacon at Chatanooga, then Harry had authority to draw said draft, and William and his property are bound
therefor, is in conflict with the principles of law, there being
no evidence in the cause from which an authority to Harry, to
draw and negotiate drafts as agent of William, can be sustained.
The plaintiffs in error will contend, that the agency of Harry
was not otherwise ihan as overseer and adviser for William, in
slaughtering hogs and packing the meatz., and did not authorize said agent to procure advances, by pledging the meat before
or after its shipment, to Messrs. Gray & Son. And that the character of the agency was known to the defendant in error from
the beginning. And in ascertaining whether Harry had authority to draw the draft in question, the cour; are bound to exclude
from their consideration all the testimony limited to the proof,
that Harry acted as principal, and not as agent, in drawing such
draft. Sto. Ag. §§ 87, 251, 390. 6. Because the advance of
$5,733, under the circumstances of the case, was a fraud upon
the sureties in the bonds, if such advance was made upon
William's meat. 7. Because the said instruction does not re.quire the jury to find that the advance of $12,000 was made
in pursuance of the bond. S. Because the court erred in allowing the plaintiff below to contend before the jury, upon two distinct, inconsistent propositions. Winchell v. Latham, 6 Cowen,
639. Beake's Ex. v. birdsall, 1 Coxe, 14.
Additional objections to the Court's second instruction.
4. Because the court erred in its instruhtion to the jury, that
only half the net proceeds of the bacon was to be credited to
the defendants. The plaintiffs in error will contend that the
whole net proceeds of the bacon should have been credited to the

DECEMBER TER]M, 1853.

17

Turner et al. v. Yates.

amount of the advance of $12,000, and the jury instructed to
give a verdict for the amount found to be due by William H.
F. Turner. They will contend that under the instruction, as
given, the jury were bound to find a verdict against the defendants for a greater sum than was owing by William, the excess
being to the extent of the other half of the net proceeds not
credited.
2. They will also contend that, whether the meat belonged
t6 William or Harry, the,$5,733 draft, paid by Mr. Yates, was
not a lien on the meat, because the bill of lading was not indorsed. That there can be no lien without an actual or constructive possession of the thing intended to be given in pledge,
and that, in the case at bar, Mr. Yates had no such possess4on.
14 Peters, 445.
3. In the court's instruction the term liens was intended to
embrace the item of $5,733, under the fourth exception. The
plaintiffs in error will contend that such item was a personal.
charge against him, to whom the advance was made, and was
not a lien on the meat; and- the jury should not have been instructed to deduct the same as a lien.
The points on behalf of the defendant in error, were:
1. That the parol evidence referred to in the fist exception
was properly excluded.
Because notice, at the trial table, to produce the invoice, was
insufficient except under the agreement, and the agreement rer
ferred only to papers in the actual possession of the parties.
The agreement rested obviously on the good faith of the parties
and their counsel; and the declaration of the plaintiff below,
that the paper was not in his possession, was primdfacie sufficient to establish that fatt, and exclude the paper from the effect
of the agreement.
Because, even if the notice had been sufficient to justify parol'
proof of a paper constructively in the possession of the plaintiff below, the invoice in question was not so constructively in
his possession, having been forwarded to accompany meat, destined for the Messrs. Gray, and received by them, and being
therefore, by legal presumption, in their possession..
It will be further argued, that the plaintiffs in error were not
prejudiced by the exclusion of the parol proof, even if it was
admissible under the other proof in that stage of the cause, because itafterwards appeared that the invoice had been actually
transmitted to the Messrs. Gray, and was still in their possession,
which would have made the parol proof incompetent, even if it
had been admitted, under the notice to Yates.
It will further be contended that no prejudice resulted to the
plaintiffs in error, in any event, from the rejection of tne proof,
2*

SUPREME

COURT.

Turner ot al. v. Yates.

because its whole purpose was to show notice to Yates, that
the meat on which he advanced $5,733 was William Turner's,
not Harry's, and the court rightly instructed the jury, afterwards,
that it made no difference, for the purposes of the case, to
which of the Turners the meat in fact belonged.
2. That the plaintiffs in error could under no circumstances
be entitled to a credit, on the bond in suit, of the proceeds or
any part of the proceeds of the shipments- to the Messrs. Gray,
unless the meat so shipped belonged to William H. F. Turner;
that the proof offered by the defendants in error, and'the admission of which forms the matter of the second exception, was
offered in connection with other 4irect proof stated in advance,
and afterwards adduced, showing that there was a separate contract with Harry F. Turner for the shipment of meats and receiving advances thereon, which separate, contract was known
to the plaintiffs in error (Henry F. Turner himself being one of
them,) when they signed the. bond in suit; that the defefidants
in error, with this knowledge, and forewarned of the difficulties
which might result from the two coexisting contracts, insisted
nevertheless on becoming sureties in the mode proven; that by
the very terms of the bond they constituted Harry F. Turner
(one of themselves) their agent, as to W:lliam H. F. Turner's
business, and placed him in the position of deceiving or mxsleading Yates in regard thereto, and of managing and slnipping
the meat as his own or his son's - which they were forewarned
might happen; that they were thus bound by Harry F. Turner's action in the premises; that the correspondence betweerr
Harry F. Turner and Yafe furnished the only positive evidence
of the capacity in which Turner shipped the meat and asked
and received Yates's advance thereupon, and such correspondence was therefore clearly admissible, for that purpose, which
wag the only purpose for-which it was offered, and went directly
to the question of the right of the plaintiffs in error to be credited on the bond with any part of the shipments to the Messrs.
Gray.
That the letters of Turner, and the Messrs. Gladsden, who
shipped for him at Charleston, inclosing the bills of lading, and
relating to the shipment of the meat, were part of the 2'es
gestca, and bore directly on the points for which the proof was
offered.
That the accounts of sales of the bacon, rendered by the
Messrs. Gray, had been previously spoken of by Robert Tuiner,
the -witness of the plaintiffs in error, and were admissible on
that ground, as well as part of the res gestx.
That the letters of Harry F. Turner -to Yates, about the
meat, and in regard to drawing thereupon, had been spoken of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853,

19

Yates Ct al. v. Turner.

by the same witness, and were admissible, on that score, if on
none other.
That the capacity in which Harry F. Turner acted at Chatanooga, had been proven by Wilkins and James S. Turner from
said Harry F. Turner's acts, and his letters, accompanying his
acts and transactions there, were competent to go to the jury
for the same purpose.
3. That the evidence of Mr. Thomas was clearly admissible
for the purpose for which it was offered.
4. That the proof in the fourth exception of the custom in
Baltimore to elharge one per cent. on advances upon shipments
to London, and that the plaintiff (below) claimed it, on his advance of $5,733, was admissible, because the advance of $5,733
was properly made, and the plaintiff being entitled to charge
for it in account was entitled to the usual commission upon it.
The plaintiffs in error themselves, had proven, by the production of Mr. Yates's letter, that such a per centage was chargeable.
5. That the evidence, as to the invoice claimed to be admissible by the fifth exception, was properly rejected, for the reasons
previously stated, (No. 1.) anti because it was not rebutting
evidence, and was inadmissible at that stage. of the cause.
6. That the evidence of Mr. Teackle, sought to be excluded
by the sixth exceptiorr, was not only competent in itself, but
was rendered proper by the proof previously introduced by the
plaintiffs in error themselves, and embodied in the same exception.
Tlfat the letters between the Messrs. Gray and Harry F. Turner, were competent proof, because it had been shown that the
plaintiffs in error when they signed the bond, were notified of
the existence of the agreement which these letters constituted,
and of which they were the best proof.
That they were likewise admissible, because the plaintiffs
themselves hiad previously produced Mr. Yates's letters, referring
to the understanding between Harry F. Turner and the Messrs.
Gray, of which the letters here referred to were the only proof.
7. That under the circumstances' of this case, and in view of
the relation of the plaintiffs in error, Purvis and Thomas, to
Harry F. Turner, as their joint obligor and co-defendant, with
whom they had taken joint defence, they were bound by his acts
and declarations in the premises. Van Reimsdyk v. Kane, 1
GTilison, 635; Simonton v. Boucher, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 473;
Martin v. Root, 17 Mass. 227; Montgomery v. Dillingham, 3
Smedes & Marshall, 647; Armstrbng v. Farrar, 8 Missouri, 627;
I Greenleaf's Evidence, § 174; 2 Starkie's Evid. 25; 1 Phillips's
Evid. 92.

SUPREME COURT.
Yates ct al. v. Turner.

S. That even if the proof offered and objected to in the
second, third, and sixth exceptions was inadmissible, as against
Purvis and Thomas, it was clearly competent as against Harry
F. Turner, and as the objections were taken, generally, to the
admissibility of the proof against all the defendants, they were
properly overruled.
9. That the objection to testimony in the third, fourth, and
sixth exceptions, was too indefinite to be allowed. Camden v.
Ddremns, 3 Howard, 530.
10. That if the court erred in reference to the instructions
prayed or given, it was in favor of the plaintiff, in error, by rejecting the prayer of the plaintiff below, which was based upon
evidence properly before the jury, and tending to the conclusion
which the prayer adopted.
That the first prayer of the plaintiffs in error was properly
rejected, because it excluded from the jury all consideration o
the contract between Yates and Harry F Turner individually,
as well as of the question whether the mcat in controversy was
or was not his individual property; and because, further, itmade
the right of the defendants to a credit from the said meat
dependent exclusively on the fact of its belonging to William.
H. F. Turner, without reference to Yates's knowledge or ignorance of that fact, or to the responsibility of William H. F.
Turner and his sureties, under the circumstances, for the acts
and declarations of Harry F. Turner, whora they had constituted
their agent in the transaction.
Said first prayer is further defective, obviously, in that it
claims ciedit to the extent of the whole scIe, and receipt of proceeds of the meat, whereas, in no case could the plaintiff in
error have been entitled to a credit of more than one half the
said proceeds; the sureties on the other bond being in equal
right and entitled to divide whatever credits might appear.
The prayer is likewise improper, because the cause of action
being joint, and the defence and issues joint, it nevertheless
asks an instruction that the jury may sever in their finding, and
give to the defendants, Thomas and Purvis, a credit to which
their co-defendant, Turner, is not entitled. *
The second prayer of the plaintiffs in error was properly rejected, upon the grounds expressed in the court's fir-t instrnc
tion, it being immaterial whose attorney Mr. Ward in fact was,
or whether he represented himself to be the attorney of Purvis
and Thomas, provided the jury believed, Ihat in their presbnce
and with their knowledge, he acted for them, and that the attorney of Yates was referred by them to.him, to settle the diilerences then pending in regard to the bond.
11. That the rule of court was lawful and governed the case,

DECE-MBER TERM, 1853.
Turner et al. v. Yates.

and the court properly refused to postpone the swearing of the
bailiff and the discharge of the jury until the signing and sealing of the exceptions. Walton v. United States, 9 Wheaton,
651; Ex parte Bradstreet, 4 Peters, 106-7; Brown v. Clarke,
4 Howard, 15.
12. The defendant in error will argue, upon the whole case,
that the agreement of William H. F. Turner to send his shipments to Gray & Son, to pay off the advance of $12,000, and
whatever else he might be allowed to draw for, was no part of
the bond or of the consideration upon which the plaintiffs in
error joined in it; but a stipulation made afterwards to Yates,
not by him, for his benefit, nor that of Turner and his sureties;
that it in no way precluded Yates from making subsequent advances, or pledged him to appropriate the proceeds of the meat
first to the $12,000 loan; but, on the contrary, expressly provided
for further advances and their payment; that whether Harry F.
Turner signed himself "agent" or not to the $5,733 draft, made
no difference whatever, provided Yates accepted and paid tLe
same in good faith, on a pledge of the meat; that whatever be
the shape of the transactions, it is manifest that the original loan
was to have been made to Harty F. Turner, on the terms of his
letters to Messrs. Gray -that bonds to that effect were drawn
with the knowledge of Purvis and Thomas; that the substitution of William L F. Turner was only as to the loan of $12,000,
and was made for the benefit of Harry F. Turner, without the
participation of William, who was in Chatanooga, and at the
request of the sureties, against the remonstrance of Yates's attorney, that Harry F. Turner was agent of William and manager of the whole business, its property and correspondence,
width the privity and at the desire of the sureties; if he committed a fraud on Yates, or on them, they must bear the burden,
as he was of their selection; and that they are under no circumstances entitled to have carried to the credit of the bond
more than the amount given by the jury;- that is to say, the
margin left of the proceeds of the shipments, after allowing for
the usual stipulated advances.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iaryland. The action was debt on
the bond of the plaintiffs in error, the condition of which was
as follows:
Whereas the said Joseph C. Yates is about to lend and advance to William H. F. Turner the sum of twelve thousand
dollars, in such sums and at such times as the said William
may designate and appoint; which designation, and appoint-

22

SUPREME

COURT.

Turner et al. v. Yatcs.

ment, and advances it is hereby agreed shall be evidenced by
notes drawn by the said William in favcr of the said Harry F.
Turner, agent, and by the latter indorsed, or by drafts drawn by
the said, William H. F. Turner in favor of the said Harry F.
Turner, agent, on, and accepted or paid by the said Yates, indorsed by said Harry F.
And whereas the said Harry F. Turner, Sterling Thomas, and
James F. Purvis, have agreed, as the consideration for the said
loan, to secure the said Yates the payment of the sum of six
thousand dollars, and interest thereon, part of the said loan;
and the said Harry F. Turner, with Robert Turner and Absalom
Hancock, have entered into a bond similar to this, for the payment of the other six thousand dollars and interest.
Now the condition of the above obligation is such, that if
the said William H. F. Turner, at the expiration of t,%velve
months from the date hereof,, shall well and truly pay to the
said Joseph G. Yates, his executors, administrators, or assigns,
all such sum or sums of money as may. be owing to the said
Yates, by the said William H. F. Turner, evidenced as aforesaid, at the said expiration of the said twelve months, or in case
the said William H. F. Turner should fail or omit to pay said
sum or sums of money, at said time, if the said Sterling Thomas
and James F. Purvis, or either of them, shall well and truly pay
to the. said Yates, his executors, administrators or assigns, so
much of said sum or sums of money as may then be owing, as
shall amount'to six thousand dollars and interest, in case so
much be owing, with full legal interest thereon, or such sum or
sums of money as may be owing with interest thereon, in case
the same should amount to less than six thousand dollars, then
this obligation to be null and void, otherwise to remain in full
force and virtue in law.
HARRY F. TUEumR,
[sErAL.]
STERLING, THOMAS,

[SEAL.]

JAgIns F. PURVIs,
[sAL J
The defence was that, seven hundred boxes of bacon had
been consigned by William Turner to Gay & Co., in London
for sale; and having been sold, the whole of its proceeds ought
to be credited against the advance of twelve thousand dollars
mentioned in the condition of the bond. The plaintiff did n'ot
deny that the merchandise was received by Gray &" Co. for
sale, and sold by them, but insisted that -the property belonged
to Harry, and not to William Turner, and so no part of its proceeds were thus to be credited; and that, if bound to credit any
part of these proceeds, there wvas first to be deducted the amount
of a draft for $5,733, drawn by Harry Turner on the plaintiff
specifically against-this property, which draft, the plaintiff was
admitted to have accepted and paid.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

23

Turner et al. v. Yates.

Upon this part of the case, the district judge who presided
at the trial ruled :
" If the jury believe that defendants executed and delivered
the bond now sued upon, and that Harry F. Turner, in the
transactions, after occurring, in relation to the bacon at Chattanooga, was either the principal in such transactions, or acted as
agent of William H. F. Turner, then defendants are entitled only
to be credited for one half the net amount of the shipments of
bacon made by them, after deducting from the proceeds of sales
of such bacon all liens thereon, including in such liens the draft
of $5,733 drawn as an advance on such bacon."
This ruling having been excepted to, several objections to its
correctness have been urged at the bar by the counsel of the
plaintiffs in error.
The first is, that the bond does not show the advances were
actually made,'and, therefore, the judge ought to have directed
the jury to inquire concerning that fact, It is a sufficient answer to this objection to state what the record shows, that, in
the course of the trial, the plaintif, having put in evidence
drafts corresponding with those mentioned in the bond, amounting to $12,000, the defendants admitted their genuineness, and
that they were all paid at the times noted thereon. The fact
that the $12,000 was advanced was not therefore in issue betveen the parties, and there was no error in not directing the
jury to inquire concerning it.
It is further objected that in his instruction to the jury the
judge assumed that the draft of $5,733 was drawn against this
consignment, instead of leaving the jury to find whether it was
so drawn. The draft itself and the letter of advice were in the
case. The draft requested the drawee to "charge the same to
account as advised." The letter of advice states: "I have this
day drawn on you at ninety days for $5,733, b eing ten dollars
and fifty cents per box on 544 boxes singed bacon, &c." This
was a part of the merchandise in controversy. It was clearly
within the province of the court t9 interpret these written papers, snd inform the jury whether they showed a drawing against
this property. When a contract is to be gathered from a comwercial correspondence which refers to material extraneous facts,
or only shows part of a course of dealing between the parties,
it is sometimes necessary to leave the meaning and effect of the
letters, in connection with the other evidence, to the jury.. Brown
v. McGran, 14 Pet. R. 493.
But this was not such a case; and we think the judges rightly
informed the jury that this draft was drawn against this property. Whether, being so drawn, it bound the property and its
proceeds, so that in this action its amount was to be deducted

SUPREME COURT.

24

Turner et al. v. Yates.

therefrom, depended upon other considerations, which are exhibited in the other part of the instruction. Assuming, what
we shall presently consider, that there was evidence from which
the jury might find that Harry, who drew the draft, was either
himself the owner of the property, and 13o the principal, or if
not, that he was the agent of William, there can be no doubt
of the correctness of this instruction, unless there was something in the case to show that the owner of the consignment
could not bind its subject by a draft made and accepted on the
faith of it. This is not to be presumed; and if the two defendants, Who were sureties on this bond, assert that they had
a right to have the whole of the proceed.s of this property appropriated to the repayment of the advance of $12,00p, for
which they were in part liable, it was incumbent on them to
prove that the ordinary power of a consignor, by himself or his
agent, to draw 'against his property, with the consignee's consent, was effetually restrained by some contract with the sureties, or of which they could avail themselves. We have carefully examined the evidence on the reco:d, and are unable to
discover any which would have warranted the jury in finding
such a contract.
The bond itself contains no intimation of it. And although
the evidence tends to prove that the sureties had reason to
expect that bacon would be packed and sent to Gray & Co.,
and that, through such consignments, tha advance of $12,000
might be partly or wholly repaid, they do not appear to have
stipulated or understood that William was to have no advance
on such property. Indeed, the real na-ure of the transaction
seems to have been that the' bond was taken to cover an ulti.
mate possible deficit, after the property should have been sold
aid all liens satisfied; leaving William. their principal, free to
create such liens as he might find expedient in the course-f the
business.
We are also of opinion that there was evidence in the case,
from which the jury might find that Harry was held out to the
plaintiff, by William, as his agent, as well for the purpose of
drawing against this property as for other purposes. The letter
from William Turner to the plaintiff of the 14th November,
1849, and the agreement of Harry appended to it, tend strongly
to prove this. They are as follows:
" CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., Nov. 14, 1849.
JOB. C. YAT s:
"M.
"DEAR SIR:

In consideration of the advance of twelve thou-

sand dollars made me by you for the purpose of packing meats
for the English market, I hereby bind myself to make my whole
shipments, of whatever kind they may be, to your friends in

DECEMBDER TERM, 1853.

25

Turner et al. v. Y tes.

London or Liverpool, Messrs. B. Charles T. Gray & Son, for
the entire season, or longer, till such advance shall have been
paid off, together with any other that I may be permitted to
draw for.
"I am, dear sir, your most obedient servant,
"1W.H. F. TURNER.
"I agree to see the above carried out in good faith, and bind
myself for the due fulfilment of it.
"HARy F. TuiuE.i, Agent of
" W. H. F. .TuRNER."
It thus appears that further advances to William were contemplated as a part of the arrangement with him, and Harry,
as agent of William, was to see the whole arrangement carried
out upon his personal responsibility. If, as these witnesses
show, Harry was agent for William for carrying out the whole
arrangement, and further drawing was contemplated as a part
of it, it necessarily follows he was his agent thus to draw. It
is shown by the correspondence that Harry had the sole charge
of getting the property down to the sea-board from the interior,
and of shipping it; and that he had incurred large debts on
account of it; and, finally, William Turner has not, so far as
appears, repudiated his act in drawing, and the defendants now
claim the benefit of a consignment, on the faith of which the
draft in question was accepted.
Jnder these circumstances our opinion is that it was not improper for the judge to leave it to the jury to find whether Harry
was the agent of *William, if he were not himself the owner
of the property. Nor do we think these two states of fact present such inconsistent grounds as ought not to have been submitted to the jury. It is true Harry could not be at-the same
time principal and agent; but it often happens in courts of
justice that a right may be presented in an alternate form or
upon diflrcnt grounds.
If one party has dealt with another as an agent, it would be
strange if the transaction should be held invalid because it is
proved on the trial he was principal- and
co',erso. The
substantial question, in such a case, is a question of power to
do an act; and this power may be shown, either by proving lie
had it in his own right or derived it from enother. Of course
there may be cases where the allegations of the parties on the
record restrict them to one line of proof; and there may be
others in which the court, to guard' against surprise, should not
allow a party to open one line of proof, and in the course of
the trial abandon it and take an inconsistent one. But this
last is a matter of practice, subject to the sound discretion of
the court, and not capable of revision here upon a writ of error.
3
VOL. XVI.

SUPREME COURT.
Turner et al. v. Yates.

Wa hold the second instruction, which involved the merits
of the case, to be correct.
The other bills of exception relate chiefly to questions of
evidence.
In the course of the trial the defendants introduced a witness,
who testified that he made out an invoice of the 700 boxes of
bacon, and sent it by mail to the plaintiff, who was the agent
of Gray & Co., to whom the property was consigned in London.
The defendants then called on the plaintiff to produce this
invoice under the following agreement:
"It is agreed betveen the plaintiff and defendant in this
cause, that either party shall produce, upon notice at the trial
table, any papers which may he in his possession, subject to all
proper legal exceptions as to their admissibility or effect as evidence; and that handwriting, where genuine, shall be admitted
without proof.
"S. T. AVALLIS2 for plaintiff
" BENJ. C. BARROLL, for defendants."
The plaintiff said the invoice was not in hi possession. The
defendants then offered to prove its contents. But the court
was of opinion it was to be presumed the invoice had gone to
the consignees in. London, who were co:mpetent witnesses to
produce the original; and therefore parol evidence of the contents of the paper was excluded.
This ruling was correct. So far as appears, this was the only
invoice made. Every consignment of merchandise, regularly
made, requires an invoice. It is the uaiversal usage of the
commercial world to send one to the consignee. The revenue
laws of our own country, and we believe of all countries,
assume the existence of such a document in the hands of the
consignee on the arrival of the -merchandise. It was the clear
duty of the plaintiff, when he received the invoice, to send it to
the consignees in London. The -presumption was that he had
done what is usually done in such cases, and what his duty
required. If the paper was in the. han& of the consignees in
London, secondary evidence was not admissible. For it was not
within the written agreement to produce papers, -hich applied
only -to those in the possession of the plaintiff; and though the
plaintiff was an agent of those consignees, and seems to have
been suing for their benefit, yet aside frcm the -vriiten agreement they must be treated either as parties or third persons. If
as parties, they were entitled to notice to produce the paper; if
as third persons, their depositions should have been taken, or
some proper attempt made to obtain it. This also disposes of
the fifth 'exception; because, if the evidence in the cause had
some tendency to prove the document had been retained, the
offer of the plaintiff to prove the contraly, and the election by

DECEMBER TERMI, 1853.

27

Turner et al. v. Yates.

the defendants to rest their motion for the admission of the
parol evidence upon a concession that the fact was as the
plaintiff offeied to prove it, instead of first calling for that proof,
must preclude them now from objecting that the proof was not
given.

The second exception relates to the admissibn of certain correspondence respecting this property between the plaintiff and
Harry Turner and Messrs.- Gadsden & Co., of Charleston, S. C.,
before the property was shipped to London, and also the accounts of sales of the property, which were introduced by the
plaintiffs for the purpose of showing that they were dealing
with Harry Turner as principal, and under a separate contract
with him. We have no doubt of the admissibility of this evidence for the purpose for which it was offered. Whether Harry
was principal or agent, it was competent and important for the
plaitiff o prove that he was dealt with and treated as a principal ; and there could be no better evidence of it than the correspondence concerning the transaction. On the trial of a commercial cause such a correspondence is not only generally admissible, but it is often the highest evidence of the nature of the
acts of the parties and the capacities in which they acted and
the relations they sustained to each other. It must be observed
that the plaintiff in one aspect of his case, had three things to
prove. First, that there was a distinct arrangement with Harry
to ship property to Gray & Son and receive advances on it.
Second, that the plaintiff and Gray & Son acted on the belief
that this consignment was made under that arrangement. Third,
that in point of fact this consignment was made by Harry on
his own account, and not on account of William. And evidence
showing that Harry, being in possession of the property, consigned it to them, accompanying or preceded by such letters as
showed the consignment to be for his own account, was clearly
admissible upon each of these points. It is true it might, nevertheless, be the property of William, and really sent for his account, but that was a question for the jury upon the whole
evidence.
The third exception relates to the admission of the testimony
of M1r. Thomas respecting certain declarations made to him by
Mvfr. Ward. We do not deem it necessary to detail the evidence, it being sufficient to say, that so far as these declarations
were made in the presence of all the defendants, they were of
such a character, and made under such circumstances, as imperatively to have required them to deny their correctness if
they were untrue; and therefore they were clearly admissible.
So far as Ir. Ward's declarations were made to Mr. Teackle,
when the defendants were not present, they are stated to have
been merely a repetition of his former statements.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Tufner et al. v. Yatei,.

The judge left them to the jury, with the following instruction:
,6If the jury find that W. J. Ward, Esq., was, in his commu.
.nication with the plaintiff's counsel, accompanied by the defendants, and that defendants referred plain:iff's counsel to said
Ward to adjust and settle the differences between them, that
said defendants are bound by the acts and declarations of said
Ward', although he was only retained by 1. F. Turner as such,
unless such limitations of retainer were stated to plaintiff or his
counsel."
This was sufficiently favorable to the d'efendants. It was
really of no'importance whether AIr. Ward was counsel for one
or all the defendants, if they united in referring Mr. Thomas to
him to adjust the mode of preparing the papers; and, in our
opinion; there was evidence from which the jury might find
such an authority to have been given by the defendants jointly.
We consider the fourth exception untenable. If it was usual
to pay a commission for such services, it was properly charged
in this case there being no evidence, to show that there was a
special agreement to render the services without pay, or for less
than the customary commission.
The sixth exception was taken on account of the admission
6f the testimony of MT. Teackle, and certein letters of Gray &
Co. and Harry Turner, The former has already been disposed
of in consideiing the third exception, and 'she latter in considering thb second exception respecting th3 correspondence of
Harry Turner, most of the observations upon which are applicable to these letters. '
The remaining bill of exceptions is in the following words:
"Upon the further trial of this case, after the instructions
prayed for had been argued, and the court had decided to refuse
the same, and had granted the two instructions set out on the
defendants' seventh exception, the defendants' counsel having
prepared out of court their exceptions 'thereto, and to the other
pointsof law ruled -by the court and excepted to during this
trial immediately after the court had so decided, and before the
bailiff to the jury was sworn, or the jury had withdrawn from
the bar of the court, presented their said exceptions, and moved
the court to sigt and seal the same before the verdict should be
rendered; but the court refused so to do, and refused to consider
the said exceptions, or either of them, under the rule of that
court, November 25th, 1846, at the November term thereof.
"Ordered, that whenever either party shall except to any
opinion given by the court, the exception shall be stated to the
court before the bailiff to the jury is sworm, and the bill of exceptions afterwards drawn out in writing, and presented to the
court during the term at which it is rese.vecd, otherwise it will
not be sealed by the court."

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

29

Turner et al. v. Yates.

In Walton v. The United States, 9 Wheat. 657, this court
said, "we do not mean to say, (and in point of practice we
know it to be otherwise,) that the bill of exceptions should be
formally drawn and signed before the trial is at an end. It
:will be sufficient if the exception be taken at the trial and noted
by the court with the requisite certainty, and it may afterwards,
according to the rules of the court, be reduced to form and
signed by the judge; and so in fact is the general practice.
But in all such cases the bill of exceptions is signed nunc pro
tune, and it purports on its face to be the same as if it had been
reduced to form and signed during the trial; and it would be
a fatal error if it were to appear otherwise; for the original
authority under which bills of exception are allowed has always
been considered as restricted to matters of exception taken
pending the trial and ascertained before the verdict."
To what was there said this court has steadily adhered. 4
Pet. 106; 11 Pet. 185; 4 How. 15. The record must show
that the exception was taken at that stage of *thetrial when its
cause arose. The time and manner of placing the evidence of
the exception formally on the record are matters belonging to
the practice of the court in which. the trial is held. The convenient despatch of business, in most cases, does not allow the
preparation and signature of bills of exceptions during the progress of a trial. Their requisite certainty and accuracy can
hardly be secured, if any considerable delay afterwards be permitted; and it is for each court in which cases are tried to
secure, by its rules, that prompt attention to the subject necessary for the preservation of the actual occurrences on which
the validity of the exception depends; and so to administer
those rules that no artificial or imperfect case shall be presented
here for adjudication. The rule of the Circuit Court for the
District of Maryland is unobjectionable, and this exception is
overruled.
The judgment of-the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by- this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the sagne is hereby affirmed, with costs and interest until paid,
at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the
courts of the State of Maryland.

