THE DECISIONS
OF T

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER

JOHN H.

TERM,

1g53.

LEwis, AP.PELLANT, V. SARAH DARLING.

Where a bill in chancery was filed by a legatee against the person who had married
the daughter and residuary devisee of the testator, (there having been no administration in the United States upon the estate,) this daughter or her representatives
if she were dead, ought to have been made a party defendant.
But if the complainant appears to be entitled to relief, the court will allow the bill to
be amended, and even if it be an appeal, will remand the case for this purpose.
Where the will, by construction, shows an intention to charge the real estate with the
payment of a legacy, it is not necessary to ayer in the bill a deficiency of personal
assets.
The real estate will be charged with the payment of legacies where a testator Tives
several legacies, and then, without creating an express trust to pay them, makes a
general residuary ---;position of the whole estate, blending the realty and personalty
together in one furi. This is an exception to the general rule that the personaj
estate is the first fund for the payment of debts and legacies.
Where it appears, by the admissions and proofs, that the defendant has substantially
under his control a large property of the testator which he intended to charge with
the payment of the legacy in question, the complainant is entitled to relief although
tht land lies beyond the limits of the State in which the suit is brought.

THis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama, exercising Ci.cuit
Court equity jurisdiction, under the act of Congress of Feb.
ruary 19, 1831, ch. 28, (4 Stat at Large, p. 444.)
The following is the statement contained in the brief of the
counsel for the appellant, which is adopted by the court, in their
opinion.

A bill was flied March 16, 1846, by the appellee against the
appellant- alleging, that in the year 1822, one Samuel Betts,
a citizen of the State of Connecticut, but transacting business
at Havana, in the Island of Cuba, as a partner in the firm of F.
M. Arredondo & Son, died at Havana, leaving a will in due
form of law, proven and admitted to record in that city, by
VOL. XVI.

1

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis.v. Darling.

which he bequeathed to the complainant, Darling, a legacy of
92,500. That Betts left but one child, his daughter Mary, who
has since married the defendant Lewis -and that a tract of
several hundred thousand acres of land, in the present State of
Florida, was held and owned 'by the firm, of which Betts was a
partner. That by a decree of the proper court of the State of
Florida, Lewis, the defendant, has been declared entitled to 60,000 acres of this land, in right of his wife, the daughter of said
Betts, which is worth more than $100,000; that Lewis had also
received a deed of conveyance for 15,000 acres of land, valued
at $50,000, which was the property of Betts, as a partner of
the firm. And, in addition to this, also received large sums of
money belonging to Betts's estate. The 'bill prays, that Exhibit
A, (a copy of Betts's will,) and Exhibit B, (a copy of the answer
of the defendant, Lewis, to a bill filed in the Superior Court of
the District of East Florida, in the iow State of Florida, by
John Brush "et al. v. Lewis "et al.") be considered parts of
the bill. And propounds interrogatories to Lewis: 1st. As to
whether Exhibit A is a correct copy of that which defendant,
in the case against him in Florida, had set out in his answer
there, as the will of Betts ? 2d. Whether the original will was
in defendant's possession; if not, why, and where it was, and
was it admitted to probate in Havana? 3d. Whether defendant received any property, lands, or moneys, from the estate of
Betts, and if so, whether it was-the property of Betts, individually, or as a partner of the firm of Arredcndo & Son, and what
was its value? 4th. Whether Exhibit B was a true copy of
the answer it purported to be? 5th. Whether Joseph Fenwick
(who by the will of Betts was appointed executor in the United
States) did ever, or did then, re ide in Adabama, or where he
then resided? 6th. What the value of the property was, received by defendant from Betts's estate; when was it received,
and what was the rate of interest in Florida and in Cuba?
And pzays process to procure full answers to the interrogatories,
and payment of the legacy, if it appear that the defendant has
received from Betts's estate enough to satisfy the complainant.
On page 5 of Record, in complainant's Exhibit A, will be
seen the appointment of Joseph Fenwick as the exeputor of
Betts in the United States, and the legacy bequeathed, as stated
in the bill. The residue of the testator's property, after a few
minor dispositions, is devised to his only child, the wife of the
defendant.
Exhibit B, which complainant makes a part of her bill,
shows ,that the large tract of land mentioned in the bill did
belong to the firm of Arredondo & Son, of which Betts was a
member, and sets out how Lewis, by maniage with the daughi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

8

Lewis v" Darling.

ter, the sole heir of Betts, became entitled to a portion of it.
Lewis, in that answer, also states, with regard to the 15,000
acres mentioned in the bill in this case, that, being ignorant of
the true 'rights of his wife, in the year 1831 he agreed with F.
M. Arredondo upon the terms of a compromise as to his wife's
interest in said lands; by which agreement he and his wife
were to receive 15,000 acres, as an undivided portion of the
balance of the tract, after certain sales which had been previously
made by Arredondo & Son; and, in consideration of which, he
and his wife were to relinquish forever, all rights to any further
or other portion of said land, by virtue of the interest of Samuel
Betts. That a deed was executed by said F. M. Arredondo,
conveying to Lewis and wife, 15,000 acres of the land, and
signed and delivered to Lewis, but that he and his wife had
refused to execute any deed of release or relinquishment of their
interest in said land - alleging as a reason for not doing so,
that he ascertained Arredondo had not made full and fair representations of Betts's interest in the land, and had either by mistake, or with fraudulent purpose, made incorrect statements in
the recitals of the deed of the sales previously made, and that
he (the defendant) had thereforb always regarded the said deed
of Arredondo to himself and wife as void, and bad dIaimed
nothing under it since he ascertained the facts above referred
to, and had always refused to carry out the verbal agreement
of the compromise, and averring Betts's interest as partner to
the extent of one third, in the large tract of land belonging
to the firm of Arredondo & Son, he prays a decree for partition'
of said lands, and that the portion to which he is entitled in
right of his wife, when established to the satisfaction of the
court, be allotted to him by a decree to that effect.
On page 11 of Record, is defendant Lewis's first answer to
the present bill, in which he totally denies having ever received one cent of value from Betts's estate, either in real,
personal, or mxed property. But this answer being objected to
as insufficient and evasive, the court below, May 21st, 1846,
ruled that it was insufficient-but also ruled, that the bill did
not allege sufficient matter for equitable relief, it not showing,
that the executor had not paid the legacy, and if it had not
been paid, did not show any reason for proceeding against the
residuary legatee instead of the executor.
Thereupon the complainant filed her amended bill, stating
that "no one, to her knowledge or belief, had ever taken out
letters testamentary or of administration upon the estate of
Betts, either in the'State of Alabama or elsewhere," and "that
no person had ever paid the legacy, or any part thereof," and
that no person but defendant had ever received any part of

4

SUPREME COURT.
Lcwidv. Darling.

Bets's estate, and called upon defendant to state, whether any
one had taken out letters upon the estate.
Defendant then puts in his second answer, stating that he
was a defendant in a suit in Chancery in 'Florida, brought
against him and others by John H. Brush and others, and that
before the termination of said suit, a copir of the will of Betts
was filed by him as part of the evidence of his claim, in right
of his wife. The original will was in Spanish, and he obtained
a Spanish copy of it from the proper depository in the city of
Havana. He believed that a Spanish copy and an English
translation were filed among the papers ia that suit. That the
suit was not tried in the regular way -but the parties entered
into a covenant or agreement, which was put upon the records
of the Court of Florida, and was, by consent, made the decree
of that court. That the will was not adjudicated upon; - cannot
say on his oath that the Exhibit A is a correct translation of the
original--but it does not differ fiom the English copy filed in
the Florida case. To the third interrogatory, he states, that he
has received no 'pr9perty, lands, or moneys from the estate
of Betts. -Thata decree in the Florida case had been enter~d
by consent of parties, and that the decree gave to his wif. a
large amount of land - but there was no decree in favor of him
-and
the decree in favor of his wife was not a final one needing the report of commissioners appointed to make partition
of the land before it became a final decree. Cannot say what
is the value of the land decreed to his wife, because the decree
is not final, and awaits the further action of the court. He admits the Exhibit B to the bill to be atrue copy of the answer filed
by him in the Florida case. States that Joseph Fenwick did
reside in Alabama, and believes he is dead; and that he.does
not kiow or believe that any person has tEken out letters of admiistration upon the estate of Betts in the United States. lie
does not know whether there was or was not administration in
Cuba - and has no information on the subject; and suggesting
the want of parties, prays to be dismissed.
No exception te this answer appears on record; but on the
23d November, 1847, the court decide the answer to be insuflicient, and also that the bill was defective in not alleging sufficient matters for equitable relief, in not showing that the executors had not paid the legacy, and that not being shown in alleging no reasons for proceeding against the residuary legatec
instead of the executor.
Leave to amend was granted; but instead of so doing the
complainant filed her replication, averring the sufficieley of het
bill, the insufficiency of the answer, and traversing the statements of the latter.

DECEMBER TERM, .1853.
Lewis v. Darling.

On November 23d, 1847, the court below decreed in favor of
complainant, ordering that she recover against the defendant
$7,645.45, the amount of the legacy with interest and costs,
and ordered execution to issue accordingly.
On November 24th, 1847, defendant filed a petition for rehearing, alleging error in the decree; because the decree in the Florida
case was not final, and he had not, as yet, received in right of
his wife, or on his own account, the least benefit from that decree, nor was it certain'that he ever would. For the report oi
the commissioners appointed to make partition in the suit in
Florida had been objected to by some of the parties, and set
aside by the court, and that another commission had been appointed which could not report before the next term of the court,
in June, 1848; that he would, therefore, under the decree, have
to pay a large sum of money to the complainant out of hiis own
funds, when he had received nothing under the decree rendered
in favor of his wife. He also states that in the case in Florida,
a petition for leave to file a bill in the nature of a bill of review
for the purpose of opening the decree in that court was then
pending there, and submits a decision of the Supreme Court
of the State of Florida, showiAg that by the decision of that
court and the acts of assembly of Florida, the decree directing
the partition of lands is not a final but an interlocutory decree.
lie also rages that he should not be charged with the 15,000
acres mentioned in the deed fr-om Arredondo, because the complainant makes his answer in the Florida case a part of her bill,
and in that answer it is shown, that that deed is treated as void,
and he has never claimed any thing under it, and that so far as
it can be considered as a portion of his wife's interest in the
estate, it is wholly merged in the decree for 60,000 acres in the
suit in Florida.
On November 29th, 1848, defendant filed his affidavit, stating
that since his petition for rehearing, the leave to file a bill in the
nature of a bill of review in the court of Florida, referred to in
said petition, had been granted in that court, that the bill had
been accordingly filed, and that it had wholly suspended the
execution of the decree there obtained -that he had answered
that bill, and the same is at issue. That neither himself nor
hi6 wife had as yet received one dollar in real, personal, or mixed
property from Betts's estate.
On December 2d, 1848, the court, upon argument of the petition for rehearing, dismissed it, and thereupon the defendant
prayed an appeal. Nearly all the testimony embraced in the
residue of the record appears to bear upon the partnership relations and the interest of Betts in the Florida lands, facts which
are not disputed.

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Darling.

But on page 77 it will be seen that the proceedings in a case
in the court below between this appellant and Burr Hubbell
Bets, (who is one of the legatees in the will of Samuel Betts,)
were produced in evidence in the trial, and that the bill in those
proceedings, which in its general nature resembles the present
bill, refers to a certain portion of the property of Betts (the
deceased) which had come into the hanis of the appellant by
a conveyance there referred to as Exhibit C. That conveyance
will be found on page 28 of record, and i.s a deed made by F.
M. Arredondo to appellant and wife in 1831, stating that Samuel Betts had in his lifetime conveyed to the grantor certain
property in trust for creditors, and the grantees having obtained
from these creditors assignments of all their right and claim to
the property, it was thereby conveyed to the grantees.
The first appeal was not taken within the time specified by
law, and another appeal was granted 23d May, 1850.
This appeal, also, was not acted upon for the reason assigned
on page 86, that a compromise was pending between the parties. In the mean time the case was docketed .and dismissed
under the rule of this court, and accordingly a third appeal was
granted, and is now prosecuted.
The case was argued by Mr. Reverdy Johnson, and Mr. Reverdy Johnson, junior, for the appellant, and by Mr. Butler, for
the appellee.
The points made by the counsel for the appellant were the
following:
1st. The bill is materially defective for want of parties; the
wife of defendant, through whom alone Ae claims, and whose
right he represents, being an essential pary to the proceedings.
Story's Eq. Pl. ยง 75, 77, 137, 138; 22d and 52d Rules of Eq.
Prac. 2d. Neither the original nor the amended bill allege that all
the personal property (whatever it was) had come into the possession of the defendAnt, nor that the part that did come, was
sufficient to pay the legacy. Story's Eq. Pl. ยง 241, 257.
3d. Nor do they aver that in fact there was not sufficient personal property to pay the legacy. 1 Story's Com. Eq. ยง 571;
Hoye v. Bewer, 3 Gill & Johns. 153.
4th. The effect of the plaintiff's replication being to admit
the sufficiency of defendant's second answer, there is no evidence
to authorize the decree against the defendant. Story's Eq. P1.
ยง 877; 61st Rule Eq. Prac.
5th. If this be not the effect of the replication, yet the answer
is distinct and'full, and there is no evidence that any property
belongilg to the estate of Samuel Betts, ever came into the
hands of the defendant, and he cannot be held liable "de bonis
propriis." 1st Florida Rep. 455, Putnam v. Lewis.

DEC

MBM
ER TERM,

1853.

7

Lewis v. Darling.

The points made by Mr. Butler, for the appellee, were the following :
First. The specific legacy is charged upon the residuary legacy of those who have a right to take it.
Second. It is certain that the residuary legacy, now capable
of being reduced into possession br the residuary legatee, is
more than sufficient to pay off the specific legacy.
Third. The replication of the complainant must be regarded
as evidence in the case, as it has not been contradicted by any
direct denial of the defendant, but must be regarded as a traverse of the assumptions of the answer. Story's Eq. Plead.
p. 793, 794, 801, 802.
Fourth. Admitting the technical truth of the defendant in
his evasive answer, that the defendant (Lewis) has not received
any property of the testator, Samuel Betts, still it appears that
he can receive, and is entitled by law to receive, property more
than sufficient to pay all the debts of the testator and the specific legacies contained in his will,
Fifth. The defendant having intermeddled with, and appropriated to himself an interest in, the estate of Samuel Betts, he
cannot exonerate himself from liability to creditors without
making some such disclosure as would discharge him under a
plea of plene administravit.
Sixth. The defendant ought not to be allowed to take any
exception to the bill of the complainant at this stage of the
proceedings; if any exception could have been taken originally,
(which the complainant contends could not,) such exception
may be regarded as having been waived by the defendant.
Story's Plead. p. 74, 89, 301, 302.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have verified the statemenit of the pleadings in -this case
attached to the brief of the counsel for the appellant, by a comparison of it with the record, and shall adopt it for the purpose
of giving our judgment upon this -appeal.
Upon this statement, the counsel for the appellant urges five
grounds for the reversal of the judgment.
1. It is said that the bill is materially defective for want of
parties, that the wife of the appellant, through whom alone he
claims and whose rights he represents, ought to have been madc
a party.
2. That there is no allegation il the original or aftiended bill,
that alf the personal property of the testator had come into the
hands of the appellant, or that -so much of it as he may have;.
received, was sufficient to pay the legacy claimed by the appellee,
Sarah Darling.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Darling.

3. That there is no averment in the bill that there was not
sufficient personal property to pay the legacy.
4. That the effect of the plaintiff's re lication being ail admission of the sufficiency of the defendant's second answer,
there is no evidence to authorize the decree against the defendant.
.5. If this be not the effect of the replication, yet the answer
is distinct and full, and there is no evidence that any property
belonging to the estate of Samuel Betts ever came into the
hands of the defendant, and that he cannot be liable de bonis
propris.
We have given these points because they raise every objection-which can be made against the judgment of the court below, either upon the pleading or the merits of the case. NVe
will discuss them" successively
The record certainly discloses the fact, that the wife of the
appellant nas such an interest in the controversy, that no decree
can be given which will not affect it. She is the residuary
legatee of her father, and all the property given by that clause
of his wvill became hers immediately upon his death. The interest which the appellant may have in it was acquired from
his marriage with her, after her father's death. It is strictly
marital, and the extent of it during the coverture, or afterwards
if he lives longer than his wife, depends upon the law of the
sovereignty where the real estate may be, and, so far as the personal property is concerned, upon the investiture of it in the legatee according to the law of her father's domicil at the time of his
death. Or it may depend upon a marriage contract, if any was
made. We have not undertaken to sayr what that interesi is,
or may become. We have only intiniated upon what it may
depend; and will further say, that~the clildren, in the event of
their mother's death, may atquire an interest in the property, independently of their father's control. 'If she be already dead,
then such of the children as are siti jritis should be made parties to the plaintiff's bill. And if there are other children ,till
minors, the court should have them made parties by a guardian
of its appointment, excluding their father from such an office.
As the case stands, it is not too late to amend the bill by malkifig the proper parties. The rule in equity, permitting it to be
done, is this; that on the hearing of a cause, even upon an appeal, an order may be made for the cause to stand over, with
liberty to the plaintiff to amend by adding proper parties, if it
appears that the plaintiff is entitled to relief, but that it cannot
be given for the want of proper parties. The equity of the
plaintiff is sufficiently obvious in this case for the application
of the rule. The proofs in the case show that she has a strong

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

9

Lewis v. Darling.

claim upon the appellant for the payment of the legacy for
which she sues him. It is manifest that thp legacy has been
made by the testator a charge upon both the real and personal
estate which he means to give to his daughter. It will not do,
then, to permit it to be defeated in this suit by any mistake -or
unskilfulness in pleading. We shall then reverse the judgment
appealed from, in conformity with the first objection madz
against it. But we will remand the cause to the Circuit Court
for further proceedings, and for the proper parties to be made,
The stcond and third objections are also exceptions to the
sufficiency of the plaintiff's pleadings. Itf is said, that there are
no averments in the bill, that all the personal property of the
testator had come into the possession of the appellant. And
if any part had come, that it was sufficient to pay the legacy.
And further, that the bill contains no averment, that there was
not sufficient personal property to pay the legacy. These objections are made upon the supposition that the legacy, in this
instance, cannot be charged upon the real estate of the testator
57 il it has been shown that there is not personal property
enough to pay the legacy. That depends upon the intention,
as it is to be collected from the residuary clause of the testator's
Mill.
It is, "And as to all the rest and remainder of my property,
debts, rights, and actions, of what kind and nature soever, that
may belong or appertain to me, I iiame and appoint as my sole
and universal heiress, the above named Maria Margaret J3etts,
my lawfil daughter, in order that whatever there may appear to
appertain and belong unto me, she may have and inherit the
same, with the blessing of God and my own2' The testator's
real and personal property are found blended by him in the
clause together. lie leaves to his daughter all of his property,
of every kind, which may remain after tie antecedent bcqucsts
and devises in his will have been paid and given to the objects
of his bounty. His daughter is to have "the rest and remainder of his property, debts, rights, and actions, of what kind and
nature -soever." lIe had previously, in the will, declared that
his property consisted of one third in the House established in
this city tnder the firm of Fernando de la Miza Arredondo and
Son, and that it would appear from the accounts, bookU and
other paipers of the company. And lie further declares that as
both the debts due by him aud to him will appear by the books
of the company, that he confides it to his partners to collect and
pay thei. Ilis executors were not to have any thing to do with
the collection and payment of his debts.
Their olice was to secure any surplus which ihere might be
after his debts ,verv paid, and to apply it according to his will,

SUPRE3ME COURT.
Lewis v. Darling.

in the manner required by the law of Cuba, where the testator
was domiciled at the time of his death. The testator then appoints an executor to fulfil his will in the United States, where
he had no- personal property. Now it does not appear that
either of his executors in Cba or in the United States ever
undertook to administer the testator's estate.under his -will. Indeed, the reverse is to be taken for the fact, from the statement
of the appellant. There can be, then, no personal property of
the testator eo nornine in the United States over which a court
of equity in the United States could he.ve any control for the
payment of the legacy.
Nor is this a suit against a party, properly representing the
testator, for the application of. his personal property to the payment of the legacies. Between the appellant.and the testator
there is no official privity to give to him any of those rights or
imposing upon him any of the obligations of an executorial
trust. It is a suit against a defendant who is charged with
having received large sums of money for which he is accountable, and which may be applied by a court of equity to the payment of the legacies bequeathed by the testator; and when that
has been done, to the purposes of the residuary clause of his
will. He is also charged with having under his control the real
estate of the testator without the sanction or authority of the
executor who was appointed to administer it in the United
States. The proofs in the record show i to be so. In such a
case such averments as are called for by the second and third
objections are not necessary. If this were not so, the language
of the residuary clause of the will would make such avermeuts
unnecessary. The testator has made bequests of money antecedently to that clause, without creating an express trust to pay
them, and has blended the realty and pErsonalty of his estate
together in one fund in the residuary clause. That of itself
makes his bequests of money a charge upon the real estate,
excluding from it the previous devises of land to Fenwick,
Wallace, and to John and Fernando Arredondo.
The rule in such a case 'is, that where a testator gives several
legacies, and then, without creating an express trust to pay them,
makes a general residuary disposition of the whole estate, blending tile realty and personalty together in one fund, the real
estate will be charged with legacies, for in such a case, tile "residue" can only mean what remains after satisfying the previous
gifts. Hill on Trustees, 508. Such is the settled law both in
England and in the United States, though'cases do not bftcn
occur for its application. WVhere one does occur, a legatee may
sue to recover the legacy, without distinpguishing in his" bill the
estate into the twyo kiinds of realty and pers-onalty, because it

DECEMBER TERM. 1853.
Lewis v. Darling.

is the manifest intention of the testator that both should be
charged with the payment of the money legacies. Nor does
this conflict at all with that principle of equity jurisprudence,
declaring that generally, the personal estate of the testator is
the first fund for fhe payment of debts and legacies. The rule
has its exceptions, and this is one of them.
Ambrey v. Middleton, 2 Eq. C. Abr. 479; Hassel v. Hassel, 2
Dick. 52q; Brudenell v. Boughton, 2 Atk. 268 ; Bench v. Biles, 4
Mad. 187; Cole v. Turner, 4 Russell, 376; Mlirehouse v. Scaife,
2 hL & Cr. 695,707-8; Edgell v. Haywood, 3 Atk. 358; Kidney
v. Coussmaker, 1 Ves. Jr. 436; Nichols v. Postlethwaite, 2 Dall.
131; Hassanclever v. Tucker, 2 Binney, 525; Witman v. Norton, 6 Binn. 395; McLanahan v. Wyant, 1 Penn. 111; Adams
v. Brackett, 5 Met. 280; Van Winkle v. Van Houten, 2 Green,
Ch. 172; Downman v. Rust, 6 Rand. 587; Lupton v. Lupton,
2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 618, has been supposed to conflict with this
rule, but it does not do so, for there it is said to be dependent
upon the testator. The same is the case of Dudley v. Ardrews,
in 8 Taunt.; and Paxson v. Potts, in 2 Green, Ch. 313 is a case
in point with this case.
Wre now proceed to the consideration of the fourth and fifth
objections.
It is denied in these points that there is any evidence to authorize a decree in favor of the plaintiff, even if her bill had
proper parties. We think differently. The appellant is charged
in the bill with having obtained a decvee in a court in Florida,
in behalf of his wife, for sixty thousafid acres of land, It being
the real estate of her father, and that it was worth more than
one. hundred thousand dollars. He is also charged with having
received large sums of money -of the estate of the testator, and
that he has refused to pay the plaintiff's ]egacy. He is not
charged with having received the money eo nornine as the personal estate left by the testator, but as money received for which
he is accountable to the' estate. The difference between the
two is obvious. He answers that he had not received as yet, of
the estate of the testator, one cent of value. And when he
answers concerning the real estate, he does not deny, but admits
that he had obtained a decree in the State of Florida for the
land of the testator. His a{nswers are made with such reserve
that they must be considered as having been meant to keep
fib&ra the plaintiff the discovery of what her bill seeks to obtain.
The natural and candid reply of the appellant, from his unofficial connection with the testator's estate, should have been a disclosure of the condition of the real estate of the-testator - what
had been done wifh it by himself;- what contracts had been
made by himself in respect to it; wheth6r any arrangement

12

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Darling.

or bargain had been made for the sale of any part of it; whether
any money had been received, on account of it, or was to be
paid to him. He should have made also a frank disclosure bow
the personal estate of the testator had been administered by the
parties and executors of the testator, if they had administered
it at all, and how and to what extent he had received, or arranged
to receive it, as a part of his wife's interest in her father's estate.
This admission is found in his petition for a rehearing of this
cause. In that he says that he has obtained a decree in the
cQurt of Florida, in behalf of his wife, for sixty-two thousand
acres of the grant of land which had been made in 1817, to Arredondo & Son, containing two hundred and eighty-nine thousand six hundred and forty-five acres and five sevenths of an
acre, of which the testator owned one third -that the grant
had been confirmed and held to be valid by the Supreme Court
of the United States; and that the grant had been located and
surveyed under the authority of the government of the United
States. Now it does not matter, for the purposes of this case,
(the ownerships of the testator to one third of that grant having
been admitted and proved,) that the writ of partition obtained
for i" by the appellant in Florida is only interlocutory, in the
sense that it is not final until the partition shall be made and
returned to the court. The ownership of ':he land is determined
by the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States, and
the testator's legacies have been made by him a chaige upon it.
The ownership of the testator of a part o:'"that land cannot be
affected by any proceedings; finished or unfinished, in the courts
of Florida.
Further,-there is proof in the record that the appellant has
received for himself and his wife from Fernando A. Arredondo
a conveyance for certain property which Betts, the testator, had
conveyed to Arredondo and others in trust for the payment of
sundry debts due at its date by the testator. Lewis, the appellant, obtains for his wife and for himself assignments from the
creditors of the testator of their demands, and takes a reconveyance of the property. What that propert'y is, does not appear,
but whatever it may be it is liable, as well as the rest of the
testator's property, for the payment of the legacy. Again, the
appellant admits, and the proof is that he negotiated with the
partners of the testator, for a conveyance of that portion of the
Arredondo grant which was conveyed to -the testator in behalf
of his wife. It appears to have been made by Arredondo, but
not to the extent of the testator's interest On that account he
rejected the deed tendered to him, and afterward obtained from
the proper court in Florida a decree for 62,000 acres in behalf
of his -wife in that grant.

DECEMBER TER-M, 1853.

13

Lewis v. Darling.

We shall not pursue this part of the case further.

We are

satisfied that the merits of the controversy were not misunderstood by the learned judge in the court below.
It appears then, from the admissions and proofs in this case,
that the appellant has substantially under his control a large
property of the testatwr, which we think from his will that he
meant to charge with the payment of the plaintiff's legacy, excluding, as we have said, the devises of land to Fenwick, 'Wallace, and Fernando and Joseph Arredondo. We repeat that it
is a charge upon the rest of the real as well as the personal property of the testator. But he states that the real estate is in
another sovereignty thaii that in which the plaintiff has sued,
and is therefore out of the jurisdiction of this court to make
any decree concerning it. It is true that the court cannot, in
such a caze, order the land to be sold for the payment of any
decree which it may make in favor of the plaintiff. But it is
not without power to act efficiently to, cause the defendants to
pay any such decree.
The land may be declared to be charged with the payment
of the legacy so as to compel the parties who claim the same
as the property of the testator to set off or sell a part of it for
such purpose. And we further say, if, in the proceedings of the
court below hereafter, it shall appear that the appellant has received or made arrangements to receive any fund or money
equitably belonging to the testator, sufficient to pay her the
plaintiff's legacy, that a decree may be made against him for
application of it to that purpose.
We do not consider it necessary to say more in the case.
We shall direct the judgment of the court below to be rever3ed, for the want of proper parties, and that the court shall
allow them to be made parties, with such other amendments to
be made by the plaintiff to her bill as the court may judge have
not been put in issue by the bill with sufficient precision, and
that a master shall be appointed to report upon the testator's
estate, and to take an account thereof.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, for the
want of proper parties, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby rernanded to the District Court, in order that proper parties may be made, aud for further proceedings to be had therein,
in conformity to the opinion of this court.
!I

