SUPREME COURT.
Size.r v.

M[any.

Was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs;

GEORGE

W., AND

HENRY SIZER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

LIAM

WIL-

V. MANY.

Where a Judgment in a patent case was affirmed by this court with a blank in the
record for costs, and the Circuit Court afterwards taxed these costs at a sum less
than two thousand dollars, and allowed a writ of error to this court, this writ must
be dismissed on motion.
The writ of error brings up only the proceedings subsequent to the mandate; and
there is no jurisdiction where the amount is less than two thousand dollars, either
under the general law or the discretion allowed by the patent law.

The latter

only relates to cases which involve the construction of be patent laws and the
claims and rights of patentees under them.
As a matter of practice this court decides, that it is proper for circuit courts to allow
costs to be taxed, nunerro tunc, after the receipt of the mandate from this court.

Tis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
Mr.Geor-e T. Curtis, on behalf of the defendant in error,
moved to dismiss the writ of error for the want of jurisdiction.
The cietimstances were these:
At th6 October term, in the year 184, of the Circuit Court
of the United States for Massachusetts Distict, Many, the defendant in error, recovered a judgment agairkst the plaintiffs in
error,.in an action for the infringement of leters-patent, which
the words following:
was entered and recorded in'
"It is thereupon considered by the court that the said William. V. Many recover against the said George W. and Henry
Sizer the sum of seventeen hundred and thirty-three dollars and
."
seVenty-five cents damages, and costs of suitltaxed at
The said Sizers thereupon, at the same term of the Circuit
Court, sued out 4 writ of error to this court, for the purpose of
having the saidjudgment revised. This writ of error wa duly
entered and prosecuted in this court and at the December'term,
1851, the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by a
divided court, and therefore it is not reported in Howard.
The mandate which went down, recited the judgment of the
Circuit Court as ahove given, and then proceeded thus:
t You therefore are hereby commanded that such execution
and proceedings be had in said cause as, according to right

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

99

Sizer v. Many.

and justice and the laws of the United States, ought to be
had, the said writ of error notwithstanding."
On the receipt of this mandate, the attorney for the defendant
in error (the original plaintiff below) presented the same to the
Circuit Court, held by the district judge, and applied for leave
to have the costs in the action taxed and inserted in the blank
left in the.original record of the judgment. This motion was
refused by the district judge.
The defendant in error thereupon, at the December term of
this court, in the year 1852, applied to this court for a mandanitzs to direct the court below to tax and allow his costs in the
original action, amounting to $1,811.59. The court refused the
application, for reasons which appear in the case. Ex parte
Many, 14 Howard, 24.
In May, 1853, 31r. Curtis, counsel for Many, renewed his
motion to the district judge, setting out in writing the mandate
of this court in the original cause, and the amount of the costs,
and praying the court to make an order allowing of their taxation and insertion in the original judgment; and praying for
execution as directed by the mandate of this court.
Oppositio-u was made to this motion by Sizer et al., but the
motion was granted, as appears by the following extrabt from
the record. It is proper to remark that the court was held by
the district judge alone, Mr. Justice Curtis having been of
counsel and not sitting. The costs in the Circuit Court amounted to $1,811.59.
And the said Sizer et al., by their counsel, objected to the
granting of the said motion for an allocatur as to the said costs,
or to their being inserted in the judgment, and claimed and
requested that if the court should allow the said costs, and direct
the clerk to insert the amount in the record of said judgment,
then the defendants should' have a right to sue out a 'writ of
error, and for that purpose, that the court here should either
certify that it is reasonable that there should be such writ of
error, or should add interest upon the amount of said costs from
the time of the rendition of the original judgment to the present
time, so as to make the amount more than two thousand dollars, and that no execution should issue if, within ten days, a
writ of error should be sued out, and security given according
to law; to which claims and requests, made by the defendants,
the plaintiffs objected, and insisted upon the said motion.
And now the court having considered the said motion filed
by the plaintiff, and the objections, claims, and requests made
by the defendants, and deeming it to be the legal right of the
plaintiff to have the said costs allowed, and the amount thereof
inserted in the original judgment in this cause, and that it is

SUPRE1E

COURT.

Sizer v. Many.

not within the discretion of the court to Ellow or disallow the
same, it is ordered by the court that the said costs, as taxed in
said motion, be allowed, and that the amount thereof be inserted
in the original judgment in this cause.
And the court here doth deem it reasonable that the said defendants should be allowed to bring a writ of error to the Supreme Court; and it is further ordered bythe court, that execu.
tion, as prayed for in said motion of the plaintiff, shall issue
after the expiration of ten days, Sundays exclusive, from the
making of the order, unless the said defendant shall, within said
ten days, give security a6cording to law, and serve a writ of
error, by leaving a copy thereof for the plaintiff in .the office of
the clerk of this court; and if such security should be given, and
such service made within ten days, then that execution should
not issue until the further order of the court.
H. W. FULLER, Clerk.
By the court,
The writ of error was sued out and brought all these proceedings up to this court.
The motion to dismiss was argued by A1&. Curtis, in favor of
it, and by 2llt. Robb, against it.
.Mr.. Curtis. The writ of error now before the court, although
it brings up the proceedings in the Circui; Court prior to the
mandate in the original cause, in contemplation of law can present for revision here solely the question, whether the Circuit
Court erred in making the order by which the costs were allowed and. directed to be inserted in the original judgment.
Over this question this court can have no jurisdiction, because,
1. The amount in controversy is less than $2,000.
The sole amount, or item, in controveny under the motion
of the plaintiff below, and involved in the order of the Circuit
Court thereon, was the costs prayed for, being $1,811.59.
The original judgment had been reviewed in this court by the
first writ of error; and after a mandate has issued frorp this
court, affirming a judgment below, and directing execuion, a
.second writ of. error can bring up nothing hut the proceedings
subsequent to the mandate. Ex parte Sibbild, 12 Pet. 488,492.
Browder-. McArthur, 7 Wheat. 58.
It cannot be pretended that this court can acquire jurisdiction
of this writ of error upon the ground that the court below has
allowed i in the exercise of a discretion conferred by statute,
(July 4, 1836, see. 17,) in patent cases, where the amount in
controversy is less than $2,000. The settled construction of
that statute is, that it confers a discretion o,a the courts below,
to allow writs of error in cases where the amount in controversy

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

101

Sizcr v. Many.

is less than $2,000, for the purpose of having some question settled that involves the construction of the patent acts. Hogg v.
Emerson, 6 How. 439, 478; Wilson v. Sandford, 10 How. 99.
The court below, by allowing the first writ of error, which brought
up the original judgment for a revision of the merits of the case,
had exhausted all the discretion that the statute confers; and the
question of allowing the plaintiff's costs to be taxed nuc pro
tunc, and inserted in the judgment, had nothing to do with the
construction of the patent laws.
Again, this court cannot take jurisdiction of.this writ of error,
because,
2. The order of the court below, although in form a final order
or judgment,, is, in fact and substance, an interlocutory order.
The part of the order of which the plaintiffs in error complain,
is that allowing the costs; and this was asked and allowed as a
proceeding nunc pro tunc, and therefore was in contemplation of
law prior to the final judgment from which the first writ of error
was prosecuted. That part of the order which allows the execution, in case the writ of error is not prosecuted within ten days,
is not a final judgment, in the sense of the Judiciary Act.
3fr. Robb made the following points:
1. The amount in dispute between the parties exceeds the sum
of $2,000, although the amount of costs allowed by the court
below to be inserted in the judgment, by way of amendment, is
less than that sum. The necessary result of the allowance of
the amendment is to subject the plaintiff to the payment of
$2,3800, and upwards.
2. The defendant in error cannot by a voluntary r'emittiturof
the excess above $2,000, against the consent of the plaintiffs in
error, defeat their right to a writ of error from this court.
3. This court will not regard the order of the court below,
allowing the amendment as a proceeding nunc pro tune, and as
of the October term, 1848, of that court, if thereby the right of
appeal to this court will be defeated.
4. The proceedings of the court below, in the execution of
the mandate, are the subject of revision by this court. And it
is error in the inferior court to grant any relief whatever after
the mandate, or to examine it foi any other purpose than execution. Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Pet. 492.
And the order or judgment purporting to be pursuant to and
in execution of the mandate will be reviewed by this court. And
if it appear by the record that such order is at variance with the
mandate, the court will exercise jurisdiction for the purpose of
examining into the grounds of such variance. The variance in
this case is matter of substance. In contemplation of law, a

102

SUPREME

COURT.

Sizer v. Many.

judgment for a sum expressed as damages and "costs to be
taxed," or taxed at
, is a judgment for damages alone,
and execution can issue only for that sum. Cook et al. v.
Brister, 4 Har. 73, and cases cited. This court will exercise
jurisdiction over such proceedings, although the additional relief
erroneously granted in the court below be less in amount than
$2,000.
5. This cause is now for the first time properly before this
court upon the entire record, and the previous writ of error and
the proceedings thereon in this court were without jurisdiction,
because the judgment of the Circuit Coxrt upon which it was
brought was not final. When costs are ta:ed upon a judgment,
such taxation is to be considered as the period at which final
Judgment is pronounced. Salter v. Slade, 3 Nev. & AL 717;
Butler v. Bulkeley, 8 Moore, 104; 1 Bing. 233; Godson v.Lloyd,
1 Gale, 244; Wright v. Lewis, 4 Jur. 1112, B. c.; Blackburn v.
Kymer, 1 Chas. Marshal, 278. And the order of the court allowing the costs to be taxed should be treated as the completion of
the judgment of the Circuit Court in the cause.
6. The present writ of error, therefore, is. properly allowed by
the court below in"the exercise of the discretion conferred by the
17th section of the act of July 4, 1836.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to dismiss the writ' of error in this
case for want of jurisdictiop.
The'case as it comes before us is this: Many, the defendant
ift error, in the year 1848, recovered a judgment in the Circuit
Court for the District of Massachusetts, against the plaintiffs in
error, in an action for the infringement of certain letters-patent.
The verdict and judgment was for less than. $2,000, but the writ
of error to remove the case to this courr was allowed under the
patent law of 1836. From some, oversight or. accident the costs
were not taxed in the Circuit Court before the transcript of the
record was transmitted to this court. And the judgment as it
stood upon the transcript was for the damages awarded by the
jury, and costs of suit -leaving a blank space open for the
insertion of the -amount of the costs.
The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed *at the December term, 1851, and the .usual mandate i3ent down directing
execution.
Upon the receipt of the mandate by the Circuit Court the defendant in error applied for leave to have the costs taxed and the
amount inserted in the blank left for that purpose in the original
recora of the judgment. The motion was refused. And thereupon the defendant in error at Decem her term, 1852, applied to

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

103

Sizer v. Many.

this court for a mandamus directing the court below to tax and
allow his costs in the original action, amounting, as he alleged,
to $1,811.59. Bat the court refused the motion, upon the ground
that a viandamus could not lawfully be issued to a Circuit Court
to guide its judgment in the taxation of costs.
At a subsequent term of the Circuit Court, the defendant in
error renewed his motion, for an order allowing the taxation of
these costs and their insertion in the original judgment; and
the court thereupon allowed the taxation of costs, and directed
the amount above mentioned to be inserted in the original judgment. But the court at the same time allowed a writ of error
from their decision, and ordered that this second writ of error
should operate as a supersedeas of the execution prayed for, if
sued out within the time fixed by law. It is this writ of error
that is now before the court, and which the defendant in error
has moved to dismiss.
It has been settled, by the decisions of this court, that after a
case has been brought here and decided, and a mandate issued
to the court below, if a second writ of error is sued out it brings
up for revision nothing but the proceedings subsequent to the
mandate. None of the questions 'which were before the court on
the first writ of error can be reheard or reexamined upon the
second; and there is nothing therefore now before the court
but the taxation of costs. 7 Wheat. 68; 12 Pat 488, 492.
The sum taxed being less than $2,000, no writ of error wil lie
under the act of 1789. This act gives no jurisdiction to this
court over the judgment of.a Circuit Court, where the judgment
is for less than that sum.
Neither can the allowance of the writ by the Circuit Court,
give jurisdiction, -where the only question is the amount of costs
to be taxed ;. and the amount allowed is less than $2,000. The
discretionary power -in this respect vested in the circuit courts
by the act of July 4, 1836, sec. 17; is evidently confined to cases
which involve the construction of the patent laws, anid the claims
and rights of patentees under them. But the amount of cosits
which either party shall be entitled to recover is not regulated
by these laws. The costs claimed are allowed or refused in
controversies arising under the patent acts, upon the same principles and by the same laws, which govern the court in the taxation of costs in any other case that may come before it. The
same laws, therefore, must be applied to them in relation to the
writ of error, and must limit the jurisdiction of this court as in
other cases.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. But as the question raised in this case may often
occur in the circuit courts; and it is important that the prac.

SUPREME

COURT.

Piquignot v. The Pennsylvania Railroad Co.

tice should be uniform, it is proper to say, that we consider the
decision of the Circuit Court allowing those costs to be taxed
after the receipt of the mandate from this court, to have been
correct, and conformable to the general practice of the courts.
The costs are perhaps never in fact taxed until after the judgment is rendered; and in many cases, cannot be taxed until
afterwards. And where this is the case the amount ascertained
is usually, under the direction of the court, entered nune pro tune
as a part of the original judgment. And this mode of proceeding is necessary for the purposes of justice, in order to afford the
necessary time to examine and decide upon the several items of
costs, to which the successful party is lawfully entitled.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged,b this court, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

PIERRE CLAUDE PIO.UIGNOT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.
SYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.

TrHE PEN.

Under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, this court cannot
reverse the judgment of the court below, for error in ruling any plea in abatement,
other than a plea to the jurisdiction of the court.
In Pennsylvania it is not usual to make a record of the judgment in any legal form.
But there is no necessity that the courts of the United States should follow such
careless precedents.
Where a suit was brought in which the plaintiff was described a; a citizen of France,
against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, without any averment that the defendants were a corporation under the laws of Pennsylvania, or that the place of
business of the corporation was there, or that its corporators. managers, or directors were citizens of Pennsylvania, the absence of such an averment was fatal
to the jurisdiction of the court,

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted, upon printed arguments, by Hr. Kennedy
and 31r. Alden, for the plaintiff in error, and Hr. Snowden, for
the defendants in error. But as the point of jurisdiction was
not mentioned in the arguments, which were directed exclusively to other points, it is not thought necessary to give them.

